CITY CODE
OF
KOOTENAI, IDAHO
Code current through:
Ord. 236, passed June 6, 2023
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
   This code of the City of Kootenai, as supplemented, contains ordinances up
to and including ordinance 236, passed June 6, 2023. Ordinances of the City
adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the
extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the City
office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has
been amended, superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they have not been incorporated into
the code and they may not show the original ordinances in their entirety.
Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions concerning
the ordinances listed.
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
KOOTENAI CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon adoption by the city council, this code is hereby declared to be and shall
hereafter constitute the official city code of the city of Kootenai. This code
of ordinances shall be known and cited as the KOOTENAI CITY CODE, and it is
hereby published by authority of the city council and shall be kept up to date
as provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this code by title in any legal document. (2017 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in all administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of the city of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2017 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this code shall set forth the title, chapter and section
number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall constitute a
sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to the
amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this code. Each such replacement page shall be
properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of this code.
(2017 Code)
1-1-4: ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
city council. The city clerk shall see that the replacement pages are properly
inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the city clerk. Any
person having custody of a copy of this code shall make every effort to
maintain said code current as to the most recent ordinances passed. Such person
shall see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages when such are
delivered or made available to such person through the office of the city
clerk. Said code books, while in actual possession of officials and other
interested persons, shall be and remain the property of the city and shall be
returned to the office of the city clerk when directed so to do by order of the
city council. (2017 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1 REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the city passed prior to the adoption of this code
are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this code or are by
necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation
ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations; franchise
ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
city; and all special ordinances. (2017 Code)
1-2-2 PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroads or railroad crossings with streets and other
public ways, or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public
utilities shall be replaced by virtue of the preceding section, excepting as
this code may contain provisions for such matters, in which case this code
shall be considered as amending such ordinance or ordinances in respect to such
provisions only. (2017 Code)
1-2-3 COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former
ordinance, whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to
any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any
penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such
offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that proceedings thereafter shall conform to
the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as practicable.
If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment be mitigated by any provision of a new
ordinance, such provision may be, by the consent of the party affected, applied
to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes effect.
   B.   This section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed as abating any
action now pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of the city
herein repealed and the provisions of all general ordinances contained in this
code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions and not a new enactment of the
same provision; nor shall this chapter be deemed as discontinuing, abating,
modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the
liability of any person, firm or corporation, or as waiving any right of the
city under any ordinance or provision thereof in force at the time of the
adoption of this code. (2017 Code)
1-2-4 SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this code, or any part thereof, is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this code, or any part thereof. The city council
hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection,
subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the
fact that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs,
sentences, clauses or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or
ineffective. (2017 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: General Definitions
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1 CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
   A.   Liberal Construction: All general provisions, terms, phrases and
expressions contained in this code shall be liberally construed in order that
the true intent and meaning of the city council may be fully carried out.
   B.   Interpretation: In the interpretation and application of any provision
of this code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the
promotion of the public health, safety and general welfare. Where any provision
of a code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than the general
provision imposed by the code, the provision imposing the greater restriction
or regulation shall be deemed to be controlling.
   C.   Additional Interpretations:
      1.   Computation Of Time: Whenever a notice is required to be given or an
act to be done in a certain length of time before any proceeding shall be had,
the day on which such notice is given or such act is done shall not be counted
in computing the time but the day on which such proceeding is to be held shall
be counted.
      2.   Delegation Of Authority: Whenever a provision appears requiring the
head of a department or some other city officer to do some act or perform some
duty, it is to be construed to authorize the head of the department or other
officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the
required act or perform the duty unless the terms of the provision or section
specify otherwise.
      3.   Gender: A word importing the masculine gender only shall extend and
be applied to females and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well as to
males.
      4.   Joint Authority: All words giving a joint authority to three (3) or
more persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a
majority of such persons or officers.
      5.   May/Shall: The word "may" is permissive; the word "shall" is
mandatory.
      6.   Nontechnical And Technical Words: Words and phrases shall be
construed according to the common and approved usage of the language, but
technical words and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and
appropriate meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such
meaning.
      7.   Number: A word importing the singular number only may extend and be
applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing.
      8.   Officers Generally: Whenever any officer is referred by title, such
as "recorder", "treasurer", etc., such reference shall be construed as if
followed by the words "of the city of Kootenai, Idaho".
      9.   Tense: Words used in the past or present tense include the future as
well as the past and present. (2017 Code)
1-3-2 GENERAL DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
CITY CODE: This code of the city of Kootenai, Idaho, and amendments thereto.
CITY COUNCIL: Unless otherwise indicated, the city council of the city of
Kootenai, Idaho.
COUNTY: The county of Bonner, state of Idaho.
FEE: A sum of money charged by the city for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation, or other activity subject to city regulation,
authorization or limitation.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
REASONABLE TIME: In all cases where any ordinance requires that an act be done
in a reasonable time or that reasonable notice be given, such reasonable time
for such notice shall be deemed to mean such time as may be necessary for the
expeditious performance of such duty or compliance with such notice.
STATE: The state of Idaho.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person, or in case such person is unable to write, by such
person's proper mark. (2017 Code)
1-3-3 CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when
any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted. (2017
Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1 GENERAL PENALTY 1 :
   A.   Misdemeanor: Except in cases where a different punishment is hereafter
prescribed by city ordinance, every offense declared to be a misdemeanor is
punishable by a fine not exceeding one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or by
imprisonment in jail not exceeding six (6) months, or by both, together with
such costs as may be required by law. These punishments shall comply with Idaho
Code section 18-113, as amended. If a penalty is limited by state law, such
violations shall be punishable by not to exceed the maximum permitted by state
law.
   B.   Infraction: When the offense is designated as an infraction by any
section or provision of this code or by state law, it is punishable only by a
penalty not exceeding three hundred dollars ($300.00) and no incarceration may
be imposed.
   C.   Federally Mandated Programs: When the city is participating in a
federally mandated program, wherein penalties or enforcement remedies are
required by the terms of participation in the program, the city may enforce
such requirements by ordinance, to include a criminal or civil monetary penalty
not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or imprisonment for criminal
offenses not to exceed six (6) months, or to include both a fine and
imprisonment for criminal offenses. (2017 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 50-302.
1-4-2 APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Application Of Penalty Provisions:
      1.   The penalty provided in this chapter shall be applicable to every
section of this code the same as though it were a part of each and every
separate section. Any person convicted of a violation of any section of this
code where any duty is prescribed or obligation imposed or where any action
which is of a continuing nature is forbidden or is declared to be unlawful
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor unless otherwise provided. A separate
offense shall be deemed committed upon each day such duty or obligation remains
unperformed or such act continues, unless otherwise specifically provided in
this code.
      2.   Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act
constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this code, and there shall
be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of
this chapter shall apply.
   B.   One Recovery For Same Offense: In all cases where the same offense is
made punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of this code,
the prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed, but not more than one
recovery shall be had against the same person for the same offense; provided,
that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be considered a recovery
or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced. (2017 Code)
1-4-3 LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the city council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or employee is
specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the duty. (2017
Code)
CHAPTER 5
OFFICIAL AND CORPORATE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
1-5-1: Official Newspaper
1-5-1 OFFICIAL NEWSPAPER:
The Bonner County Daily Bee, a daily newspaper published in the city of
Sandpoint, Bonner County, Idaho, is hereby designated as the official newspaper
for the city and such publications as are required by law to be given by said
city are to be given by publication in the Bonner County Daily Bee. (Ord. 167,
6-5-2007)
CHAPTER 6
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-6-1: Election Of Council Members; Terms
1-6-2: Meetings
1-6-3: Compensation
1-6-1 ELECTION OF COUNCIL MEMBERS; TERMS:
   A.   Requirements: There shall be elected at each regular city election, to
be held as required by state law, two (2) council members to serve for a term
of four (4) years; and at each succeeding general city election, there shall be
elected two (2) council members, each to serve a term of four (4) years. At any
such election additional council seats may file as required by state law to
fill the remainder of unexpired terms or to meet other election law
requirements.
   B.   Council Seats:
      1.   Pursuant to subsection A of this section, two (2) council members
shall be elected at each election for a term of four (4) years in addition to
any seats that must be filled by election for the remainder of an unexpired
term. From the effective date hereof and hereafter, each council seat shall be
numbered, as allowed by Idaho Code section 50-707, and the city clerk shall
assign the following numbers to each seat: seat 1, seat 2, seat 3 and seat 4.
      2.   Any candidate seeking election to the city council shall file
candidacy for one, and only one, council seat. The candidate shall meet all
other qualifications for the office of city council member, as required by law.
All nominating petitions must contain, at the time of initiating circulation of
a petition, the council seat number for which the candidate is being nominated.
The council seat number must be in the same format and font as the remainder of
the petition and may not be added or changed after the petition is circulated.
Only petition forms designating a particular seat and a particular candidate,
and provided by the city clerk, will be accepted by the city clerk. The name
and seat designation must be disclosed to the city clerk at the time of
initiating circulation of any petition of candidacy. No candidate shall
circulate petitions for more than one designated seat in any election cycle.
Any petition not containing such designated seat number in the manner herein
required shall be null and void.
      3.   Commencing at the general city election to be held on the first
Tuesday following the first Monday in November, 2009, seats 1 and 3 shall be
the council seats for which city council candidates shall file. Commencing at
the general city election held in 2011, seats 2 and 4 shall be elected.
Henceforth, the odd numbered council seats and the even numbered council seats
shall be elected in alternate general city elections in the same rotation
period. (Ord. 177, 6-8-2009)
1-6-2 MEETINGS:
The regular council meetings of the city council shall be held on the first
Tuesday of each month at six thirty o'clock (6:30) P.M., unless a holiday; and
in that event, as scheduled by action of the city council. The date of any such
rescheduled monthly meeting may be determined by contacting the city clerk.
(Ord. 180, 11-9-2009)
1-6-3 COMPENSATION:
   A.   Mayor: The mayor shall receive a monthly salary in the amount of five
hundred dollars ($500.00) per month.
   B.   City Council: Each member of the city council shall receive a monthly
salary in the amount of one hundred twenty five dollars ($125.00) per month.
(Ord. 149, 8-22-2005, eff. 1-1-2006; amd. Ord. 215, 8-23-2017)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Reserved
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUSINESS LICENSE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
3-1-1: Definitions
3-1-2: Business License Required
3-1-3: Application For License
3-1-4: Fee For License
3-1-5: Changes In Information Or Status Of Business
3-1-6: Expiration Of License; Renewal; Grade Period
3-1-7: Building Code And Zoning Applicable
3-1-8: Violation; Penalty
3-1-1 DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the following
meanings unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
BUSINESS: Any employment, occupation or commercial or other activity engaged in
for the purpose of realizing gain or for livelihood, including home occupations
defined by the zoning ordinance of the city of Kootenai, or any amendments
thereto, which employment, occupation or activity is based or domiciled in the
city of Kootenai.
BUSINESS LICENSE: A license required under this chapter.
CITY: The city of Kootenai.
ENTITY: A corporation, partnership, limited liability, company, or other legal
form, other than an individual, authorized by law to conduct a business, trade
or profession, which is based or domiciled in the city of Kootenai.
INDIVIDUAL: A natural person who is based or domiciled in the city of Kootenai.
PROFESSION: A vocation or occupation requiring special education and skill,
including, but not limited to, the practice of law, the practice of medicine,
the practice of dentistry and the practice of chiropractic, which is based or
domiciled in the city of Kootenai.
TRADE: An occupation or activity which a person has learned and which they
carry on for the purpose of realizing gain or for livelihood, which is based or
domiciled in the city of Kootenai. (Ord. 126, 12-6-1999)
3-1-2 BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person or entity to engage in any business, trade
or profession within the limits of the city until they shall have first applied
for and obtained a business license as required under this chapter. A business
license shall be required only for those businesses, trades or professions
which are based or domiciled in the city. (Ord. 126, 12-6-1999; amd. 2017 Code)
3-1-3 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Verified applications for a business license shall be made by the owner of the
business, trade or profession, or by a designated agent, upon a form to be
furnished by the city clerk. Such application shall contain the following
information:
   A.   The full name of the owner of the business, trade or profession;
   B.   The mailing address of the owner of the business, trade or profession;
   C.   The physical address of any and all locations within the city at which
such business, trade or profession is to be conducted;
   D.   The name and address of an agent of the business, trade or profession,
who is designated by the owner as authorized to receive any notices permitted
or required by law to be provided to the business, trade or profession;
   E.   A description of the nature and purpose of the business, trade or
profession to be licensed; and
   F.   The signature of the owner of the business, trade or profession, or the
signature of the owner's designated agent. (Ord. 126, 12-6-1999)
3-1-4 FEE FOR LICENSE:
Every individual or entity required by this chapter to obtain a license to
engage in any business, trade or profession shall pay to the city clerk an
annual administrative processing fee which shall be set, from time to time, by
resolution of the city council. Said fee must be paid in full prior to the
issuance of a business license. There shall be no proration of said fee for
individuals or entities which engage in businesses, trades or professions for a
period of less than the license year. (Ord. 126, 12-6-1999)
3-1-5 CHANGES IN INFORMATION OR STATUS OF BUSINESS:
   A.   Location: If the business, trade or profession ceases to carry on a
business, trade or profession at any location described in the application, or
if the business, trade or profession intends to conduct any activity at a
location not described in the application for the business license, the owner
or the owner's designated agent shall notify the city clerk of the change, in
writing, and the city clerk shall note the same in the register of licenses.
   B.   Agent: If the business, trade or profession changes the agent described
in the application for a business license and who is authorized to receive any
notices permitted or required by law, or if the designated agent changes his/
her address as described in the application for the business license, the owner
or the owner's designated agent shall notify the city clerk of the change, in
writing, and the city clerk shall note the same in the register of licenses.
   C.   Time Limit: Any notice required by this section shall be physically
filed with the city clerk no later than thirty (30) days after the change
becomes effective. (Ord. 126, 12-6-1999)
3-1-6 EXPIRATION OF LICENSE; RENEWAL; GRADE PERIOD:
   A.   Expiration: All business licenses issued pursuant to this chapter shall
expire on December 31 of each year.
   B.   Renewal; Time Limit: Any person or entity engaged in a business, trade
or profession within the city, and who holds a business license pursuant to
this chapter, shall request a renewal of said license from the city clerk after
December 1 and prior to the expiration of the license. Said request shall be in
writing and accompanied by the appropriate fee. No new application need be
filed if the information required by this chapter, and which is in the
possession of the city clerk, is current. Upon receipt of the request and fee,
the city clerk shall endorse the business license for the person or entity for
the next calendar year. (Ord. 126, 12-6-1999; amd. 2017 Code)
3-1-7 BUILDING CODE AND ZONING APPLICABLE:
The issuance of a business license pursuant to this chapter is not a
representation by the city that the business, trade or profession is in
compliance with the city building code or zoning ordinance. The issuance of a
business license pursuant to this chapter shall not be a waiver of the city's
rights to enforce its building code or zoning ordinance. (Ord. 126, 12-6-1999)
3-1-8 VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   Fine: Any person or entity who violates any provision of this chapter
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code for each violation. (Ord. 126, 12-6-1999; amd. 2017 Code)
   B.   Separate Offense: Each day that a person or entity engages in a
business, trade or profession in violation of this chapter shall constitute a
separate offense.
   C.   Additional: The city, in addition to the fine described in subsections
A and B of this section, may take whatever steps it deems appropriate to
civilly enjoin any violation of this chapter. (Ord. 126, 12-6-1999)
CHAPTER 2
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
SECTION:
3-2-1: Definitions
3-2-2: License Required
3-2-3: Exemptions To Requirements
3-2-4: Number Restricted By Population
3-2-5: Application For License
3-2-6: Qualifications Of Applicant
3-2-7: Fees For License
3-2-8: Issuance Of License; Term
3-2-9: Restaurants Issued Secondary License
3-2-10: Transfer Of License Restricted
3-2-11: Prohibited Acts And Activities
3-2-12: Suspension, Cancellation Or Revocation Of License
3-2-13: Penalty
3-2-1 DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the following
meanings unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
BEER: Any beverage obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
decoction of barley, malt and/or other ingredients in drinkable water.
LIQUOR: Shall include all intoxicating liquors whether sold, consumed or
dispensed alone or mixed with or combined with some other substance suitable
for consumption.
OFF PREMISES SALES: Shall include all sales, transfers, distribution and
dissemination of beer, wine and/or liquor by a person or establishment with the
intent and for the purpose that said substance shall not be consumed on the
premises of the person or establishment selling, distributing, transferring or
dispensing the same.
ON PREMISES: Shall refer to the sale, transfer, distribution or dissemination
of beer, wine and/or liquor by a person with the intent that the consumer or
purchaser shall consume the same on the premises of the person or business
establishment selling, transferring, distributing or disseminating the
substance.
ON PREMISES SECOND TO RESTAURANT: Those sales of beer, wine and/or liquor sold,
transferred, distributed or dispensed with the intent and with provisions
available at the premises will be consumed by the purchaser or available for
consumption on the premises of the person or business establishment selling,
transferring, distributing or dispensing the same wherein the sale, transfer,
distribution or dispensation is not the primary business activity of the person
or business establishment so doing and where said person or business
establishment functions as a "restaurant" as defined in this section and the
sale, transfer, distribution or dispensation of the beer, wine and/or liquor is
secondary to the restaurant business, such activity shall constitute a separate
classification governed by the provisions herein described as applicable to the
sale of wine, beer and/or liquor secondary to restaurant.
PERSON: Includes an individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation or
any group or combination acting as a unit and includes the plural as well as
the singular, unless the intent to give a more limited meaning is disclosed by
the context in which said term is used.
RESTAURANT: A. As applicable to those licenses for the sale of wine, beer or
liquor secondary to restaurant, any place of business commonly known and
recognized as a restaurant having a kitchen and cooking facilities for the
preparation of meals and space and accommodation where in consideration for
payment meals are regularly served to the public for consumption on premises.
   B.   The term "restaurant" does not include lunch stands, coffee shops,
cafeterias, short order cafes, luncheonettes, sandwich stands, soda fountains
or services of fry orders or short orders. A place of business shall not be
deemed a restaurant under the terms of this chapter unless the principal
business conducted thereat is the regular preparation, service and sale of
meals to the public for consumption on premises during all hours and times that
the place of business is open for business.
WINE: Any alcoholic beverage containing not more than fourteen percent (14%)
alcohol by volume obtained by the fermentation of the natural sugar content of
fruits or other agricultural products containing sugar. (Ord. 103, 5-1-1995)
3-2-2 LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell at retail wine, beer and/or liquor
within the corporate limits of the city until having first procured a license
therefor as hereinafter set forth. (Ord. 103, 5-1-1995)
3-2-3 EXEMPTIONS TO REQUIREMENTS:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the state or its agencies.
(Ord. 103, 5-1-1995)
3-2-4 NUMBER RESTRICTED BY POPULATION:
Licenses to sell retail, dispense or serve beer within the city limits shall
not exceed twenty two (22) in number at any one time while the population of
said city shall be four thousand five hundred (4,500) or less and for each five
hundred (500) population in addition to four thousand five hundred (4,500) an
additional one license only may be issued; providing, however, that the
provisions herein shall not apply to the state or its agencies and shall not
apply to the retail sale of beer not to be consumed on the premises where sold;
and, further, shall not apply to those licenses applied for and issued for the
sale of beer secondary to restaurant as described in this chapter. (Ord. 103,
5-1-1995)
3-2-5 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Application for license shall be in writing signed and sworn to by the
applicant upon an application form furnished by and available through the
office of the city clerk. Such application shall be filed by the city clerk and
presented to the mayor and city council at the next regular meeting of the city
council for the city council's approval, rejection and/or further
consideration. (Ord. 103, 5-1-1995)
3-2-6 QUALIFICATIONS OF APPLICANT:
An applicant for a license shall possess all of the qualifications necessary to
obtain a license from the state liquor division as prescribed by the laws of
the state and shall maintain qualifications throughout the period for which
such license is issued. The possession of licenses regularly issued by the
department of law enforcement and Bonner County shall be prima facie evidence
of the applicant's qualification to receive a license hereunder. (Ord. 103, 5-
1-1995)
3-2-7 FEES FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Set By Resolution: The establishment of fees for liquor, beer and wine
licenses in each, every and all categories and descriptions set forth in this
chapter shall be amended and modified by resolution of the city council and
mayor.
   B.   Specified: The following license fees shall be paid as a condition to
receipt of a license and shall be submitted at the time application is made.
The application fees are as follows:
 
Liquor                                            $225.00
Off premises beer                                 50.00
On and off premises wine                          100.00
On premises beer                                  200.00
On premises beer, wine and/or liquor secondary to Same as above fees set forth
restaurant
 
(Ord. 103, 5-1-1995)
3-2-8 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE; TERM:
Upon filing the application for a license and production of evidence as
required in section
3-2-6 of this chapter as to the qualifications of the applicant and by the
payment of the required fees herein set forth, the city clerk shall, after
approval by the city council, issue to the applicant a license to sell wine,
beer and/or liquor at retail within the municipality for a calendar year
beginning January 1 of each year and for the remainder thereof. (Ord. 103, 5-1-
1995)
3-2-9 RESTAURANTS ISSUED SECONDARY LICENSE:
Any license issued for sale of wine, beer or liquor secondary to restaurant
shall be deemed to permit only the sale, dispensing and distribution of beer,
wine and liquor, to be consumed on premises of the restaurant business. (Ord.
103, 5-1-1995)
3-2-10 TRANSFER OF LICENSE RESTRICTED:
The assignment or transfer of a license hereunder shall be in the method and
subject to the same restrictions as provided by section
3-2-6 of this chapter. Further, a transfer fee of ten percent (10%) of the
license fee shall be required at the time of a request for any transfer of such
license. The city council shall have thirty one (31) days from the date of the
receipt of the request for a license transfer to act on such requests. (Ord.
103, 5-1-1995)
3-2-11 PROHIBITED ACTS AND ACTIVITIES:
   A.   Open Container Within Vehicle: No person may, while operating or riding
in or upon a motorized vehicle upon a public highway of this state or upon the
public streets of the city, have in his or her possession any wine, beer and/or
liquor in an open or unsealed container of any kind.
   B.   Misrepresentation Of Age: No person under the age of twenty one (21)
years may purchase, consume or possess wine, beer or liquor. Furthermore, no
person shall give, sell or deliver wine, beer or liquor to any person under the
age of twenty one (21) years. No person under the age of twenty one (21) years
shall by any means represent to any retailer or distributor or to any agent or
employee of said retailer or distributor that he or she is twenty one (21)
years of age or more for the purpose of inducing said retailer or distributor
or his/her agent or employee to sell, serve or dispense wine, beer or liquor to
such person. No person shall by any means represent to any retailer or
distributor or to the agent or employee of such retailer or distributor that
any other person is twenty one (21) years of age or more when, in fact, such
person is under the age of twenty one (21) years for the purpose of inducing
such retailer or distributor or their agent or employee to sell, serve or
dispense wine, beer or liquor to such person. (Ord. 103, 5-1-1995)
3-2-12 SUSPENSION, CANCELLATION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Right Of City: The right to revoke a license issued pursuant to the
provisions herein contained shall at all times remain vested in the mayor and
city council, and the mayor and city council, as herein provided, may revoke or
cancel any license for fraud or misrepresentation in its procurement or for the
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, or for any conduct or act
of the licensee or his/her employees, or any conduct or act permitted by him or
them on the premises where such business is conducted or in connection
therewith or adjacent thereto, tending to render such business or such premises
where the same is conducted as a public nuisance or a menace to the health,
peace, safety or general welfare of the city and its citizens; provided,
however, that revocation or suspension of the state license by the state liquor
division shall be deemed prima facie evidence for the revocation and/or
suspension of the license issued herein. (Ord. 103, 5-1-1995; amd. 2017 Code)
   B.   Hearing: If the mayor and the city council shall for any reason deem
revocation, cancellation or suspension of the license appropriate, the licensee
shall be afforded a hearing before the city council and mayor, together with
the right of representation at licensee's expense and choosing and the city
council and mayor, through the city clerk, shall provide written notice to the
licensee of said hearing, setting forth the time, place and date for said
hearing. Only after such hearing is held or waived by the licensee shall the
license in question be suspended, canceled or revoked. (Ord. 103, 5-1-1995)
3-2-13 PENALTY:
Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter, or fails to
comply with any of the terms and conditions of this chapter, shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 103, 5-1-1995; amd. 2017 Code)
KO1039   3-3 ()
CHAPTER 3
HOME DAYCARE PROVIDERS
SECTION:
3-3-1: Standards
3-3-1 STANDARDS:
Any home, place or facility providing daycare for between four (4) or more
children not related by blood or marriage to the person or persons providing
the care, in a place other than the child's or children's own home or homes,
shall be required to meet the licensing standards of this title prior to
providing such daycare. Daycare facilities may also be subject to the licensing
requirements of the state and special use permits of the city. (Ord. 138, 5-5-
2003; amd. 2017 Code)
TITLE 4
HEALTH, SANITATION AND ENVIRONMENT
CHAPTER 1
NUISANCES
SECTION:
4-1-1: Definitions
4-1-2: Nuisance Activity Declared Unlawful
4-1-3: Notification Procedure
4-1-4: Emergency Proceedings
4-1-5: Legal Enforcement Procedure
4-1-6: Appeal To City Council
4-1-1 DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the following
meanings unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
CITY ATTORNEY: The city of Kootenai city attorney or his/her designee.
ENFORCEMENT AGENT: The Bonner County sheriff and/or the department's designee
and/or the city's designated enforcement code officer.
NUISANCE ACTIVITIES: Any of the following activities, behaviors or conduct:
   A.   The illegal manufacturing, producing, preparing, packaging, buying or
selling of amphetamine, methamphetamine, heroin, marijuana or cocaine in any
form.
   B.   The illegal possession of materials or equipment used, or with the
intent to be used, in the manufacture, production, preparation or packaging of
amphetamine, methamphetamine, heroin, marijuana or cocaine.
   C.   Improper storage or disposal of hazardous materials, as defined in the
international fire code, including appendices B, C, D and E.
   D.   Anything which is injurious to health, or is indecent, or offensive to
the senses, or an obstruction to the free use of property, so as to interfere
with the comfortable enjoyment of life of persons, or unlawfully obstructs the
free passage or use, in the customary manner, of any navigable lake or river,
stream, canal or basin, or any public park, square, street or highway, is a
public nuisance, in accordance with Idaho Code section 18-5901, as amended.
PLAN OF ACTION: A detailed written response from the property owner or
occupant, describing the manner in which a good faith effort will be made to
prevent nuisance activities from continuing. The plan of action must be filed
with the city clerk within fifteen (15) working days from the date of the
notice as described in subsection
4-1-3A of this chapter.
REPORT: Shall refer to information received by the designated enforcement agent
that a nuisance activity is suspected. (Ord. 207, 8-26-2015; amd. 2017 Code)
4-1-2 NUISANCE ACTIVITY DECLARED UNLAWFUL:
It is unlawful for any person to create, cause, maintain or knowingly allow to
exist a nuisance activity on any premises or real property which the person
owns, rents, leases, occupies or has possession of within the city. (Ord. 207,
8-26-2015)
4-1-3 NOTIFICATION PROCEDURE:
   A.   Notice; Required Information: Upon receipt of a report, the designated
enforcement agent may begin formal proceedings. If formal proceedings are
deemed appropriate, the proceedings shall begin by notifying the property owner
or occupant, and the property manager, if known, that a nuisance activity
exists. The notice shall contain the following information:
      1.   The street address or physical description sufficient to describe
the property location.
      2.   A description of the events that have occurred, or are suspected to
have occurred, on the property.
      3.   Educational material and referral information to assist in the
abatement of the nuisance activity.
      4.   Notice that the property owner or occupant has fifteen (15) working
days from the date of service or receipt of the notice, to respond to the city
with a plan of action, approved by the enforcement agent, detailing a plan for
which the nuisance activity shall be corrected.
      5.   Notice that the property owner or occupant shall have thirty (30)
working days from the date the plan of action is agreed upon to carry out the
plan of action, unless an extension is agreed to by the city, which extension
shall not be unreasonably withheld.
   B.   Failure To Comply: If no plan of action is received from the property
owner or occupant within fifteen (15) working days from the date of service or
receipt of the notice; or, if the plan of action agreed upon between the
property owner or occupant and the designated enforcement agent has not been
completed within thirty (30) working days following the agreement and any
applicable extensions, the enforcement agent shall have the rights specified in
section
4-1-5 of this chapter.
   C.   Notice By Certified Mail: Unless otherwise specified, all notifications
shall be made by certified mail, return receipt requested, at the last known
address as listed on the tax rolls of the county, or for corporate entities,
the registered agent as listed with the secretary of state.
   D.   Plan Not Admission: Statements made by the owner in providing a plan of
action to abate the nuisance activities shall not constitute an admission that
any nuisance activities have occurred or are occurring. This subsection does
not require the exclusion of any other evidence which may otherwise be
admissible or offered for any other purpose. (Ord. 207, 8-26-2015)
4-1-4 EMERGENCY PROCEEDINGS:
If evidence exists to substantiate the belief that nuisance activities exist or
have occurred on the property in such a manner that emergency action is
necessary to avoid an immediate threat to public welfare and safety, the
enforcement agent may immediately notify the city attorney and request that
summary proceedings begin to immediately secure and close the property to the
public. Actions to obtain an immediate closure of the property shall be
pursuant to rule 65(b) of the rules of civil procedure for the issuance of a
temporary restraining order. The use of summary proceeding does not preclude
the exercise of other emergency procedures. (Ord. 207, 8-26-2015)
4-1-5 LEGAL ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURE:
If the property owner or occupant fails to comply with the requirements of
section
4-1-3 of this chapter, the enforcement agent and the city may proceed with any
of the following:
   A.   Legal Proceedings: The city may request the city attorney to commence
legal proceedings in the district court to seek closure of the property, seek
imposition of civil or criminal penalties against the property owner, and/or
any other remedies allowed by law, including costs and attorney fees.
      1.   If the court finds by a preponderance of the evidence that the
property is a nuisance property, the court may order the property to be closed
and secured against all unauthorized access, use and occupancy for a period of
time which the court deems appropriate in its discretion. The order shall be
part of the final judgment with the court retaining jurisdiction over the
matter during the period of closure.
      2.   If the court finds by a preponderance of the evidence that the
property is a nuisance property, the court may, in addition to the order under
subsection A1 of this section, order a civil penalty of the costs incurred by
the city to abate the nuisance activities. The civil penalty shall be assessed
against the property owner and shall be included in the civil judgment entered
against the property owner.
   B.   Abatement: The city may request abatement in compliance with Idaho Code
section 50-334, which grants the city power to abate the nuisance activity and
to levy a special assessment, as provided in Idaho Code section 50-1008, on the
land or premises whereon the nuisance activity is situated to defray the cost
or to reimburse the city for the cost of abating the same, and this power shall
extend three (3) miles beyond the city limits; provided, however, that the
expense of declaring, preventing, removing and abating nuisances outside the
city limits shall rest with the city when the nuisance comes within the three
(3) mile area by reason of expansion of city boundaries. (Ord. 207, 8-26-2015)
4-1-6 APPEAL TO CITY COUNCIL:
Any property owner, or property manager, aggrieved by any decision rendered by
the enforcement agent pursuant to this chapter may appeal such decision to the
city council. Such appeal shall be in writing, describing the decision and the
grounds for the appeal, and shall be filed with the city clerk within ten (10)
days after the receipt of the requirements from the enforcing agent. The matter
shall be heard before the city council within thirty (30) days of the filing of
the appeal. No fee shall be assessed for the filing of this appeal. The city
council shall have the power to approve, revise or amend the decision of the
enforcement agent and the decision of the city council shall be final. (Ord.
207, 8-26-2015)
CHAPTER 2
WEEDS, DEBRIS AND REFUSE
SECTION:
4-2-1: Responsibilities Of Property Owners
4-2-2: Failure To Comply
4-2-3: Penalty
4-2-1 RESPONSIBILITIES OF PROPERTY OWNERS:
All real property within the city shall be leveled by the owner thereof, and
kept free of refuse, debris and other unsightly substances and the weeds,
thistles, grass and any other vegetation thereon shall be kept cut and trimmed.
(Ord. 97A, 12-6-1993)
4-2-2 FAILURE TO COMPLY:
Upon failure or refusal of the owner of any parcel of real property to level
the lot or to cut and remove thistles, weeds, grasses or any other vegetation,
or to remove refuse, debris or other unsightly substances from said parcel of
real property upon ten (10) days' notice in writing to do so, the city may
level such lot, cut the weeds, thistles, grasses or other vegetation therefrom,
or remove the refuse, debris or other unsightly substances, and may assess the
costs thereof against the property. The cost thereof and the assessment of the
same shall be collected as any other taxes are collected. Such notice shall be
given by certified mail, return receipt requested, or by personal service.
(Ord. 97A, 12-6-1993)
4-2-3 PENALTY:
The owner of any parcel of real property failing to comply with the
requirements of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Said criminal sanction and penalty shall be in addition to
the obligation for the payment of the costs incurred by the city, if any, as
set forth in section
4-2-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 97A, 12-6-1993; amd. 2017 Code)
CHAPTER 3
OPEN BURNING
SECTION:
4-3-1: Permit Required
4-3-2: Application For Permit
4-3-3: Fees For Permit
4-3-4: Conduct Of Open Burning
4-3-5: Duration Of Permit; Renewal
4-3-6: Inspection Of Permit
4-3-7: Investigation And Enforcement
4-3-8: Penalty
4-3-1 PERMIT REQUIRED:
No open burning shall be allowed within the boundaries of the city except by
permit issued by the Northside fire district. (Ord. 134, 7-1-2002; amd. 2017
Code)
4-3-2 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
The form of application for a burn permit as required by this chapter shall be
as adopted, from time to time, by the city by resolution. (Ord. 134, 7-1-2002)
4-3-3 FEES FOR PERMIT:
   A.   Residential Burning: There shall be no fee for a permit issued for open
burning for residential purposes. (Ord. 134, 7-1-2002)
   B.   Commercial Burning: The fee for a permit issued for open burning for
commercial purposes shall be in such amount as established by the city council.
   C.   Renewal For Commercial: The fee for renewal of a commercial burn permit
shall be in such amount as established by the city council. (Ord. 134, 7-1-
2002; amd. 2017 Code)
4-3-4 CONDUCT OF OPEN BURNING:
Open burning shall only be conducted in accordance with the provisions of the
fire code in effect at the time of the application for a permit. (Ord. 134, 7-
1-2002; amd. 2017 Code)
4-3-5 DURATION OF PERMIT; RENEWAL:
   A.   Validity: A burn permit issued hereunder shall be valid for ten (10)
days from the date of issuance. This time shall not be extended by virtue of a
suspension of open burning by any authority, which suspension is imposed during
the period of the burn permit.
   B.   Renewal: A burn permit may be renewed for additional periods of ten
(10) days, which renewals shall be endorsed in writing on the face of the
permit by an authorized representative of the Northside fire district.
   C.   Standards For Issuance Of Renewal: The Northside fire district shall
employ the same standard for issuing a renewal of a burn permit as it employs
in the issuance of the original permit. (Ord. 134, 7-1-2002)
4-3-6 INSPECTION OF PERMIT:
A permit issued hereunder shall be immediately available for inspection by the
Northside fire district or the city at any time burning activities covered by
the permit are being conducted. A failure to display a valid permit upon the
request of the Northside fire district or the city shall constitute a violation
of this chapter unless, within three (3) business days of the failure to
display a valid permit, the applicant presents for inspection a permit which
was valid at the time of the request to the requesting entity. (Ord. 134, 7-1-
2002)
4-3-7 INVESTIGATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Violations: The chief of the Northside fire district, or a designee,
shall investigate potential violations of the fire code and this chapter. If
the chief of the Northside fire district, or a designee, determines that the
fire code or this chapter has been or is being violated, said violation shall
be reported promptly to the city. Said report shall include the name of the
person or persons conducting open burning in violation of the fire code or this
chapter, and, if different, the name of the owner of the property upon which
said open burning was conducted. Said report shall also include the date, if
any, of any burn permit issued with respect to the open burning involved,
together with the dates any renewals thereof, a statement of the section of the
fire code and/or this chapter violated, and a brief narrative description of
the nature of the violation.
   B.   Order To Cease: Upon a determination by the chief of the Northside fire
district, or a designee, that a violation of the fire code or this chapter has
occurred or is occurring, the chief, or a designee, may order that the burning
cease. If the person or persons conducting the open burning in violation of the
fire code or this chapter fails or refuses to cease said burning, the Northside
fire district may extinguish the fire and the person or persons conducting the
open burning in violation of the fire code or this chapter may be billed for
the cost of extinguishing said fire.
   C.   Citation: The city, upon a report from the chief of the Northside fire
district, or a designee, of a violation of the fire code or this chapter, may
cause a citation to be issued to the person or persons conducting open burning
and, if different, to the owner of the property upon which said open burning
has occurred. (Ord. 134, 7-1-2002; amd. 2017 Code)
4-3-8 PENALTY:
Any applicant who violates any of the provisions of this chapter, or who fails
or refuses to comply with any of the terms and conditions of this chapter and
the application required hereunder, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 134, 7-1-2002; amd. 2017 Code)
CHAPTER 4
SEWAGE DISPOSAL
SECTION:
4-4-1: Rules And Regulations
4-4-1 RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   Adopted: The city hereby adopts the code of rules and regulations for
sewage disposal for the city, and reference is made to said code in accordance
with Idaho Code section 50-901. (Ord. 59, 8-4-1970)
   B.   Copies On File: One copy of such code, duly certified by the city
clerk, shall be and remain on file for use and examination by the public in the
office of the city clerk, prior to and after adoption of said code of rules and
regulations for sewage disposal. (Ord. 59, 8-4-1970; amd. 2017 Code)
CHAPTER 5
PHOSPHORUS PRODUCTS SALES
SECTION:
4-5-1: Purpose
4-5-2: Definitions
4-5-3: Commercial Sale Prohibited
4-5-4: Labeling Required
4-5-5: Exemptions
4-5-6: Penalty
4-5-1 PURPOSE:
It is hereby determined and declared to be necessary and conducive to and for
the protection of the health, safety and welfare of the public and inhabitants
of the city to ban, within the city limits, the commercial sale of household
cleaning products containing more than a trace level of phosphorus. (Ord. 79,
3-22-1989)
4-5-2 DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall mean:
CITY: The city of Kootenai, Bonner County, Idaho, or its authorized or
designated agent, representative or deputy thereto.
HOUSEHOLD CLEANING PRODUCT: Any domestic or commercial cleaning product,
including, but not limited to, soaps, detergents, laundry bleaches and laundry
additives used for domestic or commercial cleaning purposes, including, but not
limited to, the cleaning of fabrics, dishes, food utensils and household and
commercial premises. Household cleaning product does not mean food, drugs,
cosmetics or personal care items, such as toothpaste, shampoo or hand soap.
MAY: Is permissive (see definition of Shall).
PERSON: Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
PHOSPHORUS: Elemental phosphorus.
SHALL: Is mandatory (see definition of May).
TRACE QUANTITY: An incidental amount of phosphorus which is not part of the
household cleaning product formulation and is present only as a consequence of
manufacturing and does not exceed one-half percent (0.5%) of the content of the
product by weight expressed as elemental phosphorus. (Ord. 79, 3-22-1989)
4-5-3 COMMERCIAL SALE PROHIBITED:
No household cleaning product which contains more than a trace quantity of
phosphorus shall be sold, offered, distributed or exposed for commercial sale
within the city limits. (Ord. 79, 3-22-1989)
4-5-4 LABELING REQUIRED:
All household cleaning products sold within the city limits shall have affixed
thereto labeling which clearly indicates the percent of phosphorus contained in
the product to the nearest one-tenth of one percent (0.1%) accuracy. Household
cleaning products which contain only a trace quantity of phosphorus may be
labeled "contains no phosphorus", "contains no phosphates", or similar labeling
which makes a clear statement that no prohibitive quantity of phosphorus is
present in the product. (Ord. 79, 3-22-1989)
4-5-5 EXEMPTIONS:
The following products are specifically exempt from the provisions of this
chapter:
   A.   Existing stocks of household cleaning products; provided, however, that
such stocks shall be so exempt for a period of six (6) months after the
effective date hereof;
   B.   Automatic dishwasher detergent containing 8.7 percent or less
phosphorus by weight expressed as elemental phosphorus; and
   C.   Those products used for cleaning medical or surgical equipment or
supplies in licensed acute care or long term healthcare medical facilities.
(Ord. 79, 3-22-1989)
4-5-6 PENALTY:
Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day upon which a violation occurs or continues shall
constitute a separate violation. (Ord. 79, 3-22-1989; amd. 2017 Code)
TITLE 5
PUBLIC SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
5-1-1: Authority
5-1-2: Purpose And Intent
5-1-3: Definitions
5-1-4: Enforcement; Interference; Authority
5-1-5: Keeping Of Animals Generally
5-1-6: Wild Or Exotic Animals
5-1-7: Domestic Animals
5-1-8: Licensing Of Dogs
5-1-9: Restraint And Confinement
5-1-10: Guard Dogs
5-1-11: Caring For Animals
5-1-12: Sanitation
5-1-13: Cruelty To Animals
5-1-14: Kennel Regulations
5-1-15: Animal Bites
5-1-16: Infected Animals
5-1-17: Vicious Animals
5-1-18: Dangerous Or Nuisance Animals
5-1-19: Subsequent Attacks
5-1-20: Impoundment
5-1-21: Violation And Penalty
5-1-1 AUTHORITY:
This chapter is enacted pursuant to the general police power and the authority
granted to cities by article XII, section 2 of the Idaho constitution and Idaho
Code section 50-319. (Ord. 197, 1-8-2013)
5-1-2 PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The purpose of this chapter is to promote the public health, safety and the
general welfare of the residents of the city and to foster the humane treatment
of animals by regulating the care and control of animals within the city. (Ord.
197, 1-8-2013)
5-1-3 DEFINITIONS:
When used in this chapter, the following words, terms and phrases, and their
derivations, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except
where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
ANIMAL: Any live creature, either domestic or wild, except humans or plants.
Animal includes fowl and reptiles, but shall exclude fish.
ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER: Any employees or agents of the city, designated by the
mayor to administer and enforce the licensing, inspection and compliance
requirements established by this chapter.
ANIMAL HOSPITAL: Any establishment maintained and operated by a licensed
veterinarian for surgery, diagnosis and treatment of animal diseases and
injuries.
ANIMAL NUISANCE: Any nuisance arising out of the keeping, maintaining or owning
of, or failure to exercise sufficient control of, an animal or animals.
ANIMAL SHELTER: Any facility operated for the temporary care, confinement and
detention of animals and for the humane euthanizing and other disposition of
animals, or any facility authorized by the mayor or his designee to impound,
confine, detain, care for or destroy any animal.
AT LARGE ANIMAL: An animal, excluding cats, that is off the premises of its
owner, or if on the premises of its owner or of another, with permission, is
not on a leash or otherwise suitably contained on the premises such that it is
under the immediate control of a person physically capable of restraining the
animal.
CRUELTY: Any act or omission whereby unjustifiable physical pain, suffering or
death of an animal is caused or permitted, including failure to provide proper
drink, air, space, shelter or protection from the elements, a sanitary and safe
living environment, veterinary care or nutritious food in a sufficient
quantity. In the case of activities where physical pain is necessarily caused,
such as medical and scientific research, food processing, customary and normal
veterinary and agricultural husbandry practices, pest elimination, and animal
training and hunting, "cruelty" shall mean a failure to employ the most humane
method reasonably available.
DISPOSITION: Adoption, quarantine, voluntary or involuntary custodianship or
placement, or euthanasia humanely administered to an animal. "Disposition"
includes placement or sale of an animal to the general public.
DOMESTIC ANIMAL: Includes dogs, cats, domesticated sheep, horses, pigs, cattle,
goats, swine, fowl, nonpoisonous snakes less than three feet (3') in length,
pigeons, ducks, geese, turkeys, confined domestic hares and rabbits, pheasants,
and other birds and animals raised and/or maintained in confinement.
EXOTIC ANIMAL: Any live monkey, alligator, crocodile, caiman, raccoon, skunk,
fox, bear, sea mammal, poisonous snake, nonpoisonous snakes more than three
feet (3') in length, members of the feline species other than domestic cat
(Felis domesticus), member of the canine species other than domestic dog (Canis
familiaris) or any other animal that by virtue of strength or inherent
temperament or disposition would require a standard of care and control greater
than that required for customary household pets sold by commercial pet shops or
domestic farm animals.
GUARD OR ATTACK DOG: A dog trained to attack on command or to protect persons
or property.
IMPOUNDMENT: The taking into custody of an animal by any law enforcement
officer, animal control officer or any authorized representative thereof.
KENNEL: Any premises wherein any person engages in the business of boarding,
breeding, buying, letting for hire, training for a fee or where four (4) or
more dogs, six (6) months or older, are maintained, harbored, possessed,
boarded, bred, trained or cared for.
MUZZLE: A device constructed of strong material designed to fasten over the
mouth of an animal to prevent the animal from barking or biting.
OWNER: Any person having temporary or permanent custody of, sheltering or
having charge of, harboring, exercising control over, or having property rights
to, any animal covered by this chapter. An animal shall be deemed to be
harbored if it is fed or sheltered by any person or if the person purported to
be harboring claims to have custody or responsibility for the care of any
animal.
SANITARY: A condition of good order and cleanliness to minimize the possibility
of disease transmission and not producing adverse health or sensory conditions
for adjoining property owners.
UNDER RESTRAINT: An animal is secured by a leash or lead under the control of a
person physically capable of restraining the animal, or securely enclosed
within the real property limits of the owner's premises.
VICIOUS OR DANGEROUS ANIMAL: Any animal that attacks, bites or physically
injures human beings, domestic animals or livestock without adequate
provocation, or which, because of temperament or training, has a known
propensity to attack, bite or physically injure human beings, domestic animals
or livestock. Any wild animal or any animal that without adequate provocation
has bitten or attacked a human being or other animal shall be prima facie
presumed vicious or dangerous.
WILD ANIMAL: Any live, nonhuman primate, leopard, panther, tiger, lion, lynx or
any other warm blooded animal that can normally be found in the wild state. The
term "wild animal" does not include domestic dogs (excluding hybrids with
wolves, coyotes or jackals), domestic cats (excluding hybrids with ocelots or
margays), farm animals, rodents, any hybrid animal that is part wild, and
captive bred species of common cage birds. (Ord. 197, 1-8-2013; amd. 2017 Code)
5-1-4 ENFORCEMENT; INTERFERENCE; AUTHORITY:
Animal control officers and law enforcement officers shall be the enforcement
officials for this chapter. These officials shall have the authority to act on
behalf of the city in investigating complaints, impounding and destroying
animals, issuing citations, and taking other lawful actions as required to
enforce the provisions of this chapter. It shall be a violation of this chapter
to interfere with an animal control officer or other enforcement official in
the performance of his duties. Animal control officers are hereby authorized to
take such actions as they deem appropriate to protect the health, safety and
welfare of the public, whether expressly authorized by this chapter or not.
(Ord. 197, 1-8-2013)
5-1-5 KEEPING OF ANIMALS GENERALLY:
   A.   Violations Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to keep any
animal on any property located within the corporate limits of the city when the
keeping of such animal, or the manner thereof, violates the provisions of this
chapter, or when the owner neglects a duty established by this chapter, or
carries out conduct which this chapter labels as unlawful, or engages in
activities, actions or behavior which violates a rule of conduct or requirement
of this chapter, or which creates a menace to public health or safety so as to
create a nuisance to neighboring property owners or the public at large.
   B.   Owner Responsible: Owners of an animal shall be responsible for the
behavior of their animal.
   C.   Violations; Nuisances: Behavior and/or conditions which violate this
chapter shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
      1.   Any animal that unreasonably annoys humans, endangers the life or
health of persons or other animals, or substantially interferes with the rights
of citizens, other than its owner, to enjoyment of life or property;
      2.   Any animal that damages, soils, defiles or defecates on any property
other than that of its owner, except for horses being ridden on a designated
equestrian trail;
      3.   Any animal that makes disturbing or grunting noises, including, but
not limited to, continued and repeated howling, barking, whining or other
utterances which cause annoyance, disturbance or discomfort to reasonable
neighbors or reasonable others in close proximity to the premises where the
animal is kept or harbored;
      4.   Any animal that causes fouling of the air by noxious or offensive
odors and thereby creates unreasonable annoyance or discomfort to neighbors or
others in close proximity to the premises where the animal is kept or harbored,
including neglect on the part of the owner to maintain, clean or otherwise
eliminate the waste which results from the containment of an animal;
      5.   Any animal in heat (estrus) that is not confined so as to prevent
attraction or contact with other animals;
      6.   Any animal, whether or not on the property of its owner, that
without provocation, molests, attacks, bites, menaces or otherwise interferes
with the freedom or movement of persons in a public right of way;
      7.   Any animal that chases motor vehicles on a public right of way;
      8.   Any animal that attacks domestic animals;
      9.   Any owner of animals who causes or allows conditions offensive or
dangerous to the public health, safety or welfare by virtue of the number of
animals maintained at a single residence or premises or because of the
inadequacy of the facilities.
   D.   At Large Animals: If the name of the owner of an animal found at large
is known or can be obtained with reasonable dispatch, the animal control
officer or city clerk may attempt contact with such owner and advise the owner
of the location of the animal and attempt to make arrangements to return the
animal. The officer may remove the animal to the nearest shelter that will
accept the animal. The ultimate responsibility for locating an impounded animal
is the owner. (Ord. 197, 1-8-2013)
5-1-6 WILD OR EXOTIC ANIMALS:
It shall be unlawful for anyone to own, harbor or permit at large any wild or
exotic animal without the express written authorization of the city council.
Such authorization may be given only if it is demonstrated to the satisfaction
of the city council that the animal will not constitute a threat to public
health or safety. The city council may conduct a public hearing to obtain the
opinions of adjoining residents and property owners when considering such
requests. The city council may charge an applicant for such authorization an
appropriate fee to recover the authorization processing costs incurred by the
city. Public educational institutions shall be exempt from the foregoing
authorization requirement. (Ord. 197, 1-8-2013)
5-1-7 DOMESTIC ANIMALS:
   A.   Permitted Domestic Animals; Limitations: It shall be unlawful for any
household to own, harbor or possess more domestic animals than authorized by
this section or not in accordance with limitations and licensing requirements
established by this chapter. The following domestic animals are allowed:
      1.   Dogs and cats, not exceeding the number limitations as set forth in
subsection B of this section.
      2.   Rabbit, guinea pig, hamster, gerbil, frog, ferret, mouse, rat, snake
or bird (except fowl, pigeons, chickens, ducks, geese, turkeys) kept for the
sole purpose of an indoor family pet or for educational purposes at an
educational institution. It shall be the duty of all persons owning or
harboring such animals to keep and maintain such animals in a clean and
sanitary condition.
      3.   a. Cattle, horses, goats and sheep, may be kept on premises
containing a minimum of one acre of securely fenced, irrigated open space,
exclusive of a homesite, and containing at least three (3) acres in total,
maintained in compliance with this chapter. Said fenced area shall be irrigated
during the growing season to sustain vegetation. The number of listed animals
allowed per buildable lot securely fenced and irrigated shall be as follows:
Cattle - 2, or
Horses or ponies - 2, or
Goats and/or sheep - 4, or
Rabbits, chickens (except for roosters) and ducks may be kept on premises
containing a minimum of a securely fenced, irrigated open space, exclusive of a
homesite, and maintained in compliance with this chapter. Said fenced area
shall be irrigated during the growing season to sustain vegetation. The number
of listed animals allowed per buildable lot securely fenced and irrigated shall
be as follows:
Rabbits - 10, or
Chickens - 10, or
Ducks - 10.
Any combination of these animals shall be limited to a maximum of ten (10)
animals, but shall not exceed the maximum allowed for each category of animal.
Roosters, guinea hens, geese and peacocks are prohibited.
In addition to the above requirements, an enclosure that meets the following
requirements must be provided for keeping fowl:
The enclosure (coop) must meet the zoning setbacks in effect at the time of the
construction of the enclosure;
The size of the enclosure shall be a minimum of five (5) square feet per fowl;
and
The entire enclosure must be surrounded by a fence, with a minimum of ten (10)
square feet of fenced open space around the enclosure for each fowl.
         b.   Owners of property less than the minimum premises size, on which
animals were kept at the time of passage date hereof, may continue keeping
those animals or replacement animals, so long as the owner of the property
registers with the city the number of animals kept at the time of passage date
hereof and keeps the premises free from nuisance to the neighboring property
owners or the public.
            (1)   The owner shall register with the city, within ninety (90)
days of passage date hereof, a list of the kind and number of animals kept on
the property at the time of the passage date hereof.
            (2)   If the city determines that the keeping of the animals is a
nuisance, the city shall give to the owner of the property thirty (30) days'
written notice to cure the nuisance. If the property owner does not cure the
nuisance within the thirty (30) days, the property owner shall be required to
bring the property into compliance with the limitations of subsection A3a of
this section.
            (3)   It shall be the duty of all persons owning or harboring such
animals to keep them in secure confinement to prevent them from roaming onto
adjacent lands and to maintain such animals and the grounds upon, and
facilities within, which they are housed, in a clean and sanitary condition.
   B.   Number Permitted: It shall be unlawful for any household in a multi-
family dwelling housing unit to keep more than three (3) permitted animals as
defined by subsections A1 and A2 of this section. Each household in a detached
single-family dwelling shall keep no more than three (3) animals permitted
pursuant to subsections A1 and A2 of this section, except that a litter of
pups, kittens or other young animals may be kept for a period of time not
exceeding five (5) months from birth. The restrictions of this subsection shall
not apply to any commercial establishment where such animals are legally kept
for breeding, sale, sporting purposes or boarding.
   C.   Kennels: Kennels shall be permitted only when allowed by the zoning
ordinance of the city and shall comply with all applicable zoning restrictions
and the requirements of section
5-1-14 of this chapter. (Ord. 197, 1-8-2013)
5-1-8 LICENSING OF DOGS:
   A.   License Required: No person shall own, keep or harbor any dog over the
age of six (6) months within the city unless such dog is licensed as provided
in this section.
   B.   Application: Application for such license shall be made by the owner at
city hall, or such other place designated by the city, on a form to be provided
by the city within ten (10) days after acquiring any dog over six (6) months of
age or within ten (10) days after a dog becomes six (6) months of age;
provided, that any owner moving to the city for the purposes of establishing
residence or becoming a resident as a result of any annexation, and otherwise
required to obtain a license, shall have until thirty (30) days after
establishing residence to obtain such license.
   C.   Proof Of Rabies Vaccination Required: All owners applying for a license
must show to the satisfaction of the licensing authority that the animal for
which the license is being obtained has been inoculated against rabies within
the last two (2) years.
   D.   Proof Of Sterilization: Any owner claiming that his dog has been spayed
or neutered must show to the satisfaction of the licensing authority that the
operation has been performed.
   E.   Payment Of License Fee: A license fee shall be paid to the city, or an
entity designated by the city to license dogs on behalf of the city, at the
time of making application. The license fee for dogs shall be established by
the city council by resolution. Such fee may be different depending upon the
altered status or other relevant characteristics of the animal.
   F.   License Tag: Upon payment and acceptance of the license fee, a durable
license tag, stamped with an identification number for the animal for which the
license has been obtained, will be issued. Any license issued for the keeping
of a dog shall take effect on the date of issuance and shall be valid for the
period of time paid for and shown on the receipt issued by the licensing
authority. Every dog for which the owner is required to obtain a license must
wear a valid license tag at all times when the animal is off the premises of
its owner.
   G.   Use Of Tags; Unlawful Removal: No person may use a license for any
animal other than the animal for which the license was issued. It shall be
unlawful for any person to remove from the neck of any dog the license tag
issued pursuant to this section or to alter such tag in any manner.
   H.   Revocation Of License: Any dog license issued in reliance of false or
inaccurate information may be revoked. Anyone who knowingly submits false
information to obtain a license or to obtain a license without paying the
appropriate fee shall be deemed to have violated this chapter and shall be
subject to all potential penalties therefor.
   I.   Exemption From License Fee: License fees shall not be required for
seeing eye dogs, dogs prescribed by a doctor for medical reasons, government
police dogs or dogs belonging to a nonresident of the city (which are licensed
elsewhere) and kept within the boundaries of the city for not longer than
thirty (30) days; provided, that all dogs not subject to payment of the license
fee shall at the time of entry into the city be properly vaccinated against
rabies, and while kept within the city, meet all other requirements of this
chapter. Any owner claiming any of these exemptions has the burden of proving
to the satisfaction of the licensing authority that the dog in question is
entitled to such exemption.
   J.   Violation: Any owner of a dog over the age of six (6) months who fails
to obtain a license within the time period specified in this chapter shall be
subject to prosecution for violation of this chapter as otherwise provided
herein. (Ord. 197, 1-8-2013)
5-1-9 RESTRAINT AND CONFINEMENT:
   A.   At Large Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for the owner of any animal,
except cats, to fail to keep such animal under restraint or permit such animal
to run at large upon the streets and public ways of the city, or upon private
property without consent of the owner or present occupant. It shall be prima
facie evidence of a violation of this section when an animal is found by an
animal control officer or law enforcement officer while it is away from its
owner (or responsible person).
   B.   Secured By Leash: Any animal, while on a street, sidewalk, public way
or other public space, or upon private property without the consent of the
owner, shall be secured by a leash or chain of sufficient tensile strength to
restrain the particular animal and be controlled by a person of sufficient age
and strength to control the animal. This shall not apply to animals prescribed
by a doctor for medical reasons or other properly trained assist dogs.
   C.   Prevention Of Nuisance: No owner or custodian of any animal shall fail
to exercise proper care and control of such animal to prevent the same from
becoming a private or public nuisance.
   D.   Females In Heat: Every female animal in heat shall be confined in a
building or other enclosed area in such a manner that such female animal cannot
come into contact with another animal except for planned breeding. (Ord. 197,
1-8-2013)
5-1-10 GUARD DOGS:
   A.   Confinement: Every owner of a guard or attack dog shall keep such dog
confined in a building, compartment or other enclosure. Any such enclosure
shall be completely surrounded by a fence at least six feet (6') in height and
shall be topped with an anticlimbing device to prevent the animal from exiting
the top of the enclosure.
   B.   Security; Signage: Such areas of confinement shall all have gates and
entrances thereto securely closed and locked, and all fences shall be properly
maintained and escapeproof. Such premises shall be clearly posted to warn of
the presence of guard dogs.
   C.   Exception: The provisions of this section shall not apply to dogs owned
or controlled by government law enforcement agencies. (Ord. 197, 1-8-2013)
5-1-11 CARING FOR ANIMALS:
   A.   Care Required: It shall be unlawful for the owner or custodian of any
animal to refuse or fail to provide such animal with sufficient wholesome and
nutritious food, water, veterinary care when needed to prevent suffering,
humane care and treatment, or to unnecessarily expose any such animal to
intolerably hot, stormy, cold or inclement weather without adequate shelter.
   B.   Abandonment: No owner or custodian of any animal shall abandon such
animal on any street, road, highway or public place, or on private property
when not in the care of another responsible person.
   C.   Transporting In Vehicles: No person shall transport or carry, on any
public road or highway, any animal in a motor vehicle, unless the animal is
safely enclosed within the vehicle or protected by a cab or contained, secured
cage, cross tether, harness or other device that will prevent the animal from
falling from or being thrown from or jumping from the vehicle.
   D.   Unattended Vehicles: No person shall leave an animal in any unattended
vehicle without adequate ventilation or security to protect the public, or in
any manner as to subject the animal to extremes of temperature which adversely
affect the health or welfare of the animal. (Ord. 197, 1-8-2013)
5-1-12 SANITATION:
   A.   Removal Of Deposits Required: It shall be unlawful and no owner or
custodian of any animal shall allow the owner/custodian's animal to soil,
defile or defecate on any public property, street, sidewalk, public way, public
play area or upon private property other than that which is exclusively owned
by the animal owner, unless such owner or custodian immediately removes and
disposes of all feces deposited by such animal by the following method, except
for horses being ridden on a designated equestrian trail:
      1.   Collection of the feces by appropriate implement and placement in a
paper or plastic bag or other container; and
      2.   Removal of such bag or container to a waste disposal container
lawfully available to the owner for sanitary disposal of waste as permitted by
law.
   B.   Offensive Conditions: It shall be unlawful and no person owning,
harboring or keeping an animal within the city shall permit any waste matter
from the animal to collect and remain on the property of the owner or
custodian, or on the property of others so as to cause or create an unhealthy,
unsanitary, dangerous or offensive living condition on the owner's or
custodian's property, or upon the abutting or nearby property of others.
   C.   Inadequate Area Or Facilities: It shall be unlawful and no person
owning, harboring, keeping or in charge of any animal shall cause or allow the
existence or maintenance of unsanitary, dangerous or offensive conditions by
virtue of the size or number of animals maintained at a single location or due
to the inadequacy of the facilities. (Ord. 197, 1-8-2013)
5-1-13 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS:
   A.   Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to strike, beat, abuse
or intentionally run down with a vehicle any animal, or otherwise engage in any
act to cause or inflict unnecessary pain, injury, suffering or death to such
animal; except that reasonable force may be used to drive away vicious or
trespassing animals.
   B.   Poison: No person, except a licensed veterinarian (for humanitarian
purposes) shall administer poison to any animal, or knowingly leave any
poisonous or harmful substance of any kind or ground glass in any place with
the intent to injure any animal. The provisions of this subsection are not
applicable to licensed exterminators using poisons as part of a pest control
program or the use of commercial insecticides and rodent baits used to control
insects and/or wild rodents. (Ord. 197, 1-8-2013)
5-1-14 KENNEL REGULATIONS:
   A.   Compliance With Zoning, Building Codes; License Required: Prior to
operating a kennel, the owner must meet the requirements of both the zoning
ordinance and the building code, and obtain a kennel license.
      1.   Applications for a kennel license or renewal thereof shall be made
to the city clerk. The application shall state the name and address of the
owner, the location of the kennel and the types and breeds of animals to be
kept. Kennel licenses shall not be transferred, and shall be valid for one
year. The application shall be accompanied by the application fee set by
resolution of the city council.
      2.   Subject to the exceptions set forth in section
5-1-8 of this chapter and subsection A3 of this section, all dogs owned, kept
or boarded by the kennel must be individually licensed, with the exception of
dogs that are regularly kept and housed in a kennel. (Ord. 197, 1-8-2013)
      3.   A person holding a kennel license shall not be required to
separately license each dog regularly kept and housed therein. However, should
any dog be removed from the kennel and no longer be domiciled therein, an
individual license shall be purchased for the dog. The fees set forth by
resolution shall be paid to the city clerk upon renewal of the license.
   B.   Kennel Standards:
      1.   Indoor Housing Facilities:
         a.   Interior surfaces must be of a nonporous material which is
substantially impervious to moisture and may be readily sanitized.
         b.   Wherever animals less than six (6) months old are regularly
present, floors shall be maintained at reasonable temperatures suited to the
conditions and welfare of such animals. Floors shall be maintained at
reasonable temperatures suited to adult animals in all other locations. An
elevated floor pad may be used to maintain adequate temperatures so long as the
surface meets the requirements of subsection B1a of this section.
         c.   Ceiling heights shall meet the minimum standards for a U type
structure under the international residential code in effect at the time of the
application for the license.
         d.   Adequate heating and ventilation shall be provided so as to
prevent exposure of animals to extremes in temperature and ventilation shall be
sufficient to provide for the health and comfort of the animals at all times.
The exchange of ventilated air must be at least eight (8) times per hour.
         e.   Adequate space shall be provided both internal and external so as
to provide adequate exercise area for the various dogs. Minimum space
requirements shall be as provided herein:
   MINIMUM SPACE REQUIREMENTS
 
Weight Of Dogs  Primary Width  Enclosure Square Width (Feet) Kennel House
(Pounds)        (Feet)         Footage                       Square Footage
Up to 15        2.0            6.0              1.5          3.0
Over 15 - 35    2.5            10.0             2.0          5.0
Over 35 - 65    3.0            15.0             2.5          7.5
Over 65 - 95    3.0            18.0             2.5          9.0
Over 95 - 130   3.5            24.0             3.0          12.0
Over 130        4.0            32.0             3.5          14.0
 
         f.   All fencing or restraining methods shall be of sufficient
strength and construction to contain and control all animals. Fences shall be
installed in such a manner as to prevent animals from escaping by digging
underneath or by jumping or climbing over the top.
         g.   All kennels shall have natural lighting sufficient to comply with
a U type structure under the international residential code in effect at the
time of application for the license. Adequate artificial lighting shall be
provided in accordance with electrical code requirements for residential
structures.
         h.   All indoor facilities shall have three foot (3') high solid,
nontransparent walls or partitions between pens.
         i.   All flooring shall slope at one-half inch (1/2") per running foot
to prevent pooling of urine and cleaning solutions. Floors shall be of a
smooth, nonporous, water impermeable substance.
         j.   All indoor housing facilities will have sound deadening
characteristics that will prevent long sound reverberation or sound reaching
neighboring locations.
         k.   All indoor housing facilities shall also have an external space
referred to as runs so as to provide adequate outdoor area for various breeds.
All kennel runs shall provide the square footage per dog based on the maximum
weight of each dog as set forth in subsection B1e of this section.
      2.   Outdoor Housing Facilities: All outdoor housing facilities shall
meet the following general requirements set forth in this subsection:
         a.   Any outdoor housing facility shall be of sufficient structural
strength and shall be maintained in good repair so as to protect the animals
from injury, to contain the animals and to restrict the entrance of other
animals.
         b.   Outdoor housing facilities shall provide sufficient shade from
the sun so as to prevent overheating or discomfort to the animals.
         c.   Outdoor housing facilities shall provide access to shelter to
allow animals to remain dry during rain or snow.
         d.   Outdoor housing facilities shall provide shelters for all animals
with sufficient clean bedding and other protection so as to protect the animal
from harm when the temperatures are below fifty degrees Fahrenheit (50°F).
         e.   Outdoor housing facilities shall provide a suitable method for
elimination of urine and other liquid substances.
         f.   All outdoor housing facilities shall provide sufficient space in
the enclosure and in the kennel house. Minimum space requirements are set forth
in the table in subsection B1e of this section. If a kennel enclosure or kennel
contains more than one dog, the minimum number of square feet required is the
sum of the square foot requirements for each individual dog kept therein.
         g.   All fencing or restraining methods shall be of sufficient
strength and construction to contain and control all animals. Fences shall be
installed in such a manner as to prevent animals from escaping by digging
underneath or by jumping or climbing over the top.
      3.   Feeding And Care Of Animals: All kennels shall meet the following
feeding and care requirements:
         a.   Animals shall be provided food which is free from contamination
and is wholesome, palatable and of sufficient quantity and nutritive value so
as to meet the normal daily requirements for the condition and size of the
animal.
         b.   Food receptacles shall be accessible to all animals and shall be
located so as to minimize contamination by excrement. Feeding pans shall be
durable and shall be cleaned daily. Each pen shall have a satisfactory bowl or
bowl system for both water and food.
         c.   Clean potable water shall be available to the animals in
conformance with the principles of good animal husbandry unless restricted for
veterinary care. Water receptacles shall be cleaned every day.
         d.   All food and bedding for the animals shall be kept in a storage
area such that the food and bedding supplies are protected against infestation
or contamination by vermin.
         e.   Refrigeration shall be provided for any supplies of perishable
food.
      4.   Sanitation Of Primary Facilities: All kennels shall meet the
following sanitation requirements:
         a.   Excrement shall be removed from each kennel enclosure and kennel
house at least once daily to prevent contamination of the animals contained
therein and to reduce disease hazard and odors.
            (1)   Individual and subsurface disposal systems used to dispose of
any kennel generated wastewater shall be reviewed by the Panhandle health
district:
               (A)   At initial application for a kennel license; and
               (B)   At the discretion of a law enforcement officer or animal
control officer.
            (2)   Wastewater and subsurface sewage disposal system loading will
be assessed for compliance with all state rules and regulations pertaining to
individual and subsurface sewage disposal systems. Dry wells shall not be used
for wastewater disposal.
            (3)   Solid excrement shall be double bagged and disposed of at the
county sanitary landfill or transfer station.
         b.   At least once each day, each kennel enclosure shall be sanitized
by washing with water and soap or detergent.
         c.   Pens using pea gravel or its equivalent shall be sanitized by
removing the gravel and replacing it when it no longer provides adequate
sanitation so as to reduce disease hazard and odors.
         d.   Each individual dog shall be vaccinated for rabies.
         e.   An effective program for the control of insects, ectoparasites,
avian and mammalian pests shall be established and maintained.
      5.   Care Of Sick Or Injured Animals:
         a.   An isolation and quarantine area shall be a part of every kennel
to prevent physical contact by or between animals that are under quarantine or
treatment for a communicable disease. The isolation and quarantine area must
protect from cross contamination by saliva, waste material or washing solutions
to the greatest extent practicable.
         b.   Animals shall be separated according to the following standards.
Kennels shall meet these requirements:
            (1)   Females in heat shall not be housed in the same kennel
enclosure as males, except for purposes of breeding;
            (2)   Any animal exhibiting a vicious disposition shall be housed
individually in a separate kennel enclosure;
            (3)   Puppies shall not be housed in the same kennel enclosure with
any other adult dogs other than their dam, except when the owner specifically
requests combined housing;
            (4)   Dogs shall not be housed in the same kennel enclosure with
other species of animal.
      6.   Recordkeeping Requirements: The kennel operator shall keep available
for inspection on the premises a record that shall show the name, current
address and telephone number of the owner of each animal kept at the kennel,
the description of the animal, including its age (if known) or approximate age,
breed, sex and color. As a part of such record, a current valid rabies
certificate or other written proof of vaccination, verified by telephone or
electronic mail, shall be maintained for each dog required to be vaccinated by
this chapter, showing the dog owner's name, address and telephone number; the
dog's name and description, including breed, color, sex, month and year of
birth; the date of vaccination; and the name and telephone number of the
licensing agency verifying the vaccination. In addition, each kennel operator
shall have someone in attendance at the kennel that can identify each animal in
the kennel, except that animals under four (4) months of age may be identified
as to the litter. (Ord. 197, 1-8-2013; amd. 2017 Code)
   C.   Inspections; Implied Consent: Application for, and issuance of, a
kennel license shall constitute consent to inspection of any licensed kennel by
any law enforcement officer, animal control officer, building inspector or
planning official at any reasonable time, with or without prior notice.
   D.   Revocation Or Denial Of License:
      1.   Grounds For Revocation Or Denial: A kennel license may be revoked,
or an application for kennel license may be denied, on the basis of any
violation of the provisions of subsection B of this section, or when any of the
following conditions are found to exist:
         a.   Animals from such kennel are picked up for running at large more
than three (3) times in any twelve (12) month period;
         b.   Keeping more than the approved number and type of animals at the
kennel;
         c.   Excessive loud noise; or
         d.   Failure to adequately treat or have treated any diseased or
injured animal or to segregate such diseased animal so as to prevent the spread
of disease to other animals.
      2.   Procedure For Revocation Or Denial:
         a.   Written Notice: Upon a finding by a law enforcement officer,
building official or the animal control officer of the existence of one or more
of the conditions set forth in subsection D1 of this section, or any other
provision of this chapter constituting grounds for revocation or denial, the
city clerk shall send written notice of revocation of a kennel license or
denial of a kennel license application to the license holder or applicant. Such
notice shall include information concerning the requirements for curing such
conditions, and shall include information regarding the right to contest the
revocation or denial.
         b.   Cure; Time Limit: A kennel license holder or applicant shall have
thirty (30) days from the date of notice of revocation or denial to cure all
conditions constituting grounds for revocation or denial.
         c.   Reinspection Of Kennel:
            (1)   If the kennel license holder or applicant believes that all
conditions constituting grounds for revocation or denial have been cured, the
holder or applicant shall contact the city clerk to request an inspection of
the kennel. In no event shall such request be made later than twenty one (21)
days from the date of notice of revocation or denial. This inspection shall be
conducted within seven (7) days after receipt of the request by the city clerk.
            (2)   If the person performing the inspection finds that all
conditions constituting grounds for revocation or denial have been cured, the
notice of revocation or denial shall be voided, and the kennel license shall be
issued or renewed, as applicable.
            (3)   If the person performing the inspection finds that any
conditions constituting grounds for revocation or denial continue to exist, the
notice of revocation or denial shall continue in force, subject to the right of
the kennel license holder or applicant to contest such revocation or denial.
         d.   Revocation Or Denial Final After Thirty Days: If, after the
expiration of thirty (30) days from the date of receipt of notice of revocation
or denial, any of the conditions constituting grounds for revocation or denial
continue to exist and no request for hearing has been filed, the revocation of
the kennel license or denial of the application shall be final. A law
enforcement officer or the animal control officer shall then be authorized to
impound any dogs kept, harbored or possessed anywhere on the real property,
including any buildings erected thereon, which was the subject of the kennel
license or kennel license application. The law enforcement officer or animal
control officer may lawfully enter any such property and/or buildings in the
course of performing such impoundment. Upon impoundment, the procedures set
forth in section
5-1-20 of this chapter shall apply. Up to two (2) licensed dogs may be allowed
to remain on the property, unless a law enforcement officer or animal control
officer determines that it is unsafe for the dogs to remain.
      3.   Procedure For Contesting Revocation Of Kennel License Or Denial Of
Application:
         a.   A kennel license holder or applicant shall have thirty (30) days
from the date of notice of revocation or denial to file a written request for a
hearing before the city council to contest the revocation or denial; provided,
however, that a kennel license holder or applicant who has requested an
inspection to determine whether the conditions constituting grounds for
revocation or denial continue to exist after an attempt to cure such conditions
shall have seven (7) days from the date of the inspection, or the remainder of
the thirty (30) day period from the date of notice of revocation or denial,
whichever is longer, to file such request.
         b.   The city council shall hold a hearing at the next available city
council meeting after receipt of the written request from the license holder or
applicant. The hearing shall be informal, and strict rules of evidence shall
not apply. In addition to any evidence present by the city clerk or the law
enforcement officer, building official or animal control officer that
investigated the issues that led to the revocation or suspension notice, the
license holder or applicant may be represented by counsel, present testimony
and evidence, and examine witnesses. Evidence and testimony shall be limited to
the specific issues relating to the revocation of the license or the denial of
the application.
         c.   The city council shall issue a written decision within twenty
eight (28) days after the close of the hearing.
      4.   Liability For Impoundment: Any costs of care, including, without
limitation, necessary veterinary care, of any dogs impounded pursuant to the
provisions of this section shall be the responsibility of the dog owner. (Ord.
197, 1-8-2013)
5-1-15 ANIMAL BITES:
   A.   Reporting Required: Any person owning, possessing or harboring any
animal that bites any person, any person bitten by such animal, or any
physician attending such, shall immediately report the same to a law
enforcement officer immediately, but in no case longer than within eight (8)
hours of the time of the bite or of learning of the bite, giving his/her full
name, age and address, the circumstances surrounding the bite and the extent of
the bite, the medical treatment given and the name and address of the owner or
person having custody or possession of the animal. A report shall also be
provided to city hall the next business day. The owner of the animal in
question shall release, to the animal control officer or law enforcement
officer upon request, all information about the animal needed to complete the
investigation. This section shall not apply to veterinarians that are bitten
while providing veterinarian services to an animal.
   B.   Animal Affected With Rabies: It shall be the duty of every person
having knowledge of the existence of an animal apparently afflicted with rabies
to report immediately to the animal control officer the existence and
description of such animal, the place where sent, the name of the owner or
persons having custody of the animal, if known, and the symptoms suggesting
rabies.
   C.   Isolation, Quarantine: No person owning or having custody or possession
of any animal shall fail, refuse or neglect to isolate and quarantine an animal
that has bitten a human or other animal for at least ten (10) days in such
manner as may be specified by the animal control officer or a law enforcement
officer, or for such period and in such manner as may otherwise be required by
a public official with lawful authority. (Ord. 197, 1-8-2013)
5-1-16 INFECTED ANIMALS:
It shall be unlawful for any owner of any animal to keep such animal if it is
known to have a contagious disease unless the animal is under the current
treatment of a licensed veterinarian. If any animal impounded under the
provisions of this chapter is found to be suffering from rabies or is inflicted
with hydrophobia, mange or other infectious or dangerous disease, it shall not
be released. The animal control officer may order that an incurably contagious
or harmful animal be destroyed, subject to appeal to the mayor. An owner
wishing to appeal the order of the animal control officer must file a written
appeal with the city clerk within forty eight (48) hours of the order being
served on the owner. The mayor or the mayor's designee shall hear the appeal
within three (3) business days of a timely appeal. (Ord. 197, 1-8-2013)
5-1-17 VICIOUS ANIMALS:
   A.   Complaint: Any person reasonably apprehensive over the safety of his
person, family or property because of the threatening, predatory, menacing,
destructive or vicious actions of any animal may make a complaint to the animal
control officer, providing such information as the animal control officer
requires. Such proceedings may also be initiated by an animal control officer
upon information developed in the course of his duties. The animal control
officer, after investigation and consultation with the owner or custodian, and
upon finding that there is good cause to believe that an animal poses a threat
of injury to persons, animals or property, may declare such animal vicious. The
owner of such animal shall immediately be notified in writing of the
declaration and shall immediately thereafter maintain said animal in an
enclosed cage or other secure enclosure as required by this chapter, or by the
lawful directives of the animal control officer.
   B.   Appeal: Any owner aggrieved by the classification of his animal as
vicious, may request, in writing, a hearing before the city council at the next
regularly scheduled meeting at which the appeal request may be accommodated.
The request for appeal must be filed with the city clerk within fourteen (14)
days of the date on the declaration of the animal as vicious. Notice of any
such appeal hearing shall be provided by mail or personal delivery to any
complaining party or adjoining property owner at least seven (7) calendar days
in advance of the appeal hearing. Subject to procedural rulings by the mayor,
any appealing party, as well as those opposing such appeal, may present
witnesses, evidence and argument in support of the appeal, and the city council
shall by a vote of the majority of the members present either affirm or reverse
the findings of the animal control officer. The mayor may establish time limits
and procedural standards for presentation of any such appeal.
   C.   Guidelines For Determination: In determining whether or not an animal
is vicious, the animal control officer shall be guided by the following:
      1.   Whether or not the animal has bitten or attempted to bite any person
or persons;
      2.   Extraneous circumstances surrounding the occasion indicating the
temper or potential ferocity of the subject animal;
      3.   Its general menace to the public or to specific individuals;
      4.   The potential for the animal to attack or menace again;
      5.   The record or history of compliance with animal regulations by the
animal's owner; or
      6.   The propensity of the breed of animal, according to documented
authority, to display aggressive or vicious characteristics.
   D.   Applicable To Vaccinated, Licensed Animals: These provisions shall
apply even though the animal in question may have been vaccinated or licensed
as required by this chapter.
   E.   Confinement Requirements:
      1.   Every animal declared vicious shall be confined by its owner or
authorized agent of its owner within a building or secure enclosure which
complies with this chapter. The secure pen or structure must have secure sides
and a secure top attached to the sides, or in the alternative to a secure top,
the sides must be of such height that the enclosed animal could not, under any
foreseeable circumstances in the opinion of the animal control officer, escape
by jumping or otherwise. If the pen or structure has no bottom secured to the
sides, the sides must be embedded into the ground no less than two feet (2'),
or be otherwise designed to prevent any possibility of escape by digging by the
animal. All such pens, enclosures or structures must be adequately lighted, be
kept clean and in sanitary condition and comply in all respects with applicable
zoning and building codes. The pen must be set back five feet (5') from
property line.
      2.   A vicious animal may be temporarily allowed out of said secure
enclosure if such freedom from confinement occurs when accompanied at all times
by a person large and strong enough to control the animal and if securely
muzzled. Every person harboring a vicious animal is charged with an affirmative
duty to confine the animal in such a way that children, other than those of the
owner, do not have access to such animal and that the animal cannot access
others, either adults or children. The pen, enclosure or structure shall be
locked and shall have displayed in a prominent place a clearly visible sign, at
least eight and one-half inches by eleven inches (81/2" x 11") in size, in at
least two (2) conspicuous locations on the property, indicating that there is a
vicious animal on the premises. The owner of a vicious animal shall not suffer
or permit the animal to go beyond the premises of the owner unless the animal
is caged or securely muzzled and restrained by a chain or leash not more than
three feet (3') in length, and under the physical restraint of a person large
enough and strong enough to control the animal. The muzzle shall be made in a
manner that will not cause injury to the animal or interfere with its vision or
respiration, but shall prevent it from biting any human or animal.
   F.   Residence Location Furnished: It shall be the duty of the owner of a
declared vicious animal to furnish the animal control officer or law
enforcement officer with the residence location of said animal unless or until
the vicious designation is removed, even if such location is not within the
city.
   G.   Liability Insurance Required: The owner of an animal declared vicious
pursuant to this section must secure and maintain general liability insurance,
in an amount of not less than five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00),
which insures against the liabilities which derive from custody of the vicious
animal. Proof of this insurance shall be displayed to any animal control
officer, city staff or law enforcement officer upon demand. Said insurance
shall be obtained within ten (10) days from the date that the animal is
declared vicious. Noncompliance with the requirements of this subsection by any
owner of an animal designated as vicious shall constitute a violation of this
chapter, subject to all penalties or methods of enforcement authorized hereby.
   H.   Microchip: The owner of an animal declared vicious pursuant to this
chapter shall have a microchip inserted into the animal and include in the
information associated with that microchip that the animal has been declared
vicious. The information regarding the declaration of the animal as a vicious
animal shall not be removed or altered until the designation is removed by the
city. (Ord. 197, 1-8-2013)
5-1-18 DANGEROUS OR NUISANCE ANIMALS:
Any animal which has been at large in excess of two (2) times within any twelve
(12) month period, or which has been at large and has proven menacing or
threatening when at large, may be declared a nuisance or dangerous, as
appropriate, by the animal control officer. An animal may be designated as
dangerous even though it has not behaved in a manner severe enough to warrant
designation as a vicious animal. Upon making such a declaration, the animal
control officer may prescribe the actions which the animal owner must take to
abate the nuisance or to protect the public from the menacing characteristics
of an animal so designated. Such restrictions may include additional fencing,
security measures, repair of containment facilities, additional supervision or
other measures intended to address the nuisance or danger involved. Such
designation may be applied for a certain designated time frame such that the
restrictions serve as a probation for the animal or animal owner in question.
Violation of any restrictions set forth in a written order of the animal
control officer pursuant to this section shall constitute a violation of this
chapter, subject to all penalties and enforcement measures authorized hereby.
Upon petition and demonstration of compliance with applicable requirements, the
animal control officer may revise the designation of a vicious animal to
nuisance or dangerous status if the animal control officer believes that such
designation will fulfill the purposes of this chapter. Any decision concerning
classification of an animal as a nuisance or dangerous may be appealed by the
animal owner in accord with the procedures established in this chapter
regarding vicious animals. (Ord. 197, 1-8-2013)
5-1-19 SUBSEQUENT ATTACKS:
Should any animal attack or bite a person or another animal, after the owner or
harborer of such animal has been notified that the animal has been declared
vicious, dangerous or nuisance, such animal shall be impounded, held for
observation and shall not be returned to its owner until the animal control
officer can be assured that the insecurity which allowed the animal to go free
has been remedied and will remain so. If any declared vicious animal is found
at large and cannot be safely taken up and impounded, such animal may be
summarily destroyed by any law enforcement officer or animal control officer.
Failure to maintain security for vicious, dangerous or nuisance animals shall
constitute a violation of this chapter. (Ord. 197, 1-8-2013)
5-1-20 IMPOUNDMENT:
   A.   Conditions For Impoundment: In addition to any other remedies provided
in this chapter, an animal control officer or a law enforcement officer may
seize, impound and humanely confine to an animal shelter or hospital any of the
following animals:
      1.   Any animal at large;
      2.   Any animal constituting a public nuisance or considered a danger to
the public;
      3.   Any animal that is in violation of any quarantine or confinement
order of the Panhandle health district, a city animal control officer or any
standing quarantine or confinement order of any public officer;
      4.   Any unattended animal that is ill, injured or otherwise in need of
care;
      5.   Any animal that is reasonably believed to have been abused or
neglected;
      6.   Any animal that is reasonably suspected of having rabies;
      7.   Any animal that is charged with being potentially dangerous, or
dangerous where the city council or animal control officer determines that
there is a threat to public health and safety, including illegal, exotic and
wild animals;
      8.   Any animal that a court of competent jurisdiction has ordered
impounded or destroyed;
      9.   Any animal that is considered unattended or abandoned, as in
situations where the owner is deceased, has been arrested or has been evicted
from his regular place of residence;
      10.   Any animal that has been declared vicious and the owner or harborer
fails to adhere to the established guidelines set forth in the vicious animal
guidelines as set forth in this chapter;
      11.   Any dog without a valid license tag and that is not on the property
of its owner;
      12.   Any dog kept at a kennel that is not licensed, or the license has
been suspended or revoked.
   B.   Notice To Owner: Upon impoundment of an animal, the animal control
officer may attempt to notify the owner by telephone or mail. If the owner is
unknown or cannot be contacted, the animal control officer shall provide to the
city, no later than the next business day after the animal is impounded,
written notice to be posted by the city at city hall, describing the animal and
the time and place of taking. Any telephonic or written notice to the owner may
also include the location of the shelter or hospital where the animal is
confined, hours during which the animal can be reclaimed, and the fees to be
charged to the owner. The owner may also be advised that the failure to claim
the animal within three (3) business days may result in the destruction or
other disposition of the animal.
   C.   Impound Fees: An owner reclaiming an impounded animal shall pay the
impound fees charged by the shelter.
   D.   Unclaimed Animals: Any animal not reclaimed by its owner within three
(3) business days shall be subject to placement for adoption in a suitable home
or euthanized in a manner prescribed by the city. (Ord. 197, 1-8-2013)
5-1-21 VIOLATION AND PENALTY:
   A.   Violation: It shall be a violation of this chapter to:
      1.   Fail to comply with any provision of this chapter, that is, to do
that which is described as unlawful or to violate the requirements established
by this chapter.
      2.   Fail to comply with any lawful order of the animal control officer
or law enforcement officer, unless such order is lawfully stayed or reversed.
(Ord. 197, 1-8-2013)
   B.   At Large: Any person that allows a domestic animal, except for a cat,
to run at large shall be guilty of an infraction, punishable by a fine of fifty
dollars ($50.00) for the first offense and one hundred dollars ($100.00) for
the second offense within five (5) years, and guilty of a misdemeanor for the
third and subsequent offenses within five (5) years of the first offense. Any
person who allows a wild or exotic animal to run at large or who violates any
other provision of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
Misdemeanor violations shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Should any person be found guilty in any court of competent
jurisdiction, the court may order the animal involved to be destroyed by the
animal control officer. (Ord. 197, 1-8-2013; amd. 2017 Code)
   C.   Civil Action: The city may undertake civil legal action in a court of
competent jurisdiction to seek to enjoin conduct which violates the provisions
of this chapter and/or to recover the reasonable costs of actions deemed
necessary to bring about compliance herewith. (Ord. 197, 1-8-2013)
CHAPTER 2
CRIMES AND OFFENSES
SECTION:
5-2-1: Vagrancy
5-2-1 VAGRANCY:
   A.   Prohibition: Any able bodied person who shall be found loitering about
the streets and alleys of the city, or who shall beg alms, food, money or
clothing, or other things, or anyone who shall for the space of one day refuse
to work when the opportunity shall be offered to him, having at the time no
visible means of support, or whoever shall be found asleep on the streets or
sidewalks, or in private premises, or in barns, stables, outhouses or sheds,
against the consent of the owner, or shall build fires on vacant lots of the
city, shall be deemed a vagrant in the meaning of this section. (Ord. 16, 8-26-
1912)
   B.   Penalty: Any person violating this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 16, 8-26-1912; amd. 2017 Code)
CHAPTER 3
MINORS
SECTION:
5-3-1: Curfew
5-3-1 CURFEW:
   A.   Policy: The policy of the city is:
      1.   To protect children's health and welfare, which includes their care,
guidance and control;
      2.   Parents, guardians and/or other persons having legal custody are
responsible for providing for the physical custody and control of the child and
to determine where and with whom the child shall live and to provide the child
with care, education and discipline;
      3.   A child who is unaccompanied by an adult having custodial rights or
an adult person designated by a person having custodial rights and who is found
to be on the public streets, highways, roads, alleys, parks, playgrounds or
other public grounds, places, buildings, places of amusement, eating places,
vacant lots and other locations unsupervised by such adult having the lawful
authority to be at such place between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. to
five o'clock (5:00) A.M. Sunday through Saturday is at a greater risk for
injury, becoming a victim of a crime, being involved in criminal activity,
being a danger to persons or property or otherwise being subject to danger.
   B.   Curfew Hours Specified; Exceptions: It is unlawful for any child being
an individual who is under the age of eighteen (18) years to be upon any
street, highway, road, alley, park, playground or other public places or
buildings, or places of amusement, eating establishments, vacant lots and/or
any other places without being accompanied by an adult having custodial rights
or an adult person designated by the adult having custodial rights of said
child between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and five o'clock (5:00)
A.M. Sunday through Saturday; provided, that the provisions of this subsection
shall not apply in the following instances:
      1.   When the child is upon an emergency errand directed by his or her
parent or guardian or other adult person having the lawful care and custody of
said minor;
      2.   When the child is returning directly home from a school activity,
school entertainment, school recreational activity or school dance;
      3.   When the child is either going to or going from his or her place of
residence, to or from his or her place of lawful employment and/or is working
at the child's place of employment;
      4.   When the child is attending or traveling directly to or from an
activity involving the exercise of first amendment rights of free speech,
freedom of assembly or free exercise of religion;
      5.   When the child is in a motor vehicle with parental consent for
normal travel with interstate travel through the city;
      6.   A minor who is married or who is on active duty in the armed
services of the United States.
   C.   Permitting Child To Violate Curfew: It shall be unlawful for the
parent, guardian or other person having legal custody of a child or any adult
person designated by the person having legal custody of a child under the age
of eighteen (18) years to permit and/or allow said child to be upon any public
streets, highways, roads, alleys, parks, playgrounds or other public grounds,
places, buildings, places of amusement, eating places, vacant lots or other
locations without having designated an adult person or said parent, guardian or
other legal custodian to be with and supervising said child between the hours
of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M. Sunday through
Saturday, except in the circumstances set forth in subsection B of this
section. (Ord. 107, 7-3-1995)
   D.   Penalty: A violation of any of the provisions of this section is an
infraction and shall be subject to the provisions of Idaho Code section 20-549,
as amended. (Ord. 107, 7-3-1995; amd. 2017 Code)
TITLE 6
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY; TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
6-1-1: Maintenance Of Property Required
6-1-2: Snow And Ice Removal
6-1-1 MAINTENANCE OF PROPERTY REQUIRED:
   A.   Sidewalks:
      1.   Requirement: It shall be the duty of all owners of abutting property
within the limits of the city to keep the sidewalks fronting or abutting
thereon, or contiguous thereto, in good repair and safe and convenient for
travel.
      2.   Penalty: The owner of any lot or part thereof in the city who shall
permit any sidewalk fronting, adjacent or contiguous thereto to become or
remain out of repair, or unsafe or inconvenient for travel, or in such
condition as to obstruct the free use or free passage thereof in the customary
manner, shall be deemed guilty of maintaining a nuisance and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be subject to penalty for an infraction violation as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 28, 6-25-1919; amd. 2017 Code)
   B.   Adjacent Real Property:
      1.   Requirements:
         a.   It shall be the responsibility and liability of every owner of
real property in the city to maintain that portion of real property lying
between the property owner's property line and the nearest edge of the street
or alley or street curb in a safe, uncluttered, unobstructed condition and to
prune, trim or care for any trees or shrubbery located upon the same and to mow
any grass located upon the same.
         b.   It shall be the responsibility and liability of every owner of
real property in the city to maintain in a clean, sanitary, uncluttered and
unobstructed condition that portion of real property lying between the property
owner's property line and the nearest edge of the street, alley or street curb,
including any ditches, and to prevent the accumulation of and to remove the
accumulation of any trash, debris, discarded item, personal property or thing
from such area.
      2.   Tree Cutting Requires Permission: Permission must be received from
the city prior to the cutting of any trees located in the public right of way.
      3.   Failure To Comply: Every such adjacent property owner shall be
responsible for the cost of maintenance of such property between the property
line of the property owner and the nearest edge of the street, alley or street
curb as set forth in this subsection. If any such adjacent property owner shall
fail to maintain such property or the trees and shrubs located thereon, such
property owner shall be responsible and liable for the cost of any such
maintenance provided by, ordered by or contracted for by the city after ten
(10) days' written notice has been provided to the property owner of the
existing violation of this subsection. (Ord. 91, 9-14-1992)
6-1-2 SNOW AND ICE REMOVAL:
   A.   Required: Snow removed from any property within the city limits shall
not be placed upon the property of another owner without the permission of said
property owner; nor shall snow be thrown, shoveled, plowed or placed upon any
streets, gutters, drainages or other rights of way of the city so as to block
the road, narrow the road or obstruct the view of drivers at street
intersections, or to obstruct the free passage of vehicles thereon. (Ord. 116,
4-7-1997)
   B.   Failure To Comply: Whenever any person shall neglect or refuse to
comply with subsection A of this section, the city clerk, or designee, shall
cause all such snow and ice to be removed and shall report the same, together
with verified vouchers of the cost of such removal, to the city council and
said costs shall be assessed upon the abutting lot or property from which said
snow and ice are removed, in addition to any fine and costs imposed for
violation of this law. The city clerk shall make a special assessment for the
same and report the same to the city council with the report and vouchers. When
approved and confirmed by the city council, said assessment shall be a lien on
said lot or block and be collected as other special assessments are collected
pursuant to Idaho Code section 50-1008 et seq.
   C.   Penalty: In addition to any other penalty set out in this section, any
violation of this section shall constitute a misdemeanor, subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 116, 4-7-1997; amd. 2017 Code)
CHAPTER 2
EXCAVATIONS
SECTION:
6-2-1: Permit Required
6-2-2: Application For Permit; Fee, Bond Required
6-2-3: Processing Of Application; Appeal
6-2-4: Approval And Issuance
6-2-5: Suspension Of Permit
6-2-6: Penalty
6-2-1 PERMIT REQUIRED:
No person, firm, partnership or corporation shall, within the city, excavate or
commence the excavation of any street or alley for the installation of any
utility lines or other private purpose without first obtaining a permit for the
same in accordance with the provisions and procedures set forth in this
chapter. Where street surfacing has been in service five (5) years or less, the
contractor must bore crossings and no asphalt may be cut, except in the case of
an emergency. (Ord. 186, 8-3-2010)
6-2-2 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT; FEE, BOND REQUIRED:
Applications for a utility excavation permit shall be made to the city clerk on
forms prescribed and furnished by the clerk, and shall be accompanied by a
permit fee in an amount set by resolution of the city council and a bond in the
amount of the cost of the work to be performed as surety for the completion of
the work in conformance with the city street standards, which bond shall remain
in place for a period of two (2) years following the date of completion of the
installation of the utility as a warranty of the work that was completed.
Alternatively, contractors that perform work in the public right of way on a
regular basis may provide one bond in an amount of not less than fifty thousand
dollars ($50,000.00), to be renewed annually, as surety for all projects
constructed by that contractor during the year which requires a surety bond, so
long as the aggregate dollar amount of the projects do not exceed the dollar
amount of the bond. All surety bonds shall contain language that the bond shall
cover not only the completion of the work and the warranty of that work, but
shall also include reimbursement to the city of the cost incurred by the city
to collect on the bond. Applications for such permit shall be accompanied by a
drawing locating the proposed excavation, and a set of plans or specifications
showing the nature and extent of the proposed excavation. (Ord. 186, 8-3-2010)
6-2-3 PROCESSING OF APPLICATION; APPEAL:
All applications for a utility excavation permit under this chapter shall be
referred by the city clerk to the mayor or the mayor's designee. The mayor or
mayor's designee, after examination of the application, drawing and plans or
specifications, shall decide whether the permit applied for shall be granted or
denied. An applicant dissatisfied by the decision of the mayor or mayor's
designee may appeal that decision to the city council stating the reasons for
such appeal in writing filed with the city clerk at least seven (7) days prior
to the date of the city council meeting at which it will be considered. The
decision by the city council shall be final. (Ord. 186, 8-3-2010)
6-2-4 APPROVAL AND ISSUANCE:
If the application is approved by the mayor or mayor's designee, or the city
council, the city clerk shall forthwith issue the permit applied for, upon the
condition that the applicant agrees to repair, rebuild and relay, and otherwise
restore the street or alley to good order and condition as soon as practical
without unnecessary delay following the completion of the utility installation,
and, if the applicant fails to do so, the city shall have the right, after
reasonable notice, to cause the repairs to be made at the expense of the
applicant and to collect on the bond for the cost of those repairs and the cost
incurred to pursue collection on the bond. The applicant shall be responsible
to pay to the city any cost of repairs that exceeds the amount paid by the
surety. (Ord. 186, 8-3-2010)
6-2-5 SUSPENSION OF PERMIT:
The mayor or the mayor's designee has the authority to suspend the issuance of
permits for street cuts when it is deemed it is appropriate based upon the
condition of the street, the weather or the unavailability of materials to make
the repairs. Such suspension may be waived in the case of an emergency. (Ord.
186, 8-3-2010)
6-2-6 PENALTY:
Every violation of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor, subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 186, 8-3-2010; amd. 2017 Code)
CHAPTER 3
TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-3-1: Vehicle Weight And Speed Limits
6-3-2: Riding Bicycles And Motorcycles On Sidewalks
6-3-3: Air Compression Brakes
6-3-4: Parking Regulations
6-3-1 VEHICLE WEIGHT AND SPEED LIMITS:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to preserve the integrity of
the paved streets within the city limits and to protect the public safety and
efficient use of the public streets by limiting the weight of vehicles that are
allowed to operate on the paved streets and setting the maximum speed limit.
   B.   Definitions: As used in this section:
   GROSS VEHICLE WEIGHT: The weight of a vehicle without load, plus the weight
of any load on that vehicle.
   VEHICLE: As provided in Idaho Code title 49, chapter 1.
   C.   Weight Prohibition; Exceptions: It is unlawful for any person to
operate a motor vehicle with a gross vehicle weight in excess of twenty six
thousand (26,000) pounds on any street within the city limits, with the
following exceptions:
      1.   Emergency vehicles;
      2.   Vehicles making a delivery which terminates within the city limits;
      3.   Vehicles traveling on Main Street from Highway 200 to the north city
limits, with the following limitations:
         a.   All vehicles hauling sawdust, gravel, rock, dirt or other items
that are loose shall be covered;
         b.   Truck traffic with a gross vehicle weight in excess of twenty six
thousand (26,000) pounds shall be limited to Monday through Friday between the
hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and four o'clock (4:00) P.M., and no
weekends.
The above noted exceptions shall only apply to emergency vehicles when load and
speed limits are imposed due to climatic conditions.
   D.   Speed Limits:
      1.   Purpose: The purpose of this subsection D is to set the speed limits
for the streets within the city limits. The speed limits are based upon the
residential, urban or business character of the neighborhoods within the city
limits and which abut the roadways within those residential, business or urban
districts.
      2.   Limit Specified; Exception: Unless posted signage indicates to the
contrary, the speed limit for vehicles operating within the city limits, except
for State Highway 200, shall be fifteen (15) miles per hour, except for N. Main
Street and McGhee Road, which shall be twenty five (25) miles per hour, with
the following exception:
Emergency service vehicles operating with lights and sirens activated.
      3.   Temporary Limits: The city engineer, with the approval of the mayor,
may adopt a temporary speed limit lower than the customary speed limit in a
given area when such speed limit is deemed necessary to cover special
conditions arising from construction zones or other hazardous conditions. The
temporary speed limit shall be posted in conformance with Idaho Code title 49,
chapter 2.
      4.   Unlawful To Exceed Limit: It is unlawful to exceed the posted speed
limit.
   E.   Climatic Restrictions:
      1.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to set temporary weight
limits for the streets within the city limits that, due to climatic conditions,
require adjustment based upon the then existing conditions and to authorize the
imposition of temporary weight restrictions and associated signage. The weight
limits are to be based upon the climatic conditions, the condition of the road
and the associated support structures, and shall apply to all vehicles, with
the exception of emergency service vehicles operating with lights and sirens
activated.
      2.   Temporary Limits: The city engineer, with the approval of the mayor,
may adopt temporary weight limits lower than the customary weight limits in a
given area when such weight limits are deemed necessary to cover special
conditions arising from climatic conditions. The temporary weight limits shall
be posted in conformance with Idaho Code title 49, chapter 2.
      3.   Unlawful To Exceed: It is unlawful to exceed the posted weight
limits. (Ord. 203, 3-22-2014)
   F.   Penalty: Any person violating this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, with the exception of the speed limitation, which shall be an
infraction, both subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 203, 3-22-2014; amd. 2017 Code)
6-3-2 RIDING BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES ON SIDEWALKS:
   A.   Prohibition: No person shall ride any bicycle or motorcycle on any
sidewalk within the corporate limits of the city. (Ord. 7, 7-6-1910)
   B.   Penalty: Any violation of this section is an infraction, subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 7, 7-6-1910; amd. 2017 Code)
6-3-3 AIR COMPRESSION BRAKES:
   A.   Use Prohibited: The use of air compression brakes (also known as "jake
brakes") by vehicles or trucks, as defined in Idaho Code title 49, chapter 1,
within the city limits is hereby prohibited and shall be unlawful, except under
emergency circumstances where the use of air compression brakes is necessary to
prevent an accident or injury to persons or property. (Ord. 160, 7-7-2006)
   B.   Penalty: Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject
to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 160, 7-7-2006; amd. 2017 Code)
6-3-4 PARKING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Prohibited Parking; Signage:
      1.   Parking on the traveled road bed area of the below defined streets
within the city is hereby prohibited.
      2.   No parking on McGhee Road, Railroad Avenue, Main Street or Boise
Street at any time; no parking on First Street from Main Street to Hope Street,
Second Street from Main Street to Hope Street, Hope Street or Sprague Street
while school is in session.
      3.   The city shall place signage informing persons of the no parking
policy on all such defined no parking areas.
   B.   Obstructions To Traffic Or Snow Removal:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person, persons or corporations to park
any vehicle, whether self-propelled, trailer or other towed vehicle, upon any
of the streets or thoroughfares within the city where said parking obstructs
the free flow of traffic and/or impairs the ability of the street to be plowed
of snow in a safe and orderly fashion.
      2.   Whenever the snow removal crew finds any vehicle, as herein defined,
he is authorized to remove, or cause to be removed, said offending vehicle and
the expense involved shall be assessed against the owner of said vehicle in
addition to any fine and/or costs imposed for violation of this law.
      3.   It is provided that said vehicle so removed may be impounded and
held at a secure location by the towing company until the expenses incurred in
moving said vehicle shall have been paid. Said expenses shall constitute a lien
against the vehicle dependent upon possession, but the release of the vehicle
and the possessory lien shall not preclude the collection of said expenses when
assessed in misdemeanor proceedings as part of the penalty. (Ord. 116, 4-7-
1997)
   C.   Penalty: In addition to any other penalty set out in this section, any
violation of this section shall constitute an infraction, subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 116, 4-7-1997; amd. 2017 Code)
TITLE 7
BUILDING AND DEVELOPMENT
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODES AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Codes Adopted
7-1-2: Amendments To Residential Code
7-1-3: Exemptions To Adopted Codes
7-1-4: Designation Of Building Official
7-1-5: Manufactured Homes Installation Permits
7-1-6: Site Plan Required
7-1-7: Certificate Of Occupancy Or Certification Of Completion
7-1-8: Energizing Authorization
7-1-9: Fees
7-1-10: Sewage Disposal Approval
7-1-11: Penalty
7-1-1 CODES ADOPTED:
   A.   Building, Residential, Energy Conservation: The following nationally
recognized codes, as currently adopted by the State of Idaho, together with any
amendments, revisions, or modifications to those editions made by the Idaho
Building Code Board through the negotiated rulemaking process, along with the
later published supplement of such Code published by the International Code
Council, Inc., are adopted as the official Building, Residential and Energy
Codes of the City, except as provided in section
7-1-3 of this chapter:
      1.   2015 edition of the International Building Code, including
appendices thereto pertaining to building accessibility, excluding the
incorporated Electrical Codes, Mechanical Code, Fuel Gas Code, Plumbing Codes
other than specifically referenced subjects or sections of the International
Fire Code, and including the incorporated Idaho Residential Code, parts I, II,
III, IV and IX; Idaho Energy Conservation Code; and rules promulgated by the
board to provide equivalency with the provisions of the Americans With
Disabilities Act accessibility guidelines and the Fair Housing Act
accessibility guidelines;
      2.   2012 International Residential Code, except for parts V, VI, VII,
and VIII, as they pertain to mechanical, fuel gas, plumbing, and electrical
requirements;
      3.   2015 International Energy Conservation Code, with 2012 amendments
for residential portion;
      4.   2015 International Fire Code, including appendices B, C, D, E and F.
(Ord. 219, 12-5-2017, eff. 1-1-2018)
   B.   Abatement Of Dangerous Buildings: The Uniform Code for the Abatement of
Dangerous Buildings, 1997 edition, prepared by the International Conference of
Building Officials (ICBO), is hereby adopted and shall be the Uniform Code for
the Abatement of Dangerous Buildings within the City. In addition to the
requirements of this Code, no abatement proceedings shall be undertaken without
the authorization of City Council and upon the recommendation of the City
Attorney. (Ord. 202, 12-10-2013, eff. 1-1-2014)
7-1-2 AMENDMENTS TO RESIDENTIAL CODE:
The following additional amendments and criteria shall be applicable to the
International Residential Code:
   A.   R301.2.3 Snow Loads. Wood framed construction, cold formed steel framed
construction and masonry and concrete construction, and structural insulated
panel construction in regions with ground snow loads of 70 pounds per square
foot (3.35 kPa) or less, shall be in accordance with chapters 5, 6 and 8.
Buildings in regions with ground snow loads greater than 70 pounds per square
foot (3.35 kPa) shall be to withstand a minimum 55 pound per square foot (55
psf) roof live load.
   B.   The following design criteria shall be applied to table R301.2(1):
Ground snow load                  104 psf
Wind design (speed)               90
Wind design (topographic effects) No
Seismic design category           C
Weathering                        Severe
Frost line depth                  24 inches
Termite                           None to slight
Winter design temp                -10 degrees Fahrenheit
Ice underlayment required         Yes
Flood hazards                     November 18, 2009
Air freeze index                  >1000-2000
Mean annual temp                  45 degrees Fahrenheit
 
   C.   R105.2 Work Exempt From Permit. Permits shall not be required for the
following. Exemption from permit requirements of this code shall not be deemed
to grant authorization for any work to be done in any manner in violation of
the provisions of this code or any other laws or ordinances of the
jurisdiction.
Building:
      1.   One-story detached accessory structures used as tool and storage
sheds, playhouses and similar uses, provided the floor area does not exceed 200
square feet (18.58 m2).
(Ord. 202, 12-10-2013, eff. 1-1-2014)
      2.   Fences not over 7 feet (2134 mm) high.
(Ord. 219, 12-5-2017, eff. 1-1-2018)
      3.   Retaining walls that are not over 4 feet (1219 mm) in height
measured from the bottom of the footing to the top of the wall, unless
supporting a surcharge.
      4.   Water tanks supported directly upon grade if the capacity does not
exceed 5,000 gallons (18 927 l) and the ratio of height to diameter or width
does not exceed 2 to 1.
      5.   Sidewalks and driveways.
      6.   Painting, papering, tiling, carpeting, cabinets, counter tops and
similar finish work.
      7.   Prefabricated swimming pools that are less than 24 inches (610 mm)
deep.
      8.   Swings and other playground equipment.
      9.   Window awnings supported by an exterior wall which do not project
more than 54 inches (1372 mm) from the exterior wall and do not require
additional support.
      10.   Decks not exceeding 200 square feet (18.58 m2) in area, that are
not more than 30 inches (762 mm) above grade at any point, are not attached to
a dwelling and do not serve the exit door required by section R311.4.
      11.   Repairs to, and replacement of, existing roofing on single-family
residences and storage sheds.
(Ord. 202, 12-10-2013, eff. 1-1-2014)
7-1-3 EXEMPTIONS TO ADOPTED CODES:
Agricultural buildings are exempt from the Building Codes adopted herein but
shall remain subject to placement requirements established by zoning
regulations. (Ord. 202, 12-10-2013, eff. 1-1-2014)
7-1-4 DESIGNATION OF BUILDING OFFICIAL:
The Mayor is authorized to designate a building official for the City. (Ord.
202, 12-10-2013, eff. 1-1-2014)
7-1-5 MANUFACTURED HOMES INSTALLATION PERMITS:
Placement of manufactured homes shall require an installation permit. No
manufactured home shall be placed that has not been constructed to withstand a
minimum fifty five (55) pound per square foot (psf) roof live load, or the
owner has provided for a separate roof cover that is constructed to provide the
required roof live load. The permit applicant shall supply to the building
official the same site information required from an applicant seeking a
building permit for a single-family dwelling and pay a permit fee. (Ord. 202,
12-10-2013, eff. 1-1-2014)
7-1-6 SITE PLAN REQUIRED:
For activities where a site plan review is required by the adopted Building
Code or City ordinance, no building permit shall be issued, nor construction
commenced, unless the City Engineer has approved the proposed site plan and the
required on and off site improvements have been incorporated as conditions of
the building permit. (Ord. 202, 12-10-2013, eff. 1-1-2014)
7-1-7 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY OR CERTIFICATE OF COMPLETION:
   A.   Required: It is unlawful for any person to occupy a dwelling or
building without an approved certificate of occupancy or certificate of
completion.
   B.   Completion Of Improvements: Where on or off site improvements are
required as a condition of site plan approval for the subject permit, no
certificate of occupancy or certificate of completion shall be issued until the
City Engineer has inspected and provided a written approval of all required
site improvements, and certified that said improvements have been constructed
in conformance with the approved plans.
   C.   Temporary Certificate: No temporary certificate of occupancy or
temporary certificate of completion shall be issued without the authorization
of the City Council. For minor outstanding required site improvements, such as
landscaping, which cannot be completed due to weather or other conditions
beyond the developer's control, upon the recommendation of the building
official and City Engineer, the City Council may authorize a temporary
certificate of occupancy or temporary certificate of completion, with
conditions as may be deemed necessary and appropriate by the City Council to
ensure the completion of outstanding improvements. (Ord. 202, 12-10-2013, eff.
1-1-2014)
7-1-8 ENERGIZING AUTHORIZATION:
No person shall energize a new or upgraded existing electric service or set an
electric meter for any structure or install construction power to assist in the
construction of a structure until an energizing permit has been issued by the
building official. (Ord. 202, 12-10-2013, eff. 1-1-2014)
7-1-9 FEES:
All fees relating to the above adopted codes and any other provisions of this
chapter shall be set by resolution of the City Council. (Ord. 202, 12-10-2013,
eff. 1-1-2014)
7-1-10 SEWAGE DISPOSAL APPROVAL:
No building or installation permit shall be issued for the construction or
placement of any structure designed for human habitation or requiring sewage
disposal unless a copy of written authorization to connect to the system of a
sewer district in which the property is located has been submitted to the
building official. (Ord. 202, 12-10-2013, eff. 1-1-2014)
7-1-11 PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provisions of this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be fined not more than three hundred
dollars ($300.00), or imprisoned for not more than ninety (90) days, or both
fine and imprisonment. A separate violation is deemed to have occurred with
respect to each building or structure not in compliance with this chapter and
each day such violation continues constitutes a separate offense. (Ord. 202,
12-10-2013, eff. 1-1-2014; amd. 2017 Code)
CHAPTER 2
GRADING, EROSION CONTROL, AND STORMWATER MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS
SECTION:
7-2-1: Purpose
7-2-2: Scope
7-2-3: Authority
7-2-4: Definitions
7-2-5: General Provisions
7-2-6: Applicability
7-2-7: Administration
7-2-8: Performance Standards
7-2-9: Applications
7-2-10: Review Procedures
7-2-11: Guarantee Of Installation
7-2-12: Inspections And Continued Maintenance
7-2-13: Variances
7-2-14: Appeals
7-2-15: Compliance And Penalties
7-2-1 PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide standards for land development within
Kootenai City limits that will safeguard properties, water quality, and the
environment from the adverse effects of unchecked stormwater run-off, erosion,
and sedimentation by requiring the use of Best Management Practices to guide
and design development and to properly channel, disperse, and filter
stormwater. (Ord. 214, 5-2-2017)
7-2-2 SCOPE:
All land-disturbing activities, modification, alterations, grading, excavation,
or construction within the incorporated City limits of Kootenai are subject to
the standards of this chapter, as set forth in the applicability section of
this chapter, unless otherwise specifically exempt, pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 214, 5-2-2017)
7-2-3 AUTHORITY:
The provisions of this chapter are authorized at Idaho Code title 50, chapters
3 and 9, and title 67, sections 6511 and 6518. (Ord. 214, 5-2-2017)
7-2-4 DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall have these specific
meanings:
ADMINISTRATOR: City Planner or other individual appointed by the Mayor and City
Council to administer this chapter.
AS-BUILT DRAWINGS: Design plans that reflect the actual installation and
placement of all features of the plan and all changes to the plans that
occurred during construction.
BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs): Generally recognized stormwater techniques
and methods that have been determined by scientific study and use to prevent or
minimize water pollution caused by development or construction.
CITY ENGINEER: An engineer appointed by the Mayor and City Council to represent
the City of Kootenai.
CLEARING: The destruction and/or removal of vegetation by manual, mechanical or
chemical means, except that for the purposes of this chapter, the term shall
not include agricultural and silvicultural practices, gardening, landscaping,
snow removal, and other incidental practices not associated with vegetative
removal as a precursor to actual construction to which this chapter is
applicable.
CONVEYANCE: A mechanism for transporting stormwater from one point to another
including pipes, ditches and channels, but not including agricultural ditches
for irrigation.
DESIGN PROFESSIONAL: Professionals licensed or authorized by the State of Idaho
for engineering, landscape architecture, or stormwater management.
DESIGN STORM: A rainfall event of specific return frequency and duration that
is used to calculate stormwater runoff volume and peak discharge rates. For the
purposes of this chapter, a 25-year storm event on the Intensity-Duration-
Frequency Curve prepared by the Idaho Transportation Department for Zone C
shall be used. Subdivisions may require higher return frequency than a 25-year
event, as determined by the City Engineer.
DETENTION: The temporary storage of stormwaters to provide for settling of
suspended solids, infiltration, velocity reduction, or combination of these.
EROSION CONTROL: Any temporary or permanent measure taken to reduce erosion,
control siltation and sedimentation or to ensure that sediment-bearing waters
do not leave a construction site.
GROUND WATER: Waters in a subterranean saturated zone or stratum.
IMPERVIOUS SURFACE: A hard surface area that either prevents or retards the
entry of water into the soil mantle as under natural conditions prior to
construction, or a hard surface area that causes water to run off the surface
in greater quantities or at an increased rate of flow compared to conditions
prior to construction. Common impervious surfaces, include, but are not limited
to roof tops, walkways, patios, driveways, parking lots, concrete or asphalt
paving, gravel roads, packed earthen materials, and oiled, macadam or other
surfaces that impede the natural infiltration of stormwater. Open, uncovered
retention or detention facilities are not considered to be impervious surfaces
for the purposes of this chapter.
INFILTRATION: The downward movement of water from the surface to the subsoil.
LAND DISTURBING ACTIVITY: Any activity that results in a change in the existing
soil cover, and includes clearing, grading, filling, and excavation, except as
otherwise provided in this chapter.
NATIONAL HYDROGRAPHY DATASET (NHD): A digital mapping system maintained by the
U.S. Geological Service to portray surface water features, such as rivers,
streams, canals, lakes, and ponds.
RETENTION: The holding of stormwater runoff within a contained area in such
manner that the stormwater can disperse by means of evaporation, infiltration,
or controlled emergency overflow or bypass structures.
ROAD CONSTRUCTION: The building up of the natural land surface to create a
travel way open for vehicular passage. Road construction shall include such
activities as initial clearing, alteration of topography, installation of
culverts, filling of low areas, placement of geofabrics, deposition of subbase
or base material, topping, grading, and surfacing, and drainage of ground
water.
ROAD RECONSTRUCTION: Any modification of the cross-section, subgrade or
alignment of a road or travel way within a right- of-way or easement. Routine
grading, snow removal, chip seal, applied dust coating, re-surfacing or
repaving of a road shall not be considered reconstruction.
SEDIMENT: Fragmented material that originates from weathering and erosion of
rocks or unconsolidated deposits, and is transported by, suspended in, or
deposited by water.
SITE: The land area subject to a land disturbing activity associated with any
construction to which this chapter is applicable. The site shall be deemed to
include actual areas of land disturbance and areas designated for stockpiling
or storage of excavated earthen materials.
STORMWATER: That portion of precipitation that does not naturally percolate
into the ground or evaporate, but instead runs over the surface of the land,
and eventually evaporates or travels to defined watercourses or constructed
conveyance, detention or retention facilities.
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PLAN: A document composed of drawings, maps,
calculations, etc., which is used to design a stormwater management system and
to ensure the functioning of the system.
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT SYSTEM: A system of collection, detention, retention or
infiltration areas and/or treatment devices designed to prevent untreated
stormwater from entering a natural body of surface water.
STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN (SWPPP): A document consisting of drawings
of a site with diagrams, explanatory text, maps, etc., which are developed for
erosion control pursuant to the Environmental Protection Agency regulations.
STREAM: A natural watercourse of perceptible extent, with definite bed and
banks, which confines and conducts continuously flowing water.
SURFACE WATER: All waters that collect, flow or accumulate on or above the
ground surface.
SWALE: A shallow depression in the ground surface with relatively gentle side
slopes, which is designed or used to retain stormwater for sufficient time to
allow stormwater to percolate into the soil or to flow slowly through
vegetation that provides natural filtration of sediment.
TREATMENT DEVICE: A constructed or manufactured area or mechanism designed to
remove contaminants from stormwater. Treatment devices may include but are not
limited to: detention ponds, oil/water separators, biofiltration swales, and
constructed wetlands.
UNDEVELOPED OR UNDISTURBED STATE: The soils and vegetation in place prior to
the start of any land disturbing activity.
WATERCOURSE: A natural channel carrying waters on a regular or intermittent or
infrequent basis. Any body of water, including, but not limited to lakes,
ponds, rivers, streams, and bodies of water.
WATERS: All the accumulations of water, surface and ground water, natural and
artificial, public and private, or parts thereof, which are wholly or partially
within, or flow through a border of Kootenai City limits. (Ord. 214, 5-2-2017)
7-2-5 GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Compliance Required: For all activities to which this chapter is
applicable, no person, group, association, entity or body corporate shall
conduct or cause to be conducted any activity or initiate construction on any
structure including excavation, site preparation or leveling without first
complying with the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Damage, Failure: No person shall damage or impair a stormwater/erosion
control feature or fail to install, complete or maintain any portion of a
stormwater management system. No alterations to existing stormwater systems
shall occur without prior written approval from the City of Kootenai.
   C.   Failure To Maintain Deemed Violation: The failure to maintain any
component of a stormwater management system or sedimentation/erosion control
feature in accordance with an approved plan shall be deemed a violation of the
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 214, 5-2-2017)
7-2-6 APPLICABILITY:
   A.   Applicability: The provisions of this chapter shall be applicable to:
      1.   All new subdivisions and new phases of existing subdivisions.
      2.   All new construction, reconstruction, additions, or modifications,
except as provided elsewhere in this chapter.
      3.   All public projects, including road construction undertaken by any
other political subdivision of the State of Idaho or public agency over which
the City of Kootenai asserts jurisdiction.
      4.   Grading, paving, excavation, fill, or similar land- disturbing or
earthwork activities, except as provided elsewhere in this chapter.
      5.   Any modifications to existing stormwater/erosion control systems.
      6.   Land disturbing activities which are a part of, accessory to, or
preparatory to any of the activities listed in subsections A1 through A5 of
this section.
   B.   Exceptions: The provisions of this chapter shall not be applicable to:
      1.   Road or highway construction within the jurisdiction of any public
highway agency other than the City of Kootenai, and over which the City of
Kootenai may not assert use or control pursuant to provisions of title 40,
Idaho Code.
      2.   Stream channel alterations that proceed under the terms of a permit
issued by the Idaho Department of Water Resources pursuant to title 42, chapter
38, Idaho Code.
      3.   Agricultural activities specifically exempt from the Local Land Use
Planning Act at Idaho Code section 67-6529.
      4.   Traditional residential uses such as landscaping, gardening, snow
removal, tree planting, and routine driveway or road maintenance.
      5.   Any logging activity that proceeds in accord with the Idaho Forest
Practices Act.
   C.   Administrative Exceptions: The City Engineer, or the Administrator in
consultation with the City Engineer, may issue administrative exceptions in
whole or in part to this chapter, when in their sound professional judgment,
the exception is minor, and the resulting development will meet the purposes of
section
7-2-1 of this chapter. The administrative exceptions from the provisions of
this chapter may include:
      1.   Minor variations to the standards set forth herein to accommodate
unique topographical, vegetative, geological, or hydrological conditions.
      2.   Exceptions for minor additions, remodeling, or restoration of an
existing structure.
      3.   Joint stormwater management. Exceptions for joint management of
stormwater adjoining property owners may be allowed if a joint management
agreement approved by the City Engineer is presented as a part of the
stormwater management plan. The approved joint stormwater management agreement
shall be recorded. (Ord. 214, 5-2-2017)
7-2-7 ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Filing Of Application: An application for a grading, stormwater, or
erosion control plan shall be filed with the Kootenai City Clerk. The
application shall include at a minimum the contents listed at section
7-2-9 of this chapter and shall be accompanied by the applicable fees as
established by resolution of the Kootenai City Council. No application shall be
processed or reviewed until the required fee is paid.
   B.   Administrator Designated: The City Zoning Administrator or other
individual designated by the Mayor or City Council shall administer the
provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Duties Of The Administrator: In addition to the specific duties as may
be set forth in other sections, the Administrator or designee shall:
      1.   Examine proposed development plans submitted to the City of Kootenai
to determine whether the provisions of this chapter apply.
      2.   Review all applications to determine applicability to this chapter
and completeness. Forward applications to City Engineer, when applicable.
      3.   Assist the City Clerk in maintaining a record of all applications,
proceedings, final decisions, plans, administrative exceptions, variances,
appeals, and other documents required by this chapter.
      4.   Assist applicants to comply with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 214, 5-2-2017)
7-2-8 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
   A.   All development subject to this chapter shall be conducted so that:
      1.   Stormwater runoff is not accelerated or concentrated in greater
quantities than the pre-development levels beyond the exterior property lines
or project boundaries. There shall be no increase in the peak rate of runoff
from the site when compared to the un-developed state, based on a 25-year
design storm event, as defined. Un-developed shall mean the natural soils and
vegetation in place prior to the start of any clearing, excavation, or
construction.
      2.   Peak run-off volumes shall be calculated to determine storage
requirements for retention and detention facilities. Volumes shall be
calculated based upon the maximum accumulated volume over a twenty four (24)-
hour period. Each storm duration interval shown on the intensity-duration-
frequency curve shall be evaluated by the project engineer. Volumes shall be
included on the plans. Volumes and design methodology shall be shown when a
drainage report is required by the City.
      3.   No stormwater shall be collected or concentrated except within a
channel or other stormwater feature protected against erosion and containing
energy dissipation measures to prevent further erosion on adjoining lands. Any
existing, unprotected channels shall be protected against further erosion.
      4.   Natural topography and existing vegetation are incorporated into the
stormwater/erosion control plan, where possible, to accommodate additional
stormwater flows.
      5.   Best Management Practices are implemented to filter pollutants and
control erosion and sedimentation.
      6.   All existing stormwater/erosion control features shall be preserved
and protected to ensure they continue to function.
      7.   All exposed soils or any soil or overburden stockpiles shall be
protected to prevent sedimentation and mass movement.
      8.   Off-site transport of soils from construction sites shall be
minimized through the stabilization of access points and installation of proper
BMPs at site entrances.
      9.   Construction sites shall be managed to prevent the discharge of
pollutants, such as petroleum products, paints, solvents, construction
washings, and other materials.
      10.   Surface water shall not be diverted to adjoining properties nor
shall berms, grading, or fill be placed to cause run-off to be diverted to
adjoining properties. The City has no express duty to resolve disputes between
neighbors over drainage issues.
   B.   Stormwater runoff shall be managed through compliance with the design
standards and Best Management Practices by implementation of measures shown by
a design professional to have an effective design capability that equals or
exceeds the standards of this chapter.
   C.   For the design and review of plans, the applicant or design
professional may use as guidance the Handbook of Best Management Practices for
Stormwater Management and Erosion and Sedimentation Control; the Stormwater
Management Plan Criteria and Engineering Standards prepared for the Panhandle
Health District and the Interagency Stormwater Committee by Kennedy Engineers,
Spokane, WA, April 1992; the latest edition of the International Code Council
Stormwater Management Regulations; and the Environmental Protection Agency
SWPPP Standards. These documents may be used for guidance purposes only, not as
a regulatory standard.
   D.   Kootenai is underlain by clay and has a high ground water table. Rates
of infiltration must be verified based on the soil types and ground saturation
of the subject site. Generalized, assumed calculations are not acceptable.
   E.   Grass infiltration areas or other acceptable alternatives shall be
sized to hold and treat the first one-half inch (1/2") of stormwater runoff
from all impervious surfaces. The overall stormwater disposal system shall have
a capacity to handle, without damage to the stormwater management system or
adjacent land and improvements, a 25-year design storm event, based upon the
Idaho Transportation Department Intensity- Duration-Frequency Curve, Zone C.
   F.   Certification in the Panhandle Stormwater and Erosion Education Program
(SEEP) is encouraged for all contractors, developers, and excavators.
   G.   For all culvert installations, the standard drawings adopted by
resolution of the City Council shall apply. For all building permit
applications where the building lot fronts a stormwater drainage ditch, the
property owner shall first obtain a driveway culvert permit and install the
driveway culvert in conformance with this chapter and the conditions of the
culvert permit prior to issuance of a building permit. (Ord. 214, 5-2-2017)
7-2-9 APPLICATIONS:
Plan requirements are divided into the following categories based upon the
level of site disturbance and impervious surfaces:
   A.   No Plans Required: The following activities are subject to the
performance standards of section
7-2-8 of this chapter, but are not required to file sedimentation, erosion
control, or stormwater plans with the City. A checklist ensuring compliance
with performance standards shall be submitted by the applicant to the City for
all activities requiring building permits.
      1.   New construction, additions or modifications to existing structures
in which all the following criteria are met:
         a.   Not within three hundred feet (300') of any surface water, shown
on the National Hydrography Dataset or by actual survey.
         b.   Not on a slope of fifteen percent (15%) or greater.
         c.   New impervious surface created by the construction does not
exceed one thousand (1,000) square feet.
         d.   Area of land-disturbing activities created by construction does
not exceed five thousand (5,000) square feet.
      2.   Excavation, fill, grading, or other earthwork activities in which
all the following criteria are met:
         a.   Not within three hundred feet (300') of any surface water, shown
on the National Hydrography Dataset or by actual survey.
         b.   Not on a slope of fifteen percent (15%) or greater.
         c.   Does not result in more than fifty (50) cubic yards of fill or
excavated material.
         d.   Does not result in more than five thousand (5,000) square feet of
disturbed area.
         e.   Changes in grade do not exceed four feet (4') in height.
      3.   Minor subdivisions, as defined by title 9 of this Code, that will
not result in the creation of new roads, pathways, sidewalks or similar
infrastructure impervious surfaces.
   B.   Minor Plan: A sedimentation and erosion control plan shall be submitted
prior to the commencement of any construction or site disturbance for low-
impact developments that meet the following criteria:
      1.   Excavation or fill that will result in more than fifty (50) cubic
yards but less than two hundred fifty (250) cubic yards of material.
      2.   Construction or reconstruction of structures, paving, or other
activities that will create more than one thousand (1,000) square feet but less
than two thousand (2,000) square feet of new impervious surface.
      3.   Land-disturbing activities that will result in more than five
thousand (5,000) square feet of disturbed area but less than ten thousand
(10,000) square feet of disturbed area.
      4.   Excavation, fill, construction, reconstruction, or land disturbing
activities on sites that are within three hundred feet (300') of any surface
water, shown on the National Hydrography Dataset or by actual survey, or on a
slope of fifteen percent (15%) or greater and do not exceed any of the
following:
         a.   One thousand (1,000) square feet of new impervious surface.
         b.   Five thousand (5,000) square feet of land-disturbing activities.
         c.   Fifty (50) cubic yards of fill or excavated material.
         d.   A four foot (4') change in grade.
   C.   Major Plan: A Stormwater Management Plan shall be submitted prior to
the commencement of any construction or site disturbance for developments that
meet the following criteria:
      1.   Fill or excavation that will result in two hundred fifty (250) cubic
yards or more of material.
      2.   Construction or reconstruction of structures, paving, or other
activities that will create two thousand (2,000) square feet or more of new
impervious surface.
      3.   Land-disturbing activities that will result in ten thousand (10,000)
square feet of disturbed area or more.
      4.   Excavation, fill, construction, reconstruction, or land disturbing
activities on sites that are within three hundred feet (300') of any surface
water, shown on the National Hydrography Dataset or by actual survey, or on a
slope of fifteen percent (15%) or greater slope that exceed:
         a.   One thousand (1,000) square feet of new impervious surface.
         b.   Five thousand (5,000) square feet of land-disturbing activities.
         c.   Fifty (50) cubic yards of fill or excavated material.
         d.   A four foot (4') change in grade.
   D.   Subdivision Plan:
      1.   All new subdivisions and phases of existing subdivisions shall
provide a preliminary stormwater management plan at the time of preliminary
plat application, unless otherwise provided herein. The final stormwater
management plan, consistent with subsection E3 of this section, shall be filed
with the subdivision construction plans, prior to any site disturbance, in
accord with the subdivision regulations of title 9 of this Code.
      2.   Development of lots shall be in accord with the approved subdivision
stormwater management plan. At the time of building permit application, the
landowner shall provide plans indicating how the lot will be developed to meet
the requirements of the approved plan.
      3.   For subdivisions that do not have approved stormwater management
plans, lot development is subject to section
7-2-6, "Applicability", of this chapter and the applicable requirements of this
chapter.
   E.   Application Contents: Applications shall be accompanied by a fee, as
established by resolution of the City Council. For each type of plan, the
contents are as follows:
      1.   Sedimentation And Erosion Control Plan (Minor Plan):
         a.   A project site plan showing the limits of proposed construction,
location of proposed and existing structures, walkways, driveways, roads,
surface water, wetlands, vegetative coverage, any proposed soil stockpiles,
drainage patterns, and existing or proposed sedimentation/erosion control and
stormwater features.
         b.   A summary of the proposed construction project, including methods
to stabilize soils and control sedimentation during and after construction,
erosion control features, use of existing and proposed vegetation.
         c.   Proposed construction schedule.
         d.   Maintenance and monitoring plans, to include requirements for
inspection before, during, and after storm events.
      2.   Preliminary Stormwater Management Plan Contents:
         a.   The stamp and/or signature of the design professional who
prepared the plan.
         b.   A project site plan showing the entire area covered by the
application, any construction sites, proposed or existing lot lines, existing
drainage patterns, surface water, proposed roads, proposed stormwater
easements, proposed stockpile areas, sufficient topographic information to
shown contours of the land, constraining environmental conditions and areas to
be covered by impervious surfaces at completion of the project.
         c.   A project summary describing site characteristics, soil types,
vegetative coverage; slopes, calculations of the estimated impervious surface
coverage, design storm yield for the site; and proposed stormwater and erosion
control features.
      3.   Stormwater Management Plan (Major Plan):
         a.   The items required for a preliminary stormwater management plan,
listed at subsection E2 of this section.
         b.   Construction-quality drawings of all physical features of a
proposed stormwater management system, including dimensions and capacities for
all conveyances, retention basins, swales, and other features designed for
collection, treatment, and infiltration of stormwater runoff.
         c.   A proposed construction schedule for the stormwater management
system.
         d.   A sedimentation and erosion control plan.
         e.   A proposed system of maintenance and inspection schedules for the
stormwater management system, designating specifically any portions which are
to be conveyed to a group, association, or political subdivision for
maintenance. (Ord. 214, 5-2-2017)
7-2-10 REVIEW PROCEDURES:
   A.   Sedimentation And Erosion Control And Stormwater Plans Filed With
Applications Requiring Administrative Action Or Filed Separately From Any
Administrative Permits:
      1.   For those plans filed with building permits or land use applications
requiring administrative action, the landowner shall submit the required plan
at the time of the building permit or land use application. Stand-alone plans
filed separately from any permit shall be submitted prior to any land-
disturbing activities. The City Engineer or designee shall review the plan for
compliance with the provisions of this chapter. For those plans filed with
land-use or building permits, the review shall occur concurrently with the
building permit or land use file.
      2.   If the City Engineer or designee determines the plan complies with
the standards and requirements of this chapter, the Engineer or designee shall
approve the plan.
      3.   If the City Engineer or designee finds the plan does not comply with
this chapter, the City shall advise the applicant in writing of the items
required to bring the plan into compliance.
      4.   No building permit or land use application shall be approved until
the sedimentation and erosion control or stormwater plan complies with the
standards of this chapter. No ground-disturbing activity shall commence until
the City has approved a stand-alone plan.
   B.   Sedimentation And Erosion Control Plans And Stormwater Plans Filed With
Applications Requiring Public Hearings:
      1.   Any application, other than a preliminary plat, which is subject to
the public hearing procedural requirements set forth in the City zoning
regulations, shall be submitted at the same time as the land use application.
      2.   The City Engineer or designee shall review the plan to determine
whether it complies with the standards of this chapter.
      3.   If the City Engineer or designee finds the plan does not comply with
this chapter, the City shall advise the applicant in writing of the items
required to bring the plan into compliance.
      4.   Once the plan is determined to comply with this chapter, the plan
shall be considered by the City Council concurrently with the land use
application.
      5.   No final approval of an application shall occur until the
sedimentation and erosion control or stormwater plan is approved.
   C.   Preliminary Stormwater Plans And Final Stormwater Plans:
      1.   The preliminary stormwater plan shall be filed concurrently with the
preliminary plat application.
      2.   The City Engineer or designee shall review the preliminary plan to
determine whether it complies with the standards of this chapter.
      3.   If the City Engineer or designee finds the plan does not comply with
this chapter, the City shall advise the applicant in writing of the items
required to bring the plan into compliance.
      4.   Once the plan is determined to comply with this chapter, the
preliminary plan and preliminary plat shall be concurrently reviewed by
affected agencies and jurisdictions and by the City Council following agency
review, in accord with the procedures of the City subdivision regulations.
      5.   Following approval of the preliminary plat and preliminary
stormwater plan and prior to any construction, grading, or clearing of the
site, the applicant shall submit a final stormwater plan to the City. A copy of
the applicant's Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) permit, where
applicable, shall also be filed with the City at this time.
      6.   No construction, clearing, excavation, or grading of the site shall
occur until the stormwater management plan is approved by the City Engineer.
      7.   The subdivision shall be developed and maintained in accord with the
approved stormwater management plan.
      8.   No final plat shall be approved by the City until the stormwater
management facilities are in place and functioning as designed unless a surety
in lieu of completion is accepted by the City, pursuant to the subdivision
procedures of title 9 of this Code. As-built, final drawings illustrating the
placement of the components of the stormwater management system shall be filed
with the City prior to final plat approval.
   D.   Modifications To Sedimentation And Erosion Control Plans And Stormwater
Management Plans: During any aspect of site preparation, development or
construction, if field conditions prove to be substantially different from
conditions assumed by the design professional in the creation of a stormwater
management plan or sedimentation and erosion control plan, such that designed
features may not function as planned, the design professional or owner shall
apply to the City for permission to make a modification to the plan. If the
City Engineer finds the modification is necessary and is in substantial accord
with the approved plan and standards of this chapter, the Engineer shall notify
the design professional or owner in writing, and construction may proceed. Any
such modifications approved by the City shall be shown on final drawings of the
stormwater management plan on file with the Administrator. (Ord. 214, 5-2-2017)
7-2-11 GUARANTEE OF INSTALLATION:
   A.   New Subdivisions: No final plat shall be signed until all required
stormwater management facilities are in place and functioning as designed or
until a guarantee of financial surety is provided to and accepted by the City.
As built drawings are required when the facilities are completed.
   B.   Building Permits: For building permits subject to the standards of this
chapter, no certificate of occupancy shall be issued until the sedimentation
and erosion control or stormwater plan has been fully implemented. If the
Administrator finds that, due to weather conditions or other exigent
circumstances, the erosion control plan cannot be fully implemented until a
future time, a temporary certificate of occupancy may be issued upon a receipt
of an acceptable guarantee to complete the erosion control plan implementation
by a certain date.
   C.   Land Use Applications: For land use applications subject to the
provisions of this chapter, no use shall commence until the stormwater
management system has been installed and is functioning as designed, or a
suitable guarantee of financial surety is provided and accepted by the City.
(Ord. 214, 5-2-2017)
7-2-12 INSPECTIONS AND CONTINUED MAINTENANCE:
Each applicant is responsible for the continued inspections and maintenance of
the features of the sedimentation and erosion control and/or stormwater plan,
including an acceptable plan for sustained functioning of the collection and
treatment system. (Ord. 214, 5-2-2017)
7-2-13 VARIANCES:
   A.   Determination; Notice To Applicant: It shall be the duty of the City
Engineer to determine when an applicant's request for a variation from the
standards of this chapter is beyond the scope of an administrative exception as
set forth at subsection
7-2-6C of this chapter. The Administrator shall inform the applicant that the
request must be processed as a variance.
   B.   Scope: A variance shall not be considered a right or special privilege,
but may be granted to an applicant only upon a showing of undue hardship
because of characteristics of the site and that the variance is not in conflict
with the public interest. An undue hardship shall only exist if the topography,
physiography, vegetation, or geology of the site is so unique that the strict
imposition of the standards of this chapter would defeat the purposes of this
chapter.
   C.   Prohibited Variances: No variance shall be issued where such variance
would impose a burden upon adjacent landowners or divert stormwater onto
adjacent lands, unless a joint management agreement is executed.
   D.   Procedures: The variance application shall be considered using the
standards and procedures of title 8, chapter 3, article B of this Code. (Ord.
214, 5-2-2017)
7-2-14 APPEALS:
Any person, group, association or body corporate which asserts that the
Administrator or City Engineer has erred in the interpretation of this chapter
or has allowed or disallowed an administrative exception in error or is
aggrieved by any final determination made by the Administrator or City
Engineer, may appeal the decision to the City Council. Such request shall be
placed on an agenda for a regular meeting of the City Council, at which time
the City Council may act to clarify the intent of this chapter, to uphold,
modify or reverse any administrative exception or final determination made by
the Administrator or City Engineer. (Ord. 214, 5-2-2017)
7-2-15 COMPLIANCE AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Investigation: The Administrator shall have the authority to cause
investigations to be made upon the request of the City Engineer, City Council
or any public agency when any violation of the provisions of this chapter are
alleged to have occurred. This section is not intended to authorize the
Administrator to conduct warrantless searches of private property in the
absence of consent from the property owner or occupier or without an executed
search warrant.
   B.   Enforcement, Remedies And Penalty:
      1.   Administrative Enforcement: Whenever the Administrator determines
that any person is in violation of any provision of this chapter, the
Administrator may commence an administrative enforcement action by sending a
certified letter to the individual at the address shown on the current tax
assessor's roll. The notice of violation shall provide details of the alleged
violation and the required remedies. The City may require a response within
fifteen (15) days after the written notice is mailed.
      2.   Remedy: If the violation is not remedied, the City has the authority
to pursue such lawful actions as necessary to remedy the violation. In
addition, the City may seek and recover any costs and professional service fees
incurred in the investigation and enforcement of a violation of this chapter.
      3.   Stop Work Orders: Notwithstanding any other enforcement provisions
of this chapter, the Administrator or City Engineer is authorized to issue a
stop work order on all construction activities for noncompliance with any
provisions of this chapter.
      4.   Removal Of Culvert Installations: Culvert installations not
constructed in accordance with City standards shall be removed and replaced by
the applicant within fourteen (14) days of notice by the City at the expense of
the property owner.
      5.   Criminal Penalty: In addition to any enforcement or remedies
provided herein, violation of any of the provisions of this chapter may also be
enforced as a misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 214, 5-2-2017)
CHAPTER 3
NORTHSIDE FIRE DISTRICT DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEES
SECTION:
7-3-1: Short Title, Applicability, Findings And Purpose
7-3-2: Definitions
7-3-3: Imposition Of Fire District Impact Fee
7-3-4: Collection Of Fire District Impact Fees
7-3-5: Exemptions
7-3-6: Individual Assessment Process
7-3-7: Developer Credits And Reimbursements
7-3-8: Methodology For The Calculation Of Fire District Impact Fees
7-3-9: Extraordinary Impacts
7-3-10: Fee Payer Refunds
7-3-11: Establishment Of District Trust Fund And Accounts
7-3-12: Expenditure Of Fire District Impact Fees
7-3-13: Appeals, Protest And Mediation
7-3-14: Periodic Reviews
7-3-15: Audit
7-3-16: Joint Development Impact Fee Advisory Standing Committee
7-3-17: Enforcement And Collection
7-3-18: City/Fire District Intergovernmental Agreement
7-3-19: Miscellaneous Provisions
7-3-20: Penalty
7-3-1: SHORT TITLE, APPLICABILITY, FINDINGS AND PURPOSE:
   A.   Short title: This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the
NORTHSIDE FIRE DISTRICT DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEES ORDINANCE.
   B.   Authority: This chapter is enacted pursuant to the city's general
police powers, its authority to enact ordinances, and its authority as provided
by the Idaho Development Impact Fee Act codified at chapter 82 of title 67,
Idaho Code (the "Act") and other applicable laws of the State of Idaho to
impose development impact fees; and the city's and the district's authority to
enter into an intergovernmental agreement as provided for in Idaho Code section
67-8204A to impose, collect and expend development impact fees.
   C.   Applicability: Except as otherwise exempted in section
7-3-5, these provisions shall apply to the development of property located
within the boundaries of the City of Kootenai, Idaho.
   D.   Findings:
      1.   The Northside Fire District, (the "district") is a fire district
organized and existing by virtue of the Fire Protection District Law chapter 14
of title 31, Idaho Code, and its boundaries include all areas within the city
limits of the city and areas surrounding the city; and
      2.   The district's duty and responsibility is to provide protection of
property against fire and the preservation of life, and enforcement of any of
the fire codes and other rules that are adopted by the state fire marshal; and
      3.   The city is experiencing considerable growth and development; and
      4.   The purposes of the Act (Idaho Code section 67-8202) are as follows:
         a.   Ensure that adequate public facilities are available to serve new
growth and development;
         b.   Promote orderly growth and development by establishing uniform
standards by which local governments, such as the city and the district, may
require those who benefit from new growth and development pay (development
impact fees) their proportionate share of the costs of new public facilities
needed to serve that new growth and development; and
         c.   Establish minimum standards for adoption of development impact
fee ordinances by cities; and
         d.   Ensure that those who benefit from new growth and development are
required to pay no more than their proportionate share of the cost of public
facilities needed to serve that new growth and development and to prevent
duplicate and ad hoc development requirements; and
         e.   To empower cities to adopt ordinances to impose development
impact fees.
      5.   The Act:
         a.   Does not authorize the district to enact a development impact fee
ordinance; and
         b.   Does provide, pursuant to Idaho Code section 67-8204A, in
circumstances where the city and the district are both affected by the
considerable growth and development as is occurring within the city, that the
city and the district may enter into the intergovernmental agreement for the
purpose of agreeing to collect and expend development impact fees for system
improvements which provides for a new funding mechanism for those system
improvements costs incurred by the district to meet the demand and growth
occurring within the city and which promotes and accommodates orderly growth
and development and protects the public health, safety and general welfare of
the residences within the boundaries of the city.
      6.   New residential growth within the city imposes and will impose
increasing and excessive demands upon the existing district capital facilities.
      7.   The tax revenues generated from new residential development within
the city often do not generate sufficient funds to provide the necessary
improvements and expansion of existing district capital facilities to
accommodate for that new growth.
      8.   New growth within the city is expected to continue, and will place
ever-increasing demands on the district to provide and expand the district's
capital facilities to serve that new growth.
      9.   Idaho Code section 67-8204A authorizes the city to adopt an impact
fee system and to enter into the intergovernmental agreement with the district
to offset, recoup, or reimburse the portion of the costs of needed improvements
to the district capital facilities caused by new growth and development in the
city.
      10.   The creation of an equitable impact fee system facilitated by the
intergovernmental agreement with the district, will promote the purposes set
forth in the Act, in that it would:
         a.   Ensure that adequate district capital facilities are available to
serve new growth and development;
         b.   Promote orderly growth and development by establishing uniform
standards by which the city may require that those who benefit from new growth
and development pay a proportionate share of the cost of new district capital
facilities needed to serve new growth and development in the city;
         c.   Establish minimum standards for the adoption of fire district
impact fees;
         d.   Ensure that those who benefit from new growth and development are
required to pay no more than their proportionate share of the cost of district
capital facilities needed to serve new growth and development in the city; and
         e.   Prevent duplicate and ad hoc development requirements in the
city.
      11.   The city and the district have formed the joint advisory committee
as required by Idaho Code section 67-8205, and the committee has performed the
duties required of it pursuant to Idaho Code sections 67-8205 and 67-8206(2).
The city and the district intend that the committee will continue to exist and
perform those duties identified in Idaho Code section 67-8205 that occur
following the adoption of this Northside Fire District Development Impact Fee
Ordinance.
      12.   The district has planned for the improvement of district capital
facilities in the capital improvements plan.
      13.   The creation of an equitable impact fee system would enable the
city to accommodate new development, and would assist the district to implement
the capital improvements element of the capital improvements plan.
      14.   In order to implement an equitable impact fee system for the
district's fire prevention and life preservation facilities, the city adopted
by resolution and the district adopted by resolution the Northside Fire
District Impact Fee Study and Capital Improvements Plan (the "capital
improvements plan"). Galena Consulting was hired by the district to assist the
joint advisory committee in the preparation of the study.
      15.   The methodology used in the capital improvements plan, as applied
through this chapter, complies with all applicable provisions of Idaho law,
including those set forth in Idaho Code sections 67-8204(1), (2), (16) and
(23), 67-8207 and 67-8209. The incorporation of the capital improvements plan
by reference satisfies the requirement in Idaho Code section 67-8204(16) for a
detailed description of the methodology by which the fire district impact fees
were calculated, and the requirement in Idaho Code section 67-8204(24) for a
description of acceptable levels of service for district system improvements.
      16.   In determining the proportionate share of system improvements
costs, the capital improvements plan has considered:
         a.   The cost of the existing system improvements;
         b.   The means by which the existing system improvements have been
financed;
         c.   The extent to which the new development will contribute to system
improvements costs through taxation, assessment, or developer or landowner
contributions, or has previously contributed to system improvements costs
through developer or landowner contributions;
         d.   The extent to which the new development is required to contribute
to system improvements costs in the future;
         e.   The extent to which the new development should be credited for
providing system improvements, without charge to other properties within the
service area or areas;
         f.   Extraordinary costs, if any, incurred in serving the new
development;
         g.   The time and price differential inherent in a fair comparison of
fees paid at different times; and
         h.   The availability of other sources of funding system improvements
including, but not limited to, user charges, general tax levies,
intergovernmental transfers, and special taxation and includes a plan for
alternative sources of revenue.
      17.   The capital improvements plan contains the capital improvements
planned by the district during the term of the capital improvements plan, and
such element has been developed in conformance with the requirements chapter 82
of title 67, Idaho Code.
      18.   The capital improvements plan sets forth reasonable methodologies
and analyses for determining the impacts of various types of new development on
the district capital facilities, and determines the cost of acquiring or
constructing the improvements necessary to meet the demands for such facilities
created by new development.
      19.   In accordance with Idaho Code, the capital improvements plan was
based on actual system improvements costs or reasonable estimates of such
costs. In addition, the capital improvements plan uses a fee calculation
methodology that is net of credits for the present value of revenues that will
be generated by new growth and development based on historical funding patterns
and that are anticipated to be available to pay for system improvements,
including taxes, assessments, user fees, and intergovernmental transfers.
      20.   The fire district impact fees established by this chapter are based
on the capital improvements plan, and do not exceed system improvements costs
to serve new development that will pay the fire district impact fees.
      21.   The district capital facilities included in the calculation of fees
in the capital improvements plan will benefit all new residential development
throughout the city, and it is therefore appropriate to treat all areas of the
city as a single service area for purposes of calculating, collecting, and
spending the fire district impact fees collected from developers.
      22.   There is both a rational nexus and a rough proportionality between
development impacts created by each type of development covered by this
chapter, the development impact fees assessment of such development covered by
this chapter, and the development impact fees that such developer will be
required to pay.
      23.   This chapter creates a system by which development impact fees paid
by developers will be used to finance, defray, or reimburse a portion of the
costs incurred by the district to construct and/or purchase system improvements
in ways that benefit the development for which each development impact fee was
paid within a reasonable period of time after the development impact fee is
paid, and in conformance with Idaho Code section 67-8210.
      24.   This chapter creates a system under which development impact fees
shall not be used to correct existing deficiencies for any district capital
facilities, or to replace or rehabilitate existing district capital facilities,
or to pay for routine operation or maintenance of those facilities.
      25.   This chapter creates a system under which there shall be no double
payment of development impact fees, in accordance with Idaho Code section 67-
8204(19).
      26.   This chapter is consistent with all applicable provisions of the
Act concerning development impact fee ordinances.
   E.   Purpose:
      1.   This chapter is adopted to be consistent with, and to help implement
the capital improvements plan.
      2.   The intent of this chapter is to ensure that new residential
development bears a proportionate share of the cost of system improvements; to
ensure that such proportionate share does not exceed the cost of such system
improvements required to accommodate new development; and to ensure that funds
collected from new development are actually used for system improvements in
accordance with the Act.
      3.   It is the further intent of this chapter to be consistent with those
principles for allocating a fair share of the cost of system improvements to
new development, and for adopting development impact fee ordinances,
established by the Act.
      4.   It is not the intent of this chapter to collect any money from any
new development in excess of the actual amount necessary to offset new demands
for system improvements created by such new development.
      5.   It is the intent of this chapter that any monies collected, as an
imposed fire district impact fee, are deposited in the fire district impact fee
account, are never commingled with monies from a different impact fee account,
are never used for a development impact fee component different from that for
which the fee was paid, are never used to correct current deficiencies in the
district capital facilities, and are never used to replace, rehabilitate,
maintain or operate any district capital facilities. (Ord. 234, 3-1-2022)
7-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the following
meanings, unless another meaning is plainly intended and words and terms
appearing in the singular number includes the plural and the plural the
singular.
                  Any of one or more interest bearing accounts within the Fire District Development
ACCOUNTS:         Impact Fee Capital Projects Trust Fund established in section
                  7-3-11 of this chapter.
ACT:              The Idaho Development Impact Fee Act as set forth in chapter 82 of title 67,
                  Idaho Code.
APPROPRIATE:      To legally obligate by contract or otherwise commit to the expenditure of funds
                  by appropriation or other official act of the board of commissioners.
BOARD OF          The board of commissioners of the Northside Fire District, which is its governing
COMMISSIONERS:    board.
BUILDING PERMIT:  The permit required for foundations, new construction and additions.
CAPITAL           Improvements with a useful life of ten (10) years or more, by new construction or
IMPROVEMENTS:     other action, which increases the service capacity of district capital
                  facilities.
CAPITAL           A component of the capital improvements plan identified in the Fire District CIP
IMPROVEMENTS      adopted by the district and the city pursuant to chapters 65 and 82 of title 67,
ELEMENT:          Idaho Code, and as amended, which component meets the requirements of the capital
                  improvements plan required by the Act.
CAPITAL           The Northside Fire District Impact Fee Study and capital improvements plan
IMPROVEMENTS      recommended by the joint advisory committee and adopted by the district and the
PLAN:             city pursuant to the act that identifies district capital facilities for which
                  fire district impact fees may be used as a funding source.
CITY:             The City of Kootenai.
CITY COUNCIL:     The city council of the City of Kootenai.
                  Any person or legal entity undertaking development including a development that
DEVELOPER:        seeks an annexation into the city and/or undertakes the subdivision of property
                  pursuant to Idaho Code sections 50-1301 through 50-1334, as amended.
                  Any construction or installation of a building or structure, or any change in use
                  of a building or structure, or any change in the use, character or appearance of
DEVELOPMENT:      land, which creates additional demand and need for public facilities or the
                  annexation into the city and/or subdivision of property that would permit any
                  change in the use, character or appearance of land.
DEVELOPMENT       Any written duly authorized document from the city which authorizes the
APPROVAL:         commencement of a development.
                  A requirement attached to a developmental approval or other city governmental
DEVELOPMENT       action approving or authorizing a particular development project including, but
REQUIREMENT:      not limited to, a rezoning, which requirement compels the payment, dedication or
                  contribution of goods, services, land or money as condition of approval.
DISTRICT:         The Northside Fire District, a fire district organized and existing by virtue of
                  the Fire Protection District Law, chapter 14 of title 31, Idaho Code.
DISTRICT          The officer of administration of the district, or designee.
ADMINISTRATOR:
                  District stations and equipment which is identified in Exhibit III-2 of the
DISTRICT CAPITAL  capital improvements plan, and specifically including those related costs
FACILITIES:       including system improvements costs, but not including maintenance, operations,
                  or improvements that do not expand their capacity.
EXTRAORDINARY     Those costs incurred as result of an extraordinary impact.
COSTS:
                  An impact which is reasonably determined by the district to: (i) result in the
                  need for district system improvements, the cost of which will significantly
EXTRAORDINARY     exceed the sum of the development impact fees to be generated from the project or
IMPACT:           the sum agreed to be paid pursuant to a development agreement as allowed by Idaho
                  Code section 67-8214(2), as amended; or (ii) result in the need for district
                  system improvements which are not identified in the capital improvements plan.
FEE PAYER:        The person who pays or is required to pay a fire district impact fee. A fee payer
                  may include a developer.
FIRE DISTRICT     The fire district trust fund established by action of the board of commissioners
DEVELOPMENT       of the district as set forth in board of commissioners resolution and Northside
IMPACT FEE        Fire District policy code, and pursuant to section
CAPITAL PROJECTS  7-3-11 of this chapter and pursuant to Idaho Code section 67-8210(1) into which
TRUST FUND (the   all fire district impact fees shall be deposited and maintained by the fire
"TRUST FUND"):    district and a copy of the provisions of Northside Fire District Policy Code.
                  A payment of money imposed as condition of development approval to pay for a
                  proportionate share of the costs of system improvements needed to serve the
                  development. The term does not include the following:
                  1.   A charge or fee to pay the administrative plan review, or inspection cost
                  associated with permits required for development;
                  2.   Connection or hookup charges;
FIRE DISTRICT     3.   Availability charges for drainage, sewer, water or transportation charges
IMPACT FEE:       for services provided directly to the development; or
                  4.   Amounts collected from a developer in a transaction in which the district
                  has incurred expenses in constructing capital improvements for the development if
                  the owner or developer has agreed to be financially responsible for the
                  construction or installation of those capital improvements, unless a written
                  agreement is made, pursuant to Idaho Code section 67-8209(3) as amended, for
                  credit or reimbursement.
                  The City of Kootenai/Northside Fire District Intergovernmental Agreement to
INTERGOVERNMENTAL Collect and Expend Development Impact Fees for Fire District Systems Improvements
AGREEMENT:        entered into by and between the city and the district pursuant to Idaho Code
                  section 67-8204A for the collection and expenditure of fire district impact fees
                  established pursuant to this chapter.
                  The City of Kootenai/Northside Fire District Joint Development Impact Fee
JOINT ADVISORY    Advisory Committee formed and staffed by the city and the district pursuant to
COMMITTEE:        Idaho Code section 67-8205 to prepare and recommend the capital improvements plan
                  and any amendments, revisions or updates of the same.
LAND USE          A description of the service area and projections of land uses, densities,
ASSUMPTIONS:      intensities and population in the service area over at least a ten (10) year
                  period.
LEVEL OF SERVICE: A measure of the relationship between service capacity and service demand for
                  public facilities.
                  A structure, constructed according to HUD/FHA mobile home construction and safety
                  standards, transportable in one (1) or more sections, which, in the traveling
                  mode, is eight feet (8') or more in width or is forty (40) body feet or more in
                  length, or when erected on site, is three hundred twenty (320) or more square
                  feet, and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a
MANUFACTURED/     dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to required
MOBILE HOME:      utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical
                  systems contained in such structure, except that such term shall include any
                  structure which meets all the requirements of this subsection except the size
                  requirements and with respect to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a
                  certification required by the secretary of housing and urban development and
                  complies with the standards established under 42 U.S.C. §§ 5401 et seq.
                  Any building or building component other than a manufactured/mobile home, which
MODULAR BUILDING: is constructed according to the International Building Code, as adopted or any
                  amendments thereto, which is of closed construction and is either entirely or
                  substantially prefabricated or assembled at a place other than the building site.
                  The total current monetary value of past, present or future payments,
PRESENT VALUE:    contributions or dedications of goods, services, materials, construction or
                  money.
PROJECT:          A particular development on an identified parcel of land.
                  In contrast to system improvements, shall mean site improvements and facilities
PROJECT           that are planned and designed to provide service for a particular development
IMPROVEMENTS:     project and that are necessary for the use and convenience of the occupants or
                  users of the project.
PROPORTIONATE     That portion of system improvements costs determined pursuant to Idaho Code
SHARE:            section 67-8207 which reasonably relates to the service demands and needs of the
                  project.
PUBLIC            Land, buildings and equipment used for fire protection, emergency medical and
FACILITIES:       rescue, and water supply production, storage and distribution facilities which
                  have a useful life of ten (10) years or more.
RECREATIONAL      A vehicular type unit primarily designed as temporary quarters for recreational,
VEHICLE:          camping, or travel use, which either has its own motive power or is mounted on or
                  drawn by another vehicle.
                  Any defined geographic area within the city as identified by the district in
                  which specific public facilities provide service to development within the areas
SERVICE AREA:     defined, on the basis of sound planning or engineering principles or both. For
                  purposes of this chapter, there shall be one service area encompassing all of the
                  City of Kootenai.
                  A standardized measure of consumption, use, generation or discharge attributable
                  to an individual unit of development calculated in accordance with generally
SERVICE UNIT:     accepted engineering or planning standards for a particular category of capital
                  improvements. As specifically used in this chapter, service units include
                  dwelling units as defined in city code and square feet of nonresidential
                  development.
SYSTEM            In contrast to project improvements, shall mean capital improvements to public
IMPROVEMENTS:     facilities which are designed to provide service to a service area. For the
                  purpose of this chapter, system improvements are for district capital facilities.
                  Costs incurred for construction or reconstruction of system improvements,
                  including design, acquisition, engineering and other costs, and also including,
                  without limitation, the type of costs described in Idaho Code section 50-1702(h),
                  as amended, to provide additional public facilities needed to service new growth
                  and development. For clarification, system improvements costs do not include:
                  1.   Construction, acquisition or expansion of public facilities other than
                  capital improvements identified in the capital improvements plan;
                  2.   Improvements, repair, operation or maintenance of existing or new capital;
SYSTEM            3.   Upgrading, updating, expanding or replacing existing capital improvements to
IMPROVEMENTS      serve existing development in order to meet stricter safety, efficiency,
COSTS:            environmental or regulatory standards;
                  4.   Upgrading, updating, expanding or replacing existing capital improvements to
                  provide better service to existing development;
                  5.   Administrative and operating costs of the district and/or the city unless
                  such costs are attributable to development of the capital improvements plan, as
                  provided in Idaho Code section 67-8208, as amended; and
                  6.   Principal payments and interest or other finance charges on bonds or other
                  indebtedness except financial obligations issued by or on behalf of the district
                  to finance capital improvements identified in the capital improvements plan.
                  (Ord. 234, 3-1-2022)
 
7-3-3: IMPOSITION OF FIRE DISTRICT IMPACT FEE:
   A.   Imposition Of Impact Fee: A fire district impact fee is hereby imposed
on all new development in the City of Kootenai, Idaho. The fee is set forth in
the official fee schedule of the City of Kootenai, adopted by resolution of the
City Council.
   B.   Fee Schedule: Fire district impact fees shall be calculated in
accordance with the fee schedule set forth the capital improvements plan
providing for standard fees based on the total number of dwelling units or
square feet of nonresidential space in the development, unless (a) the fee
payer requests an individual assessment pursuant to section
7-3-6 of this chapter; or (b) the city and the district find the development
will have an extraordinary impact pursuant to section
7-3-9 of this chapter. The methodology for determining the costs per service
unit provided for in the fee schedule is set forth in the capital improvements
plan.
   C.   Developer's Election: A developer shall have the right to elect to pay
a project's proportionate share of system improvements costs by payment of fire
district impact fee according to the fee schedule as full and complete payment
of the development project's proportionate share of system improvements costs,
except as provided in Idaho Code section 67-8214(3), as amended.
   D.   Procedures:
      1.   Building Permit: Upon submittal of complete building permit plans
for the development to the city, the city shall calculate the fire district
impact fee for the development within thirty (30) days of submittal unless the
fee payer requests an individual assessment or the city determines that the
development may have extraordinary impact.
      2.   Exemption: An exemption pursuant to section
7-3-5 of this chapter must be claimed by the fee payer upon application for a
building permit or manufactured home installation permit. Any exemption not so
claimed shall be deemed waived by the fee payer. (Ord. 234, 3-1-2022)
7-3-4: COLLECTION OF FIRE DISTRICT IMPACT FEES:
   A.   Certification: After the fire district impact fee due for a proposed
development have been calculated by the city pursuant to the fee schedule
attached to the capital improvements plan or by the district administrator
using the individual assessment process, the fee payer may request from the
city or the district administrator a certification of the amount of fire
district impact fee due for that development. Within thirty (30) days after
receiving such request, the city or the district administrator shall issue a
written certification of the amount of the fire district impact fee due for the
proposed development. Such certification shall establish the fire district
impact fee so long as there is no material change to the particular project as
identified in the individual assessment application, or the impact fee schedule
attached to the capital improvements plan. The certification shall include an
explanation of the calculation of the fire district impact fee including an
explanation of factors considered under Idaho Code section 67-8207 and shall
also specify the system improvement(s) for which the fire district impact fee
is intended to be used. If the impact fee is calculated by the city pursuant to
the fee schedule, the city shall provide the certification to the fee payer and
the district administrator. If the impact fee is determined by the district
administrator following an individual assessment of the fee, the district
administrator shall provide the certification to the fee payer and the city.
   B.   Payment Of Fees: The fire district impact fee shall be paid either to
the city or to the district at the following times:
      1.   If a building permit or manufactured/mobile home installation permit
is required, then at the time before the permit is issued;
      2.   If no building permit or manufactured/mobile home installation
permit is required, then at the time that construction commences; or
      3.   At such other time as the developer and the district have agreed
upon in writing with notice to the city.
   C.   In the event a fire district impact fee is paid to the district, then
the district administrator shall immediately notify the city of said payment.
   D.   All fire district impact fees paid to the city shall then be delivered
to the district administrator on a once-a-month basis. (Ord. 234, 3-1-2022)
7-3-5: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Exemptions: The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the
following:
      1.   Rebuilding the same amount of floor space of a structure which is
destroyed by fire or other catastrophe, provided the structure is rebuilt and
ready for occupancy within two (2) years of its destruction;
      2.   Remodeling or repairing a structure which does not increase the
number of service units;
      3.   Replacing a residential unit, including a manufactured/mobile home,
with another residential unit on the same lot; provided that, the number of
service units does not increase;
      4.   Placing a temporary construction trailer or office on a lot;
      5.   Constructing an addition on a residential structure which does not
increase the number of service units;
      6.   Adding uses that are typically accessory to residential uses, such
as tennis court or a clubhouse, unless it can be clearly demonstrated that the
use creates a significant impact on the capacity of system improvements; or
      7.   The installation of a modular building, manufactured/mobile home or
recreational vehicle if the fee payer can demonstrate by documentation such as
utility bills and tax records that either:
         a.   A modular building, manufactured/mobile home or recreational
vehicle was legally in place on the lot or space prior to the effective date of
this chapter; or
      b.   A fire district impact fee has been paid previously for the modular
building, manufactured/mobile home or recreational vehicle on that same lot or
space.
   B.      Exemption Claim Process: An exemption from a fire district impact
fee must be claimed on the application by the developer (fee payer) upon
submitting their application for a building permit or manufactured home
installation permit. Any exemption not so claimed shall be deemed waived by the
fee payer. Applications for exemption shall be determined by the city within
ninety (90) days of receipt of the claim for exemption. (Ord. 234, 3-1-2022)
7-3-6: INDIVIDUAL ASSESSMENT PROCESS:
   A.   In lieu of calculating the amount of the fire district impact fee by
reference to the fee schedule attached to the capital improvements plan, a fee
payer may file a request with the city that the amount of the required fire
district impact fee be determined by the fire district administrator through an
individual assessment for the proposed development. A request for an individual
assessment process shall involve consideration of studies, data, and any other
relevant information submitted by the fee payer to adjust the amount of the
fire district impact fee. If a fee payer files a request for the use of an
individual assessment, the fee payer shall be responsible for retaining a
qualified professional to prepare the individual assessment that complies with
the requirements of this chapter, at the fee payer's expense. The fee payer
shall, at the fee payer's expense, bear the burden of proving by clear and
convincing evidence that the resulting individual assessment complies with the
requirements of this chapter. The fee payer shall bear the burden of proving by
clear and convincing evidence that the resulting individual assessment is a
more accurate measure of its proportionate share of the cost of system
improvements, based on the district's adopted levels of service, than the
development impact fees that would otherwise be due pursuant to the fee
schedule attached to the capital improvements plan.
   B.   Each individual assessment shall be based on the same level of service
standards and unit costs for system improvements used in the capital
improvements plan, shall use an average cost (not a marginal cost) methodology,
and shall document the relevant methodologies and assumptions used.
   C.   A request for an individual assessment shall be delivered and filed
with the city at any time that the number of dwelling units in the proposed
development and the types and amounts of development in each non-residential
category identified in the fee schedule attached to the capital improvements
plan are known. Upon filing of a request for individual assessment, the city
shall transmit the request to the district administrator for review. The
district administrator shall issue a written decision within thirty (30) days
following receipt of a completed request for individual assessment together
with all supporting information from the fee payer, so as not to unreasonably
delay the developer's (fee payer's) subsequent applications to the city for
building permits.
   D.   Each individual assessment request delivered to the district
administrator may then be accepted, rejected, or accepted with modifications by
the district administrator as the basis for calculating the fire district
impact fee. The criteria for acceptance, rejection or acceptance with
modifications shall be whether the individual assessment is a more accurate
measure of demand for system improvements element(s) created by the proposed
development, or the costs of those facilities, than the applicable fee shown in
the fee schedule attached to the capital improvements plan.
   E.   The decision by the district administrator on an application for an
individual assessment shall include an explanation of the calculation of the
fire district impact fee, shall specify the system improvement(s) for which the
fire district impact fee is intended to be used, and shall include an
explanation of those factors identified in Idaho Code section 67-8207.
   F.   If an individual assessment is accepted or accepted with modifications
by the district administrator then the fire district impact fee due under this
chapter for such development shall be calculated according to such individual
assessment.
   G.   The district administrator shall provide notice of final determination
of an individual assessment to the developer (fee payer) and the city. (Ord.
234, 3-1-2022)
7-3-7: DEVELOPER CREDITS AND REIMBURSEMENTS:
   A.   Credits To Be Issued: When a developer or their predecessor in title or
interest has constructed system improvements of the same category as a district
capital improvements element, or contributed or dedicated land or money towards
the completion of system improvements of the same category as a district
capital improvements element, and the district has accepted such construction,
contribution or dedication, the district shall issue a credit against the fire
district impact fees otherwise due for the same district capital improvements
element in connection with the proposed development, as set forth in this
section, credit shall be issued regardless of whether the contribution or
dedication to system improvements was required by the district as a condition
of development approval or was offered by the developer and accepted by the
district in writing, and regardless of whether the contribution or dedication
was contributed by the developer or by a local improvement district controlled
by the developer.
   B.   Limitations: Credits against a fire district impact fee shall not be
given for:
      1.   Project improvements; or
      2.   Any construction, contribution or dedication not agreed to in
writing by the district prior to commencement of the construction,
contribution, or dedication. Credits issued for one district capital
improvements element may not be used to reduce fire district impact fee due for
a different capital improvement. No credits shall be issued for system
improvements contributed or dedicated prior to the effective date of this
chapter.
   C.   Valuation Of Credit At Present Value:
      1.   Land: Credit for qualifying land dedications shall, at the fee
payer's option, be valued at the present value of:
         a.   One hundred percent (100%) of the most recent assessed value for
such land as shown in the records of the county assessor; or
         b.   That fair market value established by a private appraiser
acceptable to the district in an appraisal paid for by the fee payer.
      2.   Improvements: Credit for qualifying acquisition or construction of
system improvements shall be valued by the district at the present value of
such improvements based on complete engineering drawings, specifications, and
construction cost estimates submitted by the fee payer to the district. The
district administrator shall determine the amount of credit due based on the
information submitted, or, if it determines that such information is inaccurate
or unreliable, then on alternative engineering or construction costs acceptable
to the district as a more accurate measure of the value of the offered system
improvements to the district.
   D.   When Credits Become Effective:
      1.   Land: Approved credits for land dedications shall become effective
when the land has been conveyed to the district in a form acceptable to the
district, at no cost to the district, and has been accepted by the district.
Upon request of the fee payer, the district shall issue a letter stating the
amount of credit available.
      2.   Improvements: Approved credits for acquisition or construction of
system improvements shall generally become effective when:
         a.   All required construction has been completed and has been
accepted by the district;
         b.   A suitable maintenance and warranty bond has been received and
approved by the district; and
         c.   All design, construction, inspection, testing, bonding, and
acceptance procedures have been completed in compliance with all applicable
requirements of the district and the State of Idaho. Upon request of the fee
payer, the district shall issue a letter stating the amount of credit
available.
   E.   Credit Request Procedures:
      1.   Request: In order to obtain a credit against fire district impact
fee otherwise due, a fee payer shall submit to the city a written offer of
request to dedicate to the district specific parcels of qualifying land or a
written offer to contribute or construct specific system improvements to the
district capital facilities in accordance with all applicable state or city
design and construction standards, and shall specifically request a credit
against the type of fire district impact fee for which the land dedication or
system improvements is offered. The city shall then deliver the written offer
of request to the district administrator.
      2.   Review: After receipt of the written offer of request for credit,
the district administrator shall review the request and determine whether the
land or system improvements offered for credit will reduce the costs of
providing district capital facilities by an amount at least equal to the value
of the credit. If the district administrator determines that the offered credit
satisfies that criteria and will be acceptable to the board of commissioners,
then the credit shall be issued. The district shall complete its review and
determination of an application within thirty (30) days after receipt of an
application for credit.
      3.   Credits Exceeding Fee Amounts Due: If the credit due to a fee payer
pursuant to sections, above, exceeds the fire district impact fee that would
otherwise be due from the fee payer pursuant to the chapter (whether calculated
through the fee schedule attached to the capital improvement plan or through an
independent assessment), the fee payer may choose to receive such credit in the
form of either:
         a.   A credit against future fire district impact fee due for the same
system improvements; or
         b.   A reimbursement from fire district impact fee paid by future
development that impacts the system improvements contributed or dedicated by
the fee payer. Unless otherwise stated in an agreement with the fee payer, the
district shall be under no obligation to use any district funds - other than
fire district impact fees paid by other development for the same system
improvements - to reimburse the fee payer for any credit in excess of fire
district impact fee that are due.
      4.   Written Agreement Required: If credit or reimbursement is due to the
fee payer pursuant to this section, the district shall enter into a written
agreement with the fee payer, negotiated in good faith, prior to the
contribution, dedication, or funding of the system improvements giving rise to
the credit. The agreement shall provide for the amount of credit or the amount,
time and form of reimbursement, and shall have a term not exceeding ten (10)
years.
      5.   The district administrator's determination on the written offer of
request for credit shall be provided to the fee payer and the city. (Ord. 234,
3-1-2022)
7-3-8: METHODOLOGY FOR THE CALCULATION OF FIRE DISTRICT IMPACT FEES:
   A.   General Provisions:
      1.   Accounting Principles: The calculation of the fire district impact
fee shall be in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A
development impact fee shall not be deemed invalid because payment of the fee
may result in an incidental benefit to owners or developers within the service
area other than the fee payer.
      2.   Levels Of Service: The fire district impact fee shall be calculated
on the basis of levels of service for public facilities adopted in this chapter
that are applicable to existing development as well as new growth and
development. The construction, improvement, expansion or enlargement of new or
existing public facilities for which the fire district impact fee is imposed
must be attributable to the capacity demands generated by the new development.
   B.   Methodology; Proportionate Methodology: The fire district impact fee
shall not exceed a proportionate share of the cost of the system improvements
determined in accordance with Idaho Code section 67-8207, as amended. Fire
district impact fees shall be based on actual system improvements costs or
reasonable estimates of such costs. The amount of the fire district impact fee
shall be calculated using the methodology contained in the capital improvements
plan.
   C.   Proportionate Share Determination:
      1.   Fire district impact fee shall be based on a reasonable and fair
formula or method under which the fire district impact fee imposed does not
exceed a proportionate share of the costs incurred or to be incurred by the
district in the provision of system improvements to serve the new development.
The proportionate share is the costs attributable to the new development after
the district considers the following:
         a.   Any appropriate credit, offset or contribution of money,
dedication of land or construction of system improvements;
         b.   Payments reasonably anticipated to be made by or as a result of a
new development in the form of user fees and debt service payments;
         c.   That portion of general tax or other revenues allocated by the
district to system improvements; and
         d.   All other available sources of funding such system improvements.
      2.   In determining the proportionate share of the cost of system
improvements to be paid by the developer, the following factors shall be
considered by the district and accounted for in the calculation of the fire
district impact fee:
         a.   The costs of existing system improvements within the service
area;
         b.   The means by which existing system improvements have been
financed;
         c.   The extent to which the new development will contribute to system
improvements costs through taxation, assessments, or developer or landowner
contributions, or has previously contributed to system improvements costs
through developer or landowner contributions;
         d.   The extent to which the new development is required to contribute
to the cost of existing system improvements in the future;
         e.   The extent to which the new development should be credited for
providing system improvements, without charge to other properties within the
service area;
         f.   Extraordinary costs, if any, incurred in serving the new
development;
         g.   The time and price differential inherent in a fair comparison of
fees paid at different times; and
         h.   The availability of other sources of funding system improvements
including, but not limited to, user charges, general tax levies,
intergovernmental transfers and special taxation. (Ord. 234, 3-1-2022)
7-3-9: EXTRAORDINARY IMPACTS:
   A.   In the event the city makes an initial determination that development
may impose extraordinary impact, the city shall provide the development
application to the district administrator along with the city's initial
determination. The district administrator shall then review and determine
whether or not the development application will impose extraordinary impact.
   B.   If the district administrator determines that a proposed development
generates extraordinary impact that will result in extraordinary systems
improvements costs, the district administrator will notify the fee payer and
the city of such fire district impact fee determination within thirty (30) days
after district administrator's receipt from the city of the development
application and the city's initial determination. Such notice shall include a
statement that the potential impacts of such development on system improvements
are not adequately addressed by the capital improvements plan, and that a
supplemental study, at the fee payer's expense will be required.
   C.   Circumstances that may lead to a determination of extraordinary impact
include, but are not limited to:
      1.   An indication the assumptions used in the capital improvements plan
underestimate the level of activity or impact on district capital facilities
from the proposed development or activity.
   D.   Within thirty (30) days following the designation of a development with
extraordinary impact, the district administrator shall meet with the fee payer
to discuss whether the fee payer wants to:
      1.   Pay for the supplemental study necessary to determine the system
improvements costs related to the proposed development;
      2.   Modify the proposal to avoid generating extraordinary impact; or
      3.   Withdraw the application for certification, building permit or
development approval.
   E.   If the fee payer agrees to pay for the supplemental study required to
document the proposed development's proportionate share of system improvements
costs, then the district and the fee payer shall jointly select an individual
or organization acceptable to both to perform such study. The fee payer shall
enter into a written agreement with such individual or organization to pay the
costs of such study. Such agreement shall require the supplemental study to be
completed within thirty (30) days of such written agreement, unless the fee
payer agrees to a longer time.
   F.   Once the study has been completed, the fee payer may choose to:
      1.   Pay the proportionate share of system improvements costs documented
by the supplemental study; or
      2.   Modify the proposed development to reduce such costs; or
      3.   Withdraw the application. If the fee payer agrees to pay the system
improvements costs documented in the supplemental study, that agreement shall
be reduced to writing between the district and the fee payer prior to review
and consideration of any application for any development approval or building
permit related to the proposed development.
   G.   Notwithstanding any agreement by the fee payer to pay the proportionate
share of system improvements costs documented by the supplemental study,
nothing in this chapter shall obligate the city to approve development that
results in an extraordinary impact to the district. (Ord. 234, 3-1-2022)
7-3-10: FEE PAYER REFUNDS:
   A.   Duty To Refund:
      1.   Fire district impact fee shall be refunded to the fee payer, or to a
successor in interest, in the following circumstances:
         a.   Service is available but never provided;
         b.   A building permit, or permit for installation of a manufactured
home, is denied by the city or abandoned;
         c.   The fee payer pays a fire district impact fee under protest and a
subsequent review of the fee paid or the completion of an individual assessment
determines that the fee paid exceeded the proportionate share to which the
district was entitled to receive;
         d.   The fire district has collected a fire district impact fee and
the fire district has failed to appropriate or expend the collected fees
pursuant to section below; or
         e.   Failure of the fire district to commence construction or encumber
the fund in the fire district development impact fee capital projects trust
fund.
      2.   Any fire district impact fee paid shall be refunded if the district
has failed to commence construction of system improvements in accordance with
this chapter, or to appropriate funds for such construction, within eight (8)
years after the date on which such fee was collected by the district. Any
refund due shall be paid to the owner of record of the parcel for which the
fire district impact fee was paid. The district may hold fire district impact
fees for longer than eight (8) years if the fire district identifies in writing
and in written notice to the owner of record of the parcel:
         a.   A reasonable cause why the fees should be held longer than eight
(8) years; and
         b.   An anticipated date by which the fees will be expended, but in no
event greater than eleven (11) years from the date they were collected. If the
district complies with the previous sentence, then any fire district impact
fees so identified shall be refunded to the fee payer if the fire district has
failed to commence construction of system improvements in accordance with the
written notice, or to appropriate funds for such construction on or before the
date identified in such writing.
      3.   No refund due for subsequent reduction in size of development or
service units. After a fire district impact fee has been paid pursuant to this
chapter and after a certificate of occupancy has been issued by the city, no
refund of any part of such fee shall be made if the project for which the fee
was paid is later demolished, destroyed, or is altered, reconstructed, or
reconfigured so as to reduce the size of the project or the number of units in
the project.
      4.   Interest: Each refund shall include a refund of interest at one-half
the legal rate provided for in Idaho Code section 28-22-104 from the date on
which the fee was originally paid.
      5.   Timing: The district shall make a determination of whether a refund
is due within thirty (30) days after receipt of a written request for a refund
from the owner of record of the property for which the fee was paid. When the
right to a refund exists, the district shall send the refund to the owner of
record within ninety (90) days after the district determines that a refund is
due. (Ord. 234, 3-1-2022)
7-3-11: ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICT TRUST FUND AND ACCOUNTS:
   A.   The trust fund established by the district will be maintained by the
district for the purpose of ensuring that all fire district impact fees
collected, pursuant to this chapter, are used to address impacts reasonably
attributable to new development for which the fire district impact fees are
paid. The trust fund shall be divided into the accounts. All funds in all
accounts in the trust fund shall be maintained in an interest-bearing account.
The interest earned on each account pursuant to Idaho Code section 67-8210(1)
shall not be governed by Idaho Code section 57-127, as amended, but shall be
considered funds of the account and shall be subject to the same restrictions
on uses of funds as the fire district impact fees on which the interest is
generated.
   B.   Deposit Of Fire District Impact Fees: All monies paid by a fee payer,
pursuant to this chapter, shall be identified as fire district impact fees and
shall be promptly deposited by the district administrator in the appropriate
account of the trust fund.
      1.   First-In/First-Out: Monies in each account shall be spent in the
order collected, on a first-in/first-out basis.
      2.   Maintenance Of Records: The fire district shall maintain and keep
accurate financial records for each account that shall show the source and
disbursement of all revenues, that shall account for all monies received, that
shall ensure that the disbursement of funds from each account shall be used
solely and exclusively for the provisions of projects specified in the capital
improvements plan, and that shall provide an annual accounting for each fire
district impact fee account showing the source and amount of all funds
collected and the projects that were funded. (Ord. 234, 3-1-2022)
7-3-12: EXPENDITURE OF FIRE DISTRICT IMPACT FEES:
   A.   Expenditures of fire district impact fees collected and deposited in
the trust fund shall be made only for system improvements within the service
area for which the impact fee was collected in accordance with the capital
improvements plan.
   B.   Capital Improvements Plan Reimbursement; Surcharge: A portion of each
impact fee collected shall be designated as a surcharge for reimbursement of
the district for the cost of preparing the capital improvements plan in
accordance with Idaho Code section 67-8208. The surcharge shall not exceed the
development's proportionate share of the cost of preparing the capital
improvements plan. (Ord. 234, 3-1-2022)
7-3-13: APPEALS, PROTEST AND MEDIATION:
   A.   Appeals: Any fee payer that is or may be obligated to pay a fire
district impact fee, or that claims a right to receive a refund, reimbursement,
exemption or credit under this chapter, and who is dissatisfied with a decision
made either by the city or by the district administrator in applying this
chapter, may appeal such decision as follows:
      1.   In the case of a decision made by the city to the city council; and
      2.   In the case of a decision made by the district administrator to the
board of commissioners.
   B.   The fee payer shall have the burden on appeal of proving by clear and
convincing evidence that the decision was in error.
   C.   In order to pursue the appeal described in this subsection, the fee
payer shall file a written notice of the appeal with the city within thirty
(30) days after the date of the city's or the district administrator's
decision, or the date on which the fee payer submitted a payment of the fire
district impact fee under protest, whichever is later. Such written application
shall include a statement describing why the fee payer believes that the
appealed decision was in error, together with copies of any documents that the
fee payer believes support the claim.
   D.   Appeals of the district administrator's decisions shall be delivered by
the city to the district administrator.
   E.   The city council or the board of commissioners, as the case may be,
shall hear the appeal within sixty (60) days after receipt of a written notice
of appeal. The fee payer shall have a right to be present and to present
evidence in support of the appeal. The city or district administrator who made
the decision under appeal or his or her representative shall likewise have the
right to be present and to present evidence in support of the decision. The
criteria to be used by the city council or by the board of commissioners in
considering the appeal shall be whether:
      1.   The decision or interpretation made by the city or district
administrator; or
      2.   The alternative decision or interpretation offered by the fee payer,
more accurately reflects the intent of this chapter that new development in the
city pay its proportionate share of the costs of system improvements to
district facilities necessary to serve new development and whether the chapter
has been correctly applied. The city council or board of commissioners, as the
case may be, shall issue a decision upholding, reversing, or modifying the
decision being appealed within thirty (30) days after hearing the appeal.
   F.   Payment Under Protest: A fee payer may pay a fire district impact fee
under protest in order not to delay in the issuance of a building permit by the
city. A fee payer making a payment under protest shall not be estopped from
exercising the right to appeal provided herein, nor shall such fee payer be
estopped from receiving a refund of any amount deemed to have been illegally
collected.
   G.   Mediation:
      1.   Any fee payer that has a disagreement with the city or the district
administrator regarding a fire district impact fee determination that is or may
be due for a proposed development pursuant to this chapter, may enter into a
voluntary agreement with the city or the district, as the case may be, to
subject the disagreement to mediation by a qualified independent party
acceptable to both the fee payer and the district.
      2.   Mediation may take place at any time following the filing of a
timely appeal pursuant to subsection C or as an alternative to such appeal,
provided that the request for mediation is filed no later than the last date on
which a timely appeal could be filed pursuant to subsection C.
      3.   Participation in mediation does not preclude the fee payer from
pursuing other remedies provided for in this section.
      4.   If mediation is requested, any related mediation costs shall be
shared equally by the fee payer and the city or the district, as the case may
be, and a written agreement regarding the payment of such costs shall be
executed prior to the commencement of mediation.
      5.   In the event that mediation does not resolve the issues between the
district and the fee payer, the fee payer retains all rights to seek relief
from a court of competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 234, 3-1-2022)
7-3-14: PERIODIC REVIEWS:
   A.   Review And Modification Of Capital Improvements Plan: Unless the board
of commissioners deems some other period is appropriate, the board of
commissioners shall, at least once every five (5) years, commencing from the
date of the original adoption of the capital improvements plan, review the
development potential and update the capital improvements plan in cooperation
with the city and in accordance with the procedures set forth in Idaho Code
section 67-8206, as amended. Each update shall be prepared by the district
administrator in consultation with the joint advisory committee.
   B.   Annual Review: The district shall annually adopt a capital budget.
(Ord. 234, 3-1-2022)
7-3-15: AUDIT:
As part of its annual audit process, the district shall prepare an annual
report: (a) describing the amount of all fire district impact fees collected,
appropriated or spent during the preceding year by category of public facility;
and (b) describing the percentage of taxes and revenues from sources other than
the fire district impact fees collected, appropriated or spent for system
improvements during the preceding year by systems improvements category of
district capital facilities. (Ord. 234, 3-1-2022)
7-3-16: JOINT DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEE ADVISORY STANDING COMMITTEE:
   A.   Committee Created: A joint standing committee of the city council and
the board of commissioners of the Northside Fire District is established.
   B.   Committee Name: The joint standing committee is known and shall
continue to be known and designated as the "City of Kootenai/Northside Fire
District Joint Development Impact Fee Advisory Standing Committee" (hereinafter
in this chapter referred also as "joint advisory committee" or "committee").
   C.   Membership: The members on the committee shall be appointed by the city
council and confirmed by the board of commissioners of the Northside Fire
District for a term of three (3) years or until someone is appointed in his/her
place, and there shall not be fewer than five (5) members of which two (2) or
more members shall be active in the business of development, building or real
estate and at least two (2) or more members shall be active in the business of
development, building or real estate. All members must reside within the City
of Kootenai. No members shall be employees or officials of the City of Kootenai
or the Northside Fire District.
      1.   The members will be appointed during the January regular meeting of
the city council and the board of commissioners.
      2.   Any vacancy occurring on the committee during the year shall be
filled during the year, by appointment of the city council and confirmed by the
board of commissioners of the Northside Fire District.
   D.   Charge: The joint advisory committee shall serve as an advisory
committee to the city council and the board of commissioners of the Northside
Fire District and is charged with the following responsibilities:
      1.   Assist the city and the Northside Fire District in adopting land use
assumptions; and
      2.   Review the capital improvements plan; and
      3.   Monitor and evaluate implementation of the capital improvements
plan;
      4.   File with the Northside Fire District, District Administrator and
the city clerk, at least annually, with respect to the capital improvements
plan a report of any perceived inequities in implementing the capital
improvements plan or imposing the fire district impact fees;
      5.   Advise the city council and the board of commissioners of the
Northside Fire District of the need to update or revise land use assumptions,
capital improvements plan and fire district development impact fees; and
      6.   The Northside Fire District shall make available to the joint
advisory committee, upon request, all financial and accounting information,
professional reports in relation to other development and implementation of
land use assumptions, the capital improvements plan and periodic updates of the
capital improvements plan.
   E.   Joint Advisory Committee Organization: The Northside Fire District,
District Administrator, shall staff the joint advisory committee in order to
provide the committee with needed information for the committee's review and to
provide for its compliance with the Open Meeting Law (chapter 2 of title 74,
Idaho Code).
      1.   The joint advisory committee shall select its officers, which
include a chairman, vice chairman and a secretary of the committee.
      2.   The chairman shall conduct the meetings of the committee. The duties
of the chairman shall be performed by the vice chairman in the absence of the
chairman or as delegated by the chairman. The chairman and the vice chairman
shall be members of the committee.
      3.   The district administrator shall serve as the secretary of the
committee and shall take minutes and post agenda notices required by the Open
Meeting Law. The secretary is not a member of the committee.
      4.   The committee shall establish a regular meeting schedule.
      5.   The agenda of each meeting shall include the approval of the minutes
of the last meeting and the secretary shall provide a copy of the approved
minutes to the city council and the board of commissioners.
      6.   Fifty percent (50%) of the membership of the committee shall
constitute a quorum. Once a quorum is established for a meeting, the subsequent
absence of a member present for creating the quorum shall not dismiss the
quorum.
      7.   A majority vote of those present at any meeting is sufficient to
carry motions.
   F.   Reporting: The joint advisory committee reports directly to the
Northside Fire District Board of Commissioners and to the city council.
   G.   City Council And Northside Fire District Board Of Commissioners Review
Of Committee's Reports And Recommendations: The city council and the Northside
Fire District Board of Commissioners shall each consider the joint advisory
committee's recommended revision(s) at least once every twelve (12) months. The
Joint Advisory Committee's recommendations and the city council's and board of
commissioners' actions are intended to ensure that the benefits to a
development paying fire district impact fees are equitable, so that the fire
district impact fee charged to the development shall not exceed a proportionate
share of system improvements costs, and that the procedures for administering
fire district impact fees remain efficient. (Ord. 234, 3-1-2022)
7-3-17: ENFORCEMENT AND COLLECTION:
   A.   When any fire district impact fee is due pursuant to this chapter, or
pursuant to the terms of any written agreement between a fee payer and the
district, and such fire district impact fee has not been paid in a timely
manner, the city, or district administrator on behalf of the district, may
exercise any or all of the following powers as applicable to their authority,
in any combination, to enforce the collection of the fire district impact fee:
      1.   Withhold building permits, manufactured home installation permits,
or other city development approval related to the development for which the
fire district impact fee is due until all fire district impact fees due have
been paid, and issue stop work orders, and revoke or suspend a building permit.
      2.   Withhold utility services from the development for which the fire
district impact fee is due until all fire district impact fees due have been
paid; and
      3.   Add interest to the fire district impact fee not paid in full at the
legal rate provided for in Idaho Code section 28-22-104, as amended, plus five
percent (5%) beginning on the date at which the payment of the fire district
impact fee was due until paid in full.
      4.   Impose a penalty of five percent (5%) of the total fire district
impact fee (not merely the portion dishonored, late or not paid in full) per
month beginning on the date at which the payment of the fire district impact
fee was due until paid in full.
      5.   Impose a lien pursuant to the authority of Idaho Code section 67-
8213(4) for failure to timely pay a fire district impact fee following the
procedures contained in Idaho Code title 45, chapter 5. (Ord. 234, 3-1-2022)
7-3-18: CITY/FIRE DISTRICT INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT:
   A.   The city is a governmental entity that is empowered by the Act to adopt
development impact fee ordinances and as such is authorized, by Idaho Code
section 67-8204A, to enter into the intergovernmental agreement with the
district for the purpose of agreement to collect and expend fire district
impact fees for system improvements as provided in this chapter.
   B.   The city and the district have entered into the intergovernmental
agreement which is in full force and effect.
   C.   The intergovernmental agreement complies with this chapter and requires
the district to be governed by and to fully abide by the provisions of this
chapter.
   D.   Any amendments of the intergovernmental agreement shall be implemented
by corresponding relevant amendments of this chapter which amendments shall not
apply to any fire district impact fees then not expended and currently held in
the trust fund. (Ord. 234, 3-1-2022)
7-3-19: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS:
   A.   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the district from requiring a
developer to construct reasonable project improvements, as are required by the
fire codes and other rules that are adopted by the state fire marshal, in
conjunction with a development.
   B.   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent or prohibit
private agreements between property owners or developers, the Idaho
Transportation Department and governmental entities in regard to the
construction or installation of system improvements or providing for credits or
reimbursements for system improvements costs incurred by a developer including
inter-project transfers of credits or providing for reimbursement for project
improvements which are used or shared by more than one (1) development project.
   C.   Nothing in this chapter shall obligate the city to approve development
which results in an extraordinary impact.
   D.   Nothing in this chapter shall obligate the district to approve any
development request which may reasonably be expected to reduce levels of
service below minimum acceptable levels established in this chapter.
   E.   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to create any additional
right to develop real property or diminish the city in regulating the orderly
development of real property within its boundaries.
   F.   Nothing in this chapter shall work to limit the use by the city of the
power of eminent domain or supersede or conflict with requirements or
procedures authorized in the Idaho Code for local improvement districts or
general obligation bond issues.
   G.   Nothing herein shall restrict or diminish the power of the city to
annex property into its territorial boundaries or exclude property from its
territorial boundaries upon request of a developer or owner, or to impose
reasonable conditions thereon, including the recovery of project or system
improvements costs required as a result of such voluntary annexation.
   H.   The district shall develop a plan for alternative sources of revenue,
which shall include but not necessarily be limited to plans generated during
the district's annual budget process, lobbying efforts, tax increment
financing, and implementation of user fees, administrative and regulatory fees
and other forms of revenue.
   I.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, that portion of a
project for which a complete application for a building permit has been
received by the city, prior to the effective date of this chapter, shall not be
subject to the fire district impact fee imposed by this chapter. If the
resulting building permit is later revised or replaced after the effective date
of the ordinance codified in this chapter, and the new building permit(s)
reflects a development density, intensity, development size or number of units
more than ten percent (10%) higher than that reflected in the original building
permit, then the fire district impact fee may be charged on the difference in
density, intensity, development size or number of units between the original
and the revised or replacement building permit.
   J.   Any monies, including any accrued interest not assigned to specific
system improvements within such capital improvements plan and not expended
pursuant to section
7-3-12 or refunded pursuant to section
7-3-10 shall be retained in the same account until the next district fiscal
year.
   K.   If the district discovers an error in the capital improvements plan
that results in assessment or payment of more than a proportionate share of
system improvements costs on any proposed development, the district
administrator shall:
      1.   Adjust the fire district impact fee to collect no more than a
proportionate share; or
      2.   Discontinue the collection of any fire district impact fees until
the error is corrected by ordinance.
   L.   If fire district impact fees are calculated and paid based on a mistake
or misrepresentation, they shall be recalculated. Any amounts overpaid by a fee
payer shall be refunded by the district within thirty (30) days after the
district's acceptance of the recalculated amount, with interest at the legal
rate provided for in Idaho Code section 28-22-104 from the date on which the
fee was paid. Any amounts underpaid by the fee payer shall be paid to the
district within thirty (30) days after the district administrator's acceptance
of the recalculated amount, with interest at the legal rate provided for in
Idaho Code section 28-22-104 from the date on which the fee was paid. In the
case of an underpayment to the district, the administrator may request the city
and the city may withhold issuance of the building permits or development
approval for the project for which the fire district impact fee was paid until
such underpayment is corrected, and if amounts owed to the district are not
paid within such thirty (30) day period, the district administrator may also
ask the city to and the city may revoke any building permits or development
approval issued in reliance on the previous payment of such fire district
impact fee and refund such fee to the fee payer.
   M.   The joint advisory committee that was established during the
preparation of the capital improvements plan shall continue in existence, and
shall by operation of this ordinance (from which this subsection derived)
become the joint advisory committee created herein. (Ord. 234, 3-1-2022)
7-3-20: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, punishable by up to one (1) year in the county jail, and/or a one
thousand dollar ($1,000.00) fine, or both. Knowingly furnishing false
information to any official of the city or the district charged with the
administration of this chapter, including without limitation, the furnishing of
false information regarding the expected size, use or impacts from a proposed
development, shall be a violation of this chapter. (Ord. 234, 3-1-2022)
TITLE 8
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
PURPOSE; APPLICABILITY; RESTRICTIONS
SECTION:
8-1-1: Purpose
8-1-2: Applicability And Restrictions
8-1-1 PURPOSE:
The zoning regulations as herein established have been made in accordance with
a comprehensive plan for the purpose of promoting public health, safety and
general welfare within the corporate boundaries of the city. These regulations
have been specifically designed to:
   A.   Implement the goals and policies of the comprehensive plan;
   B.   Secure safety from fire and to protect life and property in areas
subject to natural hazards and disasters;
   C.   Consider public safety for motor vehicles, pedestrians and nonmotorized
vehicles;
   D.   Protect the source of the city's drinking water supply from
contamination;
   E.   Avoid undue concentration of population and the overcrowding of land;
   F.   Balance development with adequate open space and setbacks, and provide
reasonable development standards and limitations, in order to preserve natural
amenities, including, but not limited to, air quality, water quality, ambient
light and noise, for the benefit of all property owners and residents;
   G.   Ensure the development of land is commensurate with the physical
characteristics of the land;
   H.   Ensure that important environmental features are protected and
enhanced; and
   I.   Facilitate the adequate provision and coordination of public services
and facilities. (Ord. 201, 11-15-2013)
8-1-2 APPLICABILITY AND RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Applicability: This title shall apply, to the extent permitted by law,
to all land and the use thereof, within the corporate boundaries of the city.
Lands owned by the government of the United States Of America shall be governed
hereby only to the extent provided by federal law. Lands owned by the state
shall be governed to the extent allowed by state law.
   B.   Restrictions And Limitations:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any building or structure to be moved,
erected, remodeled, altered, enlarged or rebuilt within the city, except in
accordance with the provisions of this title, and applicable provisions of
state law.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any yard, open space, building, structure
or land to be used for any purpose not permitted in this title, unless such use
has been lawfully established prior to enactment.
      3.   Any building or structure for which a building permit has been
lawfully issued or for which a completed application has been accepted prior to
the effective date hereof may be completed and used in accordance with the
plans, specifications and approvals upon which said building permit was
granted, if construction is commenced and inspections requested within one
hundred eighty (180) days after the issuance of said permit, and if
construction is diligently pursued to completion. (Ord. 201, 11-15-2013)
CHAPTER 2
RULES AND DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
8-2-1: General Rules
8-2-2: Definitions
8-2-1 GENERAL RULES:
The rules and definitions contained in this chapter shall be observed and
applied throughout this title, except when the context clearly indicates
otherwise.
   A.   Tense; Number: Words used in the present tense shall include the future
and words used in the singular number shall include the plural number and the
plural the singular.
   B.   Shall: The word "shall" shall be mandatory and not discretionary.
   C.   May: The word "may" is permissive.
   D.   Minimum Requirements: In their interpretation and application, the
provisions of this title shall be held to be minimum requirements adopted for
the promotion of the public health, safety and general welfare. Whenever the
requirements of this title conflict with the express requirements of any other
locally adopted ordinance, the ordinance providing the greatest measure of
protection for the health, safety and general welfare shall prevail.
   E.   Controlling Provisions: Whenever this title imposes a greater
restriction upon the use of buildings or premises, or requires larger spaces
than imposed by other ordinances, resolutions, rules and regulations, or
private covenants, the provisions of this title shall control.
   F.   Application Of Zoning Standards: Provided the context does not give
rise to practical difficulties, interpretations of certain zoning standards
shall generally be applied as follows:
      1.   Buildings Constructed Across Parcel Boundary Lines: Provided legal
and contiguous parcels of record are owned by the same property owners,
building that have been developed across property lines shall merge the
properties into one parcel for the determination of zoning standards.
      2.   Yard Orientation On Lots With More Than One Street Frontage: On
parcels with more than one public road frontage with an approved approach,
either frontage may be designated by the city as the front yard, with
consideration given to such factors as the primary access, the orientation of
the building and/or addressing for the subject parcel; however, the predominant
orientation of an existing structure, and the location of principal accesses
and approaches shall be used in the determination of the front building facade.
      3.   Setback Encroachments: Building setbacks shall not be less than the
minimum dimension specified for each zoning district, except as follows:
Cornices, canopies, eaves or other similar architectural features not providing
additional floor space within a building may extend into the required side,
front or rear yard setback or building separations, provided they do not
encroach by more than one foot (1'), nor encroach into a public or private
right of way.
      4.   Site Area Calculations: For the purpose of this title, site area
calculations shall exclude the area of dedicated public or private rights of
way, and other publicly dedicated improvements, such as parks, open space and
stormwater detention and treatment facilities. (Ord. 201, 11-15-2013)
8-2-2 DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined below, terms or phrases used in this title shall be
given their ordinary meaning, consistent with common usage and context:
ABANDONED SIGN: See section
8-15-3 of this title.
ACCESSORY BUILDING OR STRUCTURE: A subordinate structure, detached from, but
located on the same lot as, a principal building, and serving a purpose that is
customarily incidental to the use of the principal structure. Accessory
structures may include, but are not limited to, garages, decks, storage
buildings, gatehouses, boathouses, etc.
ACCESSORY COMMERCIAL ACTIVITIES AND OPERATIONS, SMALL: A separate, subordinate
commercial use encompassing seven hundred fifty (750) square feet or less
(including all temporary and permanent structures and display areas, but not
including access aisles, parking and queuing areas), located on the site of an
existing commercial operation. Small accessory commercial uses and activities
may include, but are not limited to, drive-through food and beverage stands,
temporary seasonal sales of Christmas trees, fireworks and similar temporary or
permanent small commercial uses. For purposes of this title, roadside stands of
not more than three hundred (300) square feet, used for the sale of
agricultural products produced on the same site, as allowed in the agriculture
and rural zones, are specifically excluded from this definition.
ACCESSORY LIVING UNIT: Also known as "Accessory Dwelling Unit." A smaller.
secondary dwelling unit that is accessory to a principal dwelling unit on the
same lot or parcel that provides a self-contained living unit consisting of
cooking, sleeping, and sanitation facilities.
ADULT DAYCARE: An establishment that provides nonmedical care to adults who
need personal care, assistance or supervision for periods of less than twenty
four (24) hours. For the purpose of this title, the term "daycare" shall apply
to all hours of the day or night, provided the period of care provided for
individual clients is less than a continuous twenty four (24) hour period.
AFFECTED PERSON: One having a bona fide interest in real property which may be
adversely affected by:
   A.   The approval, denial or failure to act upon an application for a
subdivision, variance, special use permit and such other similar applications
required or authorized pursuant to this title;
   B.   The approval of an ordinance first establishing a zoning district upon
annexation or the approval or denial of an application to change the zoning
district applicable to specific parcels or sites pursuant to Idaho Code section
67-6511; or
   C.   An approval or denial of an application for conditional rezoning
pursuant to Idaho Code section 67-6511A.
AGRICULTURAL PRODUCT: Products derived from animal and/or plant materials, and
intended for direct human or animal use/consumption, such as vegetables,
fruits, dairy products, eggs, grains, meat, poultry, fish, honey, hay, trees,
bedding plants and wool.
AGRICULTURE: The employment of land for the primary purpose of raising,
harvesting and selling crops, or feeding (including grazing), breeding,
managing, selling or producing livestock, poultry, furbearing animals or
honeybees, or for dairying, tree farming, horticultural, floricultural or
viticultural use, animal husbandry, or any combination thereof. It also
includes the employment of land for the primary purpose of stabling and
training equines, including, but not limited to, providing riding lessons,
training clinics and schooling shows.
ANTENNA: A device or system of wires, poles, rods, dishes, or other devices of
similar function, used for the transmission and/or reception of radio frequency
signals for wireless communications, as described in the Telecommunications Act
of 1996. Included are omnidirectional antenna (whip), a directional antenna
(panel) and parabolic antenna (disk). Support structures are not included.
ARTERIAL STREET: A public thoroughfare that connects a network of routes. A
principal arterial serves large intercounty or interstate and is designed to
carry heavy traffic loads. A minor arterial serves less dense population
concentrations, and may connect to principal arterials or provide intermediate
routes.
ASSEMBLAGE: Manufacturing, processing and assembly operations and activities
that involve the compilation, assembly and/or packaging of parts and materials
manufactured off site, which has minimal visual, noise, odor or traffic
impacts, and which generally is related to on site retail or professional
services.
ASSISTED LIVING FACILITY: An establishment that provides permanent provisions
for living, sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation, and that provides twenty
four (24) hour nonmedical care for more than eight (8) individuals who need
personal care or assistance and supervision. See definition of Residential Care
Facility.
BED AND BREAKFAST: A detached single-family dwelling, occupied and operated by
the owner or a resident manager, where five (5) or fewer rooms are available
for rent for a period not to exceed two (2) weeks per guest.
BERM: See section
8-14-2-3 of this title.
BOARDING KENNEL: See definition of Kennel.
BUFFER; BUFFERING: See section
8-14-2-3 of this title.
BUILDING: A structure having a roof supported by columns or walls for shelter,
support or enclosure of persons, animals or chattels. When separated by
division walls from the ground up without openings, each portion of such
structure shall be deemed a separate building.
BUILDING COVERAGE: The gross horizontal area of a lot or parcel of land
occupied by that portion of all principal and accessory buildings or structures
that are under a roof, as measured from within the exterior walls of the ground
floor of all covered structures on the lot. As a percentage, it is the
relationship between the ground floor area of all covered buildings and
structures, and the net area of the site.
BUILDING HEIGHT: The vertical dimension from the lowest point of the building,
structure or wall exposed above the ground surface on its street facing facade
to the highest point of the roof, parapet wall or structural feature. Antennas,
water tanks, ventilators, chimneys, heaters and air conditioning units, or
other appurtenances usually required to be placed above the roof level, and not
intended for human occupancy, shall not be included in the measurement of
vertical dimensions. Spires, belfries and cupolas are specifically included in
the measurement of the vertical dimensions.
BUILDING SIGN: See section
8-15-3 of this title.
BULK STORAGE OF FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS AND GASES, ABOVEGROUND: Storage of flammable
liquids and gases in aboveground containers with capacity in excess of one
thousand (1,000) gallons. Specifically excludes on site storage of the end
user's home heating fuel supply.
BUSINESS SERVICE OPERATION: An establishment providing services to business
establishments on a fee or contract basis, including, but not limited to,
advertising services, business equipment and furniture sales or rentals, or
protective services. This term includes, but is not limited to, an employment
agency, photocopy center, commercial photography studio, mailing service,
repair of household and small personal goods, such as sewing machines, small
appliances, bicycles, jewelry, footwear, and other similarly classified uses.
This term does not include maintenance, and repair of vehicles or heavy
equipment, automotive tire repair shop, and other similarly classified uses.
CALIPER: See section
8-14-2-3 of this title.
CALL CENTER: An operational center set up to utilize telecommunication and
computer technologies to automate various high volume inbound and/or outbound
telephone activities and services.
CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY: A certificate issued by the building official which
certifies that a structure has been erected in accordance with international
building code and all other ordinances of the city, the effect of which shall
permit the occupancy of a building.
CHILD: A person less than thirteen (13) years of age.
CHILDCARE CENTER: A place or facility providing care and supervision for
thirteen (13) or more children.
CHILDCARE, IN HOME: Provision of care and supervision within a residential
dwelling unit for four (4) to twelve (12) children not related by blood,
marriage or legal guardianship to the resident providing the care, in a place
other than the child's or children's own home or homes.
CHILDCARE PROVIDER: Any person, business entity or not for profit providing
care and supervision for compensation for four (4) to twelve (12) children not
related by blood, marriage or legal guardianship to the person providing the
care, in a place other than the child's or children's own home or homes.
CHURCH: An establishment that by design and construction is primarily intended
for the conducting of organized religious services, meetings and associated
activities. For the purpose of this title, the term "church" shall exclude
other categories of community assembly.
COLLECTOR STREET: A public thoroughfare that links local streets with routes of
higher classifications. A major collector links minor collectors and local
access routes with arterials and state highways. A minor collector links
adjacent properties and local access roads with major collectors and arterials.
COMMUNICATION FACILITY - WIRELESS (WCF): Any component of the wireless
communication installation including any towers, antennas, antenna arrays, and
any structures or devices used to contain ancillary equipment for a wireless
communication facility, such as cabinets, shelters, additions to existing
structures, pedestals, and other devices serving similar purposes. Typically,
it includes an air conditioning unit, a heating unit, electrical supply,
telephone hookup and backup power supply and may include any service roads or
other access accommodations used to service the facility.
COMMUNITY ASSEMBLY: A building, or portion thereof, of which the primary use is
a meeting place used by members of the community to gather for social,
cultural, entertainment or recreational purposes. For the purpose of this
title, churches are excluded from this definition.
DECIDUOUS: See section
8-14-2-3 of this title.
DIRECTIONAL SIGN: See section
8-15-3 of this title.
DISTRIBUTION CENTER: An establishment engaged principally in the receipt,
storage and distribution of goods, products, cargo and materials, including
transshipment by boat, rail, air or motor vehicle.
DOUBLE FACED SIGN: See section
8-15-3 of this title.
DWELLING UNIT: Any structure, or portion thereof, providing separate and
independent living facilities for one "family", as defined in this section,
including provisions for living, sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation. For
the purpose of this title, recreational vehicles, travel trailers, boarding
houses, sorority and fraternity houses, hotels, motels and inns are
specifically excluded from this definition.
EVENT FACILITY: A facility that is designed, constructed and devoted to hosting
concerts, sporting events, trade shows, conferences, exhibitions, large
meetings, seminars, training sessions and other similar public assemblies, or
is rented out for events such as weddings, dances and receptions, including
stadiums, auditoriums, exhibition halls and convention centers.
EVERGREEN: See section
8-14-2-3 of this title.
FACADE, FRONT BUILDING: See section
8-15-3 of this title.
FAMILY: A person living alone, or two (2) or more persons related by blood,
marriage or adoption; or, eight (8) or fewer unrelated persons residing in a
supervised group residence; provided, that no more than two (2) staff members
reside in the dwelling at any one time (resident staff shall not be counted
toward the "8 or fewer" criterion).
FARMERS' MARKET: The offering of fresh agricultural products for sale directly
to the consumer by two (2) or more agricultural producers at temporary or
occasional events. The events may be held in an open area or in a structure,
where groups of individual sellers offer items for sale, including fresh
produce, seasonal fruits, fresh flowers, incidental arts and crafts items, and
food and beverages (but not to include secondhand goods), dispensed from
vehicles and/or booths located on site.
FLAG: See section
8-15-3 of this title.
FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS AND GASES: Liquids and gases having a flashpoint below one
hundred ten degrees Fahrenheit (110°F).
FLANKING STREET: A public or private right of way abutting the side or rear
property boundaries of a parcel, lot or development site.
FLASHING SIGN: See section
8-15-3 of this title.
FLEA MARKET: A series of events at which two (2) or more persons, partnerships,
organizations or corporations offer new or used personal property or
merchandise for sale or exchange, where such event is held more than two (2)
times in any twelve (12) month period. The term "flea market" is
interchangeable and applicable to "swap meets", "indoor swap meets" or their
similar terms, regardless of whether these events are held inside a building or
outside in the open. The primary characteristic is that these activities
involve a series of sales sufficient in number, scope and character to
constitute a regular course of business.
FOOD PROCESSING OPERATIONS: A manufacturing operation involved in the receipt,
consolidation, preparation, preservation, production or packaging of meats,
dairy, fruits, vegetables, grains and related food products and byproducts. For
the purpose of this title, food processing operations shall explicitly exclude
slaughterhouses and rendering plants.
FREESTANDING SIGN: See section
8-15-3 of this title.
FULLY SHIELDED LIGHTING: Lighting that is constructed in such a manner that all
light emitted by the fixture, either directly from the lamp or a diffusing
element, or indirectly by reflection or refraction from any part of the
luminaire, is projected below horizontal.
FUTURE LAND USE: Land use designation as identified on the current "Future Land
Use Map Of The City Of Kootenai Comprehensive Plan", as duly adopted by the
Kootenai city council in accordance with the requirements of Idaho Code section
67-6509.
GOVERNMENTAL SIGNS: See section
8-15-3 of this title.
GRASSY SWALE: See section
8-14-2-3 of this title.
GROSS AREA, SIGN: See section
8-15-3 of this title.
GROUND COVER: See section
8-14-2-3 of this title.
GROUP HOME: See definition of Residential Care Facility.
HEIGHT, BUILDING: See definition of Building Height.
HEIGHT, FENCE: The vertical distance from the natural grade of the property at
the base of the fence to the highest point on the fence or fence structure.
HEIGHT, SIGN: The vertical distance from the natural grade of the property at
the base of a sign to the highest point on a sign or sign structure.
HOME OCCUPATION: An occupation or business activity that is conducted within a
dwelling unit or residential accessory building by a resident thereof, and
which is clearly incidental and secondary to the residential occupancy and does
not change the character or use classification of the residential structure or
area.
HOSPITALS: A healthcare facility providing twenty four (24) hour medical or
surgical care for patients, as defined in Idaho Code section 39-1301. See also
definition of Skilled Care Facility.
IMPERVIOUS SURFACE: Any hard surfaced, manmade area that does not readily
absorb or retain water, including, but not limited to, building roofs, parking
and driveway areas, concrete and asphalt surfaces, graveled areas, sidewalks
and paved recreation areas.
IMPERVIOUS SURFACE COVERAGE: The percentage of the area of a lot that is
covered by impervious surface.
KENNEL: Any person, group of persons or corporation engaged in the business of
breeding, buying, selling, boarding or training of dogs, or who keeps and
maintains, for any reason, four (4) or more dogs over the age of six (6)
months.
LARGE ANIMALS: Animals that are generally larger than a domesticated dog,
including horses, cows, sheep, goats and their offspring, or similarly sized
animals that typically require pasturing.
LOT: For a designated parcel, a tract, or an area of land established by plat,
subdivision, or as otherwise permitted by this title, to be separately owned,
used, developed or built upon; a parcel of land established by a subdivision
plat filed pursuant to Idaho Code.
MANSARD: See section
8-15-3 of this title.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure constructed after June 15, 1976, that bears the
seal of U.S. department of housing and urban development (HUD) and/or the
federal housing administration (FHA) indicating it has met the manufactured
home construction and safety standards of that agency, and when erected on
site, is on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with a
permanent foundation, and when connected to the required utilities, is in
compliance with the Idaho state plumbing code, national electrical code,
international mechanical code and international fuel gas code requirements for
plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical systems contained therein,
except that such term shall include any structure which meets all the
requirements, for which the manufacturer voluntarily files the certification
required by HUD/FHA that indicates that the structure complies with the
established standards.
MARQUEE: See section
8-15-3 of this title.
MARQUEE SIGN: See section
8-15-3 of this title.
MINISTORAGE: See definition of Self-Storage Warehousing.
MITIGATION STUDY: A report which evaluates potential measures taken to
eliminate or minimize negative impacts or potential damages associated with
proposed development activity or activities.
NONCONFORMING LOT OF RECORD: A lot or parcel that was lawfully established
prior to the adoption of the ordinance codified herein, or previous applicable
ordinances, and which was in compliance with land development regulations then
in effect, but which no longer conforms to the lot area and dimension standards
of the zone in which it is located, due to changes in zoning or subdivision
regulations (and specifically, not as a result of any action of the property
owner).
NONCONFORMING SIGN: See section
8-15-3 of this title.
NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE: A structure, or a portion thereof, that was legally
constructed prior to the adoption of the ordinance codified herein, or previous
applicable ordinances, which was in compliance with land development
regulations in effect at the time of construction, and which no longer conforms
to the site area, coverage, setback and/or other open space, height or other
dimensional or physical development standards of the zone in which such
structure is located, due to changes in zoning or subdivision regulations (and
specifically, not as a result of any action of the property owner).
NONCONFORMING USE: A use that lawfully existed prior to the effective date
hereof, but that does not now conform to the allowed uses established in the
ordinance codified herein for the district in which it is located. A
nonconforming building or nonconforming position of the building shall be
deemed to constitute a nonconforming use of the land on which it is located.
NONCONFORMING USE, LEGAL: See definition of Nonconforming Use.
OFF PREMISES COMMERCIAL SIGN: See section
8-15-3 of this title.
OUTDOOR RECREATIONAL/ENTERTAINMENT FACILITY: An amusement or recreational
facility, whether public or privately owned, where participant uses are
conducted predominantly in open or partially enclosed facilities, including,
but not limited to, outdoor theater, amusement park, miniature golf, golf
course, golf driving range, drive-in theater, tennis court, football, soccer,
rugby or hockey field, skatepark or swimming pool.
PARCEL: A contiguous tract or plot of land which is uniquely described, and
which may or may not be subdivided or improved.
PARK: An area that is developed either for passive or active recreational
activities, whether publicly or privately owned. The development may include,
but shall not be limited to, walkways, bike paths, open fields, multi-use
courts, swimming and wading pools, splash pads, community gardens, etc. The
term "park" shall not refer to campgrounds and recreational vehicle facilities,
outdoor theaters, zoos, amusement parks, golf courses, driving ranges, or
vehicle, equestrian or dog racing facilities.
PARK, PRIVATE: See definition of Park.
PERSONAL SERVICES: Establishments providing nonmedically related services,
including, but not limited to, barber shops, beauty shops, massage therapy,
nail salons, personal trainers, psychic readers, tanning salons and/or tattoo
parlors. These uses may also include accessory retail sales of products related
to the services provided.
PLANTING AREA: See section
8-14-2-3 of this title.
PROFESSIONAL OFFICE: Office occupations involving the dispensation of a service
that involves some skill or knowledge, including, but not limited to,
accountant, architect, attorney, engineer, financial planner, insurance agent,
medical/dental and/or real estate offices. A distinction is made between
professional offices and establishments and the purveyors of merchandise or
repair of goods.
PUBLIC STREETS: A publicly dedicated or deeded right of way which provides
vehicular and pedestrian access to adjacent properties, the dedication of which
has been officially accepted by the city of Kootenai. The term "street" also
applies to such publicly dedicated rights of way identified as highway,
parkway, road, avenue, lane, place, drive, trail, way, loop, court, circle and
other such terms, and shall expressly apply to the following street
classifications: alleys; local roads; minor collectors; major collectors; minor
arterials; principal arterials; and state highways.
PUBLIC UTILITY: A public, private or not for profit entity, providing pipeline,
gas, electrical, telephone, telegraph, water or sewage service to the public,
or any portion thereof. Private energy production, transmission relay,
repeater, translator, radio and television towers and equipment, and cable
television facilities, are also considered public utilities. "Public utility"
does not include airports or television, radio or community television antenna
system administration offices, or other types of administrative offices or
maintenance yards.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV): A vehicular type unit primarily designed for
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, or travel use, which
either has its own motive power or is mounted or drawn by another vehicle,
including motor home, travel trailer, truck camper, fifth-wheel trailer, a park
model recreational vehicle (as defined by Idaho Code. titles 39 and 49), and
also converted bus, van, boat, commercial office, or other vehicle. or camping
trailer that is designed or used for temporary living quarters. In no case
shall a recreational vehicle be considered a dwelling.
RESIDENCE, PRINCIPAL: The main, independent dwelling unit to which an accessory
living unit is subordinate or accessory.
RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITY: An establishment that provides permanent provisions
for living, sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation and that provides twenty
four (24) hour nonmedical care for more than eight (8) individuals who need
personal care or assistance and supervision. A residential care facility shall
include, but not be limited to, assisted living facility, retirement home and
respite care.
RESIDENTIAL NEIGHBORHOOD IDENTIFICATION SIGN: See section
8-15-3 of this title.
RESORT: A privately owned, for profit or not for profit outdoor recreational
area. A commercial or private resort may include facilities to support
activities, such as swimming, boating, fishing, hunting, camping, picnicking,
winter sports and similar uses, as well as permanent facilities for overnight
or seasonal living, camping areas, recreational vehicle parks, and limited
commercial activities associated with convenience goods and services that serve
to enhance the primary recreational use or activity.
ROOF SIGN: See section
8-15-3 of this title.
ROOFLINE: See section
8-15-3 of this title.
SCHOOL: An institution for the teaching of children or adults, including
primary and secondary schools, colleges, professional schools, dance schools,
business schools, trade schools, art schools and similar facilities.
SCREEN: See section
8-14-2-3 of this title.
SELF-STORAGE WAREHOUSING: A building or group of buildings divided into
separate compartments used to meet the temporary storage needs of small
businesses, apartment dwellers and other residential uses, including
refrigerated facilities.
SETBACK: The minimum distance by which any building, structure or use must be
separated from a street right-of- way, property boundary or lot line.
SHRUB: See section
8-14-2-3 of this title.
SIGHT TRIANGLE: A triangular area that is determined by measuring from the
intersection of the edges of two (2) adjacent streets, forty feet (40') along
each street and connecting the two (2) points with a straight line to form a
triangle. Also applicable to railroad grade crossing intersections. A sight
triangle is also known as a vision triangle.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ed6af48d23d4a44edc5e32fe209889ef4d4cc2fe/
IMAGES/0-0-0-543.jpg]
 
SIGHT TRIANGLE, MODIFIED: For streets posted with speed limits of fifteen (15)
miles per hour (mph) or less, a triangular area that is determined by measuring
from the intersection of the edges of two (2) adjacent streets, twenty feet
(20') along each street and connecting the two (2) points with a straight line
to form a triangle. Intersections with State highways or railroad grade
crossings are not included in the modified sight triangle.
SIGN: See section
8-15-3 of this title.
SITE AREA: The total area of a site for residential or nonresidential
development, excluding street rights-of-way and other publicly dedicated
improvements, such as parks, open space and stormwater detention and treatment
facilities.
SITE PLAN: A diagram, drawn to scale, showing uses and structures proposed for
a parcel of land as detailed in subsection
8-4-4B of this title. It generally identifies the location of lot lines,
streets, existing and proposed building sites, reserved open space, major
landscape features and existing and proposed utility lines.
SKILLED CARE FACILITY: A healthcare facility providing twenty four (24) hour
medical or surgical care for patients, as defined in Idaho Code section 39-
1301. See also definition of hospitals.
SMALL SIGN: See section
8-15-3 of this title.
SOLID WASTE TRANSFER FACILITY: A facility or location, whether publicly or
privately owned and operated, where the collection, consolidation, treatment,
processing or final disposition of solid waste and/or recyclable materials
occurs, including, but not limited to, sanitary landfills, waste transfer
stations, public tipping areas and recyclables collection and drop off areas.
STREET FRONTAGE: The length of the property lines of a single premises that is
directly adjacent to and abutting a public or private right-of-way.
STRUCTURE: A combination of assembled materials that provide shelter, support,
or an extension of shelter or support, including, but not limited to:
buildings, signs, towers, tanks, decks, platforms, porches, walls, pools,
roofed storage areas, manufactured structures, located above or below ground,
whether constructed or assembled on site or preconstructed and placed on site,
but excluding fences or walls used as fences not exceeding seven feet (7') in
height. Fence standards are governed by section
8-14-2-2 of this title.
STRUCTURE, ATTACHED: A building or shelter having at least one wall in common
with another structure.
STRUCTURE. DETACHED: A building or shelter that is freestanding and
structurally separate from any other building, shelter, or structure.
SWAP MEET: A series of events at which two (2) or more persons, partnerships,
organizations or corporations offer new or used personal property or
merchandise for sale or exchange, where such event is held more than two (2)
times in any twelve (12) month period. The term "swap meet" is interchangeable
and applicable to "flea markets", "indoor swap meets" or their similar terms,
regardless of whether these events are held inside a building or outside in the
open. The primary characteristic is that these activities involve a series of
sales sufficient in number, scope and character to constitute a regular course
of business.
TANDEM PARKING: The placement of parking spaces one behind the other, so that
the space nearest the driveway or access aisle serves as the only means to
access the other space.
TRAFFIC IMPACT ANALYSIS: An analysis of the effect of traffic generated by a
development on the capacity, operations and safety of the public street and
highway network serving the area.
TRANSPORTATION IMPACT ANALYSIS: A comprehensive evaluation of the effect of a
development on the local and regional transportation network, which generally
includes both a traffic impact analysis and a mitigation study, if warranted as
based upon impact identified in the traffic impact analysis.
VARIANCE: A discretionary exception to the requirements of this title
concerning bulk and placement standards, such as lot area, lot coverage, width,
depth, setbacks, parking location requirements, height or any other ordinance
provision affecting the size of a structure or the placement of a structure
upon the property. Variances may be permitted when, due to the unusual physical
characteristics of the site, a literal enforcement of the provisions of this
title would deny an owner all reasonable use of the owner's land.
WAREHOUSE: A structure used primarily for storing materials, including, but not
limited to, goods, wares, merchandise or vehicles.
WHOLESALE SALES AND SHIPPING OPERATIONS: Operations related to the sale or
transfer of goods, merchandise, articles or equipment in quantity to persons or
entities who purchase said goods for the purpose of resale and/or distribution
to a point of sale vendor. Wholesale sales operations may include some direct
retail sales, but only to the extent that they are occasional and incidental.
For the purpose of this title, wholesale sales and shipping operations shall
include distribution facilities.
WIND ENERGY SYSTEM, DISTRIBUTED: A wind conversion system consisting of a wind
generator, foundation, tower or mounting system, and associated control or
conversion electronics, which has a rated capacity to produce greater than ten
kilowatts (10 kW) of electricity.
WIND ENERGY SYSTEM, SMALL: A wind conversion system consisting of a wind
generator, foundation, tower or mounting system, and associated control or
conversion electronics, which has a rated capacity to produce not more than ten
kilowatts (10 kW) of electricity.
WINDOW SIGN: See section
8-15-3 of this title.
YARD, FRONT: An area extending across the full width of the property and lying
between the front property line and the nearest line of a principal structure.
YARD, REAR: An area extending across the full width of the property and lying
between the rear property line and the nearest line of the principal structure.
YARD, SIDE: An area extending from the front yard to the rear yard between the
side property line and the nearest line of the principal structure. (Ord. 201,
11-15-2013; amd. Ord. 220, 5-1-2018; Ord. 227, 9-3-2019; Ord. 236, 6-6-2023)
CHAPTER 3
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
8-3-1: Zoning Administrator
8-3-2: Permit Applications
8-3-3: Fees
8-3-4: Public Hearings
8-3-5: Appeals
8-3-6: Violations
8-3-7: Enforcement
8-3-8: Abatement Proceedings
8-3-1 ZONING ADMINISTRATOR:
   A.   Designation: This title shall be administered by the zoning
administrator, who shall be duly designated by the city council.
   B.   Responsibility And Authority: For the purpose of this title, the zoning
administrator shall have the following responsibility and authority:
      1.   Advise interested persons regarding zoning and subdivision ordinance
provisions.
      2.   Notify the public, involved agencies and interested media regarding
planning and zoning matters, as required by law.
      3.   Advise applicants regarding applications and ordinance compliance.
      4.   Administer and issue land use and development permits, notifications
and similar administrative duties.
      5.   Investigate possible violations of this title and take actions as
necessary and appropriate to remedy such violations.
      6.   Assist the city council in implementing the provisions of this
title.
      7.   Coordinate with other involved public agencies and/or city
departments concerning permits which may be required by this title and by
previously or subsequently adopted laws.
   C.   Alternative Administrator: In the absence of a zoning administrator
duly designated by the city council, an employee or agent designated by the
mayor may act on behalf of the city concerning matters arising from the above
listed duties and/or the administration of this title.
   D.   Administrative Permit Process: All administrative permits and requests
that do not require a public hearing shall be reviewed by the zoning
administrator to determine completeness and conformance with zoning standards.
The zoning administrator shall provide a written decision, citing standards and
code requirements, whether the permit is approved or denied, the reasons for
the decision, and any conditions of approval. Administrative decisions are
subject to the rights of appeal provided at section
8-3-5 of this title. (Ord. 201, 11-15-2013; amd. Ord. 227, 9-3-2019)
8-3-2 PERMIT APPLICATIONS:
An application for a permit governed by this title shall address the
information necessary to determine compliance with this title and other
applicable provisions of law. The city council shall review application forms
and administrative procedures, as may be developed to demonstrate applicant's
compliance with this title, and the applicable provisions of state and local
law. (Ord. 201, 11-15-2013)
8-3-3 FEES:
The city council establishes by resolution a schedule of fees, charges and
expenses for matters pertaining to the administration and enforcement of this
title, including, but not limited to, costs associated with investigations,
preparation of advisory reports, inspections, legal advertising, postage and
other such expenses. The schedule of fees will be made available in the office
of the city clerk, and may be altered or amended only by the city council.
Until all applicable fees, charges and expenses have been paid in full, no
application shall be deemed complete for processing pursuant to this title.
(Ord. 201, 11-15-2013)
8-3-4 PUBLIC HEARINGS:
Public hearings, as may be required by this title, or in accordance with the
provisions of Idaho Code, shall comply with all public hearing requirements and
procedures as adopted by resolution of the city council, and consistent with
state law. (Ord. 201, 11-15-2013)
8-3-5 APPEALS:
Appeals concerning administrative determinations, land use decisions and/or
interpretations of city ordinances, standards and policies by staff and/or
authorized agents of the city, shall be heard and decided by the city council.
Fees governing appeals must be paid and the specific legal basis for appeals
must be stated in writing before an appeal will be accepted for consideration.
Appeals must be filed within ninety (90) days of the administrative
determination, land use decision or staff interpretation being appealed.
Appeals will follow procedures established by the city council by resolution.
(Ord. 201, 11-15-2013)
8-3-6 VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Specified: It shall be deemed a violation of this title to:
      1.   Construct any building, structure, sign or site improvement for the
purpose of establishing any use contrary to the requirements of this title;
      2.   Violate any express prohibition or exceed any express limitation
contained in the text or exhibits of this title; or
      3.   Use any land, buildings or premises contrary to the provisions of
this title, the terms and conditions of a building, zoning or site plan permit,
or the terms and conditions of any permit as may be established by the city
council, or duly designated agents of the city. (Ord. 201, 11-15-2013)
   B.   Misdemeanor: Violations of any of the provisions of this title are
hereby declared to be a misdemeanor, and shall be subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 201, 11-15-2013; amd. 2017 Code)
   C.   Separate Offense; Violators: Each day a violation continues shall be
considered a separate offense. Any landowner, tenant, subdivider or builder who
commits, participates in, assists in or maintains such violation shall be
guilty of a violation. (Ord. 201, 11-15-2013)
8-3-7 ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Official Designated: The zoning administrator is authorized to enforce
the provisions of this title.
   B.   Complaints: Whenever a violation of this title occurs, or is alleged to
have occurred, any person or entity may file a complaint. Such complaint,
stating fully the causes and basis thereof, shall be filed with the city clerk.
   C.   Investigation; Final Determination. The city shall establish a record
of complaints or alleged violations of this title, and may investigate. The
city council shall make the final determination of action to be taken if the
landowner fails to abate the violation.
   D.   Compliance Required: No building, zoning, sign or business license or
permit shall be issued unless existing and intended structures, the parcel of
land, and the uses of the building and land, conform in all respects with the
provisions of this title and other city ordinances.
   E.   Provisions Not Limited: Nothing contained in this section shall prevent
the city or public official from filing a legal action or taking such lawful
action, at any time, to restrain or prevent any violation of this title.
   F.   Recovery of Costs: Violations of this title are subject to the
investigatory fees to recover costs incurred by the city in the processing,
enforcement, and abatement of violations.
   G.   Other Actions: In addition to any other actions authorized herein, the
city may file with the recorder's office a notice to title of a zoning or use
violation that has remained unresolved for forty-five (45) days or more after
the first notice of violation was sent by certified mail. After the violation
has been resolved, the landowner shall pay a fee as set forth in the city fee
schedule for processing the release of the notice to title. (Ord. 201, 11-15-
2013; amd. Ord. 227, 9-3-2019)
8-3-8 ABATEMENT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Civil Action: In lieu of a criminal action, the city may commence a
civil action or proceeding for any violation of this title. The city's legal
counsel may apply to such court or courts as may have jurisdiction to grant
relief as to abate, terminate and remove unlawful uses, buildings or
structures, and restrain and enjoin any person, firm or corporation from
setting up, erecting, building, maintaining or using any building, structure,
vehicle or property contrary to the provisions of this title, or to any permits
or authorizations issued pursuant to this title.
   B.   Civil Penalty: If the court finds by a preponderance of the evidence
that a violation of this title has occurred, the court may order a civil
penalty of the costs incurred by the city to abate or enjoin the activity. The
civil penalty shall be assessed against the property owner and shall be
included in the civil judgment entered against the property owner. (Ord. 201,
11-15-2013; amd. Ord. 227, 9-3-2019)
ARTICLE A. SPECIAL USE PERMITS
SECTION:
8-3A-1: Purpose
8-3A-2: Procedures
8-3A-3: Application Required
8-3A-4: Basis And Standards Of Decision
8-3A-5: Conditions, Requirements May Be Attached
8-3A-6: Written Decision Required
8-3A-7: Approval Duration
8-3A-8: Modifications To Conditions Of Approval
8-3A-9: Violation; Revocation Or Penalty
8-3A-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article is to establish standards and a framework of
procedures for consideration of requests for special use permits. Special uses
are not permitted by right in a particular zoning designation, but may be
authorized following a public hearing; provided, that they comply with the
standards established by this title. A special use permit is not transferable
from one parcel of land to another, nor shall it be considered as establishing
a binding precedent to grant other special use permits in similar locations or
circumstances. A special use permit may be issued subject to performance or
compliance with conditions as outlined in this title and as addressed by the
specific proposal or application. (Ord. 201, 11-15-2013)
8-3A-2: PROCEDURES:
Special use permit requests require a public hearing before the city council.
Notice shall comply with legal requirements established by Idaho Code. Once the
city has determined the application is complete, it shall provide affected
agencies an opportunity to comment on the proposal prior to the hearing. The
agencies shall have a set time not exceeding thirty (30) days to reply. (Ord.
201, 11-15-2013; amd. Ord. 227, 9-3-2019)
8-3A-3: APPLICATION REQUIRED:
A completed special use permit application shall be submitted to the zoning
administrator, and shall include, among other matters addressed by the
application form:
   A.   A description of the use proposed;
   B.   The manner of implementation of the proposed use, including information
about appearance;
   C.   Materials to be used and configuration;
   D.   How it would be compatible with infrastructure and land uses, present
and future;
   E.   Why the proposal would not be detrimental to the public interest; and
   F.   A description of potential impacts on adjacent uses, and how those
impacts are proposed to be mitigated. (Ord. 201, 11-15-2013)
8-3A-4: BASIS AND STANDARDS OF DECISION:
The city council shall conduct a public hearing to consider testimony and other
evidence and review the particular facts and circumstances of each proposed
special use. In considering a special use request, the city council may attach
appropriate conditions to mitigate impacts and to ensure conformance with the
intent of the comprehensive plan and applicable provisions of this title. An
application for a special use permit may be approved as presented,
conditionally approved or denied by the city council upon determining the
following:
   A.   Allowable Special Use: Whether the proposed use does/does not
constitute an allowable special use as established by this title within the
zoning district involved;
   B.   Conformance, Compatibility: Whether the proposed special use will/will
not conform to the purposes and express terms of the applicable zoning
designation in which it would be located; and, whether the special use, as
proposed or with conditions as may be incorporated, will/will not be compatible
and harmonious with present or future land uses in the vicinity of the project;
   C.   Protection Of Health And Safety: Whether the special use, as proposed,
or with conditions as may be incorporated, will/will not be adequately
protective of the health, safety and welfare of the public in general; and
   D.   Compliance With Standards: Whether the proposed special use will/will
not comply with the requirements of the zoning designation, parking
requirements and design standards as may be established for that use in
chapters 13 and 14 of this title, and all other applicable city ordinances,
standards and policies, or other applicable laws and regulations of the state.
(Ord. 201, 11-15-2013)
8-3A-5: CONDITIONS, REQUIREMENTS MAY BE ATTACHED:
When granting a special use permit, the city council may attach conditions and
requirements specific to the proposal, including, but not limited to:
   A.   Conflicts: Minimizing conflicts with present or future development.
   B.   Sequence, Timing: Controlling the sequence and timing of development.
   C.   Duration: Controlling the duration of development.
   D.   Maintenance: Assuring that development is maintained properly.
   E.   Location, Setbacks: Controlling the location and setbacks of
development.
   F.   Restrictive Standards: Requiring more restrictive standards than those
generally required in the zoning ordinance for uses permitted outright. Such
more restrictive standards may include, but not be limited to, additional
setbacks, requiring development within time limitations, height restrictions,
additional landscaping or screening, lighting restrictions, signage
restrictions, selection of building or hardscape materials, location of site
accesses, location of site features, prescribing site layout, circulation or
grading, restricting hours of operation or activity, design limitations,
circulation limits for vehicles or pedestrians, control of site drainage or
area wide drainage patterns, prescribing specific use limitations and such
other features of use or site development as may be needed to enhance
compatibility with use of surrounding lands and public facilities. (Ord. 201,
11-15-2013)
8-3A-6: WRITTEN DECISION REQUIRED:
Whenever granting or denying an application for a special use permit, the city
council shall render its decision in writing, which shall detail, at a minimum:
   A.   Statement Of Decision: A statement of the decision for approval,
approval with conditions or denial. If the decision is approval with
conditions, the statement shall further detail the conditions upon which the
approval is premised;
   B.   Statement Of Compliance, Noncompliance: A statement of the
application's compliance or noncompliance with approval standards and design
criteria as detailed in section 8-3A-4 of this article;
   C.   Statement Of Facts: A statement of the relevant facts relied upon in
making such determination of compliance or noncompliance; and
   D.   Rationale For Decision: The rationale for the decision based upon
compliance or noncompliance with applicable provisions of the comprehensive
plan, relevant ordinance and statutory provisions, and factual information
contained in the record. (Ord. 201, 11-15-2013)
8-3A-7: APPROVAL DURATION:
   A.   Permit Runs With Land; Nontransferable: Unless otherwise established by
the terms of the special use permit, upon construction, the permit for use
shall remain in effect and shall "run with the land" for the duration of that
use on that property, subject to the provisions of section 8-3A-8 of this
article. Said permit shall not be transferable from one parcel of land to
another.
   B.   Building Permit Validity; Extension: Unless otherwise established by
the terms of the special use permit, building permits for development of a
requested special use that have not been issued within six (6) months of the
date of granting of a special use permit, or if development of the approved
special use has not commenced with sustained effort to complete development
within twelve (12) months after granting approval of the special use permit,
the special use permit shall become null and void, unless the city council has
granted a permit extension. Such permit extension shall not exceed twelve (12)
months upon a showing of good cause by the applicant. An extension to the
permit may only be granted if a written request for extension is filed with the
city prior to the date of expiration, and if the city council finds, upon
review of the record, that an extension is warranted due to circumstances
outside control of the applicant. (Ord. 201, 11-15-2013)
8-3A-8: MODIFICATIONS TO CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL:
Requests for modifications to the conditions of approval shall require a new
public hearing, and shall be subject to the requirements and procedures
detailed in sections 8-3A-2 through 8-3A-7 of this article. (Ord. 201, 11-15-
2013)
8-3A-9: VIOLATION; REVOCATION OR PENALTY:
Any special use that operates in violation of the requirements or conditions
established for a special use permit, pursuant to this article, may be revoked
and the use restricted, suspended and/or be subject to penalties for violation
of this title. Enforcement of provisions or terms of special use permits issued
pursuant to provisions of this article may be subject to criminal penalty and/
or civil action seeking to obtain compliance. (Ord. 201, 11-15-2013)
ARTICLE B. VARIANCES
SECTION:
8-3B-1: Purpose
8-3B-2: Procedures
8-3B-3: Application
8-3B-4: Standards Of Decision
8-3B-5: Written Decision Required
8-3B-6: Expiration
8-3B-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article is to establish standards and a framework of
procedures for consideration of variance requests. A variance is a
discretionary exception to the requirements of this title concerning bulk and
placement standards, such as lot area, lot coverage, width, depth, setbacks,
parking location requirements, height, or any other ordinance provision
affecting the size of a structure or the placement of the structure upon the
property. Variances may be permitted when, due to unusual natural physical
characteristics of the site, a literal enforcement of the provisions of this
title would result in unnecessary hardship which would deny an owner all
reasonable use of the owner's land. An applicant for a variance bears the
responsibility for demonstrating an undue hardship because of unique physical
characteristics of the site not created by the property owner, and after
meeting that obligation must demonstrate that the implemented variance would
not harm the public interest. (Ord. 201, 11-15-2013)
8-3B-2: PROCEDURES:
Variance requests require a public hearing before the city council. Notice
shall comply with legal requirements established by Idaho Code. Once the city
has determined the application is complete, it shall provide affected agencies
an opportunity to comment on the proposal prior to the hearing. The agencies
shall have a set time not exceeding thirty (30) days to reply. (Ord. 201, 11-
15-2013; amd. Ord. 227, 9-3-2019)
8-3B-3: APPLICATION:
   A.   Form; Information Required: A complete application using an application
form supplied by the city shall include:
      1.   A site plan;
      2.   A written description of the variance requested;
      3.   Reasons why the variance is warranted, and any supporting documents;
and
      4.   Any other pertinent information as may be required by the zoning
administrator.
   B.   Public Hearing: The application will be scheduled for public hearing
whenever it can be accommodated by the schedule of the hearing body. (Ord. 201,
11-15-2013)
8-3B-4: STANDARDS OF DECISION:
In order to grant approval of a variance request, the city council must make
the following findings:
   A.   Applicant Deprived Of Reasonable Use: The strict application of the
provisions of this title would deprive the applicant of all reasonable use of
his land, as based upon unusual natural characteristics of the land not created
by the property owner, and that are not generally applicable to other lands in
the community;
   B.   Minimum Variance Necessary: The requested variance represents the
minimum necessary to allow the reasonable use of the property; and
   C.   No Adverse Affect: The variance, if granted, would not harm the public
interest by adversely affecting public safety, the environment or the
legitimate interests of neighboring property owners. (Ord. 201, 11-15-2013)
8-3B-5: WRITTEN DECISION REQUIRED:
When granting or denying an application, the city council shall specify in
writing the relevant facts considered in evaluating the application, the
reasons for approval or denial and the actions, if any, that the applicant
could take to obtain a permit. (Ord. 201, 11-15-2013; amd. 2017 Code)
8-3B-6: EXPIRATION:
The variance shall be valid for one year from the date of the written decision.
An extension not exceeding one year may be granted by the city council if a
written request showing good cause for the extension and required fees are
filed with the city prior to the expiration date. (Ord. 227, 9-3-2019)
ARTICLE C. AMENDMENTS
SECTION:
8-3C-1: Title And Map May Be Amended
8-3C-2: Procedures
8-3C-3: Application
8-3C-4: Action By City Council
8-3C-5: Written Decision Required
8-3C-1: TITLE AND MAP MAY BE AMENDED:
   A.   Boundaries: The city council may amend, by ordinance, the boundaries of
the zoning district classifications of lands in accordance with applicable
provisions of Idaho Code and this title. Amendments to the zoning map should
generally be in accordance with the future land use map and the text of the
city comprehensive plan.
   B.   Text: The city council may amend, by ordinance, the text of this title
in accordance with applicable provisions of this title, Idaho Code and the text
of the city comprehensive plan. Amendment of the text of this title is a
legislative act committed to the sound discretion of city council. (Ord. 201,
11-15-2013)
8-3C-2: PROCEDURES:
   A.   Public Hearing: Zoning amendment requests shall require a public
hearing before the city council, with public notice meeting the legal
requirements established in Idaho Code.
   B.   Material Changes Require Additional Hearing: Following the city council
hearing, if city council makes a material change from what was noticed for the
hearing, further notice and hearing shall be required.
   C.   Amendment By Ordinance: An amendment, if approved, shall be implemented
by the passage of an ordinance. (Ord. 201, 11-15-2013)
8-3C-3: APPLICATION:
A complete application using an application form supplied by the city shall be
included with each amendment request. The application shall include all
information required by the application forms, the information required by
state law and information otherwise required by this title or by the zoning
administrator, as may be necessary in support of the request. The application
will be scheduled for public hearing whenever it can be accommodated by the
schedule of the hearing body.
   A.   Text Amendment: In addition to information required by the application
form, an application to change the text of this title shall provide:
      1.   A description of the amendment requested;
      2.   A statement that describes the rationale for the request;
      3.   The proposed text of the amendment;
      4.   How it would better implement the comprehensive plan; and
      5.   The public purpose that would be achieved by amendment of this
title.
   B.   Zoning Map Amendment: In addition to information required by the
application form, an application to change zoning district boundaries shall
include:
      1.   Authorization by the owner of record, unless request is initiated by
the city;
      2.   A description of the amendment or zoning requested, along with a
statement that describes the rationale for the request;
      3.   How the amendment would be consistent with the comprehensive plan
and the future land use map; and
      4.   How the zone change will or will not be contrary to the interest of
the public. (Ord. 201, 11-15-2013)
8-3C-4: ACTION BY CITY COUNCIL:
   A.   Text Amendment:
      1.   The city council, after holding a public hearing on the proposed
amendment, and finding that a text amendment to be in accordance with the
comprehensive plan, may approve the proposed text amendment, revise the
proposed amendment and direct that a hearing on the revised amendment be
noticed, or deny the amendment.
      2.   If approved, such amendment shall be implemented with the passage of
an ordinance in accordance with procedures established in Idaho Code.
   B.   Zoning Map Amendment: The city council, after holding a public hearing
on the proposed amendment, may revise the proposed amendment and direct that a
hearing on the revised amendment be noticed, or they may approve or deny the
requested amendment, as based upon the following considerations:
      1.   Consistency of the proposed amendment with the comprehensive plan
and the future land use plan;
      2.   Compatibility of the proposed amendment with adjoining land uses,
both present and future; and
      3.   Adequacy of the public infrastructure to support the range of uses
allowed in the proposed zone. (Ord. 201, 11-15-2013)
8-3C-5: WRITTEN DECISION REQUIRED:
When granting or denying a requested amendment to the text of this title or the
zoning ordinance map, the city council shall specify the relevant facts
considered in evaluating the request, the reasons for approval or denial and
the actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain approval. The
applicant will be notified of the decision in writing. (Ord. 201, 11-15-2013;
amd. 2017 Code)
ARTICLE D. AREA OF CITY IMPACT
SECTION:
8-3D-1: Establishment And Purpose
8-3D-2: Consideration
8-3D-3: Geographic Area Of City Impact
8-3D-4: Comprehensive Plan
8-3D-5: Zoning And Subdivision Ordinances
8-3D-6: Review And Comment
8-3D-7: Administrative Jurisdiction
8-3D-1: ESTABLISHMENT AND PURPOSE:
Idaho Code section 67-6526 requires that cities and counties negotiate an area
of city impact. The purpose of establishing an area of city impact is to
identify a logical fringe area adjoining the city of Kootenai. The fringe area
includes the unincorporated area surrounding Kootenai that has a potential for
development that could affect the provision of public services or the quality
of life in the city. (Ord. 210, 8-24-2016)
8-3D-2: CONSIDERATION:
The following factors were considered by the city council in identifying the
area of city impact for Kootenai:
   A.   Trade areas;
   B.   Geographic factors;
   C.   Area that can reasonably be expected to be annexed to the city in the
future;
   D.   Areas where extension of city services is possible and reasonable;
   E.   Areas where growth is occurring or growth is anticipated to occur;
   F.   Areas in which to encourage or discourage particular types of growth
and development and for which the city may want some form of control over in
the future. (Ord. 210, 8-24-2016)
8-3D-3: GEOGRAPHIC AREA OF CITY IMPACT:
The officially adopted geographic area of city impact is as shown on the map
entitled "Area Of City Impact For Kootenai, Idaho". All parcels of land lying
all or in part within the area of city impact shall be subject to provisions of
this article. The map is available for review at the Kootenai City Hall during
regular business hours. (Ord. 210, 8-24-2016)
8-3D-4: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN:
The comprehensive plan and subsequent amendments thereof, as officially adopted
by Bonner County, Idaho, shall apply to the unincorporated portion of Bonner
County, Idaho, lying within the area of city impact. (Ord. 210, 8-24-2016)
8-3D-5: ZONING AND SUBDIVISION ORDINANCES:
The zoning and subdivision ordinances and subsequent amendments thereto, as
officially adopted by Bonner County, Idaho, shall apply to the unincorporated
portion of Bonner County, Idaho, lying within the area of city impact. (Ord.
210, 8-24-2016)
8-3D-6: REVIEW AND COMMENT:
Any request for development, zone change, conditional use permit, variance or
subdivision in the unincorporated portion of Bonner County, Idaho, lying within
the area of city impact, shall be referred to the city council of Kootenai,
Idaho, for review and comment. The city council shall have forty (40) days to
consider the request and submit a reply to the board of county commissioners,
Bonner County, Idaho. If no reply is received by the board of county
commissioners within the forty (40) day period, the city council forfeits its
right to comment on the request, and processing shall continue under the
board's administration. (Ord. 210, 8-24-2016)
8-3D-7: ADMINISTRATIVE JURISDICTION:
The administration of plans and ordinances that apply to the area of city
impact shall be the duty of the governing body which adopted the plans or
ordinances originally. (Ord. 210, 8-24-2016)
CHAPTER 4
SITE PLAN REVIEW
SECTION:
8-4-1: Purpose
8-4-2: Applicability
8-4-3: Exceptions
8-4-4: Application Requirements
8-4-5: Required Site Improvements
8-4-6: Standards For Site Plan Approval
8-4-7: Construction Of Site Improvements
8-4-8: Appeals
8-4-1 PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to establish the applicability, requirements,
procedures and standards of approval for site plan review, to ensure that all
new building projects and expansions are in compliance with zoning
requirements, and other city ordinances, standards and policies, as well as
state and federal laws and regulations, as may be applicable. (Ord. 201, 11-15-
2013)
8-4-2 APPLICABILITY:
   A.   Specified: A site plan shall be required for:
      1.   New Construction, Expansions: All new construction or expansions of
commercial and industrial buildings and structures;
      2.   Additional Parking Requirements: All commercial/industrial changes
of use which result in the requirement for provision of additional paved
parking spaces;
      3.   Institutional Construction, Expansion: All new institutional
construction or expansions, including, but not limited to, schools,
governmental buildings, nursing homes, hospitals, churches, community assembly
halls and other similar facilities;
      4.   Multi-Family Structures: All new construction or expansion of
apartment buildings, townhouses, condominiums or other multi-family structures
of more than two (2) dwelling units;
      5.   Residential Care Facilities: All new construction or expansions of
assisted living facilities, shelter homes, group homes or other types of
residential care facilities;
      6.   Parking Areas, Display Lots: All new installations, reconstructions
and expansions of existing parking areas, display lots and similar paved
surface areas;
      7.   Parks: All public and private parks, except for parks constructed by
the city; and
      8.   Energy Systems: All small wind energy systems and all distributed
wind energy systems.
   B.   Review By City Engineer: All site plans shall be reviewed by the city
engineer, and all activities as detailed in subsection A of this section shall
be required to have the engineer's approval for the proposed site plan prior to
the issuance of applicable building permits and commencement of construction.
(Ord. 201, 11-15-2013)
8-4-3 EXCEPTIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the following:
   A.   Routine maintenance of existing structures that does not entail a
change of use or an expansion in building footprint or usable floor space.
   B.   Routine maintenance of existing parking lots, including, but not
limited to, chip sealing and restriping. (Ord. 201, 11-15-2013)
8-4-4 APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Fees: All site plan applications shall include applicable fees, as
established by the city council.
   B.   Information: All site plan applications shall include the following
information in a format which meets standards and policies set forth by the
city:
      1.   Record Of Survey: Record of survey or plat showing property pins,
lot dimensions and scale;
      2.   Easements: Location, purpose and beneficiary of all existing or
proposed easements;
      3.   Footprint Dimensions: Building footprint dimensions and location in
relation to parcel boundaries and property pins; proposed uses; floor
elevations; and building height in relation to the proposed finish grade at the
front of the building;
      4.   Existing Buildings, Improvements: Dimensions and locations of
existing buildings and site improvements, both on site and adjacent to the
site. Indicate all structures and improvements planned for demolition;
      5.   Parking, Circulation: Parking and circulation, including:
         a.   The number and type of spaces, and their dimensions;
         b.   The circulation plan, including the dimension of driveways,
aisleways, pedestrian walkways, queuing areas and internal traffic control
improvements;
         c.   The location and dimensions of off street loading areas;
         d.   Pavement plans, including dimensions, proposed finish grade and
paving materials; and areas of site not to be paved, or those that will be
paved in a future phase; and
         e.   Ingress/egress details, including location, dimensions, turning
radius and traffic control improvements;
      6.   Landscaping: Landscaping plan, including:
         a.   The location and type of existing and proposed trees, bushes,
shrubs and other such plantings;
         b.   The location and type of proposed ground coverings;
         c.   Irrigation system improvements; and
         d.   Hardscape improvements, including, but not limited to:
            (1)   Patios;
            (2)   Walkways;
            (3)   Planters;
            (4)   Benches;
            (5)   Water features;
            (6)   Public art displays; or
            (7)   Other such "fixtures";
      7.   Site Improvements: Other existing and proposed site improvements,
including, but not limited to, fencing, location of refuse and recycling
receptacles, outside storage plans and lighting plans and specifications;
      8.   Utilities: Utility plan, including:
         a.   The location of existing and proposed new sewer and water service
lines and connections, including locations for domestic water and irrigation
meters;
         b.   The location of existing and proposed dry utilities service lines
and connections; and
         c.   The location of all existing and proposed utility easements;
      9.   Signage: Sign plan, including:
         a.   The location of all existing and proposed signs; and
         b.   The proposed dimensions, materials and construction details for
all signage proposed;
      10.   Grading: Grading plan, showing:
         a.   Existing elevations in one foot (1') contours and/or spot
elevations throughout the site and along the boundary lines to establish
existing grading and drainage patterns;
         b.   Cut and fill limits for roadways, parking lots, buildings and all
other proposed improvements;
         c.   Grade break, drainage channels and other stormwater conveyance
channels, showing construction quality elevations and dimensions;
         d.   All existing and proposed structures with finished floor
elevation stated;
         e.   Point elevation details on all surfaces for all grade breaks,
angle points, curve points and tie-in points to existing surfaces;
         f.   Location, elevation, width and configuration of any benches,
terraces, retaining walls or other slope treatments;
         g.   The location and dimensions of all retaining structures, with
structural engineering details for all retaining structures over four feet (4')
in height;
      11.   Stormwater: Stormwater management plan, including treatment
standards, hydraulic calculations, impervious area, culverts and discharge
locations. Stormwater management shall be in accordance with the stormwater
management regulations as specified in title 7, chapter 2 of this code;
      12.   ADA Standards: Compliance with ADA accessibility standards and
requirements of local, state and federal code with regard to accessibility.
   C.   Preparation Of Plans, Signatures: All required plans, as detailed in
subsection B of this section, shall be signed, stamped and dated by an Idaho
licensed architect, engineer and/or landscape architect, as appropriate.
   D.   Mitigation Of Negative Impacts: For projects which may result in
potential negative impacts from the proposed development, additional studies to
evaluate the impacts and identify potential mitigation measures may be required
as part of the site plan review process. Such studies may include, but not be
limited to, the following studies:
      1.   Transportation Impact Analysis: Additional transportation impact
analysis shall be required for all development anticipated to generate fifty
(50) or more directional trips during P.M. peak hour, or a total additional
volume of three hundred seventy five (375) vehicle trips or more per average
weekday, as based upon the Institute Of Transportation Engineers "Trip
Generation" manual.
         a.   An initial TIA, prepared by a licensed professional engineer
specializing in transportation planning and analysis, will be required of all
projects meeting or exceeding the above listed threshold. Said analysis will
evaluate the proposed development's impact on the local and regional
transportation system, and the adequacy of the current transportation system to
support the additional impacts resulting from the proposed development.
         b.   For those projects identified through the TIA to result in
threshold negative transportation system impacts, a mitigation analysis shall
also be required. Said mitigation study will identify potential mitigation
improvements to address the identified transportation system failures, and will
evaluate the effectiveness of the proposed mitigation, and the impacts of the
proposed mitigations on the transportation system as a whole. Estimated costs
associated with mitigation options will also be evaluated. For the purpose of
this subsection, "threshold negative transportation system impacts" shall be
defined as:
            (1)   Projected volume to capacity ratios in excess of eighty
percent (80%) during P.M. peak hour within five (5) years of build out of the
proposed construction;
            (2)   Projected intersection level of service ratings below "D"
during P.M. peak periods within five (5) years of build out of the proposed
construction; or
            (3)   Projected system operations meeting warrants for system
improvements (including, but not limited to, intersection controls, turn bays,
acceleration or deceleration lanes, etc.) as may be identified by the city
engineer, with the concurrence of city council.
         c.   The applicant shall be responsible for all costs associated with
TIAs and mitigation studies, as may be required.
      2.   Infrastructure, Feasibility: Additional infrastructure plans and
feasibility analyses may be required for submittal, in the following
circumstances:
         a.   The development, as proposed, requires construction of new sewer
collection infrastructure to serve the subject property;
         b.   The development, as proposed, requires construction of an interim
means of provision of sewer, including, but not limited to, construction of a
temporary lift station and/or rerouting of sewer flows to an alternate sewer
basin, or through an alternate collection line;
         c.   The development, as proposed, results in the need for relocation,
reconstruction and/or expansion of existing sewer and/or water infrastructure;
         d.   Other circumstances exist that warrant additional analysis, as
requested in writing by the applicable sewer or water purveyor; and/or
         e.   Other circumstances exist that warrant additional analysis, in
the professional opinion of the city engineer, with the concurrence of city
council.
      3.   Geotechnical, Environmental Studies: Upon recommendation by the city
engineer, the city council may require that additional geotechnical and/or
environmental studies, as appropriate, be completed by the applicant for
submittal as part of the site plan review process, in circumstances where:
         a.   The proposed use involves activities, processes, materials,
equipment and/or conditions of operation that may result in potentially
negative impacts, including, but not limited to, excessive production of noise,
smoke, fumes, odors, hazardous materials, emissions or discharges;
         b.   Construction activities and/or processes will require blasting,
or construction activities and processes may result in potentially negative
impacts, including, but not limited to, excessive production of noise, smoke,
fumes, odors, hazardous materials, emissions or discharges during construction;
         c.   The proposed development is located in an area where sensitive or
hazardous conditions are present (this may include, but is not limited to,
certain soil conditions, shallow bedrock, seasonal high water table, wetlands,
surface water bodies or slopes in excess of 15 percent), where said conditions
create the need for special precautions during site construction; or
         d.   The site contains a documented and unremediated environmental
hazard, including, but not limited to, underground storage tanks, illegal dump
sites, contaminated soils, or other such "brownfield" conditions as may be
documented. (Ord. 201, 11-15-2013)
8-4-5 REQUIRED SITE IMPROVEMENTS:
The following site improvements shall be required for all activities for which
a site plan is required, as detailed in subsection
8-4-2A of this chapter, excepting expansions of existing structures by four
hundred (400) square feet or less, where no changes in approach or additional
parking will be required:
   A.   Specified: Site improvements consistent with city ordinances, standards
and policy, including:
      1.   Paved driveway approaches and culverts;
      2.   On site stormwater management facilities designed and constructed in
accordance with best management practices as approved by the city engineer;
      3.   Screening and landscaping in accordance with city design standards,
as detailed in chapter 14 of this title, and irrigation systems in support
thereof;
      4.   Lighting, in accordance with city design standards, as detailed in
chapter 14 of this title;
      5.   Paved driving, maneuvering and parking areas;
      6.   Paved fire lanes, aisleways and turnarounds, meeting the
requirements of the international fire code;
      7.   Fire hydrants, as may be required by the Northside fire department
or the applicable water purveyor;
      8.   Paved and screened storage areas and/or display lots, if applicable;
and
      9.   Screened refuse disposal and recycling areas.
   B.   Paving, Curbs, Swales, Sidewalks, Street Trees: Paving, curbs, swales,
sidewalks and street trees shall be required site improvements along all
frontage streets where said infrastructure is not currently present, as part of
any multi-family, commercial, industrial or institutional development, with
said requirement to be incorporated as a condition of building permit.
      1.   Stormwater treatment and discharge systems, designed and constructed
in accordance with best management practices as approved by the city engineer,
along all street frontages, between the sidewalk and the curb, or within the
roadway drainage and utility easement, as may be approved by city council on
the recommendation of the city engineer;
      2.   In areas where the final, finish grade and/or street section cannot
be established, the obligation to construct said improvements may be waived, in
whole or in part, by the city council;
      3.   In areas where public improvements are required outside of existing
right of way, the developer shall grant public access, drainage and utility
easements to the city and the applicable utility purveyors, which shall extend
from the boundary of the existing right of way to the extent of required public
improvements and utilities.
   C.   Mitigation: Mitigation measures, as may be required for a proposed
development to meet the standards of approval for a site plan, may be required
as conditions of site plan approval.
   D.   Improvement Agreement: The developer shall enter into a commercial
construction improvement agreement with the city for the construction of
required public improvements that are not part of a subdivision development
agreement and construction improvement agreement. (Ord. 201, 11-15-2013)
8-4-6 STANDARDS FOR SITE PLAN APPROVAL:
   A.   Specified: In order for a site plan to be approved, the development
proposal must meet the following standards:
      1.   The proposed use is allowable as based upon the current zone
designation of the subject property;
      2.   The proposed development meets all city design standards, including,
but not limited to, stormwater management, landscaping, parking and
circulation, lighting, building layout and design, and other established city
standards as may be applicable to the proposed development;
      3.   Utilities and infrastructure are sufficient to support the
development and the uses proposed, or the developer will construct necessary
infrastructure improvements to support the development as part of the proposed
construction, and has entered into a commercial construction improvement
agreement with the city; and
      4.   The transportation system is adequate to support the additional
traffic loading created by the proposed development, or the developer will
construct transportation system improvements necessary to maintain the city's
minimum level of service as required with off site improvements.
   B.   Denial; Basis Specified: Should a site plan be denied based upon the
plan's failure to meet the above listed standards for approval, the city
engineer shall provide the applicant a written decision detailing the basis for
such denial and identifying what (if anything) may be done to make the
application approvable. (Ord. 201, 11-15-2013)
8-4-7 CONSTRUCTION OF SITE IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Required: Construction of improvements, as depicted on the approved
site plan, shall be required as a condition of the building permit.
   B.   Certificate Of Occupancy: No certificate of occupancy shall be issued
until the city engineer has inspected and provided a written approval of all
required site improvements, certifying that said improvements have been
constructed in conformance with the approved plans.
   C.   Temporary Certificate Of Occupancy: In the event that required
landscaping must be postponed for causes beyond the control of the developer,
upon recommendation by the building official and city engineer, the city
council may authorize the issuance of a temporary certificate of occupancy,
with provision of surety in the amount of one hundred fifty percent (150%) of
cost estimates for the required installation; however, in no event shall a
final certificate of occupancy be issued until all required improvements have
been constructed in accordance with the approved site plan. (Ord. 201, 11-15-
2013)
8-4-8 APPEALS:
Appeals regarding the administration of this chapter shall be heard by the city
council, in accordance with the provisions of section
8-3-5 of this title. (Ord. 201, 11-15-2013)
CHAPTER 5
ZONING DISTRICTS AND MAP
SECTION:
8-5-1: Zoning Districts Designated
8-5-2: Official Zoning District Map
8-5-3: Replacement Of Official Zoning District Map
8-5-4: Rules For Interpretation Of Zone Boundaries
8-5-5: Application Of Zone Regulations
8-5-6: New And Unlisted Uses; Procedure For Determination
8-5-1 ZONING DISTRICTS DESIGNATED:
For the purpose of this title, the city shall be and is hereby divided into
zoning districts and zoning overlay districts as follows:
Agriculture (AG) zone
Recreational (REC) zone
Rural (RU) zone
Rural-suburban transition (R-S) zone
Single-family residential (R-1) zone
Multi-family residential (M-F) zone
Neighborhood-office overlay (N-O) district
Commercial (C) zone
Commercial-light industrial (C-LI) zone
Industrial (IND) zone
Downtown commercial (DT) district
(Ord. 201, 11-15-2013; amd. 2017 Code)
8-5-2 OFFICIAL ZONING DISTRICT MAP:
   A.   Scope: Zoning classification and zoning districts are hereby
established for all real property lying within the city, and all real property
is hereby zoned or rezoned in accordance with and pursuant to the official
zoning map and the legal descriptions hereinafter referenced.
   B.   Map Adopted:
      1.   The official zoning map depicting the zoning classifications for the
real property located within the city is hereby adopted and made a part of this
title by reference.
      2.   Said map shall be the official zoning map of the city and shall
hereby zone, rezone and/or reestablish zoning classification and the boundaries
surrounding each zoning district for all real property lying within the city on
the effective date hereof.
   C.   Applicability Of Map: Upon adoption hereof, said map shall:
      1.   Be referred to as the official zoning map of the city, unless and
until further amended or modified by appropriate legal ordinance; and
      2.   Shall constitute the legal evidence of the existing zoning
classification of any and all parcels of real property located within the city.
   D.   Amendments: If, in accordance with the provisions of this title,
changes are made in zone boundaries or other information portrayed on the
official zoning district map, such changes shall be entered on the official
zoning district map promptly after the amendment has been approved by the city
council.
   E.   Unauthorized Changes: No changes of any nature shall be made in the
official zoning district map or information shown thereon except in conformity
with the procedures set forth in this title. Any unauthorized changes of
whatever kind by any person or persons shall be considered a violation of this
title.
   F.   Location Of Official Map: Regardless of the existence of purported
copies of the official zoning district map, which may from time to time be made
or published, the official zoning district map, which shall be located in the
office of the city clerk, shall be the final authority as to the current zoning
status of land and water area, buildings and other structures in the city.
(Ord. 201, 11-15-2013)
8-5-3 REPLACEMENT OF OFFICIAL ZONING DISTRICT MAP:
   A.   Permitted: In the event that the official zoning district map becomes
damaged, destroyed, lost or difficult to interpret because of the nature or
number of changes and additions, the city council may adopt by resolution a new
official zoning district map, which shall supersede the prior official zoning
district map. The new official zoning district map may correct drafting or
other errors or omissions in the prior official zoning district map, but no
such corrections shall have the effect of amending the original official zoning
district map or any subsequent amendment thereof. The map shall contain the
following statement: "This is to verify that this Official Zoning District Map
supersedes and replaces the Official Zoning District Map adopted (date of
adoption of map being replaced)", with said certification signed by the mayor.
   B.   Preservation: Unless the prior official zoning district map has been
lost, or has been totally destroyed, the prior map or any significant parts
thereof remaining, shall be preserved, together with all available records
pertaining to its adoption or amendment. (Ord. 201, 11-15-2013)
8-5-4 RULES FOR INTERPRETATION OF ZONE BOUNDARIES:
When uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of a zone as shown on the official
zoning district map, the following rules shall apply:
   A.   Centerline Of Streets, Highways Or Alleys: Boundaries indicated as
approximately following the centerline of streets, highways or alleys shall be
construed to follow such centerlines;
   B.   Platted Lot Lines: Boundaries indicated as approximately following
platted lot lines shall be construed as following such lot lines;
   C.   City Limits: Boundaries indicated as approximately following city
limits shall be construed as following such city limits;
   D.   Railroad Lines: Boundaries indicated as following railroad lines shall
be construed to be midway between the main tracks;
   E.   Shorelines; Bodies Of Water: Boundaries indicated as following
shorelines shall be construed to follow such shorelines and legally established
meander lines, which may be referenced as ordinary high water marks (OHWM). In
the event of change in the shoreline, it shall be construed as moving with the
actual shoreline. Boundaries indicated as approximately following centerlines
of streams, rivers, canals, lakes or other bodies of water shall be construed
to follow such centerlines;
   F.   Section, Township Lines: Boundaries indicated as following section or
township lines shall be construed as following such section or township lines;
   G.   Parallel To Extensions Of Features: Boundaries indicated as parallel to
extensions of features indicated in subsections A through F of this section,
shall be so construed. Distances not specifically indicated on the official
zoning district map shall be determined by the scale of the map;
   H.   Conflicts: When physical or cultural features existing on the ground
are in conflict with those shown on the official zoning district map, or in the
other circumstances not covered in subsections A through G of this section, the
city council shall interpret the district or zone boundaries;
   I.   Special Exceptions For Adjustments: Where a zone boundary line divides
a lot which was in single ownership at the time of passage hereof, the city
council may permit, as a special exception the adjustment of zoning boundaries
for either portion of the lot by a distance not to exceed fifty feet (50')
beyond the district or zone into the remaining portion of the lot. Zone
boundary adjustments as determined above shall be administratively adjusted, at
the time of approval of the proposed adjustment, with said adjustments
reflected on subsequent periodic updates to the city's official zoning map.
(Ord. 201, 11-15-2013)
8-5-5 APPLICATION OF ZONE REGULATIONS:
The following regulations set by this section within each zone shall be minimum
regulations and shall apply uniformly to each class or kind of structure or
land use:
   A.   Conformance: No building, structure or land shall hereafter be used or
occupied, and no building or structure or part thereof shall hereafter be
erected, constructed, reconstructed, moved or structurally altered, except in
conformity with all of the regulations herein specified for the zone in which
it is located.
   B.   Divided Lots: Where a zone boundary line divides a lot, no building,
structure or land shall be hereafter occupied, and no building or structure or
part thereof shall hereafter be erected, constructed or reconstructed except in
conformity with the uses allowed in both zones, with the more restrictive
standards of the two (2) zones applying with respect to lot sizes, building
heights, setback requirements and other such standards and regulations as may
be associated with the applicable zones.
   C.   Prohibitions: No building or other structure shall hereafter be erected
or altered:
      1.   To exceed the height regulations;
      2.   To accommodate or house a greater number of families than is
permitted on a lot within the underlying zone;
      3.   To occupy a greater percentage of lot area; or
      4.   To have narrower or smaller rear yards, front yards, side yards or
other open space than herein required, or in any other manner contrary to the
provisions of this title.
   D.   Requirements Used For Other Buildings Prohibited: No part of a yard, or
other open space, or off street parking or loading space required about or in
connection with any building for the purpose of complying with this title,
shall be included as part of a yard, open space or off street parking or
loading space similarly required for any other building, unless provided for
herein.
   E.   Reduced Dimensions Or Area: No yard or lot existing at the time of the
passage hereof shall be reduced in dimension or area below the minimum
requirements set forth herein. Yards or lots created after the effective date
hereof shall meet at least the minimum requirements. (Ord. 201, 11-15-2013)
8-5-6 NEW AND UNLISTED USES; PROCEDURE FOR DETERMINATION:
It is recognized that new types of land use will develop and forms of land use
not anticipated may seek to locate in the city. In order to provide for such
changes and contingencies, a determination as to the appropriate classification
of any new or unlisted form of land use shall be made as follows:
   A.   Statement Of Facts: The question concerning any new or unlisted use
shall be accompanied by a statement of facts listing the nature of the use,
including, but not limited to, whether it involves dwelling activity, sales,
processing, type of project, storage, enclosed or open storage, anticipated
employment and the amount of noise, odor, fumes, dust, toxic materials and
vibration likely to be generated;
   B.   Consideration By City Council: The city council shall consider the
nature and describe the performance of the proposed use and its compatibility
with the uses permitted in the various districts, and determine the type of
zone within which such use should be permitted. (Ord. 201, 11-15-2013)
ARTICLE A. ZONING DISTRICT USES INDEX
SECTION:
8-5A-1: Purpose
8-5A-2: Residential Use Table
8-5A-3: Commercial And Industrial Use Table
8-5A-4: Public/Other
8-5A-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article is to provide a compilation of permitted uses and
special uses allowed in the various zoning districts. The following tables are
sorted by types of uses and are to be used as a general reference to uses in
the zoning districts. The specific standards and restrictions for the uses are
contained in each zoning district and the design standards of chapter 14 of
this title. Should any conflict arise between this index and the zoning
district standards, the specific standards of the zoning district and design
standards shall prevail. (Ord. 227, 9-3-2019)
8-5A-2: RESIDENTIAL USE TABLE:
P= Authorized; S= Specially Permitted; [vacant] = Prohibited use.
Use AG REC RU R-S R-1 M-F N-O C C-LI IND DT
Use                                     AG REC RU R-S R-1 M-F N-O C C-LI IND DT
Accessory living unit1                  S  S   S  S   P   P   P
                                                      S   S   S
Apartment complex, of two or more                         S       S
multi-family buildings
Childcare, in home                      P  P   P  P   P   P   P
Home occupations                        P      S  P   P   P   P
Single-family dwelling w/ accessory     P  P   P  P   P   P   P
structures
Two-family dwelling unit w/ accessory   P      P  P   P   P   P
structures
Three-family dwelling unit w/ accessory                   P
structures
Four-family dwelling unit w/ accessory                    P       S
structures
Multi-family dwelling unit w/ 5 or more                   S
units
Residential unit in upper floors and/or                           S S    S   P
rear of principal structure
Notes:
1.   Use is permitted as listed in table only under specific standards of the
zoning district and chapter 8-14. See separate zoning districts and section 8-
14-3-1 of this title for specific standards and permitting.
 
(Ord. 227, 9-3-2019; amd. Ord. 236, 6-6-2023)
8-5A-3: COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL USE TABLE:
Use AG REC RU R-S R-1 M-F N-O C C-LI IND DT
Use                                     AG REC RU R-S R-1 M-F N-O C C-LI IND DT
Adult daycare                           S  S   S  S   S   S   S   S S
Agricultural production, farming or     P      P
ranches, as defined by this title
Animal clinics and veterinary hospitals S      S
Animal clinics and veterinary hospitals
(excluding large animal clinics/                                  S P
hospitals and crematoriums)
Animal clinics and veterinary hospitals
(including large animals) with                                      S    P
crematoriums
Art galleries, artist studios and
photographic studios, not meeting the                         S
definition/standards of a home
occupation
Assembly halls, community               S  S   S  S               P P        P
Automobile, truck, recreational vehicle
and heavy equipment sales, service and/                             P    P
or rental
Bakeries, coffee shops, sandwich shops/                       S
delis, and other low-impact uses
Barns, stables, riding arenas,
structures accessory to agricultural    P      P
operations
Bed and breakfast                                             S
Bed and breakfast, inns and hotels                                           S
Boarding kennels and animal training    S      S                    P
schools
Business service operations                                       P P        P
Call centers                                                      S S
Childcare centers, licensed             S  S   S  S   S   S   S   P P
Churches                                S  S   S  S   S           P P
Eating or drinking establishment                                  P P
Eating or drinking establishment                                             P
(without drive-through)
Resorts, commercial and private            S
resorts, limited accessory commercial
Communication transmission facilities,
communication towers, other                                       S S    S
communication and wireless transmission
facilities
Distribution centers                                                S    S
Drive-through facilities serving any
permitted or special use allowed in                                          S
this chapter
Equipment and small engine repair                                   P    P
Event facilities, including stadiums,
auditoriums, exhibition halls and                                 S S
convention centers
Food processing operations, excluding                                    S
slaughterhouses and rendering plants
Financial institutions and banks                                  P P
Financial institutions and banks                                             P
(without drive-through)
Fuel sales                                                        P P    P
Funeral homes with crematoriums                                     S
Funeral homes without crematoriums                                S P
Hospitals, skilled care facilities,
residential institutions and                                      S S
residential care facilities over 30,000
sq. ft.
Hospitals, skilled care facilities,
residential institutions and                                      P P
residential care facilities of more
than 16 beds, and under 30,000 sq. ft.
Hotels and motels                                                 S S
Light manufacturing, meeting the
definition of "assemblage", as defined                            P P        S
in section
8-2-2  of this title
Manufacturing, processing, fabrication
and assembly operations, excluding food                                  P
processing, slaughterhouses and
rendering plants
Medical and dental clinics and services                           P P        P
under 15,000 sq. ft.
Medical and dental clinics and services                           S S        S
over 15,000 sq. ft.
Ministorage and self-storage warehouse                            P P    P
facilities
Museums                                                                      S
Offices and multi-tenanted office                                 P P        P
buildings
Outdoor theaters, recreational and                                S S        S
entertainment facilities
Parking, public and private lots and                                         P
structures (as an accessory use)
Parking, public and private lots and                                         S
structures (as a principal use)
Parking, public and private lots and
structures (as principal or accessory                             P P
use)
Parks, private                          S  S   S  S   S   S   S              P
Personal services, such as barber
shops, beauty salons, massage therapy,
nail salons, personal trainers and/or                         S
tanning salons, not meeting the
definition/standards of a home
occupation
Personal service establishments                                   P P        P
Preschools                                                        P P
Professional offices, not meeting the                         S
standards of home occupation
Indoor commercial recreational and/or                             P P        P
entertainment facilities
Residential care facilities, including
group homes and assisted living                           S
facilities, 9 to 16 beds
Residential care facilities, including
group homes and assisted living                               S
facilities, with over 8 beds, but not
more than 16 beds
Retail and wholesale sales and services
under 15,000 sq. ft., excluding                                              P
distribution centers
Retail and wholesale sales and services
over 15,000 sq. ft. and less than                                            S
30,000 sq. ft., excluding distribution
centers
Retail and wholesale sales and services
under 30,000 sq. ft., excluding                                   P P
distribution centers
Retail and wholesale sales and services
over 30,000 sq. ft. and under 100,000                             S S
sq. ft.
Retail and wholesale sales and service                                   P
operations
Roadside stand of not more than 300 sq.
ft. used for the sale of agricultural   S      S
products produced on site that does not
meet setback requirements
Roadside stands of not more than 300
sq. ft., meeting setback requirements,  P      P
and used for the sale of agricultural
products produced on site
Schools, public and private             S      S  S   S       S   S S    S   S
Small accessory commercial activities
and operations (including drive-through                           S S        S
food and beverage stands) of less than
750 sq. ft., as an accessory use
Small wind energy systems as an            S
accessory use
Solid waste transfer station, recycling                                  S
facility or material recovery facility
Storage, accessory to a permitted                                 P P    P   S
principal use
Swap meets, flea markets and farmers'                             S S        S
markets
Temporary building for construction
office purposes for a period not to     P  P   P  P   P   P   P   P P    P   P
exceed 9 months, or the duration of the
construction project, whichever is less
Vehicle repair services and quick                                   P    P
vehicle servicing uses
Warehousing and storage                                             S    S
Wholesale sales and shipping operations                             S
 
(Ord. 227, 9-3-2019)
8-5A-4: PUBLIC/OTHER:
P= Authorized; S= Specially Permitted; [vacant] = Prohibited use.
Use AG REC RU R-S R-1 M-F N-O C C-LI IND DT
Use                                     AG REC RU R-S R-1 M-F N-O C C-LI IND DT
Above-ground public utility facilities  S  S   S  S   S   S   S   S S    P
and infrastructure
Community facilities, including fire                                P
stations, public utility installations
Parks, public                           P  P   P  P   P   P   P   P P        P
Public building                         S  S   S  S   S   S
Public facilities, other than offices                             S          S
Public offices                                                    P          P
Public buildings and facilities                                     P
Public buildings and facilities
including fire stations, public utility                                  P
installations, etc.
Wind energy system, distributed         S      S                         S
Wind energy systems, multiple small as                            S S    S
an accessory use
Wind energy system, one small as an     P  S   P  P               P P    P   S
accessory use
 
(Ord. 227, 9-3-2019)
CHAPTER 6
AGRICULTURE (AG) ZONE
SECTION:
8-6-1: Purpose
8-6-2: Site Regulations
8-6-3: Building Regulations
8-6-4: Use Regulations
8-6-1 PURPOSE:
The purpose of this zone is to provide a zoning designation that allows for the
preservation of small ranches, agricultural/forestry uses and rural residential
uses with minimum lot sizes of ten (10) acres. (Ord. 201, 11-15-2013)
8-6-2 SITE REGULATIONS:
The following site requirements shall apply in the Agriculture Zone:
   A.   Site Area: The minimum lot size shall be ten (10) acres.
   B.   Street Frontage: The minimum street frontage on a public street shall
be seventy five feet (75').
   C.   Nonconforming Lots Of Record: Lots of record as of the effective date
hereof that do not meet the minimum site area and/or street frontage
requirements are subject to the standards of section
8-16-2 of this title. Any special use permit applications shall demonstrate
compliance with zoning district, parking, and design and other applicable
standards of this title. (Ord. 201, 11-15-2013; amd. Ord. 227, 9-3-2019)
8-6-3 BUILDING REGULATIONS:
No new building shall be constructed in the Agriculture Zone, except in
conformance with the following requirements:
   A.   Building Height Limits: The maximum height of buildings in the
Agriculture Zone shall not exceed thirty five feet (35') or two (2) stories,
whichever is less, except that:
      1.   Tool/storage sheds, garages and shop buildings accessory to a
residential use shall not exceed twenty feet (20') in height.
      2.   Other nondwelling structures may exceed this height by special use
permit.
   B.   Building Setback Requirements:
 
                               Detached Accessory Buildings
                Setback (Feet) <200 Square Feet
                               (Feet)
Front yard      25             25
Rear yard       25             5
Side yard       10             5
Flanking street 15             15
 
   C.   Building Coverage: Building coverage shall not exceed forty percent
(40%). (Ord. 201, 11-15-2013)
8-6-4 USE REGULATIONS:
   A.   Permitted Uses:
      1.   On existing lots of record of less than ten (10) acres and/or with
street frontage of less than seventy five feet (75'), uses are limited to those
in existence prior to the effective date hereof.
      2.   On lots of ten (10) acres or more, with a minimum street frontage of
seventy five feet (75'), the following uses are permitted:
Agricultural production, farming or ranches, as defined by this title.
Barns, stables, riding arenas (public or private) and structures accessory to
agricultural operations and/or other expressly permitted principal uses located
on the subject property.
Home occupations, meeting the design standards detailed in chapter 14 of this
title.
In home childcare, subject to the standards of subsection 8-14-3-1E of this
title.
One single-family dwelling or one (1) two-family dwelling, with the usual
accessory structures to include toolsheds, private garages and/or shop
buildings of less than two thousand five hundred (2,500) square feet.
One small wind energy system, meeting the design standards detailed in chapter
14 of this title, as an accessory use.
Public parks.
Roadside stands of not more than three hundred (300) square feet, meeting
setback requirements, and used for the sale of agricultural products produced
on site,
Temporary building for construction office purposes for a period not to exceed
nine (9) months, or the duration of the construction project, whichever is
less.
   B.   Special Uses: The following uses may be allowed in the zoning district
by special use permit, provided the application meets the standards of approval
for a special use permit as detailed in chapter 3, article A of this title, and
design standards as detailed in chapter 14 of this title:
Aboveground public utility facilities and infrastructure.
Adult daycare.
Animal clinics and veterinary hospitals.
Boarding kennels and animal training schools.
Childcare centers subject to standards detailed in chapter 14 of this title.
Churches.
Community assembly halls.
Distributed wind energy system.
In addition to one single-family dwelling, one attached or detached accessory
living unit, meeting the design standards detailed in chapter 14 of this title.
Private parks.
   Public and private schools.
Public building.
Roadside stand of not more than three hundred (300) square feet used for the
sale of agricultural products produced on site that does not meet setback
requirements. (Ord. 201, 11-15-2013; amd. Ord. 221, 5-1-2018)
   C.   Uses Prohibited: Any use not explicitly permitted in this zoning
district is prohibited. (Ord. 201, 11-15-2013)
CHAPTER 7
RECREATIONAL (REC) ZONE
SECTION:
8-7-1: Purpose
8-7-2: Site Regulations
8-7-3: Building Regulations
8-7-4: Use Regulations
8-7-1 PURPOSE:
The purpose of this zone is to provide a zoning designation that allows for
housing types that are complementary to recreational uses, and commercial and
private resorts that provide a range of recreational activities and that
utilize conservation development designs that create permanent open space,
protect sensitive environmental features, reduce infrastructure costs and/or
enhance recreational opportunities allowed through special use permit. (Ord.
201, 11-15-2013)
8-7-2 SITE REGULATIONS:
The following site requirements shall apply in the Recreational Zone:
   A.   Site Area: The minimum lot size shall be ten thousand six hundred fifty
(10,650) square feet.
   B.   Street Frontage: The minimum street frontage on a public street shall
be seventy five feet (75').
   C.   Nonconforming Lots Of Record: Lots of record as of the effective date
hereof that do not meet the minimum site area and/or street frontage
requirements are subject to the standards of section
8-16-2 of this title. Any special use permit applications shall demonstrate
compliance with zoning district, parking, and design and other applicable
standards of this title. (Ord. 201, 11-15-2013; amd. Ord. 227, 9-3-2019)
8-7-3 BUILDING REGULATIONS:
No new building shall be constructed in the Recreational Zone, except in
conformance with the following requirements:
   A.   Building Height Limits: The maximum height of buildings in the
Recreational Zone shall not exceed thirty five feet (35') or two (2) stories,
whichever is less, except that:
      1.   Tool/storage sheds, garages and shop buildings accessory to a
residential use shall not exceed twenty feet (20') in height.
      2.   Other nondwelling structures may exceed this height by special use
permit. (Ord. 201, 11-15-2013)
   B.   Building Setback Requirements:
 
                Setback Detached Accessory Buildings <200 Square Feet
                (Feet)  (Feet)
Front yard      25      25
Rear yard       10      5
Side yard       15      5
Flanking street 20      15
 
(Ord. 201, 11-15-2013; amd. 2017 Code)
   C.   Building Coverage: Building coverage shall not exceed forty percent
(40%). (Ord. 201, 11-15-2013)
8-7-4 USE REGULATIONS:
   A.   Permitted Uses:
      1.   On lots of less than ten thousand six hundred fifty (10,650) square
feet and/or with street frontage of less than seventy five feet (75'), uses are
limited to those in existence prior to the effective date hereof.
      2.   On lots of ten thousand six hundred fifty (10,650) square feet or
more, with a minimum street frontage of seventy five feet (75'), the following
uses are permitted:
In home childcare, subject to the standards of subsection
8-14-3-1E of this title.
One single-family dwelling, with the usual accessory structures to include
toolsheds, private garages and/or shop buildings of less than two thousand five
hundred (2,500) square feet.
   Public parks.
Temporary building for construction office purposes for a period not to exceed
nine (9) months, or the duration of the construction project, whichever is
less.
   B.   Special Uses: The following uses may be allowed in the zoning district
by special use permit, provided the application meets the standards of approval
for a special use permit as detailed in chapter 3, article A of this title, and
design standards as detailed in chapter 14 of this title:
Aboveground public utility facilities and infrastructure.
Adult daycare.
Childcare center subject to standards detailed in chapter 14 of this title.
   Churches.
Commercial and private resorts on a minimum lot size of one acre, including
campgrounds, RV parks, and nonprofit recreational uses for group meetings.
Community assembly halls,
In addition to one single-family dwelling, one attached or detached accessory
living unit, meeting the standards detailed in chapter 14 of this title.
Limited commercial activities accessory to a specially permitted resort
operation as may be authorized through the special permit process, including,
but not limited to, gift shops, convenience retail, food and beverage sales
operations and rented seasonal living units, including hotels, motels, cabins
and/or timeshare condominiums.
Private parks.
Public building.
Recreational facilities and structures accessory to a specially permitted
resort operation as may be authorized through the special permit process,
including, but not limited to, barns, stables, riding arenas, boathouses,
golfing, swimming, shooting facilities, dining halls, storage facilities,
locker rooms, restroom/shower facilities, etc.
Small wind energy systems as an accessory use. (Ord. 201, 11-15-2013; amd. Ord.
221, 5-1-2018)
   C.   Uses Prohibited: Any use not explicitly permitted in this zoning
district is prohibited. (Ord. 201, 11-15-2013)
CHAPTER 8
RURAL (RU) ZONE
SECTION:
8-8-1: Purpose
8-8-2: Site Regulations
8-8-3: Building Regulations
8-8-4: Use Regulations
8-8-1 PURPOSE:
The purpose of this zone is to provide a zoning designation that allows for the
preservation of the semirural character of portions of the City, allowing for a
mix of small agricultural uses and residential uses, with minimum lot sizes of
five (5) acres. (Ord. 201, 11-15-2013)
8-8-2 SITE REGULATIONS:
The following site requirements shall apply in the Rural Zone:
   A.   Site Area: The minimum lot size shall be five (5) acres.
   B.   Street Frontage: The minimum street frontage on a public street shall
be seventy five feet (75').
   C.   Nonconforming Lots Of Record: Lots of record as of the effective date
hereof that do not meet the minimum site area and/or street frontage
requirements are subject to the standards of section
8-16-2 of this title. Any special use permit applications shall demonstrate
compliance with zoning district, parking, and design and other applicable
standards of this title. (Ord. 201, 11-15-2013; amd. Ord. 227, 9-3-2019)
8-8-3 BUILDING REGULATIONS:
No new building shall be constructed in the Rural Zone, except in conformance
with the following requirements:
   A.   Building Height Limits: The maximum height of buildings in the Rural
Zone shall not exceed thirty five feet (35') or two (2) stories, whichever is
less, except that:
      1.   Tool/storage sheds, garages and shop buildings accessory to a
residential use shall not exceed twenty feet (20') in height.
      2.   Other nondwelling structures may exceed this height by special use
permit.
   B.   Building Setback Requirements:
 
               Setback (Feet) Detached Accessory Buildings <200 Square Feet
                               (Feet)
Front yard      25             25
Rear yard       25             5
Side yard       10             5
Flanking street 15             15
 
   C.   Building Coverage: Building coverage shall not exceed forty percent
(40%). (Ord. 201, 11-15-2013)
8-8-4 USE REGULATIONS:
   A.   Permitted Uses:
      1.   On lots of less than five (5) acres and/or with street frontage of
less than seventy five feet (75'), uses are limited to those in existence prior
to the effective date hereof.
      2.   On lots of five (5) acres or more, with a minimum street frontage of
seventy five feet (75'), the following uses are permitted:
Agricultural production, farming or ranches, as defined by this title.
Barns, stables, riding arenas (public or private) and structures accessory to
agricultural operations and/or other expressly permitted principal uses located
on the subject property.
In home childcare, subject to the standards of subsection
8-14-3-1E of this title.
One single-family dwelling or one (1) two-family dwelling, with the usual
accessory structures to include toolsheds, private garages and/or shop
buildings of less than two thousand five hundred (2,500) square feet.
One small wind energy system, meeting the design standards detailed in chapter
14 of this title, as an accessory use.
Public parks.
Roadside stands of not more than three hundred (300) square feet, meeting
setback requirements and used for the sale of agricultural products produced on
site.
Temporary building for construction office purposes for a period not to exceed
nine (9) months, or the duration of the construction project, whichever is
less.
   B.   Special Uses: The following uses may be allowed in the zoning district
by special use permit, provided the application meets the standards of approval
for a special use permit as detailed in chapter 3, article A of this title, and
design standards as detailed in chapter 14 of this title:
Aboveground public utility facilities and infrastructure.
Adult daycare.
Animal clinics and veterinary hospitals.
Boarding kennels and animal training schools.
Childcare centers subject to standards detailed in chapter 14 of this title.
Churches.
Community assembly halls.
Distributed wind energy system.
Home occupation, meeting the design standards detailed in chapter 14 of this
title.
In addition to one single-family dwelling, one attached or detached accessory
living unit, meeting the standards detailed in chapter 14 of this title.
Private parks.
Public and private schools.
Public building.
Roadside stand of not more than three hundred (300) square feet used for the
sale of agricultural products produced on site that does not meet setback
requirements. (Ord. 201, 11-15-2013; amd. Ord. 221, 5-1-2018)
   C.   Uses Prohibited: Any use not explicitly permitted in this zoning
district is prohibited. (Ord. 201, 11-15-2013)
CHAPTER 9
RURAL-SUBURBAN TRANSITION (R-S) ZONE
SECTION:
8-9-1: Purpose
8-9-2: Site Regulations
8-9-3: Building Regulations
8-9-4: Use Regulations
8-9-1 PURPOSE:
The purpose of this zone is to provide a zoning designation that serves as a
transition between rural and more urbanized residential densities, with large
lot residential uses permitted on minimum lot sizes of one acre. (Ord. 201, 11-
15-2013)
8-9-2 SITE REGULATIONS:
The following site requirements shall apply in the Rural- Suburban Transition
Zone:
   A.   Site Area: The minimum lot size shall be one acre.
   B.   Street Frontage: The minimum street frontage on a public street shall
be seventy five feet (75').
   C.   Nonconforming Lots Of Record: Lots of record as of the effective date
hereof that do not meet the minimum site area and/or street frontage
requirements are subject to the standards of section
8-16-2 of this title. Any special use permit applications shall demonstrate
compliance with zoning district, parking, and design and other applicable
standards of this title. (Ord. 201, 11-15-2013; amd. Ord. 227, 9-3-2019)
8-9-3 BUILDING REGULATIONS:
No new building shall be constructed in the Rural-Suburban Transition Zone,
except in conformance with the following requirements:
   A.   Building Height Limits: The maximum height of buildings in the Rural-
Suburban Transition Zone shall not exceed thirty five feet (35') or two (2)
stories, whichever is less, except that:
      1.   Tool/storage sheds, garages and shop buildings accessory to a
residential use shall not exceed twenty feet (20') in height.
      2.   Other nondwelling structures may exceed this height by special use
permit.
   B.   Building Height Setback Requirements:
 
                Setback (Feet) Detached Accessory Buildings <200 Square Feet
                               (Feet)
Front yard      25             25
Rear yard       25             5
Side yard       10             5
Flanking street 15             15
 
   C.   Building Coverage: Building coverage shall not exceed forty percent
(40%). (Ord. 201, 11-15-2013)
8-9-4 USE REGULATIONS:
   A.   Permitted Uses:
      1.   On lots of less than one acre and/or with street frontage of less
than seventy five feet (75'), uses are limited to those in existence prior to
the effective date hereof.
      2.   On lots of one acre or more, with a minimum street frontage of
seventy five feet (75'), the following uses are permitted:
Home occupations, meeting the design standards detailed in chapter 14 of this
title.
In home childcare, subject to the standards of subsection
8-14-3-1E of this title.
One single-family dwelling or one (1) two-family dwelling, with the usual
accessory structures to include toolsheds, private garages and/or shop
buildings of less than two thousand (2,000) square feet.
One small wind energy system, meeting the design standards detailed in chapter
14 of this title, as an accessory use.
Public parks.
Temporary building for construction office purposes for a period not to exceed
nine (9) months, or the duration of the construction project, whichever is
less.
   B.   Special Uses: The following uses may be allowed in the zoning district
by special use permit, provided the application meets the standards of approval
for a special use permit as detailed in chapter 3, article A of this title, and
design standards as detailed in chapter 14 of this title:
Aboveground public utility facilities and infrastructure.
Adult daycare.
Childcare centers subject to standards detailed in chapter 14 of this title.
Churches.
Community assembly halls.
In addition to one single-family dwelling, one attached or detached accessory
living unit, meeting the design standards detailed in chapter 14 of this title.
Private parks.
Public and private schools.
Public building. (Ord. 201, 11-15-2013; amd. Ord. 221, 5-1-2018)
   C.   Uses Prohibited: Any use not explicitly permitted in this zoning
district is prohibited. (Ord. 201, 11-15-2013)
CHAPTER 10
RESIDENTIAL ZONES
ARTICLE A. SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL (R-1) ZONE
SECTION:
8-10A-1: Purpose
8-10A-2: Site Regulations
8-10A-3: Building Regulations
8-10A-4: Use Regulations
8-10A-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this zone is to provide a zoning designation that allows for
more urbanized residential densities in the heart of the City, allowing for
single-family and duplex housing on minimum lot sizes of ten thousand six
hundred fifty (10,650) square feet. (Ord. 201, 11-15-2013)
8-10A-2: SITE REGULATIONS:
The following site requirements shall apply in the Single- Family Residential
Zone:
   A.   Site Area: The minimum lot size shall be ten thousand six hundred fifty
(10,650) square feet.
   B.   Street Frontage: The minimum street frontage on a public street shall
be seventy five feet (75').
   C.   Nonconforming Lots Of Record: Lots of record as of the effective date
hereof that do not meet the minimum site area and/or street frontage
requirements are subject to the standards of section
8-16-2 of this title. Any special use permit applications shall demonstrate
compliance with zoning district, parking, and design and other applicable
standards of this title. (Ord. 201, 11-15-2013; amd. Ord. 227, 9-3-2019)
8-10A-3: BUILDING REGULATIONS:
No new building shall be constructed in the Single-Family Residential Zone,
except in conformance with the following requirements:
   A.   Building Height Limits: The maximum height of buildings in the Single-
Family Residential Zone shall not exceed thirty five feet (35') or two (2)
stories, whichever is less, except that:
      1.   Tool/storage sheds, garages and shop buildings accessory to a
residential use shall not exceed twenty feet (20') in height.
      2.   Other nondwelling structures may exceed this height by special use
permit.
   B.   Building Setback Requirements:
 
                Setback (Feet) Detached Accessory Buildings <200 Square Feet
                               (Feet)
Front yard      25             25
Rear yard       10             5
Side yard       10             5
Flanking street 15             15
 
   C.   Building Coverage: Building coverage shall not exceed forty percent
(40%). (Ord. 201, 11-15-2013)
8-10A-4: USE REGULATIONS:
   A.   Permitted Uses:
Home occupations, meeting the design standards detailed in chapter 14 of this
title.
In home childcare, subject to the standards of subsection
8-14-3-1E of this title.
On lots of thirteen thousand three hundred (13,300) square feet or more, one
(1) two-family dwelling, with the usual accessory structures to include
toolsheds, private garages and/or shop buildings of less than one thousand five
hundred (1,500) square feet.
One single-family dwelling, with the usual accessory structures to include
toolsheds, private garages and/or shop buildings of less than one thousand five
hundred (1,500) square feet.
Public parks.
Temporary building for construction office purposes for a period not to exceed
nine (9) months, or the duration of the construction project, whichever is
less.
On lots or parcels not less than the minimum site area for the zoning district,
one accessory living unit meeting the minimum standards of chapter 8-14 of this
title.
   B.   Special Uses: The following uses may be allowed in the zoning district
by special use permit, provided the application meets the standards of approval
for a special use permit as detailed in chapter 3, article A of this title, and
design standards as detailed in chapter 14 of this title:
Aboveground public utility facilities and infrastructure.
Adult daycare.
Childcare centers, subject to standards detailed in chapter 14 of this title.
Churches.
On legal, non-conforming lots or parcels of record, in addition to one single-
family dwelling, one attached accessory living unit, meeting the design
standards detailed in chapter 8-14 of this title.
Private parks.
Public and private schools.
Public building.
   C.   Uses Prohibited: Any use not explicitly permitted in this zoning
district is prohibited. (Ord. 201, 11-15-2013; amd. Ord. 221, 5-1-2018; Ord.
236, 6-6-2023)
ARTICLE B. MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL (M-F) ZONE
SECTION:
8-10B-1: Purpose
8-10B-2: Site Regulations
8-10B-3: Building Regulations
8-10B-4: Use Regulations
8-10B-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this zone is to provide a zoning designation that allows for
single-family, duplex and triplex housing as permitted uses, with apartment
buildings, townhouses, condominiums and other structures providing housing for
a number of households or families, allowed by special use permit, with
adequate buffering between single-family residential zones. (Ord. 201, 11-15-
2013)
8-10B-2: SITE REGULATIONS:
The following site requirements shall apply in the multi-family residential
zone:
   A.   Site Area: The minimum lot size in the multi-family residential zone
shall be ten thousand six hundred fifty (10,650) square feet. Additional
minimum site area regulations shall apply to the following uses within the
zone:
   MINIMUM SITE AREA BY USE
Use Minimum Site Area
    (Square Feet)
Use                                                         Minimum Site Area
                                                            (Square Feet)
Single-family dwelling                                      10,650
Single-family dwelling with attached accessory living unit, 10,650
subject to the standards of chapter 8-14
Single-family dwelling with detached accessory living unit; 13,300
subject to the standards of chapter 8-14
Two-family dwelling (duplex)                                13,300
Three-family dwelling (triplex)                             16,500
Four-family dwelling (fourplex)                             20,000
Multi-family dwelling (5 or more units)                     25,000
Licensed childcare centers and adult daycare                10,650
Residential care facilities, including group homes and      16,500
assisted living facilities (9 to 16 beds)
 
   B.   Street Frontage: The minimum street frontage on a public street in the
multi-family zone shall be seventy five feet (75'). Additional minimum street
frontage requirements shall apply to the following uses within the multi-family
residential zone:
   MINIMUM STREET FRONTAGE BY USE
Use Minimum Street Frontage
    (Feet)
Use                                                    Minimum Street Frontage
                                                       (Feet)
Single-family dwelling                                 75
Single-family dwelling with attached accessory living  75
unit
Single-family dwelling with detached accessory living  75
unit
Two-family dwelling (duplex)                           100
Three-family dwelling (triplex)                        125
Four-family dwelling (fourplex)                        125
Multi-family dwelling (5 or more units)                125
Licensed childcare facilities and adult daycare        100
Residential care facilities, including group homes and 100
assisted living facilities (9 to 16 beds)
 
   C.   Nonconforming Lots Of Record: Lots of record as of the effective date
hereof that do not meet the minimum site area and/or street frontage
requirements are subject to the standards of section
8-16-2 of this title. Any special use permit applications shall demonstrate
compliance with zoning district, parking, and design and other applicable
standards of this title. (Ord. 201, 11-15-2013; amd. Ord. 227, 9-3-2019; Ord.
236, 6-6-2023)
8-10B-3: BUILDING REGULATIONS:
No new building shall be constructed in the Multi-Family Residential Zone,
except in conformance with the following requirements:
   A.   Building Height Limits: The maximum height of buildings in the Multi-
Family Residential Zone shall not exceed thirty five feet (35') or two (2)
stories, whichever is less, except that:
      1.   Tool/storage sheds, garages and shop buildings accessory to a
residential use shall not exceed twenty feet (20') in height.
      2.   Other nondwelling structures may exceed this height by special use
permit.
   B.   Building Setback Requirements:
 
                               Detached Accessory Buildings
                Setback (Feet) <200 Square Feet
                               (Feet)
Front yard      25             25
Rear yard       10             5
Side yard       10             5
Flanking street 15             15
 
   C.   Building Coverage: Building coverage shall not exceed forty percent
(40%).
   D.   Impervious Surface Coverage: Impervious surfaces, including building
footprints, paved driveways, parking areas and walkways, shall not exceed
seventy five percent (75%) of the area of the development site. (Ord. 201, 11-
15-2013)
8-10B-4: USE REGULATIONS:
   A.   Permitted Uses:
      Home occupations, meeting the design standards detailed in chapter 14 of
this title.
      In home childcare, subject to the standards of subsection
8-14-3-1E of this title.
      On lots of thirteen thousand three hundred (13,300) square feet or more,
with one hundred feet (100') of public street frontage, one (1) two-family
dwelling, with the usual accessory structures to include toolsheds, private
garages and/or shop buildings of less than one thousand five hundred (1,500)
square feet.
      On lots of sixteen thousand five hundred (16,500) square feet or more,
with one hundred twenty five feet (125') of public street frontage, one (1)
three-family dwelling, with the usual accessory structures to include
toolsheds, private garages and/or shop buildings of less than one thousand five
hundred (1,500) square feet.
      On lots of twenty thousand (20,000) square feet or more, with one hundred
twenty five feet (125') of public street frontage, one (1) four-family
dwelling, with the usual accessory structures to include toolsheds, private
garages and/or shop buildings of less than one thousand five hundred (1,500)
square feet.
      One single-family dwelling, with the usual accessory structures to
include toolsheds, private garages and/or shop buildings of less than one
thousand five hundred (1,500) square feet.
      Public parks.
      Temporary building for construction office purposes for a period not to
exceed nine (9) months, or the duration of the construction project, whichever
is less. (Ord. 201, 11-15-2013; amd. Ord. 221, 5-1-2018)
   B.   Special Uses: The following uses may be allowed in the zoning district
by special use permit, provided the application meets the standards of approval
for a special use permit as detailed in chapter 3, article A of this title, and
design standards as detailed in chapter 14 of this title:
      Aboveground public utility facilities and infrastructure.
      Adult daycare.
      An apartment complex, consisting of two (2) or more multi-family
buildings, under common ownership and served by shared access, parking, open
space and amenities.
      Childcare centers, subject to standards detailed in chapter 14 of this
title.
      In addition to one single-family dwelling, one attached accessory living
unit, meeting the design standards detailed in chapter 14 of this title; or, on
lots of thirteen thousand three hundred (13,300) square feet or more, one
attached or detached accessory living unit, meeting the design standards
detailed in chapter 14 of this title.
      On lots of twenty five thousand (25,000) square feet or more, with one
hundred twenty five feet (125') of frontage, one multi-family dwelling of five
(5) or more units.
      Private parks.
      Public buildings.
      Residential care facilities, including group homes and assisted living
facilities (9 to 16 beds). (Ord. 201, 11-15-2013; amd. 2017 Code; Ord. 221, 5-
1-2018)
   C.   Uses Prohibited: Any use not explicitly permitted in this zoning
district is prohibited. (Ord. 201, 11-15-2013)
CHAPTER 11
NEIGHBORHOOD-OFFICE OVERLAY (N-O) DISTRICT
SECTION:
8-11-1: Purpose
8-11-2: Overlay District Boundary And Applicability
8-11-3: Site Regulations
8-11-4: Building Regulations
8-11-5: Use Regulations
8-11-1 PURPOSE:
The purpose of this district is to provide supplemental land use, development
and standards to create a transition between the traditional single-family
residential zone and the commercial zone along Railroad Avenue/State Highway
200. In addition to allowed and special uses within the single-family
residential district, the neighborhood-office overlay district allows for
neighborhood offices and low impact commercial uses by special use permit on
lots, or combinations of lots, fronting on Railroad Avenue/State Highway 200.
(Ord. 201, 11-15-2013)
8-11-2 OVERLAY DISTRICT BOUNDARY AND APPLICABILITY:
   A.   These regulations shall apply to all property located within the
neighborhood-office overlay district, as depicted on the official zoning map.
   B.   The neighborhood-office overlay district shall overlay the underlying
single-family residential zoning district. The regulations set forth in this
chapter shall apply in combination with the underlying base zoning district
regulations and all other applicable standards of this title. When regulations
within the neighborhood-office overlay district conflict with the underlying
base zoning district regulations, or other standards of this title, the
regulations of the neighborhood-office overlay district shall apply. (Ord. 201,
11-15-2013)
8-11-3 SITE REGULATIONS:
The following site requirements shall apply in the neighborhood-office overlay
district:
   A.   Site Area: The minimum lot size shall be seven thousand one hundred
(7,100) square feet.
   B.   Street Frontage: The minimum street frontage on a public street shall
be fifty feet (50'). (Ord. 201, 11-15-2013)
8-11-4 BUILDING REGULATIONS:
No new building shall be constructed in the neighborhood- office overlay
district, except in conformance with the following requirements:
   A.   Building Height Limits: The maximum height of buildings in the
neighborhood-office overlay district shall not exceed thirty five feet (35') or
two (2) stories, whichever is less, except that:
      1.   Tool/storage sheds, garages and shop buildings accessory to a
residential use shall not exceed twenty feet (20') in height.
      2.   Other nondwelling structures may exceed this height by special use
permit.
   B.   Building Setback Requirements:
 
                Setback (Feet) Detached Accessory Buildings <200 Square Feet
                               (Feet)
Front yard      25             25
Rear yard       10             5
Side yard       10             5
Flanking street 15             15
 
   C.   Building Coverage: Building coverage shall not exceed forty percent
(40%).
   D.   Impervious Surface Coverage: Impervious surfaces, including building
footprints, paved driveways, parking areas and walkways, shall not exceed
seventy five percent (75%) of the area of the development site. (Ord. 201, 11-
15-2013)
8-11-5 USE REGULATIONS:
   A.   Permitted Uses: All permitted uses within the Single-Family Residential
Zone, as detailed in chapter 10, article A of this title, shall be permitted
uses within the Neighborhood-Office Overlay District. (Ord. 201, 11-15-2013)
   B.   Special Uses: In addition to the special uses allowed within the
Single-Family Residential Zone, as detailed in chapter 10, article A of this
title, the following special uses may be permissible within the Neighborhood-
Office Overlay District on lots (or combinations of lots creating 1 development
site) with frontage on Railroad Avenue, provided they meet the standards for
approval for a special use permit, as detailed in chapter 3, article A of this
title, and design standards as detailed in section
8-14-3-2 of this title:
Adult daycare.
Art galleries, artist studios and photographic studios, not meeting the
definition/standards of a home occupation.
Bed and breakfast.
Childcare centers, subject to standards detailed in chapter 14 of this title.
Personal services, including, but not limited to, barber shops, beauty salons,
massage therapy, nail salons, personal trainers and/or tanning salons, not
meeting the definition/standards of a home occupation.
Professional offices, including, but not limited to, accountant, architect,
attorney, engineer, financial planner, insurance agent, medical/dental and/or
real estate offices, not meeting the standards of home occupation.
Residential care facilities, including group homes and assisted living
facilities, with over eight (8) beds, but not more than sixteen (16) beds.
Other low impact commercial uses, including, but not limited to, bakeries,
coffee shops, sandwich shops/delis, as determined by City Council to be
compatible with the character of this zone, and meeting the standards for
approval for a special use permit, as detailed in chapter 3, article A of this
title, and design standards as detailed in chapter 14 of this title. (Ord. 201,
11-15-2013; amd. Ord. 221, 5-1-2018)
   C.   Uses Prohibited: Any use not explicitly permitted in this overlay
district is prohibited. (Ord. 201, 11-15-2013)
CHAPTER 12
COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL ZONES
ARTICLE A. COMMERCIAL (C) ZONE
SECTION:
8-12A-1: Purpose
8-12A-2: Site Regulations
8-12A-3: Building Regulations
8-12A-4: Use Regulations
8-12A-1: PURPOSE:
The commercial (C) zone provides a use classification for lands suitable for
structures or facilities housing commercial activities directly servicing the
public, including, but not limited to, retail stores, service shops,
restaurants, bars and entertainment centers. (Ord. 201, 11-15-2013)
8-12A-2: SITE REGULATIONS:
The following site requirements shall apply in the commercial (C) zone:
   A.   Street Frontage: While no minimum frontage on a public or private
street shall be required in the general commercial (C) zone, a minimum approach
of thirty feet (30') on a public street (as provided through actual street
frontage or access easement) shall be required in the commercial zone at the
time of development.
   B.   Site Improvements: Parking facilities and site improvements, as
detailed in section
8-4-4 of this title, constructed in accordance with standards as detailed in
chapters 13 and 14 of this title, shall be a requirement of all new
construction, expansions, additions and changes of use within the general
commercial (C) zone. (Ord. 201, 11-15-2013)
8-12A-3: BUILDING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Building Height Limits: The maximum height of buildings shall not
exceed thirty five feet (35'), except as may be allowed by special use permit,
subject to the standards of approval for a special use permit as detailed in
chapter 3, article A of this title, and design standards as detailed in chapter
14 of this title.
   B.   Building Setback Requirements:
 
                Building Setbacks1 (Feet)      Building Setbacks Adjacent To
                                               Residential
                Parking in front: 40 feet      Parking in front: 40 feet
Front yard      Parking on side or in rear: 10 Parking on side or in rear: 10
                feet                           feet
Rear yard       None2                          25 feet with visual screening
Side yard       None2                          25 feet with visual screening
Flanking street 10 feet                        10 feet
 
Notes:
   1.   All setbacks are measured from the property boundary.
   2.   Zero lot lines are permitted only for those buildings whose
construction meets at least the minimum fire standards of the current editions
of the international building code and the international fire code.
   C.   Impervious Surface Coverage: Impervious surfaces, including building
footprints, paved driveways, parking areas and walkways, shall not exceed
seventy five percent (75%) of the area of the development site. (Ord. 201, 11-
15-2013)
8-12A-4: USE REGULATIONS:
   A.   Permitted Uses: Uses that are permitted shall include:
      Any eating or drinking establishment.
      Business service operations.
      Childcare centers, subject to standards detailed in chapter 14 of this
title, and preschools.
      Churches.
      Community assembly halls.
      Financial institutions and banks.
      Fuel sales.
      Hospitals, skilled care facilities, residential institutions and
residential care facilities of more than sixteen (16) beds, and under thirty
thousand (30,000) square feet.
      Indoor commercial recreational and/or entertainment facilities.
      Light manufacturing, meeting the definition of "assemblage", as defined
in section
8-2-2 of this title.
      Medical and dental clinics and services under fifteen thousand (15,000)
square feet.
      Ministorage and self-storage warehouse facilities.
      Offices and multitenanted office buildings.
      One small wind energy system, meeting the design standards detailed in
chapter 14 of this title, as an accessory use.
      Personal service establishments.
      Public and private parking lots and structures (as principal or accessory
use).
      Public offices.
      Public parks.
      Retail and wholesale sales and services under thirty thousand (30,000)
square feet (excluding distribution centers).
      Single-family dwellings legally constructed prior to the effective date
hereof, and continuously maintained as a single-family dwelling.
      Storage, accessory to a permitted principal use and subject to design
standards as detailed in chapter 14 of this title.
      Temporary building for construction office purposes for a period not to
exceed nine (9) months, or the duration of the construction project, whichever
is less. (Ord. 201, 11-15-2013; amd. Ord. 208, 9-1-2015; Ord. 221, 5-1-2018)
   B.   Special Uses: The following uses may be allowed in the zoning district
by special use permit, provided the application meets the standards of approval
for a special use permit as detailed in chapter 3, article A of this title, and
design standards as detailed in chapter 14 of this title:
      A multi-family dwelling consisting of four (4) or more units.
      Aboveground public utility facilities and structures.
      Adult daycare.
      An apartment complex, consisting of two (2) or more multi-family
buildings, under common ownership and served by shared access, parking, open
space and amenities.
      Animal clinics and veterinary hospitals (excluding large animal clinics/
hospitals and crematoriums).
      Call centers.
      Communication transmission facilities, including cellular phone, radio
and television towers and other communication and wireless transmission
facilities.
      Dwelling units on upper floors and/or rear of a principal commercial
structure.
      Event facilities, including stadiums, auditoriums, exhibition halls and
convention centers.
      Funeral homes without crematoriums.
      Hospitals, skilled care facilities, residential institutions and
residential care facilities over thirty thousand (30,000) square feet.
      Hotels and motels.
      Medical and dental clinics and services over fifteen thousand (15,000)
square feet.
      Multiple small wind energy systems as an accessory use.
      Outdoor theaters, recreational and entertainment facilities.
      Public facilities, other than offices.
      Retail and wholesale sales and services over thirty thousand (30,000)
square feet and under one hundred thousand (100,000) square feet (excluding
distribution centers).
      Schools.
      Small accessory commercial activities and operations (including drive-
through food and beverage stands) of less than seven hundred fifty (750) square
feet, as an accessory use.
      Swap meets, flea markets and farmers' markets.
   C.   Uses Prohibited: Any use not explicitly permitted in this zoning
district is prohibited. (Ord. 201, 11-15-2013; amd. Ord. 227, 9-3-2019)
ARTICLE B. COMMERCIAL-LIGHT INDUSTRIAL (C-LI) ZONE
SECTION:
8-12B-1: Purpose
8-12B-2: Site Regulations
8-12B-3: Building Regulations
8-12B-4: Use Regulations
8-12B-1: PURPOSE:
The commercial-light industrial (C-LI) zone provides a use classification for
lands suitable for a mixture of low impact manufacturing and assembly
operations, service businesses and wholesale/retail businesses. (Ord. 201, 11-
15-2013)
8-12B-2: SITE REGULATIONS:
The following site requirements shall apply in the commercial-light industrial
(C-LI) zone:
   A.   Street Frontage: While no minimum frontage on a public or private
street shall be required in the commercial-light industrial (C-LI) zone, a
minimum approach of thirty feet (30') on a public street (as provided through
actual street frontage or access easement) shall be required in the commercial
zone at the time of development.
   B.   Site Improvements: Parking facilities and site improvements, as
detailed in section
8-4-4 of this title, constructed in accordance with standards as detailed in
chapters 13 and 14 of this title, shall be a requirement of all new
construction, expansions, additions and changes of use within the commercial-
light industrial (C-LI) zone. (Ord. 201, 11-15-2013)
8-12B-3: BUILDING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Building Height Limits: The maximum height of buildings shall not
exceed thirty five feet (35'), except as may be allowed by special use permit,
subject to the standards of approval for a special use permit as detailed in
chapter 3, article A of this title, and design standards as detailed in chapter
14 of this title.
   B.   Building Setback Requirements:
 
                Building Setbacks1             Building Setbacks Adjacent
                (Feet)                         To Residential
                Parking in front: 40 feet      Parking in front: 40 feet
Front yard      Parking on side or in rear: 10 Parking on side or in rear: 10
                feet                           feet
Rear yard       None2                          25 feet with visual screening
Side yard       None2                          25 feet with visual screening
Flanking street 10 feet                        10 feet
 
   Notes:
   1.   All setbacks are measured from the property boundary.
   2.   Zero lot lines are permitted only for those buildings whose
construction meets at least the minimum fire standards of the current editions
of the international building code and the international fire code.
   C.   Impervious Surface Coverage: Impervious surfaces, including building
footprints, paved driveways, parking areas and walkways, shall not exceed
seventy five percent (75%) of the area of the development site. (Ord. 201, 11-
15-2013)
8-12B-4: USE REGULATIONS:
   A.   Permitted Uses: Uses that are permitted shall include:
      Animal clinics and veterinary hospitals (excluding large animals and
crematoriums).
      Any eating or drinking establishment.
      Automobile, truck, recreational vehicle and heavy equipment sales,
service and/or rental.
      Boarding kennels and animal training schools.
      Business service operations.
      Childcare centers, subject to standards detailed in chapter 14 of this
title, and preschools.
      Churches.
      Community assembly halls.
      Community facilities, including fire stations, public utility
installations, etc.
      Equipment and small engine repair.
      Financial institutions and banks.
      Fuel sales.
      Funeral homes without crematoriums.
      Hospitals, skilled care facilities, residential institutions and
residential care facilities of more than sixteen (16) beds, and under thirty
thousand (30,000) square feet.
      Indoor commercial recreational and/or entertainment facilities.
      Light manufacturing, meeting the definition of "assemblage", as defined
in section
8-2-2 of this title.
      Medical and dental clinics and services under fifteen thousand (15,000)
square feet.
      Ministorage and self-storage warehousing facilities.
      Offices and multitenanted office buildings.
      One single-family dwelling on the upper floors or in the rear of a
principal commercial or light industrial structure.
      One small wind energy system, meeting the design standards detailed in
chapter 14 of this title, as an accessory use.
      Personal service establishments.
      Public and private parking lots and structures (as principal or accessory
use).
      Public buildings and facilities.
      Public parks.
      Retail and wholesale sales and services under thirty thousand (30,000)
square feet (excluding distribution centers).
      Single-family dwellings legally constructed prior to the effective date
hereof, and continuously maintained as a single-family dwelling.
      Storage, accessory to a permitted principal use and subject to design
standards as detailed in chapter 14 of this title.
      Temporary building for construction office purposes for a period not to
exceed nine (9) months, or the duration of the construction project, whichever
is less.
      Vehicle repair services and quick vehicle servicing uses.
   B.   Special Uses: The following uses may be allowed in the zoning district
by special use permit, provided the application meets the standards of approval
for a special use permit as detailed in chapter 3, article A of this title, and
design standards as detailed in chapter 14 of this title:
      Aboveground public utility facilities and structures.
      Adult daycare.
      Animal clinics and veterinary hospitals (including large animals) with
crematoriums.
      Call centers.
      Communication transmission facilities, including cellular phone, radio
and television towers and other communication and wireless transmission
facilities.
      Distribution centers.
      Duplex, tri-plex, and multi-family residential use in upper floors and/or
in the rear of the principal commercial structure.
      Event facilities, including stadiums, auditoriums, exhibition halls and
convention centers.
      Funeral homes with crematoriums.
      Hospitals, skilled care facilities, residential institutions and
residential care facilities over thirty thousand (30,000) square feet.
      Hotels and motels.
      Medical and dental clinics and services over fifteen thousand (15,000)
square feet.
      Multiple small wind energy systems as an accessory use.
      Outdoor theaters, recreational and entertainment facilities.
      Retail and wholesale sales and services over thirty thousand (30,000)
square feet and under one hundred thousand (100,000) square feet.
      Schools.
      Small accessory commercial activities and operations (including drive-
through food and beverage stands) of less than seven hundred fifty (750) square
feet, as an accessory use.
      Swap meets, flea markets and farmers' markets.
      Warehousing and storage.
      Wholesale sales and shipping operations.
   C.   Uses Prohibited: Any use not explicitly permitted in this zoning
district is prohibited. (Ord. 201, 11-15-2013; amd. Ord. 221, 5-1-2018; Ord.
227, 9-3-2019)
ARTICLE C. INDUSTRIAL (IND) ZONE
SECTION:
8-12C-1: Purpose
8-12C-2: Site Regulations
8-12C-3: Building Regulations
8-12C-4: Use Regulations
8-12C-1: PURPOSE:
The industrial (IND) zone provides a use classification for lands suitable for
structures or facilities involved with the production or manufacture of
products. Activities in these areas do not generally provide services directly
to the public. (Ord. 201, 11-15-2013)
8-12C-2: SITE REGULATIONS:
The following site requirements shall apply in the industrial (IND) zone:
   A.   Site Area: The minimum lot size shall be fifteen thousand (15,000)
square feet.
   B.   Street Frontage: While no minimum frontage on a public street shall be
required in the general industrial (IND) zone, a minimum approach of thirty
feet (30') on a public street (as provided through actual street frontage or
access easement) shall be required in the industrial zone at the time of
development.
   C.   Site Improvements: Parking facilities and site improvements, as
detailed in section
8-4-4 of this title, constructed in accordance with standards as detailed in
chapters 13 and 14 of this title, shall be a requirement of all new
construction, expansions, additions and changes of use within the industrial
(IND) zone. (Ord. 201, 11-15-2013)
8-12C-3: BUILDING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Building Height Limits: The maximum height of buildings shall not
exceed thirty five feet (35'), except as may be allowed by special use permit,
subject to the standards of approval for a special use permit as detailed in
chapter 3, article A of this title, and design standards as detailed in chapter
14 of this title.
   B.   Building Setback Requirements:
 
                Building Setbacks1             Building Setbacks Adjacent To
                (Feet)                         Residential
                Parking in front: 40 feet      Parking in front: 40 feet
Front yard      Parking on side or in rear: 10 Parking on side or in rear: 10
                feet                           feet
Rear yard       10 feet                        25 feet with visual screening
Side yard       10 feet                        25 feet with visual screening
Flanking street 10 feet                        10 feet
 
   Note:
   1.   All setbacks are measured from the property line.
   C.   Material Storage: No material or equipment storage shall be permitted
within the building setback identified in subsection B of this section.
   D.   Impervious Surface Coverage: Impervious surfaces, including building
footprints, paved driveways, parking areas and walkways, shall not exceed
seventy five percent (75%) of the area of the development site. (Ord. 201, 11-
15-2013)
8-12C-4: USE REGULATIONS:
   A.   Permitted Uses: Uses that are permitted shall include:
      Aboveground public utility facilities and structures.
      Animal clinics and veterinary hospitals (including large animals and
crematoriums).
      Automobile, truck, recreational vehicle and heavy equipment sales,
service and/or rental.
      Equipment and small engine repair.
      Fuel sales.
      Manufacturing, processing, fabrication and assembly operations, excluding
food processing, slaughterhouses and rendering plants, meeting the design
standards detailed in chapter 14 of this title.
      Ministorage and self-storage warehousing facilities.
      One small wind energy system, meeting the design standards detailed in
chapter 14 of this title, as an accessory use.
      Public buildings and facilities including fire stations, public utility
installations, etc.
      Retail and wholesale sales and service operations.
      Storage, accessory to a permitted principal use and subject to design
standards as detailed in chapter 14 of this title.
      Temporary building for construction office purposes for a period not to
exceed nine (9) months, or the duration of the construction project, whichever
is less.
      Vehicle repair services and quick vehicle servicing uses.
   B.   Special Uses: The following uses may be allowed in the zoning district
by special use permit, provided the application meets the standards of approval
for a special use permit as detailed in chapter 3, article A of this title, and
design standards as detailed in chapter 14 of this title:
      Communication transmission facilities, including cellular phone, radio
and television towers and other communication and wireless transmission
facilities.
      Distributed wind systems, meeting the design standards detailed in
chapter 14 of this title.
      Distribution centers.
      Food processing operations, excluding slaughterhouses and rendering
plants.
      Multiple small wind energy systems as an accessory use.
      One single-family dwelling unit in upper floors and/or in the rear of a
principal industrial structure.
      Schools.
      Solid waste transfer station, recycling facility or material recovery
facility.
      Warehousing and storage.
   C.   Uses Prohibited: Any use not explicitly permitted in this zoning
district is prohibited. (Ord. 201, 11-15-2013; amd. Ord. 227, 9-3-2019)
ARTICLE D. DOWNTOWN COMMERCIAL (DT) DISTRICT
SECTION:
8-12D-1: Purpose
8-12D-2: Site Regulations
8-12D-3: Building Regulations
8-12D-4: Use Regulations
8-12D-1: PURPOSE:
The downtown commercial (DT) district provides land use and development
standards suitable for a pedestrian oriented mix of commercial uses, including
small scale retail, restaurants and professional services, in support of a
"downtown" commercial center on the south side of SH-200. (Ord. 201, 11-15-
2013)
8-12D-2: SITE REGULATIONS:
The following site requirements shall apply in the downtown commercial (DT)
district:
   A.   Street Frontage: While no minimum frontage on a public or private
street shall be required in the downtown commercial (DT) district, a minimum
approach of thirty feet (30') on a public street (as provided through actual
street frontage or access easement) shall be required in the downtown
commercial (DT) district at the time of development.
   B.   Site Improvements: Parking facilities and site improvements, as
detailed in section
8-4-4 of this title, constructed in accordance with standards as detailed in
chapters 13 and 14 of this title, shall be a requirement of all new
construction, expansions, additions and changes of use within the general
downtown commercial (DT) district.
   C.   Parking Lot Location: Parking lots may only be located on the side or
in the rear of the principal building within the downtown commercial (DT)
district. (Ord. 201, 11-15-2013)
8-12D-3: BUILDING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Building Height Limits: The maximum height of buildings shall not
exceed thirty five feet (35'), except as may be allowed by special use permit,
subject to the standards of approval for a special use permit as detailed in
chapter 3, article A of this title, and design standards as detailed in chapter
14 of this title.
   B.   Building Setback Requirements:
 
                Building Setbacks1 Building Setbacks Adjacent To Residential
                (Feet)
Front yard      10 feet            10 feet
Rear yard       None2              25 feet with visual screening
Side yard       None2              25 feet with visual screening
Flanking street 10 feet            10 feet
 
   Notes:
   1.   All setbacks are measured from the property boundary.
   2.   Zero lot lines are permitted only for those buildings whose
construction meets at least the minimum fire standards of the current editions
of the international building code and the international fire code.
   C.   Impervious Surface Coverage: Impervious surfaces, including building
footprints, paved driveways, parking areas and walkways, shall not exceed
seventy five percent (75%) of the area of the development site. (Ord. 201, 11-
15-2013)
8-12D-4: USE REGULATIONS:
The uses allowed within the downtown commercial (DT) district shall be limited
to those set forth in this section as either uses permitted or special uses.
   A.   Permitted Uses: Uses that are permitted shall include:
      Any eating or drinking establishment (without drive- through).
      Business service operations.
      Community assembly halls.
      Financial institutions and banks (without drive- through).
      Indoor commercial recreational and/or entertainment facilities.
      Medical and dental clinics and services under fifteen thousand (15,000)
square feet.
      Offices and multitenanted office buildings.
      One, one-family residential dwelling units on upper floors or rear of a
principal commercial structure.
      Personal service establishments.
      Public and private parking lots and structures (as accessory use).
      Public and private parks.
      Public offices.
      Retail and wholesale sales and services under fifteen thousand (15,000)
square feet (excluding distribution centers).
      Temporary building for construction office purposes for a period not to
exceed nine (9) months, or the duration of the construction project, whichever
is less.
   B.   Special Uses: The following uses may be allowed in the zoning district
by special use permit, provided the application meets the standards of approval
for a special use permit as detailed in chapter 3, article A of this title, and
design standards as detailed in chapter 14 of this title:
      Bed and breakfasts, inns and hotels.
      Drive-through facilities serving any permitted or special use allowed in
this chapter.
      Light manufacturing, meeting the definition of "assemblage", as defined
in section
8-2-2 of this title.
      Medical and dental clinics and services over fifteen thousand (15,000)
square feet.
      Museums.
      One small wind energy system, meeting the design standards detailed in
chapter 14 of this title, as an accessory use.
      Outdoor theaters, recreational and entertainment facilities.
      Public and private parking lots and structures (as a principal use).
      Public facilities other than offices.
      Retail and wholesale sales and services over fifteen thousand (15,000)
square feet, and under thirty thousand (30,000) square feet (excluding
distribution centers).
      Schools.
      Small accessory commercial activities and operations (including drive-
through food and beverage stands) of less than seven hundred fifty (750) square
feet, as an accessory use.
      Storage, accessory to a permitted principal use and subject to design
standards as detailed in chapter 14 of this title.
      Swap meets, flea markets and farmers' markets.
   C.   Uses Prohibited: Any use not explicitly permitted in this zoning
district is prohibited. (Ord. 201, 11-15-2013; amd. Ord. 227, 9-3-2019)
CHAPTER 13
OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING
SECTION:
8-13-1: Purpose
8-13-2: Applicability
8-13-3: General Requirements
8-13-4: Required Off Street Parking Spaces
8-13-5: Design Standards
8-13-1 PURPOSE:
The purposes of the off street parking and loading requirements are to:
   A.   Require the provision of off street parking and loading facilities at
the time of construction, reconstruction, expansion and/or change in use, for
all land use types within the city;
   B.   Specify the minimum off street parking and loading facility
requirements for each of the permitted uses;
   C.   Mitigate traffic congestion on public streets;
   D.   Reduce the practice of using public streets for the purpose of loading
and unloading goods; and
   E.   Provide design standards for storage and display lots. (Ord. 201, 11-
15-2013)
8-13-2 APPLICABILITY:
At the time of construction, reconstruction (excluding remodeling), expansion
of any structure or use, the change in use or increase in intensity of use, or
at the time of site improvement, off street parking, loading spaces, storage
and display lots shall be provided in accordance with the applicable provisions
of this title and this chapter. (Ord. 201, 11-15-2013)
8-13-3 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Off Street Parking And Loading Requirements:
      1.   Number Required: For all new construction, reconstruction,
expansions and changes in use within the city, off street parking and loading
spaces meeting the standards detailed in this chapter shall be required. The
number of required off street parking and loading spaces shall be determined
based upon parking ratios detailed in section
8-13-4 of this chapter, or as determined by the city engineer, as provided in
this section.
      2.   Square Footage Calculation: When the number of parking spaces is
based upon square footage, the calculation shall utilize the gross square
footage of all floor space of buildings enclosed and subject to heating,
excluding:
         a.   Any space occupied by central mechanical and/or electrical
equipment, elevator, escalator, public access stairways, lifts, chutes, trash
disposal units and fuel storage spaces;
         b.   For multitenanted structures, shared public lobbies, hallways and
entries, arcades and similar enclosed spaces open to the general public.
      3.   Multiple Uses Within Single Structure: When several uses are
encompassed within a single structure, parking requirements shall be prorated
as based upon the relative proportion of gross floor space attributable to each
use encompassed.
      4.   Number Of Employees: When the number of spaces is based on the
number of employees, the number of employees shall represent the largest shift
during the peak season.
      5.   Number Of Practitioners: When the number of spaces is based on the
number of practitioners, the number of practitioners shall represent the
maximum number engaged at any given time.
      6.   Fractional Numbers: Whenever the resulting number of spaces includes
a fractional space, the closest whole number shall be used.
      7.   ADA Accessible Parking Spaces: Where off street parking spaces are
required by this title, there shall also be required parking spaces for persons
with disabilities as provided in the Americans with disabilities act. The
required number of accessible parking spaces shall be in addition to the
required number of spaces determined by facility use.
      8.   Bicycle Racks Required: Permanently installed bicycle racks shall be
required for all buildings required to have a minimum of twenty (20) parking
spaces.
      9.   Access And Maneuvering:
         a.   All parking and loading areas shall be designed in such a manner
that a vehicle entering or exiting the parking area from or onto a public or
private street shall be traveling in a forward motion. Single-family
residential uses and multi- family residential parking lots of less than five
(5) stalls are exempt from this requirement.
         b.   All maneuvering areas, ramps, access drives, etc., shall be
provided on the property which the parking facility is located, unless
documentation of a recorded easement is provided with the site plan
application; however, if such a facility adjoins an alley, such alley may be
used as a maneuvering area.
   B.   Determination By City Engineer:
      1.   Considerations: If any of the provisions, regulations or standards
of this chapter do not specifically pertain to a particular use, or if they are
not clearly stated for a particular use or uses, the city engineer shall
determine the regulations and standards to be required. In making such a
determination, the following shall be considered:
         a.   Parking generation, giving particular attention to attendance
potential at any facility.
         b.   Location of the facility and the peak hours of operation.
         c.   Extent and frequency of loading/unloading operations.
         d.   The number of employees and patrons during peak period(s).
         e.   If shared use parking is proposed:
            (1)   The hours and days of operation of the respective uses.
            (2)   The combined projected traffic generated by each use.
            (3)   The required number of spaces for each use.
            (4)   The average distance of the parking area to the entrance of
the facility being served.
         f.   Any other factors that would affect parking and loading
requirements.
      2.   Exceptions: Application for an exception from a particular
provision, regulation or standard of this chapter may be made in writing to the
city council.
         a.   Exceptions may be considered for the number and/or type of
required parking space and loading spaces, the location of the parking area
with respect to the facility being served and/or design requirements for the
parking, loading or storage area.
         b.   Exceptions may only be granted by the city council based upon the
following findings:
            (1)   The requested exception is based upon a unique character or
feature of the property or use, which does not generally apply to other
properties or similar uses subject to the requirement from which an exception
is sought;
            (2)   The requested exception will not be injurious to the public
safety and welfare;
            (3)   If approved, the requested exception will be equally
protective of the public interest, and will otherwise achieve the identified
purposes of this chapter; and
            (4)   If a reduction in required parking is requested, the
applicant has provided sufficient evidence to demonstrate that the off street
parking proposed will be adequate to meet the needs of the present use, and
likely future uses; such evidence may include, but is not limited to, a
consideration of on street parking available to serve the subject property.
   C.   Change In Use Or Increase In Intensity Of Use: Parking spaces meeting
the requirements of this chapter shall be provided whenever the use of a
facility is changed such that the intensity of the parking demand for that
facility is increased.
   D.   Street Parking Excluded: No portion of any public right of way shall be
used in satisfying the minimum parking requirements established by this title,
except as provided in subsection B of this section.
   E.   Reduction To Existing Parking And Loading: Neither the number, size,
location, nor maintenance of existing parking and loading spaces shall be
altered or reduced below the requirements specified for the use in this
chapter.
   F.   Parking Spaces Must Be Available: Required off street parking areas
shall not be used for any purpose that would at any time prevent their intended
use as parking spaces by occupants and patrons of the facility being served. No
required parking area may be used for both parking and loading.
   G.   Tandem Parking And Loading Prohibited: Except for single- family
dwelling units, the design and development of tandem parking and loading spaces
shall not be allowed in meeting the minimum space requirements of this chapter.
A required space shall not be blocked by another space such that a vehicle will
be able to enter and leave the space at any time without having to cross
another required space and without having to make unreasonable turning
movements.
   H.   Easement Agreement For Off Site Space: Whenever any required parking or
loading areas are located on a site which is not within the property limits of
the facility being served, the owners of the facility and the land providing
the off site space shall prepare and execute an easement agreement for approval
by the city attorney and filing with the county recorder.
      1.   The easement agreement shall be acceptable to the city attorney and
shall guarantee the maintenance and reservation of the off site areas for the
duration of the use of the facility being served.
      2.   The easement agreement between the parties sharing use shall run
with the land. The agreement shall not be terminable without notice to the
zoning administrator.
      3.   Termination of the easement agreement, or any change in use or
increase in use during the term of the agreement, shall require reevaluation of
parking requirements for the subject properties.
   I.   Maintenance Of All Parking And Loading Areas Required: All parking and
loading areas intended for use by the owners, employees and the general public
and required by this chapter shall be maintained on a regular basis. Regular
maintenance shall include, but not be limited to: pavement repair and seal
coating; pavement marking and striping; removal of dust, leaves and litter;
removal of snow and ice; maintaining landscaped areas; and maintaining signs,
fences, wheel stops, curbs, walks, drainage facilities and any other
appurtenances pertinent to the requirements of this chapter and this title.
(Ord. 201, 11-15-2013)
8-13-4 REQUIRED OFF STREET PARKING SPACES:
   A.   Residential Uses: The following number of paved off street parking
spaces shall be required as specified for each residential use, in accordance
with the provisions of subsection
8-13-3A of this chapter:
Residential Uses Required Spaces
Residential Uses                        Required Spaces
Cluster housing                         2.5 per dwelling unit
Condominiums and multi-family units     2.5 per dwelling unit
Detached housing, group                 1 per sleeping room
Detached housing, single-family         2
Duplex housing                          2 per dwelling unit
Home occupation, as per residential use 2 per dwelling unit
Other                                   Per city engineer
 
   B.   Civic Uses: The following number of paved off street parking spaces
shall be required as specified for each civic use, in accordance with the
provisions of subsection
8-13-3A of this chapter:
Civic Uses Required Spaces
Civic Uses                          Required Spaces
Administrative                      4 per 1,000 square feet
Childcare, nursery or adult daycare 3.5 per 1,000 square feet
Church/religious assembly           8 per 1,000 square feet
Community assembly                  10 per 1,000 square feet
Community center                    4 per 1,000 square feet
Community organization              4 per 1,000 square feet
Elementary school                   3 per 1,000 square feet
High school                         3 per 1,000 square feet
Hospitals/healthcare                3.5 per bed
Library                             3.5 per 1,000 square feet
Middle or junior high school        1.5 per 1,000 square feet
Museum or art gallery               2 per 1,000 square feet
Nursing and convalescent facilities 1.5 per 1,000 square feet
Open space area, including parks    Per city engineer
Other                               Per city engineer
 
   C.   Commercial, Recreational And Industrial Uses: The following number of
paved off street parking spaces shall be required as specified for each
commercial, recreational and industrial use in accordance with the provisions
of subsection
8-13-3A of this chapter: (Ord. 201, 11-15-2013)
Commercial/Recreational/ Required Spaces
Industrial Uses
Commercial/Recreational/                Required Spaces
Industrial Uses
Automotive fleet storage, attendant     1 per employee and 1 per vehicle
parking, rental vehicles
Banks/financial services                5 spaces per 1,000 square feet
Bed and breakfast                       2 spaces, plus 1 additional space for
                                        each room available for rent
Bowling alleys                          5 spaces per alley
Childcare center and adult daycare      3.5 spaces per 1,000 square feet
Drive-throughs                          5 queuing spaces
Dry cleaners                            1.5 spaces per 1,000 square feet
Eating or drinking establishment        14 per 1,000 square feet
Gasoline sales                          1 parking space per pump and 2 queuing
                                        spaces per pump per side
General/professional office             5 per 1,000 square feet
Golf course                             8 spaces per hole and as required per
                                        accessory uses
Health/fitness facility                 5 spaces per 1,000 square feet
Hotel/motel                             1.2 spaces per unit and as required per
                                        accessory uses
                                        2 spaces per 1,000 square feet for
Manufacturing                           operations and 5 spaces per 1,000
                                        square feet for office
Medical/dental/healthcare practitioner  1 space per 150 square feet
office
                                        Minimum of 1 space per 100 storage
Ministorage/self-storage warehousing    units and 1 space per 200 square feet
                                        for office
Retail sales                            5 per 1,000 square feet
Service establishments (including       5 spaces per 1,000 square feet
automotive/vehicular repair service)
Skating rink                            5 spaces per 1,000 square feet
                                        1 space per 1,000 square feet for
Storage                                 storage and 5 spaces per 1,000 square
                                        feet for office
Supermarket                             4 per 1,000 square feet
Tennis, handball and racquetball courts 3.5 spaces per court
Theaters, auditoriums and stadiums      1 space per 4 seats
Vehicular cleaning and quick vehicle    3 spaces per bay and 5 queuing spaces
servicing and repair
Veterinary office                       1 space per 150 square feet
                                        1 space per 1,000 square feet for
Warehousing                             warehouse and 5 spaces per 1,000 square
                                        feet for office
Other                                   Per city engineer
 
(Ord. 201, 11-15-2013; amd. 2017 Code)
8-13-5 DESIGN STANDARDS:
   A.   Off Street Parking, Loading Berth, Storage And Display Lot Design
Standards: The layout and design of off street parking, bicycle parking,
loading berths and storage and display lot areas shall meet the requirements of
this section.
   B.   Paving Requirements:
      1.   Type Required: All driveways, parking, loading and maneuvering areas
required of this chapter shall be paved with hot asphaltic cement, portland
cement concrete or approved paving blocks or bricks, unless otherwise expressly
exempted within this chapter.
      2.   Driveways: Single-family and two-family residential uses served by
individual or shared driveways shall be exempted from the paving requirements;
provided, that:
         a.   Apron: The driveway is served by an asphaltic concrete or
concrete apron, as appropriate, extending ten feet (10') from the street; and
         b.   Surfacing: The remainder of the driveway and required parking
area are surfaced with compacted crushed aggregate; provided, that the unpaved
area is maintained in a neat, dustless and weedless condition. The gravel shall
meet the city regulations for three-fourths inch (3/4") minus crushed aggregate
and shall be spread and compacted to a uniform layer having a minimum depth of
four inches (4") after all topsoil and other unsuitable material have been
removed.
      3.   Paving Of Outdoor Storage And Display Lots: Outdoor storage and
display lots shall be paved, as herein provided:
         a.   Required: All storage and display lots, including, but not
limited to, those used for the purpose of storage, sale, lease or rental of
cars, trucks, boats, manufactured homes, mobile homes, lumber and building
supplies and materials, recreational vehicles or trailers shall be paved
according to the requirements of this chapter, except as provided below.
         b.   Heavy Mobile Equipment Lots: Storage and display lots used for
landscaping sales and those lots where heavy mobile equipment (including, but
not limited to, farming implements, logging equipment and/or construction
equipment, tracked equipment, skid-steer loaders and forklifts) is displayed,
stored or used for the movement of materials:
            (1)   The actual area used for the storage, display or use of the
heavy equipment may be surfaced with compacted crushed aggregate; provided,
that the unpaved area is maintained in a neat, dustless and weedless condition.
The gravel shall meet the city regulations for three-fourths inch (3/4") minus
crushed aggregate and shall be spread and compacted to a uniform layer having a
minimum depth of four inches (4") after all topsoil and other unsuitable
material have been removed.
            (2)   Said lots shall be served by paved approaches, driveways,
vehicular maneuvering areas and parking spaces meeting the requirements of this
chapter.
   C.   Parking Lot Grades And Drainage:
      1.   Paving; Grade: All off street parking shall be paved such that no
surface shall exceed five percent (5%) and no longitudinal drainage gradient
shall be flatter than one-half percent (0.5%).
      2.   Approaches: Approach grades shall be safe and convenient.
      3.   Disabled Parking Spaces: Parking spaces for persons with
disabilities shall be as level as possible but in no case shall the parking
space, adjacent aisle, driveway or designated pathways exceed a gradient of two
percent (2%) in any direction.
      4.   Surface Water: All parking and loading areas shall provide for
proper drainage of surface water to approved drainage areas or structures.
Surface drainage shall be retained on site to the extent that site runoff shall
not exceed runoff from the site in its undeveloped condition.
      5.   Culverts: Culverts of a minimum size of twelve inches (12") shall be
installed under all driveway approaches.
   D.   Parking Lot Location Requirements:
      1.   Residential: Required parking shall be located on site for
residential uses.
      2.   All Other Uses: Required parking shall be located not farther than
three hundred feet (300') from the entrance to the facility being served, as
measured from the edge of the paved parking area, unless continuous parking is
provided.
      3.   Location Of Facilities: No portion of any parking facility, except
driveways, shall be located within five feet (5') of the front or side property
lines.
   E.   Parking Space Requirements:
      1.   Standard Dimensions: Off street parking spaces shall meet the
minimum dimensions for the following types of spaces and conditions:
         a.   Nonparallel: Standard nonparallel parking spaces shall be nine
feet (9') wide by twenty feet (20') long.
         b.   Parallel: Parallel parking spaces shall be eight feet (8') wide
by twenty three feet (23') long for all vehicles.
         c.   Additional Width: Where a side of a parking area abuts a building
or other obstruction, an additional width of two feet (2') shall be added to
the adjacent parking.
      2.   ADA Accessible Parking Spaces:
         a.   Number Required: The required number of ADA accessible parking
spaces shall be determined based upon the total parking in the lot, as detailed
in the table below (unless ADA requirements are found to be more restrictive):
Total Parking In Lot Required Minimum Number Of Accessible Spaces (Additional)
Total Parking In Lot Required Minimum Number Of Accessible Spaces (Additional)
1 to 25              1
26 to 50             2
51 to 75             3
76 to 100            4
101 to 150           5
151 to 200           6
201 to 300           7
301 to 400           8
401 to 500           9
501 to 1,000         2 percent of total
1,001 and over       20 plus 1 for each 100 over 1,000
 
         b.   Van Accessible Parking Spaces: One out of every eight (8)
required accessible parking spaces shall comply with van accessibility
requirements; in no case, however, shall there be provided less than one van
accessible space.
         c.   Access Aisles:
            (1)   Every designated accessible space requires an adjacent access
aisle. This aisle must be on the passenger side of each space unless it is
located between, and is shared by, two (2) designated accessible spaces.
            (2)   Access aisles must be a minimum of sixty inches (60") wide,
and run parallel to the length of the designated accessible parking space. Van
accessible parking spaces must provide a minimum aisle width of ninety six
inches (96").
         d.   Location: The spaces for persons with disabilities shall be
located as near as practical to a primary accessible entrance.
         e.   Signage: All designated accessible spaces shall be signed in
accordance with the ADA requirements as may be in effect at the time of parking
lot construction.
   F.   Aisleways And Driveways:
      1.   Access Requirements And Standards: All required off street parking
areas shall be located, designed, constructed and maintained to provide access
at all times. Driveway approaches shall be located, designed and constructed
according to the city's current standards and policies.
         a.   Encroachment Permit; Guarantee: Access to a public street shall
require an encroachment permit and a guarantee for work to be performed in a
public right of way, as required by the city, the independent highway district
and/or Idaho transportation department (ITD).
         b.   Number: The number of approaches serving an individual lot or
parcel may be restricted to a single two-way approach, and in some cases, joint
use approaches serving two (2) or more lots may be required.
         c.   Width: The width of an approach shall be determined according to
the city standards, and shall meet the requirements of the local fire
protection district.
         d.   Location, Design: The location and design of approaches shall be
approved by the city engineer and ITD, where applicable.
      2.   Dimensions And Turning Radii: All dimensional requirements detailed
herein shall be considered to be minimum standards. All off street parking
areas shall be reviewed and approved by the local fire department, which may
require wider driveways and parking aisles and larger vehicular turning radii
as prescribed by the effective fire code.
         a.   Width: The minimum driveway and approach widths shall be
determined from the operating speed and the classification of the street
providing access, the volume of traffic being generated, the potential for
truck use, and fire protection requirements.
            (1)   Parking aisle widths shall vary with the angle of vehicular
turning required to access the required space on one-way aisles, but shall be a
minimum of twenty four feet (24') wide on two-way aisles.
            (2)   The minimum driveway approach for single-family residential
shall be twenty feet (20'), and the minimum paved driveway approach for a
commercial use shall be twenty four feet (24'), with a maximum allowed two-way
approach and driveway width of sixty feet (60') as measured at the throat of
the approach, where it can be demonstrated that generated traffic warrants a
separate left turn lane for exiting vehicles, and where heavy truck use
prevails.
         b.   Exiting Vehicle Space: There shall be at least twenty four feet
(24') separating a parking aisle from the edge of the adjacent street to
provide space for one exiting vehicle.
      3.   Drive-Through And Queuing Lane Standards: Where drive- through lanes
are provided or queuing is required, the following standards shall apply:
         a.   Width: Drive-through and queuing lane widths shall be a minimum
of twelve feet (12'), with said lane widths required to be clear of any
physical obstructions;
         b.   Length: Each required queuing space shall be minimum length of
twenty feet (20');
         c.   Entrance, Exit: The entrance and exit to any drive-through or
queuing lanes shall be internal to the site, not a separate entrance and/or
exit to or from the street. Drive-throughs and queuing shall be separated from
circulation lanes needed for access and parking. No drive-through/queuing lanes
shall be located within ten feet (10') of any residentially zoned property.
         d.   Obstructions: Drive-through lanes and required queuing shall not
obstruct driveway approaches providing ingress/egress to the site, nor shall
such queuing obstruct ingress/egress to any required parking spaces.
   G.   Pavement Markings And Striping: Each parking space shall be delineated
with four inch (4") wide pavement striping. Other pavement markings for spaces
for persons with disabilities, pathways, crosswalks, stop bars, delineations,
turning arrows, bicycles, etc., may be required.
   H.   Bicycle Parking Requirements:
      1.   When Required: Permanently installed bicycle racks shall be required
for all buildings required to have a minimum of twenty (20) parking spaces.
      2.   Number: Where required, bike racks shall be provided, with the
number of bike spaces totaling five percent (5%) of the required off street
vehicle parking spaces rounded to the nearest even number, or the minimum of
two (2) bike spaces, whichever is greater, up to a maximum requirement of eight
(8) bike spaces (additional bike racks may be provided at the owner's
discretion). All bicycle racks shall be placed in locations that facilitate use
by customers and employees riding bikes, and may be incorporated into the
site's hardscape design.
      3.   Rack Criteria: A single bicycle rack element shall be designed to
meet the following criteria:
         a.   Support: Support the bicycle in an upright position by its frame
in two (2) places, without the use of a kickstand.
         b.   Security: Enable the frame and one or both wheels to be secured.
         c.   Front Or Back Parking: Allow either "front in" or "back in"
parking where a "U-lock" or cable can secure either the front wheel and down
tube or the rear wheel and seat tube of an upright bicycle.
      4.   Installation: Bicycle racks shall be installed in a manner
acceptable to the city building official.
      5.   Location: Bicycle racks shall not be located within the public right
of way, nor on private sidewalks/walkways with a width of less than ten feet
(10').
   I.   Parking Lot Landscaping Requirements:
      1.   Minimum Buffer Landscaping: All parking areas shall include a
minimum five foot (5') perimeter buffer landscaping, except as provided for in
subsection I6 of this section. Parking lots of more than five (5) spaces
located in or adjacent to a residential district shall include a minimum ten
foot (10') buffer landscaping.
         a.   Adjacent To Residential: Buffer landscaping located in or
adjacent to a residential property must meet the standards for type I
landscaping, as detailed in chapter 14 of this title, to provide a visual
buffer.
         b.   Other: All other perimeter buffer landscaping must meet the
standards for type III landscaping, as detailed in chapter 14 of this title.
      2.   Irrigation: All landscaped areas, including buffer strips and
drainage infiltration facilities, shall be provided with an automated
irrigation system.
      3.   Shade Trees: Required parking lot landscaping shall incorporate
shade trees, consisting of broad canopied class II or class III trees meeting
the current ANSI Z60.1 standards for nursery stock unless overhead utilities
indicate a class I tree. A minimum of one tree shall be required for every
twenty (20) parking spaces.
      4.   Planter Surface Area: The minimum tree planter surface area shall be
eighty (80) square feet, with a minimum width of eight feet (8') inside curb to
inside curb. Planter locations must be incorporated into the overall parking
lot design.
      5.   Soil: Soils in planters shall be scarified to undisturbed native
soil, or four feet (4'), whichever occurs first.
      6.   Special Exceptions: On lots with preexisting structures, as a
special exception, a reduction or elimination of the perimeter landscaping
requirement may be granted, provided:
         a.   Necessity: Reducing or eliminating the five foot (5') perimeter
landscaping is necessary in order to meet minimum standards for vehicular
circulation and parking.
   J.   Parking Lot Lighting:
      1.   Requirements: Any parking area which is intended to be used during
nondaylight hours shall be properly illuminated to avoid accidents.
         a.   Direction: The illumination of off street parking and loading
areas and display lots shall be designed such that lighting is directed away
from the street and adjacent properties and toward the interior of the
property.
         b.   Fully Shielded: All such lighting shall be fully shielded, and
all lighting shall be contained on the lot. "Fully shielded" lighting shall be
defined as lighting that is constructed in such a manner that all light emitted
by the fixture, either directly from the lamp or a diffusing element, or
indirectly by reflection or refraction from any part of the luminaire, is
projected below horizontal.
      2.   Exemptions: Single-family residential uses and multi-family
residential parking lots of less than five (5) parking stalls are exempt from
required parking lot lighting, however, installed lighting shall comply with
lighting standards detailed in subsection J1 of this section. (Ord. 201, 11-15-
2013)
CHAPTER 14
DESIGN STANDARDS
SECTION:
8-14-1: Purpose
8-14-2: Uses In All Zones
8-14-2-1: Exceptions To Building Height
8-14-2-2: Fencing
8-14-2-3: Landscaping
8-14-2-4: Exterior Lighting
8-14-2-5: Parking
8-14-2-6: Refuse And Recycling Collection Areas
8-14-2-7: Signs
8-14-2-8: Storage
8-14-2-9: Visibility At Intersections
8-14-2-10: Visual Screening
8-14-2-11: Recreational Vehicle (RV)
8-14-3: Specific Uses
8-14-3-1: Residential Zones
8-14-3-2: Neighborhood-Office Overlay District
8-14-3-3: All Zones; Permitted Or Special Uses
8-14-1 PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to establish the standards that apply to
specific uses. Use standards are standards generally applicable to uses
requiring a special use permit, and particular uses or types of development
that have the potential to adversely affect surrounding property or the public
health, safety and welfare if not developed and operated in accordance with
such standards. (Ord. 201, 11-15-2013)
8-14-2 USES IN ALL ZONES:
8-14-2-1: EXCEPTIONS TO BUILDING HEIGHT:
   A.   Appurtenances: The height limitations detailed within zoning district
regulations shall not apply to antennas, water tanks, ventilators, chimneys,
heaters and air conditioning equipment, or other appurtenances usually required
to be placed above the roof level and not intended for human occupancy.
   B.   Special Uses: Other exceptions to building height regulations,
including spires, belfries and cupolas, may be allowed by special use permit,
subject to the following criteria:
      1.   It has been demonstrated that the additional height is reasonably
necessary for the use proposed;
      2.   The scale of the structure is reasonably compatible with the
surrounding land uses and structures, and does not negatively impact the
character of the neighborhood;
      3.   Property boundary setbacks are reasonably scaled to the height and
bulk of the structure; and
      4.   Fire protection mitigations, as may be recommended by the Northside
Fire District and deemed necessary and appropriate by the City Council, have
been addressed. (Ord. 201, 11-15-2013)
8-14-2-2: FENCING:
   A.   General Fencing Standards: Unless otherwise provided elsewhere in this
Code, the following standards shall apply in all zoning districts:
      1.   Measurement Of Height: Fence height shall be considered the vertical
distance from the natural grade of the property at the base of the fence to the
highest point on the fence or fence structure, including all finials, caps,
posts, lights, planters, screening, landscaping berms, rockery, bases, or other
similar fencing features.
      2.   Visibility Standards: All fencing shall meet the standards for
visibility at intersections, as addressed in section
8-14-2-9 of this chapter.
      3.   Corner Lots: For properties fronting on two (2) or more intersecting
streets, no fence shall be placed within the sight triangle, modified sight
triangle, or other location, as determined by the City Engineer, that obstructs
the vision of the traveling public.
      4.   Clear Sight Triangle: Two (2) joining and perpendicular fences may
be connected on a corner lot, provided the sight triangle or modified sight
triangle, as defined, remains clear and unobstructed. The City Engineer may
require fences be set back a greater distance, as deemed necessary to meet
standard engineering practices as defined in the American Association of State
Highway Transportation Officials or the Idaho Transportation Department
standards. The City Engineer may require the property owner provide to the City
a sight distance study and/or calculations by an Idaho-licensed professional
engineer, to demonstrate conformance with standards. The cost of the study or
calculations shall be borne by the property owner.
      5.   Parcels Fronting Public Rights-Of-Way: No fence shall be placed
that:
         a.   Obstructs the vision of drivers;
         b.   Requires a vehicle to pull into the travel lane of a public road
to see oncoming traffic when accessing a public right-of-way;
         c.   Obstructs the vision of a driver on public right-of-way from
viewing a vehicle exiting a private access.
      6.   Fencing Materials: Fences and walls shall be constructed of any
material commonly used in fence construction, such as wood, plastic, stone,
concrete, but shall not be constructed of scrap or junk materials such as
tires, vehicle parts, boxes, scrap metal or other such materials.
      7.   Exceptions: Exceptions to fence standards may be considered in
conjunction with a special use permit or through the variance process.
      8.   Landowner Responsibility: The landowner shall comply with the "one
number notification service" (call before you dig) regulations of Idaho Code
title 55, chapter 22. In addition, the landowner is responsible for identifying
all property lines and meeting all utility easement conditions and
restrictions.
      9.   Notification Of Violations: Any violations of this subsection are
subject to the provisions of sections
8-3-6 and
8-3-7 of this title. Prior to forwarding the matter to the City Council, the
Zoning Administrator may request in writing that the violation be corrected by
the property owner within thirty (30) days.
   B.   Residential Zones: In all residential zones:
      1.   Fence height shall not exceed seven feet (7'), except as otherwise
provided in this title.
      2.   No fence shall exceed four feet (4') in height along the side and
front property lines within the front yard building setback area established by
the zoning district standards, except as follows:
         a.   Wire or rail type fences used to enclose large livestock, i.e.,
horses, cows, etc., may be five feet (5') high as a permitted use;
         b.   For residences with legal, nonconforming front yard setbacks, no
fence shall exceed four feet (4') along the front and sides of the dwelling, as
measured from the farthest front corners of each side of the house and attached
garage or carport.
         c.   An arbor serving as a landscaping feature over a gate, walkway,
or entrance may be permitted to a maximum nine feet (9') in height and four
feet (4') in width.
   C.   Commercial, Industrial Zones: In commercial and industrial zones,
fences taller than seven feet (7') in height shall require stamped building
plans prepared by an engineer or architect licensed in the State and shall
require the issuance of a building permit prior to erection. (Ord. 220, 5-1-
2018)
8-14-2-3: LANDSCAPING:
   A.   Definitions: For the purposes of this section, the following
definitions shall apply:
   BERM: An earthen mound designed to provide visual interest, screen
undesirable views and/or decrease noise.
   BUFFER; BUFFERING: A combination of physical space and vertical elements,
such as plants, berms, fences or walls, the purpose of which is to separate and
screen incompatible land uses from each other.
   CALIPER: The diameter of a tree or shrub trunk measured six inches (6")
above grade.
   DECIDUOUS: A plant with foliage that is shed annually.
   EVERGREEN: Any broadleaf or coniferous tree, shrub or ground cover that
holds foliage year round.
   GRASSY SWALE: A shallow, grassed, linear depression with gently sloping
sides used as percolation areas to treat stormwater runoff in conjunction with
dry wells.
   GROUND COVER: Low evergreen or deciduous plantings, often maintenance free,
planted close together and in masses. Ground cover may also consist of grass,
rocks, pebbles, sand and similar approved materials.
   PLANTING AREA: An area of land to be planted such that it will be fully
utilized under the conditions of this section.
   SCREEN: A method of reducing the impact of noise and unsightly intrusions
with less offensive or more harmonious elements, such as plants, berms, fences,
walls or an appropriate combination thereof.
   SHRUB: A woody plant, smaller than a tree, consisting of several small stems
from the ground or small branches near the ground, which may be deciduous or
evergreen.
   B.   Applicability: This section applies to all uses developed in the City,
excluding single-family dwelling units and agricultural uses of land, as
defined in this title. The requirements of this subsection shall be imposed
under the following circumstances:
      1.   New: New development.
      2.   Existing: Expansions of, or alterations to, existing uses.
      3.   Site Plan Review: Any construction, alteration or improvement
triggering the requirement for a site plan review, as detailed in section
8-4-2 of this title.
      4.   Change Of Use: Any change of use which results in the requirement
for provision of additional paved parking, or when the use of a building or lot
changes to a category of use which requires the provision of a landscape
buffer, as detailed in subsection D of this section, the new use shall provide
landscaping in accordance with the requirements of this section.
      5.   Difference Of Standards: Where there is a difference of standards
listed in this section and the specific requirements listed in individual
zones, the more stringent requirements shall be required.
   C.   Maintenance: The continuing maintenance of any landscaping required for
compliance with any development or use standard of this title shall be
required.
      1.   Trees, Shrubs: Any trees and shrubs used in the landscaping and
screening of a zone or use shall be maintained in a healthy growing condition.
The owner of the property shall bear primary responsibility for maintenance of
landscaping. Dead or diseased trees and shrubs shall be replaced within six (6)
months and the planting area shall be maintained free of weeds and trash.
      2.   Stormwater Treatment Areas: The property owner shall bear primary
responsibility for maintenance of all required stormwater treatment areas
(grass swales). All grassed areas shall be kept trimmed and maintained free of
weeds and trash. Dead grass shall be replaced within sixty (60) days, unless an
extension is granted by city council. Extensions may be granted by the city for
a specified time frame, to accommodate seasonal weather circumstances.
   D.   General Requirements:
      1.   Preservation Of Existing Trees: All trees on a site shall be
retained to the maximum extent possible. Credit may be given for incorporating
existing trees into the design if it meets the intent of this subsection,
survives through the first year, and is continually maintained in a healthy
condition. Exceptions include:
         a.   When the trees will be hazardous or may otherwise damage the
structure, streets, sewer, water or utility lines.
         b.   When the trees will not likely survive the impacts of the
construction due to condition, age, disease, increased or decreased exposure,
or location outside of a natural grouping.
      2.   Minimum Landscape Area Requirements: The following table sets forth
the type of required landscaping to be installed by the proposed use:
Zoning/Use Of Proposed Site Adjacent Zoning Landscaping
Zoning/Use Of Proposed Site Adjacent Zoning             Landscaping
All auto wrecking and junk                             Type I
yards
Commercial use              M-F                         Type II
Commercial use              R-1                         Type I
Industrial                  All other uses              Type II
Light industrial or         All residential zones       Type I
industrial use
Multi-family (3 or more     All other residential zones Type I
units)
Parking and display lots    All zones                   See subsection
                                                        8-13-5I of this title
Street frontage             All zones                   Type II
 
   E.   Landscape Types: The following landscape standards shall apply within
the city:
      1.   Type I Sight Barrier Buffers: Buffers between incompatible uses that
create a noise and sight obscuring barrier that shall consist of the following:
         a.   A minimum twenty foot (20') wide strip planted with evergreen
trees. Trees must be a minimum height of six feet (6') at the time of planting
and should be spaced to grow together in three (3) years; and
         b.   Evergreen shrubs and ground cover.
      2.   Type I Alternate:
         a.   A minimum ten foot (10') wide planting strip may be substituted
when planted with a continuous row of evergreen trees in combination with
either a continuous six foot (6') high sight obscuring wood or metal fence, or
a brick, masonry or textured concrete wall. Evergreen trees are to be a minimum
height of six feet (6') at time of planting and spaced to grow together in
three (3) years; and
         b.   Evergreen shrubs and ground cover.
      3.   Type II Visual Separation Buffers: Buffers to create a visual
separation between similar uses shall consist of the following:
         a.   A minimum ten foot (10') wide strip planted with trees, of which
a maximum of fifty percent (50%) may be deciduous. One tree shall be provided
for each twenty (20) linear feet of landscaped area and may be spaced
irregularly or clustered rather than uniformly spaced; and
         b.   Evergreen shrubs and ground cover to provide seventy five percent
(75%) coverage of designated area within two (2) years from planting.
      4.   Type III Visual Relief Buffers: Transparent buffers to provide
visual relief between compatible uses and to soften the appearance of parking
areas shall consist of the following:
         a.   A minimum five foot (5') wide strip planted with trees, of which
a maximum of seventy percent (70%) may be deciduous. One tree shall be provided
for each forty (40) linear feet of landscaped area and may be spaced
irregularly or clustered rather than uniformly spaced; and
         b.   Evergreen shrubs and ground cover.
      5.   Buffer Width Reduction: The width requirements of each landscape
type may be reduced when a berm is included in the buffer. The width reduction
shall be twice the height of the berm, but with a maximum permitted width
reduction of ten feet (10'). The combined maximum height of the berm and fence
or wall shall not exceed six feet (6'), under any circumstances, if a berm is
included in the type I alternate landscape.
   F.   Standards For Plant Installations:
      1.   Approved Trees: Required trees shall be selected from the list of
approved trees, as established by resolution of the city council. No species
other than those included in the list may be planted as a public tree without
prior approval of the city council.
      2.   Minimum Plant Sizes For Installation:
 
Type                                 Minimum Plant Size
Deciduous trees                      2 inches caliper
Evergreen trees                      6 feet height
Medium and tall shrubs               18 inches height
Multistemmed trees, e.g., vine maple 6 feet height
Small shrubs                         12 inches height
 
   G.   Consolidation Of Landscaping And Stormwater Swales: To reduce the
overall land requirements for green space, combining stormwater infiltration
areas (grass swales), with landscape areas, as required by this section, may be
permitted in compliance with the provisions of best management practices (BMPs)
adopted pursuant to this title.
   H.   Exceptions: Application for an exception from a particular landscaping
provision, regulation or standard may be made in writing to the city council.
      1.   Permitted: Exceptions may be considered for the location or area of
required landscaping, number and/or type of required plantings, or other such
design requirements for required landscaping.
      2.   Findings Required: Exceptions may only be granted by the city
council based upon the following findings:
         a.   The requested exception is based upon a unique character or
feature of the property or use, which does not generally apply to other
properties or similar uses subject to the requirement from which an exception
is sought;
         b.   The requested exception will not be injurious to the public
safety and welfare;
         c.   If approved, the requested exception will be equally protective
of the public interest, and will otherwise achieve the identified purposes of
these landscaping requirements; and
         d.   The applicant has provided detailed plans for an alternative
approach to landscaping and screening that demonstrates that intent of these
landscaping and screening requirements will otherwise be met. (Ord. 201, 11-15-
2013)
8-14-2-4: EXTERIOR LIGHTING:
   A.   Direction Of Light: All exterior lighting shall be designed such that
lighting is directed away from the street and adjacent properties and toward
the interior of the property.
   B.   Shielding: All exterior lighting shall be fully shielded, and all
lighting shall be contained on the lot.
   C.   Energy Efficient Lighting: Use of energy efficient lighting is
encouraged, whenever feasible. (Ord. 201, 11-15-2013)
8-14-2-5: PARKING:
All parking shall comply with design standards, as detailed in section
8-13-5 of this title. (Ord. 201, 11-15-2013)
8-14-2-6: REFUSE AND RECYCLING COLLECTION AREAS:
   A.   Enclosure: All refuse and recycling collection areas for commercial,
industrial, institutional or multi-family uses shall be fully enclosed behind
sight obscuring fencing, solid walls or other sight obscuring enclosure.
   B.   Access: Adequate vehicle access to and from the refuse collection area
shall be provided.
   C.   Paving Materials: All refuse and recycling collection areas and
accesses shall be paved with asphalt or concrete, or alternative paving
materials, as may be approved by the City Engineer. (Ord. 201, 11-15-2013)
8-14-2-7: SIGNS:
All signs shall comply with design standards as detailed in sections
8-15-8 and
8-15-9 of this title. (Ord. 201, 11-15-2013)
8-14-2-8: STORAGE:
All storage shall comply with the following requirements:
   A.   Prohibition: No property, or part thereof, shall be used as a storage
area for any purpose other than storage of materials used in connection with
the normal operation of the permitted uses in the applicable zone, except that
property may be used for the storage of materials used in the construction of
the building or buildings on the property.
   B.   Accessory To Permitted Use: All storage shall be accessory to the
permitted use on the site.
   C.   Screening: All storage shall be wholly contained within a building or
shall be entirely screened from view from surrounding properties.
   D.   Setbacks: All storage areas must conform to the minimum building
setback regulations of the applicable zone.
   E.   Inoperable, Unlicensed Vehicles: Storage of inoperable and not
currently licensed vehicles shall be permitted only within a six foot (6')
sight obscuring fence, hedge or shrubs, or within a completely enclosed
building, including doors.
   F.   Inoperable Railroad Cars, Truck Trailers: Inoperable railroad cars and
inoperable truck trailers used for storage may be allowed by special use
permit.
   G.   Bulk Storage Of Flammable Liquids And Gases Aboveground:
      1.   Bulk storage regulations shall apply to all aboveground storage of
flammable liquids and gases in containers holding one thousand (1,000) gallons
or greater.
      2.   Bulk storage of flammable liquids and gases:
         a.   Must be accessory to a permitted use within the zoning district.
         b.   Shall be located at least five hundred feet (500') from any
residence, school, hospital, motel or hotel, except for heating fuel storage
when that residence, school, hospital, motel or hotel is the end user.
         c.   Shall be erected subject to the approval of the fire district.
         d.   Shall have suitable loading and unloading spaces and off street
parking facilities subject to the approval of the fire district. (Ord. 201, 11-
15-2013)
8-14-2-9: VISIBILITY AT INTERSECTIONS:
Nothing shall be erected, placed, planted or allowed to grow in such a manner
as to materially impede vision between a height of three feet (3') and ten feet
(10') above the centerline grades of intersecting streets, within twenty feet
(20') of the intersecting edges of the right-of-way on roads posted fifteen
(15) miles per hour (mph) or less, and within forty feet (40') of the
intersecting edges of the right-of- way on all other intersections and all
intersections with State maintained highways and intersections with railroads.
(Ord. 220, 5-1-2018)
8-14-2-10: VISUAL SCREENING:
Where required by this title, visual screening may be accomplished utilizing a
sight obscuring fence, a solid fence or masonry wall, a fully sight obscuring
evergreen landscaping screen, or a combination of landscaping and fencing
treatments that serve to wholly block view of the site. (Ord. 201, 11-15-2013)
8-14-2-11:   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV):
The use, occupancy, and/or storage of recreational vehicles (RVs) shall comply
with the following standards in all zones:
   A.   A recreational vehicle (RV) is not considered a dwelling unit.
Occupancy of any recreational vehicle (RV) on a lot or parcel shall not exceed
fourteen (14) days in any consecutive twelve (12) month period, unless located
within a permitted recreational vehicle park. Different temporary guests shall
be permitted to occupy an RV, so long as the total days occupied does not
exceed fourteen (14) days in any consecutive twelve (12) month period for all
visits combined.
   B.   The number of occupied RVs is limited to one (1) such vehicle per lot
or parcel. regardless of the size of the lot or parcel.
   C.   Occupancy shall mean living, sleeping, eating, cooking and/or other use
of the unit for human habitation.
   D.   To protect neighboring properties from snow/rain shed and/or fire
hazards, the RV shall meet the following minimum setbacks, whether stored or
occupied:
      1.   Shall be set back a minimum of five feet (5') from rear and side
property lines;
      2.   May be up to zero feet (0') set from the front property line,
provided the RV is parked or stored within a private driveway.
      3.   Shall not protrude into or block any public easements, sidewalks, or
rights-of-way.
   E.   An RV shall not be parked on any public street or public parking area
for longer than twenty-four (24) hours.
   F.   An RV may be used as a temporary dwelling unit while a dwelling is
under construction provided:
      1.   A City of Kootenai building permit for a dwelling has been issued
for the same site as the proposed RV temporary dwelling.
      2.   The landowner has notified the City in writing in conjunction with
the building permit of the intent to occupy the RV while the dwelling is under
construction.
      3.   The building permit for the dwelling remains active.
      4.   The occupancy of the RV shall not exceed one hundred eighty (180)
days or upon the certificate or temporary certificate of occupancy issuance for
the dwelling, whichever comes first. The City Council, on the recommendation of
the City's building official and City Engineer, may grant an RV occupancy
extension for reasons or conditions beyond the landowner's control. The
extension shall state the conditions of approval and expiration date.
      5.   Provisions are made for sewage disposal, to the satisfaction of the
City.
      6.   The RV is equipped with egress windows or doors, smoke and carbon
dioxide detectors. and a fire extinguisher.
      7.   The RV is not located within a public right-of-way.
   G.   The number of off-street parking spaces required by chapter 8-13 of
this title shall not be reduced or eliminated with the parking of an RV.
(Ord. 236, 6-6-2023)
8-14-3 SPECIFIC USES:
8-14-3-1: RESIDENTIAL ZONES:
In residential zones, where permitted:
   A.   Accessory Living Units:
      1.   Permitting: In the residential zones where permitted, an accessory
living unit shall be allowed by right, with a principal residence on a lot or
parcel meeting the minimum acreage size for a single-family residential use in
that zone. For legal, non-conforming lots or parcels, an attached accessory
living unit shall only be permitted with an approved special use permit and
shall meet the minimum standards of this section.
      2.   Percentage Of Gross Interior Floor Space: The accessory living unit
shall not exceed the following:
         a.   For lots or parcels meeting the minimum acreage for the zone:
forty percent (40%) of the gross interior floor space of the principal dwelling
unit or eight hundred (800) square feet, whichever is less.
         b.   For legal, non-conforming lots or parcels of record: thirty
percent (30%) of the gross interior floor space of the principal dwelling unit
or six hundred (600) square feet whichever is less.
      3.   Number Permitted: Only one accessory living unit shall be allowed
per lot or parcel.
      4.   Ingress, Egress: No new approach from a public or private street
shall be permitted; existing ingress/egress used by the principal dwelling
shall also serve as the ingress/egress for the accessory living unit.
      5.   Open Space, Setbacks: Open space and setback requirements of the
underlying zone shall apply, excepting that a detached accessory living unit,
where permitted, shall have a front setback behind the front of the principal
residence.
      6.   Attached Units: Attached accessory living unit shall mean units that
are attached to a garage or similar residential accessory structure or attached
to the principal residence to serve as an in-house apartment.
      7.   Detached Units; Separation: For detached accessory living units,
where permitted, a minimum separation of fifteen feet (15') shall be maintained
between the accessory living unit and other structures on the site.
      8.   Construction Standards: The accessory living unit shall be
constructed in accordance with the International Residential Code for the type
of use. Prior to construction of the unit, the applicant shall obtain written
approvals from the water and sewer providers. A certificate of occupancy shall
be required prior to occupancy.
      9.   Parking Standards: A minimum of two (2) off street parking space
shall be required for an accessory living unit and shall conform to the off
street parking and loading requirements of chapter 8-13 of this title.
      10.   If no principal residence exists on a lot or parcel at the time of
construction, a new residence shall be classified as the principal residence.
The original residence may be reclassified as an accessory living unit if a
new, principal residence is to be constructed. provided the landowner obtains a
change of use building permit for the existing home and both structures meet
all zoning and design standards of this title.
   B.   Churches, Community Assembly Halls And Fraternal Organizations:
      1.   Front Setback; Lot Width: The minimum front yard setback, as well as
the minimum total lot width, shall not be less than that required on an
adjoining residence or residentially zoned property.
      2.   Screening Of Mechanical Equipment: Mechanical equipment must be
screened to limit sound transfer to nearby residentially zoned properties.
      3.   Drainage: Drainage from buildings and parking lot areas shall be
detained on site and shall be directed away from residential land which abuts
the subject property.
      4.   Loading, Delivery Entrances: Any loading and delivery entrances
shall be located away from the interface with residential uses or shall be
screened to prevent the intrusion of such activities into the adjacent
residential neighborhood.
      5.   Outdoor Lighting: All outdoor lighting shall comply with subsection
8-14-2-4 of this chapter. Additionally, outdoor lighting fixtures, including
parking lot lighting, shall not exceed fifteen feet (15') in height and shall
be directed away from residences or residentially zoned properties in the
vicinity of the site.
      6.   Landscaping: Landscaping along property lines abutting residential
uses shall be required, and shall meet the requirements of a type I or type I
alternate landscaping, as detailed in section 8-14-2-3 of this chapter.
      7.   Fencing: Fencing may be required as a condition of permit along
residential property lines if determined by the city council to be necessary to
ensure the compatibility with the adjacent neighborhood, or to prevent the
intrusion of unwanted light, dust or blowing debris.
      8.   Parking: Parking shall meet the standards of chapter 13 of this
title.
      9.   Ingress, Egress: Ingress and egress onto the site shall be so
designed as to provide safe and easy paved access, to include an off street
passenger pick up and drop off area, of adequate design to accommodate
emergency service vehicles.
      10.   Required Site Improvements: All other site improvements, as
detailed in section
8-4-5 of this title, shall be required.
      11.   Signage: All signage shall comply with the provisions of chapter 15
of this title.
      12.   Refuse, Recycling Collection Areas: Refuse and recycling collection
areas shall be fully enclosed behind sight obscuring fencing, solid walls or
other sight obscuring enclosure, with adequate paved access to and from the
refuse collection area.
      13.   Food Service, Water, Wastewater: Any food service facilities, water
supply and wastewater disposal, shall conform to regulations set by the state.
      14.   Alcohol: Any fraternal organizations or community assembly halls
serving alcohol shall comply with local and state liquor licensing regulations.
      15.   Health, Safety Requirements: Health and safety requirements shall
conform to the adopted fire and building codes, based upon the occupancy and
type of construction.
   C.   Manufactured Homes:
      1.   Defined: For the purpose of this subsection C, "manufactured home"
shall mean a structure constructed after June 15, 1976, that bears the seal of
U.S. department of housing and urban development (HUD) and/or the federal
housing administration (FHA) indicating it has met the manufactured home
construction and safety standards of that agency, and when erected on site, is
on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with a permanent
foundation, and when connected to the required utilities, is in compliance with
international building code requirements for plumbing, heating, air
conditioning and electrical systems contained therein, except that such term
shall include any structure which meets all the requirements, for which the
manufacturer voluntarily files the certification required by HUD/FHA that
indicates that the structure complies with the established standards.
      2.   Site Area: Minimum site area within the applicable zone shall apply.
      3.   Setbacks: Setbacks within the applicable zone shall apply.
      4.   Development Standards On Individual Lots: Development standards for
manufactured homes on individual lot:
         a.   Shall be multisectional and shall be no less than one thousand
(1,000) square feet;
         b.   Shall have a pitched roof, with a slope not less than three feet
(3') in height for each twelve feet (12') in width, designed to bear a fifty
five (55) pound snow load;
         c.   Shall have exterior siding and roofing which in color, material
and appearance is similar to the exterior siding and roofing material commonly
used on residential dwellings within the community;
         d.   Shall be placed on an excavated and backfilled foundation and
enclosed at the perimeter such that the home is located not more than twelve
inches (12") above grade;
         e.   Used manufactured homes will be permitted if they meet the
requirements of subsection C1 of this section; and
         f.   Shall comply with state manufactured home installation standards.
   D.   Home Occupations:
      1.   Use Subordinate: The home occupation must be clearly subordinate,
both visually and with respect to space occupied, to the primary residential
use. Not more than twenty five percent (25%) of the gross floor area of the
actual dwelling unit may be used in the conduct of the home occupation.
      2.   Outside Storage: No outside storage of goods, equipment, materials
or other instruments of production or packaging of any kind related to the home
occupation shall be permitted.
      3.   Appearance: There shall be no change in appearance that would alter
the residential character of the premises.
      4.   Traffic: Vehicular and pedestrian traffic generated by such home
occupation shall not significantly exceed the traffic attributable to a normal
dwelling unit, and any need for parking generated by the conduct of such
occupation shall be met with off street parking provided on the subject
property.
      5.   Signage: All signage shall comply with the provisions of chapter 15
of this title.
      6.   Employees: No employees (other than occupants of the residence) of a
permitted home occupation, shall work, gather, park or meet at the residence of
a home occupation on a regular or frequent basis.
      7.   Hours Of Operation: Excepting activities conducted exclusively
indoors with no external consequences, operation of a permitted home occupation
shall not be conducted prior to six o'clock (6:00) A.M. or after nine o'clock
(9:00) P.M.
      8.   Hazards, Nuisances: No home occupation shall create noise, dust,
vibration, odors, smoke, glare, electrical interference, fire hazard or any
other hazard or nuisance beyond that caused by typical single-family
residential occupancy in a residential neighborhood.
      9.   Prohibited Uses: Uses of the following type or with the following
characteristics are expressly prohibited as home occupations:
         a.   Repair and/or servicing, storing or painting of automobiles,
trucks, boats, recreational vehicles, snowmobiles, motorcycles and ATVs.
         b.   Any business creating external noise, odors, vibrations or other
potential nuisance factors, including levels of customer traffic that could
have the effect of disrupting peaceful occupancy of neighboring dwellings.
   E.   In Home Childcare: In home childcare, as defined, providing care for
any part of a twenty four (24) hour day, is subject to the following:
      1.   State License Required: The childcare provider shall secure and
maintain a basic daycare license from the State Department of Health and
Welfare.
      2.   Zoning Permit Required: Prior to operation of the in home childcare
facility, the provider shall submit a zoning permit application to the City and
obtain approval, subject to the administrative review process of section
8-3-2 of this title.
      3.   Pick Up Area: Applicant shall provide for a paved (concrete or
asphalt) on site child pick up area. If the in home daycare is located on a
collector or arterial street, the child pick up area shall be designed to
prevent vehicles from backing onto the roadway/street (backing into an alley is
permissible).
      4.   Fenced Play Area: To protect the children from hazards, such as
irrigation ditches, animals, or traffic, or to screen adjacent properties from
adverse impacts, all play areas shall be enclosed by a minimum six foot (6')
high fence.
   F.   Public Buildings:
      1.   Compatible: Public buildings, as may be allowed by special use
permit in residential districts, shall be so designed as to be compatible and
harmonious with the residential uses within the zone.
      2.   Front Setback; Lot Width: The minimum front yard setback, as well as
the minimum total lot width, shall not be less than that required on an
adjoining residence or residentially zoned property.
      3.   Screening Of Mechanical Equipment: Mechanical equipment must be
screened to limit sound transfer to nearby residentially zoned properties.
      4.   Drainage: Drainage from buildings and parking lot areas shall be
detained on site and shall be directed away from residential land which abuts
the subject property.
      5.   Loading, Entrances: Any loading and delivery entrances shall be
located away from the interface with residential uses or shall be screened to
prevent the intrusion of such activities into the adjacent residential
neighborhood.
      6.   Outdoor Lighting: All outdoor lighting shall comply with section
8-14-2-4 of this chapter. Additionally, outdoor lighting fixtures, including
parking lot lighting, shall not exceed fifteen feet (15') in height and shall
be directed away from residences or residentially zoned properties in the
vicinity of the site.
      7.   Landscaping: Landscaping shall be provided along property lines
abutting residential uses, and shall meet the requirements of a type I, or type
I alternate landscaping, as detailed in section
8-14-2-3 of this chapter.
      8.   Fencing: Fencing may be required as a condition of permit along
residential property lines if determined by the City Council to be necessary to
ensure the compatibility with the adjacent neighborhood, or to prevent the
intrusion of unwanted light, dust or blowing debris.
      9.   Parking: Parking shall meet the standards of chapter 13 of this
title.
      10.   Ingress, Egress: Ingress and egress onto the site shall be so
designed as to provide safe and easy paved access of adequate design to
accommodate emergency service vehicles.
      11.   Site Improvements: All other site improvements, as detailed in
section
8-4-5 of this title, shall be required.
      12.   Signage: All signage shall comply with the provisions of chapter 15
of this title.
      13.   Refuse, Recycling Areas: Refuse and recycling collection areas
shall be fully enclosed behind sight obscuring fencing, solid walls or other
sight obscuring enclosure, with adequate paved access to and from the refuse
collection area.
   G.   Residential Care Facilities And Adult Daycare Facilities: Where
outright allowed or allowed by special use permit, residential care facilities
and "adult daycare" facilities, as defined in this t   title, shall meet the
following requirements:
      1.   Appearance: Residential care facilities and adult daycare in
residential zones shall be designed in such a manner as to be residential in
appearance.
      2.   Ingress, Egress: Ingress and egress onto the site shall be so
designed as to provide safe and easy paved access, to include an off street
passenger pick up and drop off area, of adequate design to accommodate
emergency service vehicles.
      3.   Paved Parking: When located in the residential zones or
neighborhood-office overlay district, paved parking shall be provided in the
rear of the building, in accordance with the parking requirements detailed in
chapter 13 of this title.
      4.   Signage: All signage shall comply with the provisions of chapter 15
of this title.
      5.   Refuse, Recycling Collection Areas: Refuse and recycling collection
areas shall be fully enclosed behind sight obscuring fencing, solid walls or
other sight obscuring enclosure, with adequate paved access to and from the
refuse collection area.
(Ord. 201, 11-15-2013; amd. Ord. 221, 5-1-2018; Ord. 227, 9-3-2019; Ord. 236,
6-6-2023)
8-14-3-2: NEIGHBORHOOD-OFFICE OVERLAY DISTRICT:
   A.   Nonresidential Uses: The following design standards shall apply to all
nonresidential uses within the neighborhood- office overlay:
      1.   Design: Commercial uses, as allowed by special use permit in this
district, shall be so designed as to be compatible and harmonious with the
residential uses within the zone.
      2.   Gross Square Footage Of Structures: Structures housing commercial
uses, as allowed by special use permit, shall be limited to a gross square
footage of two thousand (2,000) square feet.
      3.   Trip Generation: Average daily trip generation shall not exceed an
estimated average daily vehicle trip generation of eighty (80) vehicle trips
per day, as based upon the current edition of the Institute Of Transportation
Engineers "Trip Generation Manual".
      4.   Hours Of Operation: Hours of operation shall be limited to the hours
of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. to seven o'clock (7:00) P.M., unless otherwise
authorized by city council, as based upon the nature of the operation.
      5.   Front Setback; Lot Width: The minimum front yard setback, as well as
the minimum total lot width, shall not be less than that required on an
adjoining residence or residentially zoned property.
      6.   Screening Of Mechanical Equipment: Mechanical equipment must be
screened to limit sound transfer to nearby residentially zoned properties.
      7.   Fences: Fences shall be maintained along residential property lines
to prevent the intrusion of unwanted light, dust or blowing debris.
      8.   Drainage: Drainage from buildings and parking lot areas shall be
detained on site and shall be directed away from residential land which abuts
neighborhood commercial and professional uses.
      9.   Loading, Delivery Entrances: Loading and delivery entrances shall be
located away from the interface with residential uses or shall be screened to
prevent the intrusion of the commercial or professional office activities into
the adjacent residential neighborhood.
      10. Outdoor Lighting: All outdoor lighting shall comply with section
8-14-2-4 of this chapter. Additionally, outdoor lighting fixtures, including
parking lot lighting, shall not exceed fifteen feet (15') in height and shall
be directed away from residences or residentially zoned properties in the
vicinity of the site.
      11. Landscaping: Landscaping along property lines abutting residential
uses shall be required, and shall meet the requirements of a type I, or type I
alternate landscaping, as detailed in section
8-14-2-3 of this chapter.
      12. Parking: Parking shall meet the standards of chapter 13 of this
title.
      13. Site Improvements: All other site improvements, as detailed in
section
8-4-5 of this title, shall be required.
   B.   Findings Required: All nonresidential uses, as may be allowed by
special use permit within the neighborhood-office overlay, shall be found by
the city council to meet the following standards, in order to be approved:
      1.   Application; Procedural Requirements: The application and procedural
requirements for a special use permit, as detailed in sections
8-3A-2 and
8-3A-3 of this title, have been met.
      2.   Site, Building Regulations: The use, as proposed, is found to comply
with site and building regulations within the zoning district, as provided for
in sections
8-11-3 and
8-11-4 of this title.
      3.   Specific Standards: The use, as proposed or with conditions as may
be specified by the city council, is found to meet the specific standards
detailed in subsection A of this section.
      4.   Site Plan Approval: The city council has found that the application
for a special use permit has met the standards for approval for a special use
as provided in section
8-3A-4 of this title, as presented, or with conditions as specified by the city
council. (Ord. 201, 11-15-2013)
8-14-3-3: ALL ZONES; PERMITTED OR SPECIAL USES:
In all zones, where permitted, or allowed by special use permit:
   A.   Aboveground Public Utility Facilities, Infrastructure: Aboveground
public utility facilities and infrastructure (excluding cellular phone, radio,
television towers and other communication transmission facilities, which are
addressed in subsection G of this section):
      1.   Occupiable Structures Prohibited: No occupiable structures shall be
permitted within any residential zones.
      2.   Minimize Impact To Residential Use: Public utility facilities and
infrastructure shall be located and designed so as to minimize the impact to
residential use.
      3.   Screening, Fencing, Landscaping: Visual screening, fencing,
landscaping and other design features may be required by the city council as a
condition of permit.
      4.   Access: Access to the site for maintenance purposes shall require
off street parking for service vehicles, with an approach permit approved by
the independent highway district.
      5.   Aboveground Facilities, Infrastructure: Aboveground public utility
facilities and infrastructure shall be subject to site plan review requirements
detailed in chapter 4 of this title.
   B.   Apartments, Multi-Family Structures: Apartment buildings/multi-family
residential structures of four (4) or more units; and apartment complexes,
consisting of two (2) or more multi-family buildings, under common ownership
and served by shared access, parking, open space and amenities:
      1.   Building Design Features:
         a.   Main Entrances: Main entrances, which are the primary points of
entry where the majority of building users will enter and leave, shall be
designed as an obvious entrance and focal point of the building through
architectural treatment, lighting and address identification.
         b.   Weather Protection: Entrances shall be adequately covered,
recessed or treated with a permanent architectural feature in such a way that
weather protection is provided.
         c.   Windows: Windows are required to allow views to exterior activity
areas or vistas. Windows shall be provided on any building facade facing any
common area used for children's recreation.
         d.   Screening Of Service Equipment: All roof and wall mounted
mechanical, electrical, communications and service equipment shall be screened
from public view from the adjacent public streets and properties by the use of
parapets, walls, fences, enclosures or by other suitable means.
      2.   Screening: Yards, fences, walls or vegetative screening shall be
provided at the edges of the development to protect residents and adjacent
property owners from undesirable views, including parking lot, storage and
solid waste collection areas.
      3.   Parking Lot Standards: Parking lot screening, landscaping and
lighting shall meet the standards established in section
8-13-5 of this title.
      4.   Solid Waste Storage Areas: All solid waste storage areas shall be
enclosed on at least three (3) sides by a sight obscuring wall or fence six
feet (6') in height or shall be stored within an enclosed building or
structure. Adequate access shall be provided for collection.
      5.   Outside Storage Areas: Outside storage areas must be screened from
public view by sight obscuring fences, walls, berms, or a combination of these,
as approved by the city council. The city council may approve alternative
methods of reducing the visual impact in lieu of screening, or waive the
requirements if visual impact is not an issue.
      6.   Open, Recreation Space: Open and/or recreation space shall be
provided as follows:
         a.   Requirements Specified:
 
Square Feet Per Unit Number Of Units
500                  First 10
400                  11 - 20
300                  21 and above
 
         b.   Prohibited Utilization: The requirement for recreation space may
not be satisfied through the utilization of required setbacks, parking areas,
yards or building separation. One hundred (100) square feet of the required
square footage per unit may be provided in private open space, such as patios
and balconies.
         c.   Special Exceptions: As a special exception, the city council may
approve a reduction of up to twenty percent (20%) of the required on site open
and/or recreation space for:
            (1)   On Site Amenities: Construction/installation of on site
recreational amenities, such as playground equipment, swimming pools, splash
pads and community gardens; or
            (2)   Public Park Land: Development and dedication of public park
land within one thousand feet (1,000') of the development, provided:
               (A)   Park improvements shall be consistent with the city
standards for private and semipublic parks, and shall include installation of
such amenities as may be approved by the city council; and
               (B)   Said park lands shall be dedicated to the city for public
use.
   C.   Animal Clinics And Veterinary Hospitals:
      1.   Distance, Setbacks; Exception: Shall be located at least five
hundred feet (500') from any school or residence, including motels and hotels,
hospitals, and residential care facilities, except for the owner's residence.
The city council may grant an exception to this setback requirement if the
animals are completely housed in soundproof structures that completely screen
them from view of the abutting residential property;
      2.   Outdoor Runs, Pasturing: If outdoor animal runs or pasturing of
large animals are provided, such pastures or enclosures shall:
         a.   Setbacks: Meet setbacks as established for principal buildings
within the zoning district; and
         b.   Landscaping, Screening: Include landscaping, screening, fence
and/or enclosure design, as may be necessary to confine the animals and screen
them from views from abutting properties;
      3.   Sanitation: Shall contain facilities for the disposal of animal
waste, which facility shall be maintained so as to prevent odors detectable
from public areas and abutting properties; and
      4.   Compliance; Maintenance: Shall comply with all other state and local
regulations relative to such operation, and shall be maintained to prevent
noise or odors detectable from public areas or abutting properties.
   D.   Bed And Breakfasts:
      1.   Defined: A bed and breakfast shall be a detached single-family
dwelling, occupied and operated by the owner or a resident manager, where five
(5) or fewer rooms are available for rent for a period not to exceed two (2)
weeks per guest.
      2.   Meal Availability: Meals served from a central kitchen shall only be
available to overnight guests.
      3.   Entrances To Guestrooms: Guestrooms shall not have separate outside
entrances as the primary method of entrance and exit.
      4.   Alcohol Sales: Liquor, wine and beer shall not be available for sale
within the establishment.
      5.   Maximum Occupancy Compliance: Events serving greater than the
maximum occupancy of the facility shall not be permitted.
   E.   Boarding Kennels And Animal Training Schools:
      1.   Distance, Setbacks; Exception: Shall be located at least five
hundred feet (500') from any school or residence, including motels and hotels,
hospitals and residential care facilities, except for an owner's residence. The
city council may grant an exception to this setback requirement if the animals
are completely housed in soundproof structures that completely screen them from
view of the abutting residential property;
      2.   Screening: Shall have such screening fence or structures as may be
necessary to confine the animals and screen them from views from abutting
properties;
      3.   Sanitation: Shall contain facilities for the disposal of animal
waste, which facility shall be maintained so as to prevent odors detectable
from public areas and abutting properties; and
      4.   Compliance; Maintenance: Shall comply with all other state and local
regulations relative to such operation, and shall be maintained to prevent
noise or odors detectable from public areas or abutting properties.
   F.   Call Centers:
      1.   Transportation Impact Analysis: In addition to the site plan review
requirements detailed in chapter 4 of this title, call centers with a gross
square footage of five thousand (5,000) square feet or greater shall be subject
to the transportation impact analysis requirements described in subsection
8-4-4D1 of this title.
      2.   Parking: Because of the greater intensity of use and operation of a
call center, as compared to other general or professional offices, required
parking spaces shall be based upon two (2) times the planned number of
employees (to account for shift changes), or double the required parking for
general office/professional offices, as detailed in subsection
8-13-4C of this title.
   G.   Communication Facilities, Wireless (WCF):
      1.   Special Use Permit Required: In all zones where permitted, Wireless
Communication Facilities (WCF) shall be subject to a special use permit. All
applications for WCF shall include the following:
         a.   Written evidence of federally mandated National Environmental
Policy Act (NEPA) review.
         b.   Objective signal strength data measured (in decibels per
milliwatt dBm) by a neutral third-party radio frequency (RF) engineer that is
selected by the city, the cost of which is borne by the applicant. The engineer
will measure all frequencies/bands/channels/specified in the carrier's license
and submit a report with the application. The data must demonstrate a need for
the facility before it is permitted.
      2.   Conditions For Mitigation: A special use permit may be conditioned
to mitigate impacts of site development. Conditions that may be appropriate for
WCF may include, but are not limited to:
         a.   Size, Setback Modification: Modification of the required lot size
or setbacks in the zoning district to accommodate the use;
         b.   Access Points: Control of the location and number of access
points to the property;
         c.   Obstructions: Limiting the coverage or height of equipment/
building structures, because of obstructions to views or incompatibility with
surrounding uses;
         d.   Screening, Landscaping: Reducing or expanding requirements for
screening or landscaping to maintain the property in character with the
surrounding area. The wireless service provider will bear the cost of all
required studies:
         e.   Future Alterations: Establishing requirements and procedures for
review of future alterations to be reviewed by the city;
         f.   Detrimental Effects: Establish regulations to protect property
and public health from the detrimental effects of the proposed use. The
wireless service provider will bear the cost of all studies required;
         g.   Design Compatibility: Designating tower design to enhance
compatibility with surroundings and the overall appearance of the city;
      3.   Parabolic Antennas: Parabolic antennas, which are a component of
communication transmission facilities, shall be of the minimum diameter
technically possible, but shall not exceed a diameter of six feet (6').
      4.   Location Of WCF: Wireless Communication Facilities including
transmission structures and any associated antennas and equipment shall not be
located within one thousand five hundred (1,500) feet of an existing school or
day care or in the following zones or within the rights of way within these
zones:
         a.   Residential zones;
         b.   Mixed residential with commercial zones.
      5.   All Wireless Communication Facilities must be located to provide
service to the City and shall not be located within city limits if that
facility will exclusively serve other jurisdictions. The service provider shall
submit an assessment prepared by an RF engineer that indicates irrefutable
evidence that the facility is needed to provide service to the City of Kootenai
residents. This evidence shall be reviewed by a third-party RF engineer working
on behalf of the city and all review fees will be borne by the service
provider.
      6.   Minor Modifications: Minor modifications of existing WCF are
permitted, provided there is no significant change in the visual appearance of
the facility. Minor modifications include, but are not limited to, the addition
of transmission and/or reception devices to communication transmission
facilities that do not materially change its appearance.
      7.   Abandonment: Any antenna or tower that is not operated for a
continuous period of six (6) months shall be considered abandoned. The owner of
such antenna or tower shall remove the same within sixty (60) days of receipt
of notice from the city.
      8.   Roof Mounted Facilities: Design standards for roof mounted
facilities:
         a.   Height: Roof mounted WCF may extend above the highest portion of
the roof, including parapet walls, by a distance equal to its distance to the
nearest exterior wall. The maximum height for any roof mounted facility,
including the building, shall be one hundred feet (100').
         b.   Setback: Roof mounted WCF shall be set back from the edge of the
building the height of the antenna and support system.
         c.   Lighting: Lighting of antennas or support structures shall be
prohibited, except as required by the FAA.
      9.   Facade Mounted Facilities: Design standards for facade mounted
facilities:
         a.   Height: Facade mounted WCF may not exceed five feet (5') above
the facade to which it is attached.
         b.   Projection: Maximum projection of eighteen inches (18"), but may
not encroach into the public right of way.
         c.   Color Of Attachments: The antenna and supporting electrical and
mechanical equipment must be the same color as the supporting structure so as
to make the antenna and related equipment as unobtrusive as possible.
      10.   Utility Pole Mounted: Design standards for utility pole mounted:
         a.   Height: Maximum height of one hundred thirty three percent (133%)
of the height of the utility pole, or an additional fifteen feet (15'),
whichever is greater.
         b.   Lighting: Lighting of antennas or support structures shall be
prohibited, except as required by the FAA.
         c.   Concealment: The antenna shall be either fully concealed within
the utility pole or face mounted (not to exceed eighteen inches (18") from the
face of the pole). Standoffs and amps platforms are prohibited.
         d.   Pole Replacement: Existing utility poles may be replaced with a
new utility pole of the same height, dimensions and appearance as the existing
utility pole.
         e.   Equipment Enclosures: Aboveground equipment enclosures on utility
poles in the right of way shall not exceed twelve (12) cubic feet in volume and
shall be constructed so as to minimize their visual impact. Aboveground
equipment enclosures off the right of way shall meet building line setbacks in
the underlying district, and shall be finished to blend in with the surrounding
area. If a security fence is installed, landscaping and screening shall be
installed to visually screen the aboveground equipment enclosure. Landscaping
and screening shall consist of a combination of trees, foliage and shrubs of
dense spacing in the form of either: 1) a screening wall or fence surrounded by
a five foot (5') wide landscape planter; or 2) a ten foot (10') wide landscape
planter without a screening wall or fence. All landscaping shall be watered,
fertilized and maintained as necessary. All dead plantings shall be replaced
within thirty (30) days.
         f.   Relocation Of Utilities: In the event the utilities located on a
utility pole are relocated underground, the communications transmission
facility shall be relocated to another location pursuant to the requirements of
this section.
         g.   Zoning Restrictions: Utility poles within residential zones may
not be used for WCF.
      11.   Freestanding Facilities: Design standards for freestanding
facilities:
         a.   Monopole Structures: Freestanding support structures for
communications transmission facilities shall be monopole structures, unless the
City Council approves a different structure for purposes of enhancing
integration of the design into the affected landscape.
         b.   Height: Freestanding towers shall not exceed one hundred feet
(100') in height as measured from the ground.
         c.   Setback: Setbacks shall be measured from the base of the tower to
the property line of the parcel on which it is located. Towers shall be set
back from all property boundaries by one hundred percent (100%) of the tower
height as measured from ground level.
         d.   Color: Freestanding towers shall be a neutral color, simulate a
standard utility pole, or otherwise be camouflaged or disguised so as to make
the tower as unobtrusive as possible.
         e.   Concealment: The antenna shall be either fully concealed within
the tower or face mounted (not to exceed eighteen inches (18") from the face of
the tower). Standoffs and amps platforms are prohibited.
         f.   Landscaping, Screening: Landscaping and screening shall be
installed to visually screen the support structure and aboveground equipment
enclosures. Landscaping and screening shall consist of a visual screen, as
described in section 8-14-2-10 of this chapter; a type I sight barrier buffer,
or type I alternate landscape screening, as detailed in subsection 8-14-2-3E of
this chapter; or, as may be required and/or approved by the City Council.
         g.   Lighting: Lighting of antennas or support structures shall be
prohibited, except as required by the FAA
      12.   Replacing Antenna: Replacement antenna arrays may be located on an
existing support structure or building without a special use permit or site
plan review subject to location requirements in section G4. If the replacement
antennas are within a residential zone a site plan review shall be required.
New antenna arrays or new technology on an existing WCF will require a site
plan review but shall require a special use permit if the height of said
freestanding facility is increased by more than fifteen feet (15').
   H.   Childcare Centers:
      1.   Generally:
         a.   Net Floor Area: There shall be a minimum of thirty five (35)
square feet of net floor area indoors per client. This space shall be measured
wall to wall in rooms that are regularly used by the clients, exclusive of
halls, bathrooms and kitchen.
         b.   Parking, Pick Up Areas: On site vehicle parking and pick up and
turnaround areas shall be provided to ensure safe discharge and pick up of
clients; such areas will be designed to prevent vehicles from backing onto the
roadway/street.
         c.   Maximum Number: The City Council shall specify the maximum number
of allowable clients as a condition of approval, based on the requirements of
this title and Idaho Code.
         d.   Compatibility: The City Council shall consider the uses of the
surrounding properties in the determination of the compatibility of the
proposed daycare center with such uses. The City Council may require additional
conditions as are necessary to protect the public health, safety and welfare of
the clients.
         e.   Distances To Specific Uses: No portion of the facilities used by
clients may be within three hundred feet (300') of an existing explosive or
hazardous material storage, including, but not limited to, the following uses:
brewery, distillery or winery, explosive manufacturing or storage, flammable
substance storage, gasoline, diesel or alternative fuel sales facility, and
manufacture or processing of hazardous chemicals or gases.
         f.   State License Required: The daycare center operator shall secure
and maintain a daycare center license from the State Department of Health and
Welfare.
         g.   Outdoor Play Area: The daycare center operator shall provide a
minimum outdoor play area of one hundred (100) square feet per child. The
minimum play area requirement may be waived if: 1) there is greater or equal
area of parks that abut the facility that can be used by the children; or 2)
the program design is such that the number of children using the play area at
any one time conforms to the one hundred (100) square foot per child criteria.
         h.   Enclosure; Screening: All outdoor play areas shall be completely
enclosed by a minimum of six foot (6') barriers to secure against exit/entry by
small children and to screen abutting properties.
         i.   Outdoor Lighting: All outdoor lighting shall comply with section
8-14-2-4 of this chapter.
         j.   Parking: Parking shall meet the standards of chapter 13 of this
title.
         k.   Site Improvements: All other site improvements, as detailed in
section
8-4-5 of this title, shall be required.
         l.   Signage: All signage shall comply with the provisions of chapter
15 of this title.
         m.   Refuse, Recycling Collection Areas: Refuse and recycling
collection areas shall be fully enclosed behind sight obscuring fencing, solid
walls or other sight obscuring enclosure, with adequate paved access to and
from the refuse collection area.
      2.   Within Residential Zone:
         a.   Compatibility: Childcare centers, as may be allowed by special
use permit in residential districts, shall be so designed as to be compatible
and harmonious with the residential uses within the zone.
         b.   Front Setback; Lot Width: The minimum front yard setback, as well
as the minimum total lot width, shall not be less than that required on an
adjoining residence or residentially zoned property.
         c.   Screening Of Mechanical Equipment: Mechanical equipment must be
screened to limit sound transfer to nearby residentially zoned properties.
         d.   Drainage: Drainage from buildings and parking lot areas shall be
detained on site and shall be directed away from residential land which abuts
the subject property.
         e.   Outdoor Lighting: Outdoor lighting fixtures, including parking
lot lighting, shall not exceed fifteen feet (15') in height and shall be
directed away from residences or residentially zoned properties in the vicinity
of the site.
         f.   Landscaping: Landscaping along property lines abutting
residential uses shall be required, and shall meet the requirements of a type
I, or type I alternate landscaping, as detailed in section
8-14-2-3 of this chapter.
   I.   Commercial And Private Resorts:
      1.   Permitted Activities: Activities permitted must be compatible with
the recreational activities of a resort and may include outdoor facilities for
swimming, boat launching, boat rentals, fishing, hunting, camping, picnicking,
skiing, snowmobiling, lawn tennis, volleyball, badminton, golf and horseback
riding. Other outdoor activities not specified may be permitted only if the
activities are a part of the operation of a resort.
      2.   Limited Commercial Uses: Limited commercial uses permitted may
include convenience food store, restaurant, bar, retail fuel service,
recreational vehicle park, motel, hotel, camping facility, laundry facility,
retail sales shops for sporting equipment, souvenirs, and art and handicraft
items.
         a.   Setbacks; Standards: Limited commercial use permitted in a
commercial resort must meet the required setbacks and standards for uses in the
appropriate zone. Limited commercial uses are permitted as accessory uses and
are incidental to the overall operation of the resort.
         b.   RV Parks: Recreational vehicle park standards:
            (1)   Parking: Recreational vehicle parking must be located at
least one hundred feet (100') from any property boundary abutting a residential
district.
            (2)   Separation Requirements: Recreational vehicles shall be
separated from each other and from other structures by at least ten feet (10').
Any accessory structures, such as attached awnings or carports, shall, for the
purpose of this separation requirement, be considered to be part of the
recreational vehicle.
            (3)   Parking Pad Material Requirement: Each recreational vehicle
lot/space shall contain a stabilized vehicular parking pad composed of paving,
compacted crushed gravel or other all weather material.
      3.   Prohibited Uses: General commercial wholesale and retail sales and
services not associated with the activities of a commercial resort are
prohibited.
      4.   Distance To Residential District: No structure or driveway shall be
located within one hundred feet (100') of a property line abutting a
residential district.
      5.   Ingress, Egress: Ingress and egress onto the site shall be so
designed as to provide safe and easy access of adequate design to accommodate
emergency service vehicles.
      6.   Internal Roads And Parking Service Areas: Internal roads and parking
service areas within the resort shall provide safe and convenient access for
service and emergency vehicles and to amenities within the recreational vehicle
park. Internal roads shall not be designed to encourage use by outside traffic
to traverse the resort to adjoining developed areas.
      7.   Landscaping: Landscaping along property lines shall be required, and
shall meet the requirements of a type I, or type I alternate landscaping, as
detailed in section
8-14-2-3 of this chapter. Visual screening, including fences, walls or
vegetative screening, as detailed in section
8-14-2-10 of this chapter shall be provided along property lines abutting
residential districts that are adjacent to any outdoor recreational facilities,
gathering places, campsites, cabins, recreational vehicle park areas, off
street parking areas, service areas for loading and unloading purposes, and
areas for storage and collection of refuse.
      8.   Fencing: Fencing may be required as a condition of permit along
residential property lines if determined by the city council to be necessary to
ensure the compatibility with the adjacent neighborhood, or to prevent the
intrusion of unwanted light, dust or blowing debris.
      9.   Site Improvements: All other site improvements, as detailed in
section
8-4-5 of this title, shall be required.
      10. Signage: All signage shall comply with the provisions of chapter 15
of this title.
      11. Hotels, Motels, Inns: Any hotels, motels or inns to be developed as a
part of the resort shall also meet the standards detailed in subsection M of
this section.
      12. Outdoor Assembly, Event Areas: Any outdoor assembly or event areas
shall also meet the standards detailed in subsection P of this section.
      13. Conditions: The city council may attach such reasonable conditions as
the record indicates may be necessary to visually screen, control dust, manage
traffic, buffer adjoining uses, or to mitigate effects on water and air
quality.
   J.   Food Processing Operations (Excluding Slaughterhouses And Rendering
Plants):
      1.   Location; Setback: Food processing operations, as may be allowed by
special permit, shall be located not less than six hundred feet (600') from any
residence, except for an owner's residence. Such facilities shall have a
minimum setback of thirty feet (30') from any property line.
      2.   Location; Design: Such facilities shall be designed and located with
full consideration to their proximity to adjacent uses, to their effect upon
adjacent and surrounding properties and to the reduction of such nuisance
factors as odor.
      3.   Maintenance: Such facilities shall be adequately maintained with
housekeeping practices to prevent the creation of a nuisance, and shall also be
subject to the requirements of the health authority as to the elimination of
waste materials and maintenance of water quality control.
      4.   Site Improvements: All other site improvements, as detailed in
section
8-4-5 of this title, shall be required.
   K.   Funeral Homes:
      1.   Location Of Entrances: Any loading and delivery entrances shall be
located away from the interface with any adjacent residential uses or shall be
screened to prevent the intrusion of such activities into the adjacent
neighborhood.
      2.   Landscaping: Landscaping along property lines abutting residential
uses shall be required, and shall meet the requirements of a type I, or type I
alternate landscaping, as detailed in section
8-14-2-3 of this chapter.
      3.   Fencing: Fencing may be required as a condition of permit along
residential property lines if determined by city council to be necessary to
ensure the compatibility with the adjacent neighborhood, or to prevent the
intrusion of unwanted light, dust or blowing debris.
      4.   Parking: Parking shall meet the standards of chapter 13 of this
title, with the number of required parking spaces meeting the requirements for
community assembly, as listed in subsection
8-13-4B of this title.
      5.   Ingress, Egress: Ingress and egress onto the site shall be so
designed as to provide safe and easy paved access, to include an off street
passenger pick up and drop off area, and adequate paved area to provide for
funeral procession queuing, while maintaining ingress and egress to the site.
      6.   Site Improvements: All other site improvements, as detailed in
section
8-4-5 of this title, shall be required.
      7.   Signage: All signage shall comply with the provisions of chapter 15
of this title.
      8.   Refuse, Recycling Collection Areas: Refuse and recycling collection
areas shall be fully enclosed behind sight obscuring fencing, solid walls or
other sight obscuring enclosure, with adequate paved access to and from the
refuse collection area.
   L.   Hospitals, Skilled Care Facilities, Residential Institutions And
Residential Care Facilities:
      1.   Paved Driveway Approaches: Such facilities shall be served by two
(2) or more paved driveway approaches, with at least one located on a collector
or arterial street.
      2.   Ingress, Egress: Ingress and egress onto the site shall be so
designed as to provide safe and easy access, to include an off street passenger
pick up and drop off area of adequate design to accommodate emergency service
vehicles.
      3.   Traffic Impact Analysis: A traffic impact analysis shall be required
for hospitals, skilled care facilities and residential care facilities over
twenty thousand (20,000) square feet.
      4.   Parking: Parking shall meet the standards of chapter 13 of this
title, with the number of required parking spaces meeting the requirements for
hospitals/healthcare, as listed in subsection
8-13-4B of this title.
      5.   Site Improvements: All other site improvements, as detailed in
section
8-4-5 of this title, shall be required.
      6.   Signage: All signage shall comply with the provisions of chapter 15
of this title.
      7.   Refuse, Recycling Collection Areas: Refuse and recycling collection
areas shall be fully enclosed behind sight obscuring fencing, solid walls or
other sight obscuring enclosure, with adequate paved access to and from the
refuse collection area.
      8.   Accessory Retail Uses: Accessory retail uses, including, but not
limited to, retail shops, food or beverage service and personal service shops,
may be allowed if designed to serve patrons of the facility and their visitors
only.
   M.   Hotels, Motels And Inns (Excluding "Bed And Breakfast", As Defined In
Section
8-2-2 Of This Title):
      1.   Location To Residential District: No structure or driveway shall be
located within one hundred feet (100') of a property line abutting a
residential district.
      2.   Ingress, Egress: The site shall provide at least two (2) separate
means of ingress and egress designed to accommodate emergency service vehicles.
Means of ingress and egress to the site shall be so designed as to minimize
congestion on the adjacent roadways.
      3.   Passenger Loading, Unloading: The site design shall include an area
for passenger loading and unloading, with queuing spaces commensurate with the
size of the facility and accessory uses contained therein.
      4.   Accessory Retail Uses: Accessory retail uses, including, but not
limited to, restaurants, retail shops, event facilities, eating and drinking
establishments and personal service shops may be allowed if such facilities are
permitted within the zoning district, or if such facilities are wholly
contained within the hotel or motel structure. Parking for such accessory uses
shall be calculated in accordance with parking requirements detailed in
subsection
8-13-4C of this title, and shall be calculated in addition to the parking
requirements for the hotel/motel operation, as based upon the number of rental
units.
      5.   Outdoor Recreation Area: No outdoor recreation area associated with
the hotel or motel shall be located within twenty five feet (25') of a
residential district. Additional setbacks may be required by the city council
as a condition of approval, depending upon the nature of the recreational use
and the potential for impact to adjacent residential uses. If an outdoor
swimming pool is proposed on site, the pool shall be fully enclosed with a
minimum six foot (6') fence, with type I alternate landscaping, as described in
subsection
8-14-2-3E2 of this chapter, installed and maintained along all sides facing
residentially zoned property.
      6.   Landscaping, Buffering: In addition to landscaping and buffering
requirements detailed in section
8-14-2-3 of this chapter, the city council may require additional landscaping
and screening and other such conditions as may be necessary to buffer adjacent
uses and ensure compatibility with the character of the neighborhood.
   N.   Event Facilities, Including Stadiums, Auditoriums, Exhibition Halls And
Convention Centers:
      1.   Location To Residential District: No structure or driveway shall be
located within one hundred feet (100') of a property line abutting a
residential district.
      2.   Paved Driveway Approaches: Such facilities shall be served by two
(2) or more paved driveway approaches, with at least one located on a collector
or arterial.
      3.   Ingress, Egress: Ingress and egress onto the site shall be so
designed as to provide safe and easy access, of adequate design to accommodate
emergency service vehicles, and with an off street passenger pick up and drop
off area, with queuing spaces commensurate with the size of the facility.
      4.   Traffic Impact Analysis: A traffic impact analysis shall be required
for event facilities over ten thousand (10,000) square feet. For purposes of
this requirement, outdoor assembly areas shall be included in the area
calculation.
      5.   Landscaping: Landscaping along property lines abutting residential
uses shall meet the requirements of a type I, or type I alternate landscaping,
as detailed in section
8-14-2-3 of this chapter.
      6.   Fencing: Fencing may be required as a condition of permit along
residential property lines if determined by the city council to be necessary to
ensure the compatibility with the adjacent neighborhood, or to prevent the
intrusion of unwanted light, dust or blowing debris.
      7.   Parking: Parking shall meet the standards of chapter 13 of this
title, with the number of required parking spaces meeting the requirements for
community assembly, as listed in subsection
8-13-4B of this title.
      8.   Site Improvements: All other site improvements, as detailed in
section
8-4-5 of this title, shall be required.
      9.   Signage: All signage shall comply with the provisions of chapter 15
of this title.
      10.   Refuse, Recycling Collection Areas: Refuse and recycling collection
areas shall be fully enclosed behind sight obscuring fencing, solid walls or
other sight obscuring enclosure, with adequate paved access to and from the
refuse collection area.
      11.   Outdoor Assembly, Event Areas: Any outdoor assembly or event areas
shall also meet the standards detailed in subsection P of this section.
   O.   Medical And Dental Clinics And Services:
      1.   Paved Driveway Approaches: Medical and dental clinics over fifteen
thousand (15,000) square feet shall be served by two (2) or more paved driveway
approaches, with at least one located on a collector or arterial.
      2.   Ingress, Egress: Ingress and egress onto the site shall be so
designed as to provide safe and easy access, to include an off street passenger
pick up and drop off area of adequate design to accommodate emergency service
vehicles.
      3.   Traffic Impact Analysis: A traffic impact analysis shall be required
for medical and dental clinics over ten thousand (10,000) square feet.
      4.   Parking: Parking shall meet the standards of chapter 13 of this
title, with the number of required parking spaces meeting the requirements for
medical/dental/healthcare practitioner office, as listed in subsection
8-13-4C of this title.
      5.   Site Improvements: All other site improvements, as detailed in
section
8-4-5 of this title, shall be required.
      6.   Signage: All signage shall comply with the provisions of chapter 15
of this title.
      7.   Refuse, Recycling Collection Areas: Refuse and recycling collection
areas shall be fully enclosed behind sight obscuring fencing, solid walls or
other sight obscuring enclosure, with adequate paved access to and from the
refuse collection area.
   P.   Outdoor Theaters, Recreational And Entertainment Facilities:
      1.   General Standards:
         a.   Setback: All structures or outdoor recreation areas shall
maintain a minimum setback of one hundred feet (100') from all abutting
residential districts.
         b.   Location To Residential District: No structure or driveway shall
be located within one hundred feet (100') of a property line abutting a
residential district.
         c.   Paved Driveway Approaches: Such facilities shall be served by two
(2) or more paved driveway approaches. Ingress and egress onto the site shall
be so designed as to provide safe and easy access, of adequate design to
accommodate emergency service vehicles.
         d.   Landscaping: Landscaping along property lines abutting
residential uses shall meet the requirements of a type I, or type I alternate
landscaping, as detailed in section
8-14-2-3 of this chapter.
         e.   Fencing: Fencing may be required as a condition of permit along
residential property lines if determined by the city council to be necessary to
ensure the compatibility with the adjacent neighborhood, or to prevent the
intrusion of unwanted light, dust or blowing debris.
         f.   Parking: Parking shall meet the standards of chapter 13 of this
title, with the number of required parking spaces meeting the requirements for
the specific planned use, as listed in subsection
8-13-4C of this title.
         g.   Traffic Impact Analysis: A traffic impact analysis shall be
required, if so warranted, as based upon the thresholds for traffic generation
as described in section
8-4-4D of this title.
         h.   Site Improvements: All other site improvements, as detailed in
section
8-4-5 of this title, shall be required.
         i.   Signage: All signage shall comply with the provisions of chapter
15 of this title.
         j.   Hours Of Operation: Hours of operation may be limited by the city
council, depending upon the nature of the use, and the potential for impact to
residential properties.
      2.   Outdoor Movie Theater:
         a.   Location Of Screen: The projection screen shall not be located
nearer than fifty feet (50') from any public street, shall not be visible from
a public street, and shall not be located nearer than three hundred feet (300')
from a residential district.
         b.   Access: The site shall have access from a collector or arterial
street. Vehicle queuing lanes, commensurate with the capacity of the movie
theater, shall be available on the property, but outside the theater entrance.
Queuing lanes shall have sufficient capacity to prevent obstruction of the
public right of way by theater patrons.
         c.   Fencing: A six foot (6') sight obscuring fence, wall or screen
shall be included in the landscape plan for all property lines abutting a
residential district.
         d.   Accessory Retail Uses: Accessory retail uses, including, but not
limited to, food or beverage service associated with the theater, may be
allowed if designed for use by patrons of the drive-in theater only.
      3.   Golf Driving Range: Accessory sales and rental of golf equipment
shall be allowed. The golf driving range shall be designed to protect abutting
property and roadways from golf balls.
      4.   Swimming Pool: Any outdoor swimming pool shall be completely
enclosed within a six foot (6') fence.
   Q.   Private Parks:
      1.   Parklike Landscaping: Trees, shrubs, grass and other forms of
landscaping shall be provided in sufficient quantities to ensure a parklike
appearance.
      2.   Irrigation: All grass, plantings and landscaping shall be served by
an irrigation system.
      3.   Outdoor Lighting: All outdoor lighting shall comply with section
8-14-2-4 of this chapter. Additionally, outdoor lighting fixtures, including
parking lot lighting, shall not exceed fifteen feet (15') in height and shall
be directed away from residences or residentially zoned properties in the
vicinity of the site.
      4.   Fencing: Fencing may be required as a condition of permit along
residential property lines if determined by the city council to be necessary to
ensure the compatibility with the adjacent neighborhood, or to prevent the
intrusion of unwanted light, dust or blowing debris.
      5.   Landscaping Along Residential Boundaries: Landscaping along
residential property boundaries shall be required, and shall meet the
requirements of a type I, type I alternate landscaping, as detailed in section
8-14-2-3 of this chapter, or other such buffering as may be required along
residential property boundaries, or adjacent to facilities that are anticipated
to attract spectators, if determined by the city council to be necessary to
screen and buffer park and recreational facility uses from adjacent residential
uses.
      6.   Compatibility: The entire layout and design shall be arranged to be
compatible with adjacent uses, and in harmony with the character of the
neighborhood and the zone in which it is located.
      7.   Ingress, Egress: Adequate ingress and egress and off street parking
shall be provided for vehicles, bicyclists and pedestrians which the park is
intended to serve. Off street parking areas shall be constructed in accordance
with design standards detailed in section
8-13-5 of this title.
      8.   Site Improvements: All other site improvements, as detailed in
section
8-4-5 of this title, shall be required.
      9.   Signage: All signage shall comply with the provisions of chapter 15
of this title.
   R.   Public And Private Schools:
      1.   Generally:
         a.   Bus Queuing Area: On site bus queuing, student pick up and drop
off queuing, vehicle parking and turnaround areas shall be provided to ensure
safe discharge and pick up of students; such areas will be designed to prevent
vehicles from backing onto the roadway/street.
         b.   Ingress, Egress: Ingress and egress onto the site shall be so
designed as to provide safe and easy paved access of adequate design to
accommodate emergency service vehicles.
         c.   Distance To Hazardous Areas: No portion of the facilities used by
students may be within five hundred feet (500') of an existing explosive or
hazardous material storage, including, but not limited to, the following uses:
brewery, distillery or winery, explosive manufacturing or storage, flammable
substance storage, gasoline, diesel or alternative fuel sales facility, and
manufacture or processing of hazardous chemicals or gases.
         d.   Landscaping: Landscaping shall be installed in accordance with
the standards as detailed in section
8-14-2-3 of this chapter.
         e.   Fencing Of Outdoor Play Areas: Outdoor play areas adjacent to
arterial streets or abutting residential properties shall be enclosed by a
minimum six foot (6') fence.
         f.   Outdoor Lighting: All outdoor lighting shall comply with section
8-14-2-4 of this chapter.
         g.   Parking: Parking shall meet the standards of chapter 13 of this
title.
         h.   Site Improvements: All other site improvements, as detailed in
section
8-4-5 of this title, shall be required.
         i.   Signage: All signage shall comply with the provisions of chapter
15 of this title.
         j.   Refuse, Recycling Collection Areas: Refuse and recycling
collection areas shall be fully enclosed behind sight obscuring fencing, solid
walls or other sight obscuring enclosure, with adequate paved access to and
from the refuse collection area.
         k.   Compatibility: The city council shall consider the uses of the
surrounding properties in the determination of the compatibility of the
proposed school with such uses. The city council may require additional
conditions as are necessary to protect the public health, safety and welfare of
the students and surrounding property owners.
      2.   Within Residential Zone:
         a.   Compatibility: Schools, as may be allowed by special use permit
in residential districts, shall be so designed as to be compatible and
harmonious with the residential uses within the zone.
         b.   Front Yard Setback; Lot Width: The minimum front yard setback, as
well as the minimum total lot width, shall not be less than that required on an
adjoining residence or residentially zoned property.
         c.   Screening Of Mechanical Equipment: Mechanical equipment must be
screened to limit sound transfer to nearby residentially zoned properties.
         d.   Drainage: Drainage from buildings and parking lot areas shall be
detained on site and shall be directed away from residential land which abuts
the subject property.
         e.   Loading, Delivery Entrances: Any loading and delivery entrances
shall be located away from the interface with residential uses or shall be
screened to prevent the intrusion of such activities into the adjacent
residential neighborhood.
         f.   Outdoor Lighting: All outdoor lighting shall comply with section
8-14-2-4 of this chapter. Additionally, outdoor lighting fixtures, including
parking lot lighting, shall not exceed fifteen feet (15') in height and shall
be directed away from residences or residentially zoned properties in the
vicinity of the site.
         g.   Landscaping: Landscaping along property lines abutting
residential uses shall be required, and shall meet the requirements of a type
I, or type I alternate landscaping, as detailed in section
8-14-2-3 of this chapter.
         h.   Fencing: Fencing may be required as a condition of permit along
residential property lines if determined by the city council to be necessary to
ensure the compatibility with the adjacent neighborhood, or to prevent the
intrusion of unwanted light, dust or blowing debris.
   S.   Residential Uses In Commercial Structure/Industrial Structure:
      1.   Entrance, Egress: Residential uses in principal commercial and
industrial structures shall be so designed as to have a separate exterior
entrance from the commercial or industrial uses, and all units shall have a
secondary means of emergency egress.
      2.   Building, Fire Codes: All applicable city, state and federal
building regulations and fire codes pertaining to firewall separations between
the commercial and/or industrial uses shall be met.
      3.   Soundproofing: Wall floor and ceiling separations between individual
units and commercial and/or industrial uses shall be soundproofed in accordance
with international building code requirements.
      4.   Number Permitted: Only one residential unit will be permitted within
a principal industrial structure.
      5.   Parking: Parking shall meet the standards of chapter 13 of this
title, with required parking spaces for residential uses provided in addition
to the required parking for the principal use.
      6.   Site Improvements: All other site improvements, as detailed in
section
8-4-5 of this title, shall be required.
   T.   Retail And Wholesale Sales And Services Over Thirty Thousand Square
Feet And Under One Hundred Thousand Square Feet:
      1.   Driveway Approaches: Such facilities shall be served by two (2) or
more paved driveway approaches, with at least one located on a collector or
arterial.
      2.   Ingress, Egress: Ingress and egress onto the site shall be so
designed as to provide safe and easy access of adequate design to accommodate
truck deliveries and emergency service vehicles.
      3.   Loading, Delivery Areas: Loading and delivery areas shall be
designed to provide adequate on site maneuvering to ensure that truck ingress
and egress can be accomplished without the vehicle backing up within a public
right of way.
      4.   Location Of Loading, Delivery Entrances: Loading and delivery
entrances shall be located away from the interface with residential uses or
shall be screened to prevent the intrusion of such activities into the adjacent
residential neighborhood.
      5.   Traffic Impact Analysis: A traffic impact analysis shall be
required.
      6.   Parking: Parking shall meet the standards of chapter 13 of this
title.
      7.   Outdoor Sales, Display Areas: Outdoor sales and display areas shall
not encroach on required parking spaces, and shall meet the requirements of
subsection
8-13-5B3 of this title.
      8.   Accessory Commercial Uses: Accessory commercial uses shall meet the
requirements of subsection Z of this section.
      9.   Outdoor Lighting: All outdoor lighting shall comply with section
8-14-2-4 of this chapter.
      10.   Site Improvements: All other site improvements, as detailed in
section    
8-4-5 of this title, shall be required.
      11.   Signage: All signage shall comply with the provisions of chapter 15
of this title.
      12.   Refuse, Recycling Collection Areas: Refuse and recycling collection
areas shall be fully enclosed behind sight obscuring fencing, solid walls or
other sight obscuring enclosure, with adequate paved access to and from the
refuse collection area.
   U.   Roadside Stands Not Meeting Setback Requirements: Roadside stands not
meeting setback requirements may be allowed by special use permit in the
agriculture and rural zones only, provided they meet the following standards:
      1.   Size, Use: Such roadside stands may not be larger than three hundred
(300) square feet in gross area, and may only be used for the sale of
agricultural products produced on the same site.
      2.   Ingress, Egress, Parking: Ingress and egress, parking and vehicular
pull offs adequate to accommodate off street parking shall be so designed as to
provide safe and easy access.
      3.   Location On Private Property: The roadside stand itself or parking
pull off areas shall be wholly located on private property. In no event shall
any portion of the structure, parking or pull off area serving the roadside
stand be located in public right of way.
      4.   Months Prohibited: Operation of roadside stands not meeting setback
requirements shall not be permitted during the months of November through
March.
   V.   Small Accessory Commercial Activities And Operations (Including Drive-
Through Food And Beverage Stands And Temporary Seasonal Retail Operations) Of
Less Than Seven Hundred Fifty Square Feet, As An Accessory Commercial Use:
      1.   Area: Small accessory commercial uses shall be clearly subordinate
to a principal commercial use on the subject property, with all temporary and
permanent structures and display areas associated with the small commercial
activity and operation not exceeding seven hundred fifty (750) square feet in
area. For purposes of this area calculation, access aisles, parking and queuing
areas shall not be considered.
      2.   Parking, Pavement Requirements: Accessory commercial uses shall be
served by paved approaches, parking and maneuvering areas meeting the standards
detailed in chapter 13 of this title, however, such uses shall be served by no
less than three (3) parking spaces in addition to those required for the
principal use located on the subject property.
      3.   Accessory Commercial Uses: Accessory commercial uses, including
associated display lots, access aisles, parking and queuing areas shall not
encroach on required parking spaces for the principal use on the subject
property.
      4.   Drive-Through Services: All establishments providing drive-through
service shall identify the queuing lane, menu and speaker location (if
applicable), and window location on the site plan submitted with the special
use permit application.
      5.   Queuing: Queuing shall meet the requirements detailed in subsections
8-13-4C and
8-13-5F3c of this title. No queuing shall be located within ten feet (10') of
any residentially zoned property.
      6.   Outdoor Lighting: All outdoor lighting shall comply with section
8-14-2-4 of this chapter.
      7.   Site Improvements: All other site improvements, as detailed in
section
8-4-5 of this title, shall be required.
      8.   Signage: All signage shall comply with the provisions of chapter 15
of this title.
   W.   Solid Waste Transfer Station, Recycling Facility, Reuse Center Or
Material Recovery Facility:
      1.   Screening: The site shall be visually screened from the street by a
screen composed of a masonry or concrete wall planted on the exterior side with
landscaping meeting the standards detailed for a type III visual relief buffer
as detailed in subsection
8-14-2-3E4 of this chapter. The screen shall be of sufficient height so that no
storage containers shall be visible above the required screening.
      2.   Maintenance: All grounds and facilities shall be maintained in an
orderly manner so as not to create a public nuisance.
      3.   Location Of Processing Facilities, Activity Areas: All mechanical
equipment emissions; power driven processing (including, but not limited to,
aluminum foil and can compacting, baling, plastic shredding or other processing
activities necessary for efficient temporary storage and shipment of
materials); and/or other outdoor activity areas shall be located a minimum of
three hundred feet (300') from any abutting residential districts.
      4.   Storage Of Hazardous Materials: For any use requiring the storage of
fuel or hazardous material, the use shall be located a minimum of five hundred
feet (500') from any residence, residential care facility, hospital, school,
hotel or motel.
      5.   Ingress, Egress: Ingress and egress onto the site shall be so
designed as to provide safe and easy access of adequate design to accommodate
emergency service vehicles.
      6.   Driving Areas Surfacing: All driveways into and through the
facility, and any parking, maneuvering or open area with a driving surface
shall be surfaced with a dustless material, including, but not limited to,
asphalt, concrete, pavers or bricks. No driveway shall be located within one
hundred feet (100') of a property line abutting a residential district.
      7.   Queuing Areas: Any queuing areas shall meet the requirements
detailed in subsections
8-13-4C and
8-13-5F3c of this title. No queuing shall be located within ten feet (10') of
any residentially zoned property.
      8.   Parking: Parking shall be provided in accordance with the standards
detailed in chapter 13 of this title.
      9.   Outdoor Lighting: All outdoor lighting shall comply with section
8-14-2-4 of this chapter.
      10.   Site Improvements: All other site improvements, as detailed in
section    
8-4-5 of this title, shall be required.
      11.   Signage: All signage shall comply with the provisions of chapter 15
of this title.
      12.   After Hours Use: Additional standards for after hours (unattended)
recycling or reuse collection centers:
         a.   Setback: Any container provided for after hours donation of
recyclable or reusable materials shall be a minimum of one hundred feet (100')
from any abutting residential district, and shall be of sturdy, rustproof
construction, and shall have sufficient capacity to accommodate materials
collected.
         b.   Standards: Standards as detailed in subsection W12a of this
section shall apply to such collection centers.
   X.   Swap Meets, Flea Markets And Farmers' Markets:
      1.   Exceptions: The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to:
         a.   Charitable And Similar Events: An event held not more than two
(2) times per calendar year, which is organized and operated for religious,
educational, hospital or other charitable purposes.
         b.   Residential Type Events: An event held not more than two (2)
times per calendar year, which is operated out of a residential dwelling,
including, but not limited to, garage, yard, moving and estate sales and
private auctions.
      2.   General Requirements:
         a.   Hours Of Operation: Hours of operation for outdoor swap meets,
flea markets and farmers' markets shall be limited to the hours of seven
o'clock (7:00) A.M. to seven o'clock (7:00) P.M., unless otherwise authorized
by city council.
         b.   Parking: Parking shall be constructed in accordance with design
standards detailed in section
8-13-5 of this title, with the number of required parking spaces meeting the
requirements for retail sales, as listed in subsection
8-13-4C of this title, with one additional parking space being provided for
each vendor stall.
         c.   Landscaping: Landscaping along property lines abutting
residential uses shall be required, and shall meet the requirements of a type
I, or type I alternate landscaping, as detailed in section
8-14-2-3 of this chapter.
         d.   Fencing: Fencing may be required as a condition of permit along
residential property lines if determined by city council to be necessary to
ensure the compatibility with the adjacent neighborhood, or to prevent the
intrusion of unwanted light, dust or blowing debris.
         e.   Site Improvements: All other site improvements, as detailed in
section
8-4-5 of this title, shall be required.
         f.   Signage: All signage shall comply with the provisions of chapter
15 of this title.
         g.   Refuse, Recycling Collection Areas: Refuse and recycling
collection areas shall be fully enclosed behind sight obscuring fencing, solid
walls or other sight obscuring enclosure, with adequate paved access to and
from the refuse collection area.
   Y.   Warehousing And Storage:
      1.   Ministorage, Self-Storage And Rental Warehousing:
         a.   Security Fencing: Security fencing, six feet (6') in height,
shall be installed and maintained around the site. Fencing materials shall
complement exterior building materials (similar color, material and/or
detailing) of storage buildings, except where obscured from public view with
landscaping.
         b.   Prohibited Uses: Areas shall not be used as dwellings or as a
commercial or industrial place of business. The manufacture or sale of any item
from or at a rental warehouse, ministorage or boat storage facility is
specifically prohibited.
         c.   Landscaping: Landscaping shall be provided as required in section
8-14-2-3 of this chapter, excepting that type I or type I alternate
landscaping, as detailed in subsection
8-14-2-3E of this chapter, shall be required along all street frontages, and
any portions of the property abutting or adjacent to residentially zoned
property.
         d.   Lighting: Lighting shall be provided in compliance with section
8-14-2-4 of this chapter.
         e.   Parking: Parking shall be provided in accordance with chapter 13
of this title. Access aisles, loading, delivery and maneuvering areas shall be
so designed as to accommodate tractor trailers and truck trailers combinations
so as to ensure that ingress and egress of these vehicles can be accomplished
without the vehicle backing up within a public right of way.
         f.   Drainage: Drainage from buildings and parking lot areas shall be
detained on site or shall be directed away from residential land which abuts
the subject property.
         g.   Site Improvements: All other site improvements, as detailed in
section
8-4-5 of this title, shall be required.
         h.   Signage: All signage shall comply with the provisions of chapter
15 of this title.
         i.   Specific Requirements: Ministorage, self-storage warehousing and
rental warehousing shall comply with all other provisions detailed in section
8-14-2-8 of this chapter.
         j.   Refuse, Recycling Collection Areas: Refuse and recycling
collection areas shall be fully enclosed behind sight obscuring fencing, solid
walls or other sight obscuring enclosure, with adequate paved access to and
from the refuse collection area.
      2.   Outdoor Recreational Vehicle And Boat Storage Facilities:
         a.   Security Fencing: Security fencing, six feet (6') in height,
shall be installed and maintained around the site.
         b.   Use As Dwelling; Camping Prohibited: Equipment shall not be used
as dwellings nor shall overnight camping be permitted in equipment storage
areas.
         c.   Landscaping: Landscaping shall be provided as required in section
8-14-2-3 of this chapter, excepting that type I or type I alternate
landscaping, as detailed in subsection
8-14-2-3E of this chapter, shall be required along all street frontages and any
portions of the property abutting or adjacent to residentially zoned property.
         d.   Lighting: Lighting shall be provided in compliance with section
8-14-2-4 of this chapter.
         e.   Parking, Pavement Requirements: Storage areas shall be paved in
accordance with subsection
8-13-5B3 of this title. Access aisles, loading, delivery and maneuvering areas
shall be so designed as to accommodate truck trailers combinations so as to
ensure that ingress and egress of these vehicles can be accomplished without
the vehicle backing up within a public right of way.
         f.   Drainage: Drainage from buildings and parking lot areas shall be
detained on site or shall be directed away from residential land which abuts
the subject property.
         g.   Site Improvements: All other site improvements, as detailed in
section
8-4-5 of this title, shall be required.
         h.   Signage: All signage shall comply with the provisions of chapter
15 of this title.
         i.   Specific Requirements: Outdoor recreational vehicle and boat
storage facilities shall comply with all other provisions detailed in section
8-14-2-8 of this chapter.
      3.   All Other Commercial Warehousing And Storage:
         a.   Driveway Approaches: Such facilities shall be served by two (2)
or more paved driveway approaches, with at least one located on a collector or
arterial.
         b.   Ingress, Egress: Ingress and egress onto the site shall be so
designed as to provide safe and easy access of adequate design to accommodate
truck deliveries and emergency service vehicles.
         c.   Loading, Delivery Areas: Loading and delivery areas shall be
designed to provide adequate on site maneuvering to ensure that truck ingress
and egress can be accomplished without the vehicle backing up within a public
right of way.
         d.   Location Of Loading, Delivery Areas: Loading and delivery
entrances shall be located away from the interface with residential uses or
shall be screened to prevent the intrusion of such activities into the adjacent
residential neighborhood.
         e.   Landscaping: Landscaping shall be provided as required in section
8-14-2-3 of this chapter.
         f.   Lighting: Lighting shall be provided in compliance with section
8-14-2-4 of this chapter.
         g.   Parking: Parking shall be provided in accordance with chapter 13
of this title.
         h.   Drainage: Drainage from buildings and parking lot areas shall be
detained on site or shall be directed away from residential land which abuts
the subject property.
         i.   Site Improvements: All other site improvements, as detailed in
section
8-4-5 of this title, shall be required.
         j.   Signage: All signage shall comply with the provisions of chapter
15 of this title.
         k.   Refuse, Recycling Areas: Refuse and recycling collection areas
shall be fully enclosed behind sight obscuring fencing, solid walls or other
sight obscuring enclosure, with adequate paved access to and from the refuse
collection area.
   Z.   Wholesale Sales And Shipping Operations (Including Distribution
Centers):
      1.   Paved Driveway Approaches: Such facilities shall be served by two
(2) or more paved driveway approaches, with at least one located on a collector
or arterial street.
      2.   Ingress, Egress: Ingress and egress onto the site shall be so
designed as to provide safe and easy access of adequate design to accommodate
truck deliveries and emergency service vehicles.
      3.   Traffic Impact Analysis: Based upon the size and nature of the
facility, a traffic impact analysis (TIA) may be required.
      4.   Loading, Delivery Areas: Loading and delivery areas shall be
designed to provide adequate on site maneuvering to ensure that truck ingress
and egress can be accomplished without the vehicle backing up within a public
right of way.
      5.   Location Of Loading, Delivery Entrances: Loading and delivery
entrances shall be located away from the interface with residential uses or
shall be screened to prevent the intrusion of such activities into the adjacent
residential neighborhood.
      6.   Storage: All storage shall be designed in accordance with the
requirements of section
8-14-2-8 of this chapter.
      7.   Landscaping: Landscaping shall be provided as required in section
8-14-2-3 of this chapter.
      8.   Lighting: Lighting shall be provided in compliance with section
8-14-2-4 of this chapter.
      9.   Parking: Parking shall be provided in accordance with chapter 13 of
this title.
      10.   Drainage: Drainage from buildings and parking lot areas shall be
detained on site or shall be directed away from residential land which abuts
the subject property.
      11.   Site Improvements: All other site improvements, as detailed in
section
8-4-5 of this title, shall be required.
      12.   Signage: All signage shall comply with the provisions of chapter 15
of this title.
      13.   Refuse, Recycling Collection Areas: Refuse and recycling collection
areas shall be fully enclosed behind sight obscuring fencing, solid walls or
other sight obscuring enclosure, with adequate paved access to and from the
refuse collection area.
   AA.   Wind Energy System, Small: Where permitted, small wind energy systems
must meet the following design standards:
      1.   Minimum Lot Size:
         a.   Residential: In all residential zones where permitted, the
minimum lot size shall be one-half (1/2) acre for one small wind energy system,
with one additional wind energy system permitted for each additional two (2)
acres per parcel.
         b.   Commercial/Industrial: Where permitted in commercial/industrial
zones, there is no minimum lot size, provided all setback requirements have
been met.
      2.   Setback Requirements: The tower and turbine for the small energy
wind system shall be set back a minimum distance equal to the tower height,
plus the length of one blade of the rotor from:
         a.   Right Of Way: Any public road right of way.
         b.   Utility Lines: Any overhead utility lines.
         c.   Property Boundaries: All property boundaries.
      3.   Height Limits:
         a.   Residential zones: The height of the tower plus the length of one
turbine blade shall not exceed eighty feet (80').
         b.   Commercial/industrial zone: The height of the tower plus the
length of one turbine blade shall not exceed one hundred twenty feet (120').
      4.   Design Requirements:
         a.   Turbine Rotation: Maximum turbine rotation design speed shall not
exceed three hundred (300) rotations per minute.
         b.   Tower/Pole Design:
            (1)   Monopole, Lattice: The tower/pole shall be of a monopole or
lattice tower design.
            (2)   Guywires Prohibited: Tower/pole guywires shall be prohibited.
            (3)   Building, Electrical Codes: The tower/pole shall be designed
and constructed in accordance with the requirements of the international
building and electrical codes in effect at the time of construction, with
construction plans wet stamped by a licensed engineer qualified to stamp
structural designs in the state.
         c.   Color: The turbine and tower/pole shall remain painted and/or
finished in a neutral, nonreflective color.
         d.   Lighting: A wind tower and generator shall not be artificially
lighted unless such lighting is required by the federal aviation
administration.
         e.   Access:
            (1)   Labeling: All ground mounted electrical and control equipment
shall be labeled or secured to prevent unauthorized access.
            (2)   Step Bolts: The tower shall be designed and installed so as
not to provide step bolts of a ladder readily accessible to the public for a
minimum height of eight feet (8') above the ground.
         f.   Signage: Commercial markings, messages, banners or signage
located on the turbine and/or tower/pole shall be prohibited.
   BB.   Wind Energy System, Distributed: Where allowed by special use permit,
distributed wind energy systems must meet the following design standards:
      1.   Minimum Lot Size: Forty (40) acres.
      2.   Setback Requirements:
         a.   Minimum From Property Boundary: Minimum one-fourth (1/4) mile
from nearest property boundary.
         b.   Right Of Way, Overhead Utilities: Public road right of way and/or
overhead utility line: Three (3) times the fall distance ("fall distance"
defined as distance equal to the tower height, plus the length of 1 blade of
the rotor arm).
      3.   Height Limits: The height of the tower, plus the length of one
turbine blade shall not exceed one hundred forty feet (140').
      4.   FAA Part 7460 Review Required: All distributed wind systems seeking
to locate within the corporate boundaries of the city shall be subject to an
FAA part 7460 review. System location, height and design parameters and/or
limitations, as may be recommended by the FAA as a result of said review, shall
be incorporated as conditions of any subsequently issued permits.
      5.   Design Requirements:
         a.   Tower/Pole Design:
            (1)   Monopole, Lattice: The tower/pole shall be of a monopole or
lattice tower design.
            (2)   Guywires Prohibited: Tower/pole guywires shall be prohibited.
            (3)   Building, Electrical Codes: The tower/pole shall be designed
and constructed in accordance with the requirements of the international
building and electrical codes in effect at the time of construction, with
construction plans wet stamped by a licensed engineer qualified to stamp
structural designs in the state.
         b.   Color: The turbine and tower/pole shall remain painted and/or
finished in a neutral, nonreflective color.
         c.   Lighting: A wind tower and generator shall not be artificially
lighted unless such lighting is required by the federal aviation
administration.
         d.   Access:
            (1)   Labeling: All ground mounted electrical and control equipment
shall be labeled or secured to prevent unauthorized access.
            (2)   Fencing: The base of the tower, and all electrical shall be
enclosed by a chainlink fence and locking gate of not less than six feet (6')
in height.
            (3)   Step Bolts: The tower shall be designed and installed so as
not to provide step bolts of a ladder readily accessible to the public for a
minimum height of eight feet (8') above the ground.
         e.   Signage: Commercial markings, messages, banners or signage
located on the turbine and/or tower/pole shall be prohibited.
         f.   Utility Notification And Interconnection: Distributed wind
systems that connect to the electric utility shall comply with rules for
interconnecting distribution generation facilities. No distributed wind energy
system shall be installed without a written statement with signature and date
from the utility company indicating that they have been informed of the
customer's intent to install an interconnected, customer owned generator. Off
grid systems shall be exempt from this requirement. (Ord. 201, 11-15-2013; amd.
2017 Code; Ord. 236, 6-6-2023)
CHAPTER 15
SIGN REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-15-1: Purpose
8-15-2: Conformance Required
8-15-3: Definitions
8-15-4: Signs Authorized Without Sign Permit
8-15-5: Signs Requiring Sign Permit
8-15-6: Permit Requirements And Administration
8-15-7: Prohibited Signs
8-15-8: Requirements For All Signs
8-15-9: Standards For Specific Sign Types
8-15-1 PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to regulate all signs in the city that are
visible from the public rights of way, public facilities, public pedestrian and
bicycle pathways, and navigable waterways. Signs provide an important medium
through which individuals and businesses may convey a variety of noncommercial
and commercial messages. Depending on their size, number and design, signs may
attract or repel visitors, affect the visual quality of the community, affect
the safety of vehicular and pedestrian traffic, and impact, positively or
negatively, the character of the community. Aesthetic considerations impact
economic values as well as public health, safety and welfare. Therefore, it is
the intent of these regulations to establish standards for the following
purposes:
   A.   Recognize and protect the rights of individuals and businesses to
convey their messages through signs and the right of the public to be protected
against the unrestricted proliferation of signs;
   B.   Further the objectives of the city's comprehensive plan;
   C.   Maintain and enhance the visual quality (aesthetics) of the community;
   D.   Improve pedestrian and motorist safety by minimizing distractions,
obstacles and visual clutter, and to ensure clear views of the roadway and
directional or warning signs;
   E.   Protect and enhance economic viability by ensuring that the city will
be a visually pleasant place to visit and/or reside;
   F.   Protect property values and public/private investments in property;
   G.   Protect views of the natural landscape and sky;
   H.   Avoid personal injury and property damage from unsafe signs;
   I.   Provide businesses with effective and efficient opportunities for
identification by reducing competing demands for visual attention; and
   J.   Ensure fair and consistent enforcement of sign regulations. (Ord. 201,
11-15-2013)
8-15-2 CONFORMANCE REQUIRED:
No sign shall be constructed, installed, structurally altered, enlarged or
relocated, except in conformity with the provisions contained herein, and only
after a sign permit issued by the city has been secured, if so required. The
changing or maintenance of movable parts or components of an approved sign, or
permitted nonconforming sign, designed for such changes, or the changing of
sign copy, business name, lettering, sign faces, colors, display, graphic
matter and/or the content of any sign copy shall not be deemed a structural
alteration. (Ord. 201, 11-15-2013)
8-15-3 DEFINITIONS:
ABANDONED SIGN: Any sign that does not display a well maintained message for a
period of one hundred twenty (120) consecutive days; any sign that is no longer
fully supported by the structure designed to support the sign for a period of
one hundred twenty (120) consecutive days; or a sign that pertains to a
business, industry or service that is no longer located on the premises where
the sign is located.
BUILDING SIGN: A sign attached to a building, including, but not limited to,
wall signs, window signs, blade signs, roof signs, awning, canopy and/or
marquee signs.
DIRECTIONAL SIGN: Any sign that is designed and erected for the principal
purpose of providing direction and/or orientation for vehicular or pedestrian
traffic.
DOUBLE FACED SIGN: A sign with two (2) faces, back to back or in the shape of a
"V", with identical messages and images, where each face is located not more
than twelve inches (12") apart at the narrowest point, and not more than thirty
six inches (36") apart at the widest point.
FACADE, FRONT BUILDING: The exterior building wall of a structure facing a
public or private right of way.
FLAG: A piece of cloth or fabric, varying in size, shape, color or design, used
as a symbol, standard, signal, emblem or insignia.
FLASHING SIGN: Signs whose illumination is characterized by a repetitive cycle
in which the period of illumination is either the same or less than the period
of nonillumination. For the purpose of this chapter, a sign will not be
considered "flashing" if the cyclical period between on and off phases exceeds
four (4) seconds.
FREESTANDING SIGN: A sign principally supported by a structure affixed to the
ground, and not supported by a building, including pole signs, monument signs
and ground signs.
GOVERNMENTAL SIGNS: Signs of governmental entities are required by law to post,
erect, provide, use or maintain, including, but not limited to, signs required
by the "Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices", and signs which
governmental entities post, erect, provide, use or maintain for the purpose of
protecting public health or safety.
GROSS AREA, SIGN: The entire area within a single continuous perimeter
enclosing the extreme limits of such sign, excluding any structural elements
outside the limits of the sign and not forming an integral part of the display.
For double faced signs, the gross area shall only include one of the sides. If
the sign consists only of individual letters affixed directly to the wall of a
building, only the area of a simple geometric figure which will encompass the
letters is counted as part of the gross area.
HEIGHT, SIGN: The vertical distance from the natural grade of the property at
the base of the sign to the highest point on a sign or sign structure.
MANSARD: An inclined, decorative rooflike projection that is attached to an
exterior building facade.
MARQUEE: A rooflike structure of a permanent nature which projects from the
wall of a building.
MARQUEE SIGN: Any sign attached to or constructed on a marquee.
NONCONFORMING SIGN: Any sign which was lawfully erected and maintained prior to
the effective date hereof, which does not comply with the requirements of this
chapter and/or would otherwise not be authorized under this chapter.
OFF PREMISES COMMERCIAL SIGN: A sign which, for commercial purposes, directs
attention to a business operated for profit, or to a product, commodity or
service for sale, at a location other than the property on which it is
displayed.
RESIDENTIAL NEIGHBORHOOD IDENTIFICATION SIGN: A sign at the entrance of a
residential neighborhood, subdivision or multi-family residential complex
identifying the neighborhood.
ROOF SIGN: A sign erected, constructed or maintained upon a roof, or which
projects above the roofline of a building. Signs mounted on mansard facades,
eaves and architectural projections, such as canopies and marquees, shall not
be considered roof signs.
ROOFLINE: The top edge of a peaked roof or, in the case of an extended facade
or parapet, the uppermost point of said facade or parapet.
SIGN: Any object, device, display or structure, or part thereof, situated
outdoors or indoors, that is used to convey a message and/or advertise,
identify, display, direct or attract attention to an object, person,
institution, organization, business, product, service, event or location by any
means, including words, letters, figures, designs, graphic depictions, symbols,
fixtures, colors, illumination or projected images.
SMALL SIGN: A freestanding sign not exceeding five (5) square feet in gross
sign area and five feet (5') in height, which is not illuminated.
WINDOW SIGN: A sign affixed to, painted upon or etched into the surface of a
window with its message intended to be visible to, and readable from, the
public way or an adjacent property. (Ord. 201, 11-15-2013)
8-15-4 SIGNS AUTHORIZED WITHOUT SIGN PERMIT:
While subject to other applicable requirements and permits, the following signs
are authorized without a sign permit:
   A.   Small Signs: Small signs are authorized without a sign permit, but are
subject to the following limitations:
      1.   Small signs may carry any lawful message;
      2.   Small signs shall not be illuminated;
      3.   No small sign shall exceed five feet (5') in height above ground
level;
      4.   One small sign shall be authorized per lot, except in the case of
warning signs;
      5.   Warning signs (e.g., "beware of dog" or "no trespass") shall be
limited to no more than two (2) such small signs in any five hundred (500)
linear feet of frontage on the parcel; and
      6.   Small signs shall not exceed five (5) square feet in gross area.
   B.   Governmental Signs: "Governmental signs", as defined in section
8-15-3 of this chapter, do not require a sign permit.
   C.   Street Name Signs: Public or private street signs identifying the
official street name, as authorized and/or approved by the city, and conforming
to the "Manual Of Uniform Traffic Control Devices" (MUTCD), and other such
standards as may be adopted by the city council.
   D.   Directional Signs: Directional signs do not require a sign permit, but
are subject to the following limitations:
      1.   Only one exit/entrance directional sign shall be authorized per
legal approach.
      2.   Directional signs shall not exceed two (2) square feet in gross
area.
      3.   Not more than twenty five percent (25%) of the area of such sign
shall be devoted to personal or business identification or logos.
      4.   Regulatory and/or traffic control signs shall not be considered
directional signs, as defined herein.
   E.   Flags: Flags do not require a sign permit, but are subject to the
following limitations:
      1.   Groupings of more than three (3) flags on a single lot shall require
a sign permit.
      2.   A flagpole for such an exempted flag may not exceed thirty five feet
(35') above ground level.
      3.   Such flag shall not exceed a maximum area of sixty (60) square feet.
   F.   Danger/Hazard Signs: Signs exclusively devoted to warning the public of
dangerous conditions or hazards (e.g., dropoffs, high voltage, fire danger or
explosives) are authorized without a permit; provided, that such signs do not
exceed five (5) square feet in gross area, unless otherwise provided by state
or federal law.
   G.   Physical Street Address Signs:
      1.   Physical street address numbers, posted on a building in a manner
that is clearly visible from the road; or
      2.   In the case of structures that are located more than seventy five
feet (75') from the edge of the roadway, or are not clearly visible from the
road, a freestanding sign displaying only the physical street address, that is
located adjacent to the driveway approach and roadway, of a height of not less
than four feet (4'), nor more than six feet (6'), and with a gross sign area
not to exceed two (2) square feet.
   H.   Window Signs: Signs that are painted, posted or etched on windows are
allowed for all zones, subject to the following limitations:
      1.   The aggregate area of all such signs shall not exceed twenty five
percent (25%) of the window area on which such signs are displayed.
      2.   Lettering shall not exceed eight inches (8") in height.
      3.   Windows separated by mullions shall be considered one continuous
window area.
      4.   Window signs shall not be assessed against the sign area permitted
for other sign types.
   I.   Banners: Banners used on private property for a period of no more than
thirty (30) days in any calendar year do not require a sign permit. (Ord. 201,
11-15-2013)
8-15-5 SIGNS REQUIRING SIGN PERMIT:
Subject to the applicable requirements of this chapter, this title and the
official building code as adopted by the city, signs shall be authorized with
an approved sign permit, as detailed below for each of the identified zoning
designations: (Ord. 201, 11-15-2013)
   A.   Agriculture, Residential And Neighborhood-Office Zone Designations: In
addition to those signs authorized without a sign permit, the following signs
shall be allowed in the agriculture and all residential and neighborhood-office
zones with an approved sign permit, subject to standards as detailed below, the
general provisions and requirements for all signs, and specific standards for
each sign type as detailed in this chapter: (Ord. 201, 11-15-2013; amd. 2017
Code)
      1.   Nonresidential Uses: For all nonresidential uses, excluding home
occupations (e.g., churches, schools, community centers, neighborhood-office
commercial uses):
         a.   Building Signs: Building signs, subject to the following
limitations:
            (1)   Wall, blade, window, awning, canopy or marquee signs are
permitted, subject to standards applicable to the specific sign type, provided
total building signage does not exceed ten percent (10%) of the area of the
front building facade.
            (2)   Roof signs shall be prohibited.
         b.   Freestanding Monument Or Ground Signs: Freestanding monument or
ground signs, subject to the following limitations: On lots with a minimum
street frontage of one hundred feet (100'), one freestanding monument or ground
sign shall be allowed, or, if the lot has multiple street frontages of greater
than one hundred feet (100') each, one such sign per street frontage with an
approved approach may be permitted, subject to the following restrictions:
            (1)   The gross area for each such authorized monument or ground
sign shall not exceed twenty four (24) square feet;
            (2)   The area of structural support elements for the sign shall
not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the message portion of the sign; and
            (3)   The height of said monument/ground signs shall not exceed
five feet (5').
      2.   Residential Neighborhood Signs: Residential neighborhood signs
(e.g., single-family subdivision, multi-family housing complexes, etc.) and
subdivision signs shall be limited to one monument or ground sign per public or
private street entrance located on a collector or arterial street, subject to
the following restrictions:
         a.   Gross area of each permitted sign shall not exceed twenty four
(24) square feet;
         b.   The area of structural support elements for the sign shall not
exceed fifty percent (50%) of the message portion of the sign; and
         c.   The height of the sign shall not exceed five feet (5') from the
natural grade of the land at the base of the sign.
      3.   Illuminated Signs: Flashing, animated, revolving and/or neon gas
illuminated signs of any type are prohibited in the agriculture and all
residential zones.
   B.   Commercial And Industrial Zone Designations (Excluding Neighborhood-
Office Overlay): In addition to those signs authorized without a sign permit,
the following signs shall be allowed in all commercial and industrial zones
with an approved sign permit, subject to standards as detailed below, the
general provisions and requirements for all signs, and specific standards for
each sign type as detailed in this chapter:
      1.   Building Signage: Each building or business is permitted roof, wall,
window, awning, canopy or marquee signs and/or blade signs, subject to
standards applicable to the specific sign type, provided total building signage
does not exceed ten percent (10%) of the area of the front building facade; and
      2.   Freestanding Signs: One freestanding sign shall be permitted for
every one hundred fifty (150) linear feet of public street frontage or thirty
thousand (30,000) square feet of lot area, up to a maximum of three (3)
freestanding signs per development lot, subject to the height and area limits
detailed in the following table. Where more than one freestanding sign is
permitted, the total linear feet of street frontage is divided by the number of
proposed signs on the development lot to determine the street frontage per
sign:
 
Feet Of Street Frontage (Per Less Than 150  150 To 300      Greater Than 300
Sign)
Maximum sign height          20 feet        25 feet         30 feet
Maximum sign area            85 square feet 100 square feet 150 square feet
 
(Ord. 201, 11-15-2013)
8-15-6 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS AND ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Permit Required: A permit shall be required for all signs, except those
expressly authorized without a permit. Exemption from permit shall not,
however, exempt the owner of the sign from responsibility for its erection and
maintenance in a safe manner, and in a manner in accordance with all other
provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Alteration, Enlargement Or Relocation Of Signs: No sign shall be
structurally altered, enlarged or relocated, except in conformity to the
provisions herein, and only upon applying for and securing a permit, unless
expressly authorized without a permit.
   C.   Application Requirements:
      1.   Form: The applicant must complete and submit the city's standard
sign permit application form, which shall be accompanied by a signed letter of
consent from the property owner, if the property owner is not the applicant;
      2.   Location, Dimensions: The application shall include the location and
dimension of all existing and proposed signs on the development lot;
      3.   Site Plan: The application shall be accompanied by a site plan,
drawn to scale, depicting the dimensions of lot, location of all right of way/
street frontages and ingress/egress to the site, building footprint, including
size and dimensions of the building, and building facade where existing signs
are located, and where proposed signs are to be located;
      4.   Graphic Depiction: The applicant shall provide a graphic depiction,
drawn to scale, of the dimension and design of all existing and proposed signs
on the development lot; and
      5.   Construction Plans: Construction plans required for all proposed new
signs shall be drawn to scale, and shall include dimensions, materials and
required details of construction, including loads, stresses, anchorage and
other pertinent data. Said building plans shall contain the seal and signature
of a registered design professional or professionals, if so required by the
adopted building code of the city.
   D.   Permit Fees: Fees for sign permits, as established by resolution of the
city council, shall be due and payable at the time of permit issuance.
   E.   Processing Of Permit Applications:
      1.   Decision; Time Limit: Within forty five (45) business days of
receipt of a complete application for sign permit, the city planner will:
         a.   Approve the sign permit application;
         b.   Approve the sign permit application with conditions; or
         c.   Deny the permit application.
      2.   Statement For Denial: If the permit application is denied, staff
will provide a written statement of the reasons for denial, and what, if
anything, can be done to make the application approvable.
      3.   Issuance Of Permit: Upon approval of the sign permit application,
satisfaction of any conditions that may be applicable prior to permit issuance
and receipt of the applicable sign permit fees, the sign permit will be issued
by the city.
   F.   Standards For Sign Permit Approval: The city planner shall approve the
permit application, if all of the following standards have been met (or if said
standards can be met, with conditions as may be included in a conditional
approval):
      1.   Compliance With Chapter: The sign, as proposed, meets all applicable
requirements of this chapter;
      2.   Building, Electrical Code Compliance: The sign, as proposed, meets
all applicable requirements of the city's adopted building and applicable
electrical codes;
      3.   No Violations: The sign, as proposed, does not violate any other
applicable ordinances and/or standards of the city, state and federal
government.
   G.   Appeal Of Decision By City Planner: Permit decisions by the city
planner may be appealed to city council in accordance with the procedures
detailed in chapter 3 of this title. (Ord. 201, 11-15-2013)
8-15-7 PROHIBITED SIGNS:
The following signs are expressly prohibited in all districts within the city:
   A.   Signs Constructed Without Required Permit: Any sign constructed after
the effective date hereof without a sign permit approved by the city, excepting
those signs expressly identified as signs authorized without a sign permit.
   B.   Signs Which Obstruct Or Interfere With Traffic: Signs located in such a
manner as to obstruct or otherwise interfere with an official traffic sign,
signal or device, or obstruct or interfere with a driver's view of approaching,
merging or intersecting traffic.
   C.   Signs Which Simulate Traffic Control Devices: Signs which simulate or
imitate the size, lettering, illumination or design of any traffic control
device in such a manner as to interfere with, mislead or confuse the public.
   D.   Signs On Public Property: No portion of a privately owned sign, or its
supporting structure may be located on, extend into, encroach upon, or overhang
publicly owned property, or a public right of way (such as a street, sidewalk
or waterway).
   E.   Flashing Signs: Signs which blink, flash or are animated by lighting in
such a way as to have the appearance of traffic safety signs and/or lights, or
municipal vehicle warnings from a distance.
   F.   Signs Attached To Vehicles: Any sign attached to or placed on a vehicle
or trailer parked on public or private property in a position visible to
traffic on a public road, waterway or parking area for a period longer than six
(6) days in a sixty (60) day period, except for signs meeting the following
conditions:
      1.   Primary Purpose: The primary purpose of such vehicle or trailer is
not the display of signs;
      2.   Type Of Signs: The signs are magnetic, decals or painted upon an
integral part of the vehicle or equipment as originally designed by the
manufacturer, and do not break the silhouette of the vehicle; and
      3.   Vehicle Operating Condition; Licensed: The vehicle is in operating
condition, currently registered and licensed to operate on public streets when
applicable, and actively used or available for use in the daily function of the
business to which such signs relate.
   G.   Revolving: Revolving signs.
   H.   Off Premises Commercial: Off premises commercial signs, as defined in
section
8-15-3 of this chapter. (Ord. 201, 11-15-2013)
8-15-8 REQUIREMENTS FOR ALL SIGNS:
   A.   Conformance To Ordinances: Any sign hereafter erected shall conform to
provisions of this chapter, and all other applicable provisions of other city
ordinances.
   B.   Sign Setbacks, Generally: All freestanding signs shall be set back a
minimum of five feet (5') behind the back of sidewalk (or the property line,
where no sidewalk is present) and shall not extend into the public right of
way, or over the edge of sidewalk, if said sidewalk is located in an easement
rather than right of way.
   C.   Traffic Visibility: Signs and sign structures shall not be erected in
such location as to cause visual obstruction or interference with motor vehicle
traffic, or traffic control devices. Signs and/or sign structures shall not
obstruct the line of vision in any direction from any street intersection or
driveway. Specifically, signs and sign structures shall not be located within
the sight triangle, as defined by this title, and/or street standards as
adopted by the city council.
   D.   Construction: The following standards shall apply to the construction
of all signs in the city, regardless of whether the sign does or does not
require a sign permit:
      1.   Code Requirements: All signs shall be constructed in compliance with
the adopted building and electrical codes of the city and the state.
      2.   Fastenings: All signs must remain safe and secure during the period
of use. All parts of the signs, including bolts and cables, shall remain
painted and free of corrosion.
      3.   Stability: Signs shall be constructed so that they will withstand
wind pressure of at least seventy (70) pounds per square foot of surface and
will otherwise structurally be safe, and securely anchored or otherwise
fastened, suspended or supported so that they will not be a hazard to persons
or property.
      4.   Lighting: External lighting shall be shielded from view and shall be
focused on the sign to avoid stray lighting. Flashing, rotating and
intermittent lighting is prohibited.
      5.   Identification: All signs shall identify the name and an operating
phone number of the owner and person responsible for maintenance of the sign.
This information shall be posted on a weatherproof label of two inches by four
inches (2" x 4"), located on the bottom portion of the sign frame nearest the
closest right of way.
      6.   Proximity To Electrical Conductors: Signs and their supporting
structures shall be located no closer to electrical utilities than is permitted
by the applicable code. No sign, including cables and support shall, in any
event, be within six feet (6') of any electrical conductor, electrical light
pole, electric streetlight, traffic light or public utility pole.
      7.   Prohibited Obstruction: Signs shall not be erected in any manner
which interferes with free passage from, or otherwise obstructs, a fire escape,
downspout, window, door, stairway, ladder or opening required as a means of
ingress or egress, or required by code for the provision of light, air or
stormwater drainage.
   E.   Maintenance Of Signs: All signs and sign structures shall be properly
maintained in good condition and repair. Should any sign become structurally
unsafe or a safety hazard, the owner, upon notification by the city, shall be
required to return the sign to a safe condition or remove the sign.
   F.   Removal Of Obsolete, Nonmaintained Or Abandoned Signs: All signs,
including those painted on a building, which no longer serve the purpose for
which they were intended, are not maintained, have been determined to present a
hazard, or have otherwise been abandoned, shall be removed or restored by the
business or property owner within thirty (30) days of notice by the city.
   G.   Nonconforming Signs: Any legally permitted sign existing at the passage
date hereof that does not conform in use, location, height or size with the
regulations of the zone in which the sign is located, shall be considered a
legal nonconforming use or structure, and shall be permitted to continue in
such status until such time as the sign is abandoned, removed, relocated or
replaced, subject to the following restrictions:
      1.   Alterations: The structure of the sign may not be altered in any way
except toward compliance with this chapter. Structural alterations which are
necessary for the maintenance, repair or restoration of the nonconforming sign
are permissible, provided said alterations do not increase the size, height,
degree of nonconformity or exceed fifty percent (50%) of the replacement value
of the sign.
      2.   Replacement: The legal, nonconforming sign may not be replaced,
except with a sign conforming to the requirements of this chapter.
      3.   Safety, Maintenance, Repair: The legal nonconforming sign is subject
to all requirements of this chapter regarding safety, maintenance and repair.
If, however, the sign suffers damage or deterioration in excess of fifty
percent (50%) of its replacement value, it must be brought into compliance with
this chapter or removed within thirty (30) days of notification by the city.
      4.   Changing Copy, Content: The changing of sign copy, business name,
lettering, sign faces, colors, display, graphic matter and/or the content of
any sign copy shall not be deemed an alteration or replacement.
   H.   First Amendment Protection: Any sign allowed under this chapter may
contain, in lieu of any other text, any otherwise lawful noncommercial message
that does not, for commercial purposes, direct attention to a business operated
for profit or to a product, commodity or service for sale, provided said sign
complies with all other provisions of this chapter, including the specific
provisions for the type of sign, within the land use designation/zone where the
sign is placed. This provision prevails over any more specific provisions to
the contrary. (Ord. 201, 11-15-2013)
8-15-9 STANDARDS FOR SPECIFIC SIGN TYPES:
   A.   Building Signs, Generally: If a building contains walls facing more
than one street frontage, the sign area will be computed for each building wall
facing a different street frontage. The sign area thus calculated shall be
allowed to then apply to permitted signs placed on each separate wall facing a
street frontage.
   B.   Freestanding Signs, Generally: For lots with more than one street
frontage, sign area for each frontage shall be calculated separately for each
different street frontage, however, in no event shall a development lot exceed
the maximum number of freestanding signs allowed.
   C.   Awning, Canopy And Marquee Signs:
      1.   Size: Sign lettering and logos shall not comprise more than thirty
percent (30%) of the total exterior surface.
      2.   Location: Shall be located a minimum of eight feet (8') above ground
level.
   D.   Projecting/Blade Signs: Projecting/blade signs, attached to and
projecting from a building face or wall at a ninety degree (90°) angle:
      1.   Projection: Shall not project more than eight feet (8') from the
building;
      2.   Height: Shall not exceed a maximum height of four feet (4');
      3.   Area: Shall not exceed a maximum area of twenty (20) square feet;
      4.   Location: Shall be located a minimum of eight feet (8') and a
maximum of fourteen feet (14') above the sidewalk grade, as measured from the
sidewalk to the bottom of the frame of the sign; and
      5.   Blade Signs For Multiple Commercial Tenants: For buildings with
multiple commercial tenants, each business may be permitted one blade sign;
provided, that blade signs are separated by a minimum of twenty five feet
(25').
   E.   Roof Signs: Roof signs are only permitted in the industrial and
commercial zones, excluding, however, the downtown commercial district. Where
allowed, signs mounted on or above rooftops shall not extend more than ten feet
(10') above the roofline, and shall be limited in allowable area for building
signage in the applicable zone. The sign area for roof signs shall be assessed
against building signage.
   F.   Wall Signs:
      1.   Mounting: Shall be mounted flush and fixed securely to a building
wall; and
      2.   Projections: May project no more than twelve inches (12") from the
face of the building wall, and shall not extend sideways beyond the building
face or the highest line of the building to which it is attached. (Ord. 201,
11-15-2013)
CHAPTER 16
NONCONFORMITIES
SECTION:
8-16-1: Purpose, Scope And Applicability
8-16-2: Legal Nonconforming Lots Of Record
8-16-3: Legal Nonconforming Uses
8-16-4: Repairs And Maintenance
8-16-1 PURPOSE, SCOPE AND APPLICABILITY:
   A.   Where, within the district or zone established by this title, or
amendments that may later be adopted, there exist lots, structures, uses of
land and structures in combination, and characteristics of use which were
lawful before this title was passed or amended, but which would be prohibited,
regulated or restricted under the terms of this title or future amendment, it
is the purpose of this chapter to permit these nonconformities to continue
until they are removed. It is further the purpose of this chapter that
nonconformities shall not be enlarged upon, expanded or extended, and not be
used as grounds for adding other structures or uses prohibited elsewhere in the
same zone or district.
   B.   Nonconforming uses are declared by this title to be incompatible with
permitted uses in the zones or districts involved. A nonconforming use of
structure and land in combination shall not be extended or enlarged after
passage of this title or its amendment by attachment on a building or premises
or by the addition of other uses, of a nature which would be prohibited
generally in the zone or district involved.
   C.   To avoid undue hardship, nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to
require a change in the plans, construction or designated use of any building
on which actual construction was lawfully begun prior to the amendment of this
title and upon which actual building construction has been carried on
diligently. "Actual construction" is hereby defined to include the placing of
construction materials in its permanent location, or demolition or removal of
an existing building has been substantially begun preparatory to rebuilding,
such excavation or demolition or removal shall be deemed to be actual
construction; provided, that work shall be carried on diligently. (Ord. 201,
11-15-2013)
8-16-2 LEGAL NONCONFORMING LOTS OF RECORD:
All existing platted subdivision lots that do not meet the minimum lot area and
dimension standards of the district within which they are located are hereby
deemed nonconforming lots. Any lot that was legally created prior to the
effective date hereof may be used in conformance with the uses permitted by the
zoning district within which it is located; provided, that all yard and setback
requirements are met. Variance requests for yard and/or setback requirements
shall follow the procedures detailed in chapter 3, article B of this title.
(Ord. 201, 11-15-2013)
8-16-3 LEGAL NONCONFORMING USES:
   A.   Legal nonconforming uses shall not be expanded, enlarged, extended,
constructed, reconstructed, moved or structurally altered, except in changing
the use to a use permitted in the zone or district in which it is located,
except as provided for in this section;
   B.   Any existing nonconforming use may be extended throughout any parts of
a building which were manifestly arranged or designed for such use at the time
of adoption or amendment hereof, but no such use shall be extended to occupy
any land outside such building;
   C.   If no structural alterations are made, any nonconforming use of a
structure, or structure and premises, may, as a special exception, be changed
to another nonconforming use; provided, that the city council finds that the
proposed use is equally appropriate or more appropriate to the zone or district
than the existing nonconforming use. In permitting such change, the city
council may require appropriate conditions and safeguards in accordance with
the provisions of this title;
   D.   Any structure, or structure and land in combination, in or on which a
nonconforming use is superseded by a permitted use, shall thereafter conform to
the regulations for the zone or district, and the nonconforming use may not
thereafter be resumed;
   E.   When a nonconforming use of land, structure, or structure and land in
combination, is discontinued or abandoned for a period of one year or longer,
the structure, or structure and land in combination, shall not thereafter be
used except in conformity with the regulations of the zone or district in which
it is located, except as provided in Idaho Code section 67-6538;
   F.   Where nonconforming use status applies to a structure and premises in
combination, removal or destruction of the structure shall eliminate the
nonconforming use status of the land. "Destruction", for the purpose of this
subsection, is defined as damage to an extent of more than fifty percent (50%)
of the replacement cost at the time of destruction;
   G.   Manufactured home parks legally approved prior to the date of the
adoption of this title or prior to annexation to the city may continue;
provided, that the number of units and the density of the park do not increase
beyond that in existence upon the effective date hereof. Normal and routine
maintenance shall be allowed;
   H.   Manufactured homes for residential use sited within legally
nonconforming manufactured home parks may be replaced with an equivalent year
model or newer manufactured home; provided, that the replacement was
constructed after 1976 and bears the seal of the U.S. department of housing and
urban development indicating it has met the manufactured home construction and
safety standards of the U.S. department of housing and urban development. (Ord.
201, 11-15-2013)
8-16-4 REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE:
   A.   Permitted: On any nonconforming structure or portion of a structure
containing a nonconforming use, work may be done on ordinary repairs, such as
walls, fixtures, wiring or plumbing; provided, that the cubic content existing
when it became nonconforming shall not be increased.
   B.   Unsafe Structures: If a nonconforming structure or portion of a
structure containing a nonconforming use becomes physically unsafe or unlawful
due to lack of repairs and maintenance, and is declared by any duly authorized
official to be unsafe or unlawful by reasons of physical condition, it shall
not be thereafter restored, repaired or rebuilt, except in conformity with the
regulations of the zone or district in which it is located. (Ord. 201, 11-15-
2013)
TITLE 9
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
9-1-1: Title
9-1-2: Purpose
9-1-3: Authority
9-1-4: Fees And Mitigation
9-1-5: Enforcement And Penalties
9-1-6: Appeals
9-1-1 TITLE:
This title shall be known as the CITY OF KOOTENAI SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS.
(Ord. 216, 7-11-2017)
9-1-2 PURPOSE:
The purpose of this title is to:
   A.   Provide for the orderly division of land within the City;
   B.   Protect and provide for the public health, safety, and general welfare
of the citizens of Kootenai;
   C.   Guide the future growth and development of the City in accordance with
the Comprehensive Plan;
   D.   Encourage the orderly and beneficial development of the community's
land;
   E.   Guide public policy to provide adequate and efficient streets,
sewerage, drainage, parks, and public facilities;
   F.   Establish standards for development and installation of improvements
for subdivisions, including water, sewer, streets and drainage;
   G.   Further the orderly layout and use of land, and to ensure proper legal
description and monumentation of subdivided land;
   H.   Ensure that public facilities and services are available concurrent
with development and will have sufficient capacity to serve the subdivision;
   I.   Ensure the community will bear no more than its fair share of any cost
to provide services by requiring the developer to furnish land, or establish
mitigation measures to provide a fair share of capital facilities needs
generated by the development;
   J.   Assure the adequacy of drainage facilities to safeguard the water
table, and to encourage the wise use and management of natural resources to
preserve the stability and beauty of the community and the value of the land;
and
   K.   Provide open space through the most efficient design and layout of
land, while preserving the density of development as established in the zoning
regulations of Kootenai. (Ord. 216, 7-11-2017)
9-1-3 AUTHORITY:
   A.   This title is adopted pursuant to the authority delegated to the City
pursuant to article XII, section 2 of the Idaho Constitution, Idaho Code, title
50, chapter 3, title 50, chapter 13, and title 67, chapter 65.
   B.   The provisions of this title shall be administered to ensure orderly
growth and development and in accord with the goals and objectives of the
Kootenai Comprehensive Plan, this title, and the capital improvements plan, as
may be adopted by the City of Kootenai. The City Council and administrative
staff and representatives of Kootenai have the authority to review, approve,
approve with conditions, or disapprove applications submitted under the terms
of this title. (Ord. 216, 7-11-2017)
9-1-4 FEES AND MITIGATION:
   A.   The City Council may adopt by resolution fees related to the cost of
services associated with review, processing, and inspection of applications
filed under the provisions of this title.
   B.   The City may condition approval of applications governed by this title
to require mitigation of the effects of development on the ability of the City,
and other political subdivisions, to deliver services without compromising
quality or imposing substantial additional costs to current residents. (Ord.
216, 7-11-2017)
9-1-5 ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
   A.   No building permit shall be issued for the construction of any building
or structure located on a platted lot or parcel subdivided or sold in violation
of the provisions of these regulations or State platting statutes, nor shall
the City have any obligation to issue any certificates of occupancy or provide
Municipal services to any parcel created or established in violation of these
provisions. The authority to approve or deny a permit shall apply whether the
applicant was the owner of the lot or parcel at the time of the division, or
whether the applicant is the current owner of the lot or parcel with, or
without, actual or constructive knowledge of the division at the time of the
acquisition of interest in the lot or parcel.
   B.   No construction of infrastructure shall commence until preliminary
subdivision approval has been issued, and development agreements and
construction improvement agreements have been approved and executed.
   C.   Any person who shall dispose of or offer for sale any lots in the City
until the plat thereof has been duly acknowledged and recorded, as provided in
sections Idaho Code 50-1301 through Idaho Code 50-1325, shall forfeit and pay
one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each lot and part of a lot sold or disposed
of or offered for sale.
   D.   Violations of the provisions of this title shall be deemed a
misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code, with each day such violation continues constituting a
separate offense. In addition, or in lieu of, criminal sanctions, the City
shall have recourse to such civil remedies in law and equity as may be
necessary to ensure compliance with the provisions of these regulations. (Ord.
216, 7-11-2017)
9-1-6 APPEALS:
   A.   Any determination made by City staff or authorized agents in the
application and administration of this title may be appealed by an affected
party, as defined by Idaho Code section 67-6521. A written appeal, containing
the legal basis for the request, and accompanied by the applicable fees, shall
be filed with the City Clerk within twenty eight (28) days of the final
administrative determination. Once the valid appeal and fee have been filed,
the item shall be scheduled for the next available City Council meeting,
allowing sufficient time for meeting notice as required by the Open Meetings
Law of Idaho Code title 74, chapter 2. The City Council shall allow the staff,
appellant, and any affected parties to present relevant facts regarding the
appeal. After the presentations, the City Council may ask questions of the
parties prior to deliberation. The City Council may:
      1.   Table the matter for additional information and consideration at a
specified later date.
      2.   Uphold the staff determination.
      3.   Overturn the staff determination and provide a determination of its
own. The Council decision may not be contrary to Code or grant a special
exception to the standards of this title.
   B.   The City Council decision shall be final and shall be accompanied by a
reasoned statement explaining the criteria and standards used for making the
decision. Any further recourse shall be as provided by Idaho Code. (Ord. 216,
7-11-2017)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
9-2-1: Interpretations
9-2-2: Definitions
9-2-1 INTERPRETATIONS:
When not inconsistent with the context, words in the plural number include the
singular number, and words in the singular number include the plural number.
The word "shall" is always mandatory and not merely directory, unless the
express language of the ordinance provides otherwise. Except as expressly
defined herein, words used in this title shall be given their ordinary meaning
consistent with common usage and context. (Ord. 216, 7-11-2017)
9-2-2 DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this title, the following terms, phrases and words shall
have these specific meanings:
ANSI: American National Standards Institute.
ALLEY: A public right-of-way of not more than thirty feet (30') in width,
designed to serve as secondary access to the side or rear of those properties
whose principal frontage and access is provided via another public street.
BLOCK: A group of lots, tracts, or parcels within well- defined and fixed
boundaries established by plat.
CONCEPT PLAN: A preliminary presentation and attendant documentation of a
proposed subdivision of sufficient accuracy to be used for discussion and
classification.
CONDOMINIUM: An estate consisting of an undivided interest in common real
property, together with a separate interest in a unit of real property in
accordance with title 55, chapter 15, of Idaho Code. Condominiums may be of
residential or nonresidential nature, and may be newly constructed, proposed
for construction, or conversions of existing structures.
DENSITY: The number of lots or dwelling units per acre of land.
Gross Density: The number of lots or dwelling units per acre of total land to
be developed including public right-of- way.
Net Density: The number of dwelling units per acre of land when the acreage
involved includes only the land devoted to residential uses, excluding public
right-of-way.
FRONTAGE: That portion of the lot directly adjacent or abutting public street
rights-of-way.
LOT: A parcel of land established by a subdivision plat filed pursuant to Idaho
law.
LOT COVERAGE: The area of a lot occupied by the principal building or
buildings, accessory buildings, decks, or other structures.
LOT LINE: The property boundary line defining and encompassing a lot; a line of
record bounding a lot that divides one (1) lot from another lot or from a
public or private street or any other public space.
MUTCD: "Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices", latest edition.
OFF SITE: Not located on the property that is the subject of a development
application, nor on a contiguous portion of a street or right-of-way.
ON SITE: Located on the lot in question, the land being subdivided, or the
adjacent right-of-way.
OPEN SPACE: Land, essentially free of structures, set aside, dedicated,
designated, or reserved for the public or for the use and enjoyment of owners
and occupants of land adjoining or neighboring such open space. Any open area,
including, but not limited to, the following: parks, yards, playgrounds,
beaches, waterways, parkways, natural environmental features, water areas,
swimming pools, tennis courts, or other approved recreational facilities.
PARCEL: A unit of contiguous land constituting a separate, uniquely described
tract of land. Also, a portion of unplatted land.
PARK: A noncommercial facility designed to serve the recreational needs of the
residents of the community.
STREET: A public right-of-way, which provides vehicular and pedestrian access
to adjacent properties, the dedication of which has been officially accepted by
the City of Kootenai. The term "street" also includes the terms highway,
parkway, road, avenue, lane, place, drive, trail, way, court, loop, circle and
other such terms, as well as the following classifications:
Local Roads: A public thoroughfare which affords primary access to adjoining
property.
Major Collector: A public thoroughfare that links minor collectors and local
access routes with routes of higher classification. Frontage and access is
limited.
Minor Arterial: A public thoroughfare that serves less dense population
concentrations. Minor arterials may connect to principal arterials or provide
intermediate routes. Frontage and access is limited.
Minor Collector: A public or recorded private thoroughfare which affords access
to adjoining property and connects local access roads to roads of higher
classification.
Principal Arterial: A public thoroughfare that connects a network of continuous
routes. Serves large inter-county population concentrations and is designed to
carry heavy traffic loads. Frontage and access is limited.
State Highway: A public thoroughfare that serves interstate and intrastate
populations. These highways are designed to carry maximum traffic loads.
Frontage and access is restricted to Idaho Transportation Department standards.
SUBDIVISION: Any division of land into two (2) or more lots, tracts, parcels,
sites, or divisions, whether immediate or future, for the purpose of sale,
lease, gift, transfer, or development within the limits of incorporated City of
Kootenai. The term shall include divisions made for condominium purposes.
SUBDIVISION PLAN: Both written information and all maps, plans or plats that
together fully describe a proposed subdivision as required by this title; said
information shall include a drawing and information describing the proposed
layout of a development, including locations of rights-of- way, lots and
blocks, and related information that is submitted for preliminary approval.
(Ord. 216, 7-11-2017)
CHAPTER 3
SUBDIVISION APPLICABILITY AND PROCEDURES
SECTION:
9-3-1: Applicability
9-3-2: Exemptions
9-3-3: Preliminary Plat Applications
9-3-4: Application Review Process
9-3-5: Public Hearing Notice
9-3-6: Decision-Making Procedures
9-3-7: Expiration, Extensions, And Modifications
9-3-1 APPLICABILITY:
Any division of land into two (2) or more lots, tracts, parcels, sites or
divisions, regardless of lot size, whether immediate or future, for sale,
lease, gift, transfer or development within the incorporated area of Kootenai
shall conform to the standards of this title. This shall include divisions made
for condominium purposes. (Ord. 216, 7-11-2017)
9-3-2 EXEMPTIONS:
The term "subdivision" shall not apply to the following:
   A.   Property line adjustments resulting in the transfer of land or
adjustment of boundary lines between two (2) or more adjacent properties that
do not result in the creation of any additional lots or parcels. Adjustments of
property lines are subject to the provisions of chapter 8 of this title.
   B.   Divisions of land resulting from the conveyance of a parcel of land to
a taxing district, government agency, or utility regulated by the Public
Utilities Commission may be exempted, provided construction plans for any
required improvements to public infrastructure or extensions of public services
shall be prepared by the entity requesting such exemption, for review and
approval by the City Engineer prior to the commencement of any construction.
All construction inspections, acceptance of infrastructure, and warranty
requirements, as provided in sections
9-5-7 and
9-5-8 of this title, shall be applicable. (Ord. 216, 7-11-2017)
9-3-3 PRELIMINARY PLAT APPLICATIONS:
The requirements and procedures set forth in this chapter shall apply to the
processing of all subdivision applications to which this title is applicable,
except as otherwise provided.
   A.   Preapplication Conference; Concept Plan:
      1.   Prior to submittal of a subdivision application, the developer shall
complete a pre-application conference with City staff and representatives to
review the proposal. A developer seeking a pre-application conference shall
submit copies of a concept plan and applicable fees to the City Clerk. The
format and number of copies shall be established by the City. A pre-application
conference with the City Clerk, the City Planner, and the City Engineer will be
scheduled at the earliest available date, upon receipt of the required
conceptual plans and fees.
      2.   The scope of the pre-application conference shall include, but not
be limited to:
         a.   The general subdivision process.
         b.   Overall design, lot sizes, and street layout.
         c.   Preliminary utility design.
         d.   Conformity to this title, the zoning ordinance, City standards,
and policies.
         e.   Potential off-site impacts/mitigations.
         f.   Proposed improvements (on-site and off-site).
         g.   Proposed stormwater mitigation.
      3.   Additional pre-application reviews may be required if City staff
determines the proposed subdivision is sufficiently complex, will result in
potentially large impacts to City infrastructure, or will require extraordinary
staff and City representative's time.
   B.   Preliminary Plat Application: An application shall be provided to the
City, demonstrating compatibility with the zoning district in which it is
located and containing the minimum design standards provided in chapter 5 of
this title. The application shall include:
      1.   A completed application on a form supplied by the City. The
application shall be signed by the legal owner or be accompanied by a letter
from the legal owner authorizing the filing of the subdivision application.
      2.   A copy of the deed, or other proof of ownership for all subject
properties; and, an affidavit of authorization of any lien holder(s), granting
authorization to subdivide the property.
      3.   A preliminary plat prepared by an Idaho-licensed surveyor showing
the parcel or parcels to be divided clearly and legibly drawn at a scale
suitable to ensure the clarity of all lines, bearings and dimensions. The
number of additional copies and format shall be specified by the City. The
proposed plat shall include at a minimum, the following information:
         a.   Name of the proposed subdivision, which shall comply with the
standards of Idaho Code, title 50, chapter 13.
         b.   The location of the boundary lines of the proposed subdivision in
relation to section, quarter section and quarter-quarter section lines and any
adjacent corporate boundaries of the City.
         c.   The boundaries and dimensions of all blocks and lots, area of
each proposed lot, together with proposed block and lot numbers.
         d.   Any existing or proposed easements and right-of-way dedications.
         e.   All proposed streets, showing width, proposed street names, and
location of proposed curbs, swales, sidewalks, street lights, and other related
improvements.
         f.   All adjacent streets, showing existing right-of-way width, and
the location of roadway centerline, and any existing swales, curbs, sidewalks,
and street trees.
         g.   Location of existing structures and setbacks from proposed lot
lines and streets.
         h.   Location of waterways, wetlands, slopes of greater than fifteen
percent (15%) and topography of the site.
         i.   Location, dimensions, and area of all parcels of land to be set
aside for parks, open space, or other public use or for the use of property
owners in the proposed subdivision.
         j.   Development phases, or stages, if the project is to be phased.
         k.   North point and scale.
         l.   A statement of proposed provisions for irrigation/domestic water
supplies and sewage disposal.
         m.   A map of the general vicinity in which the land proposed for
subdivision lies.
      4.   A preliminary stormwater plan, where applicable.
      5.   Any requested variations to standards authorized at section
9-5-5 of this title. The application shall include a narrative outlining the
reasons for the request and how the variation meets the standards of section
9-5-5 of this title.
      6.   Preliminary design and construction plans, as required by chapter 5
of this title.
      7.   Traffic studies, if so required by the City.
      8.   Any additional information as determined by the City Administrator
or City Engineer as necessary to provide a complete application.
      9.   Applicable fees, as established by resolution of the Council. (Ord.
216, 7-11-2017)
9-3-4 APPLICATION REVIEW PROCESS:
The preliminary plat application shall be processed in accordance with the
following:
   A.   Upon receipt of a subdivision application and fees, the City shall
review the application to determine whether it is complete and contains the
information required by this title. If the application is incomplete, the City
shall notify the developer in writing of the items required for completion.
   B.   Once the application is determined to be complete, the City shall
provide notice of the proposed subdivision to agencies and jurisdictions it
determines are affected by the proposal. The notice shall include all
application material necessary for a complete review of the proposed
subdivision. The agencies and jurisdictions shall have a set time, not to
exceed thirty (30) days to review and comment on the application.
   C.   At the close of the comment period, the City shall determine whether
all agency comments have been satisfactorily addressed by the applicant and
shall advise the applicant if there are any remaining issues. If there are no
outstanding agency issues, the City shall schedule the application for the next
available City Council public hearing, allowing sufficient time for public
notice.
   D.   Once an application has been scheduled for hearing, no substantial
changes to the preliminary plat shall be allowed. Minor changes, approved by
the City staff, may be considered once a hearing has been scheduled. If the
amendment is deemed by City staff to be substantial, said changes shall be
subject to further agency and public notice requirements as provided by this
title. Changes that are considered substantial include, but are not limited to:
increases in density, number of lots, or number of units that could potentially
be developed; changes in types of uses, or more intensive use of the subject
property; and/or changes to the boundaries of the project, external subdivision
accesses or circulation; and relocation or redesign of utility systems that
affect the proposed subdivision or property adjacent to the subdivision.
   E.   At the request of the City, the applicant shall provide names and
mailing addresses of all property owners whose property is within three hundred
feet (300') of the external boundaries of the land being considered. The list
shall be prepared by a title company licensed to do business in the State of
Idaho. The names and addresses shall be placed on self-adhesive labels. The
City shall specify the number of copies needed. Additional hearings may require
additional copies of the labels. (Ord. 216, 7-11-2017)
9-3-5 PUBLIC HEARING NOTICE:
At least fifteen (15) days prior to the public hearing, notice of the time and
place and a summary of the proposal and any proposed variations to standards
shall be published in the official newspaper of the City. In addition, notice
shall be provided by mail to property owners of record within three hundred
feet (300') of the external boundaries of the land being considered for
subdivision and any additional land that may be substantially impacted by the
proposed subdivision, as determined by City staff or Council. When notice is
required to two hundred (200) or more property owners, extraordinary notice may
be given as provided by State law. Notice shall be posted on the subject
property not less than one (1) week prior to the hearing. (Ord. 216, 7-11-2017)
9-3-6 DECISION-MAKING PROCEDURES:
   A.   Standards Of Review: The applicant bears the responsibility to
demonstrate the preliminary plat application is in accord with this title, City
zoning codes, State platting law, and other site-specific requirements that
might be applied during plat review. The City Council shall apply the following
standards in rendering its decision on all preliminary plat applications:
      1.   Water Supply: Definite provisions have been made for a water supply
system that is adequate in terms of quantity and quality for the type of
subdivision proposed.
      2.   Sewer System: Adequate provisions have been made for a public sewage
system (or other sewerage system as may be approved by City Council and deemed
permissible by the Idaho Department of Environmental Quality and the Panhandle
Health District) and that the existing or proposed system is adequate to
accommodate the proposed sewer flows.
      3.   Street Plans: Proposed streets are consistent with the
transportation plan and the transportation element of the Comprehensive Plan.
      4.   Topographic Conditions: All areas of the proposed subdivision that
involve hazardous soil or topographical constraints have been identified and
adequately addressed so that proposed uses of these areas are compatible with
such conditions.
      5.   Zoning: The area proposed for subdivision is zoned for the proposed
use and the use and density conform to the requirements of this title.
      6.   Mitigation Measures: The development will bear its fair share of
costs to provide services to future lot owners and will not burden the City or
taxpayers with excess costs or additional services for future lot owners.
Payment of fees, dedication of land or other mitigation measures through
developer agreements for impacts to streets, parks, and other public facilities
within the community may be considered to offset impacts.
      7.   Stormwater: Adequate provisions have been made for the treatment and
disposal of stormwater from all impervious surfaces within the subdivision and
that the existing or proposed discharge system is adequately sized to
accommodate proposed stormwater flows.
      8.   Variations To Standards: Any variations to subdivision designs and
standards are in accord with section
9-5-5 of this title.
   B.   City Council Decision: Following the subdivision public hearing, the
City Council may:
      1.   Approve the request as proposed.
      2.   Continue the public hearing on the preliminary plat pending changes
to be made in the application, the subdivision design, or the receipt of
additional information. Any substantial changes to the preliminary subdivision
plan, as set forth in subsection
9-3-4D of this chapter, shall require a subsequent public hearing by the City
Council. Proposed revisions shall be subject to additional agency and public
notice requirements as provided by this title.
      3.   Approve with conditions.
      4.   Deny the request for preliminary plat approval.
   C.   Conditions Of Approval: The City Council may impose conditions of
approval on the preliminary plat to provide for necessary on-site improvements
and facilities to serve future lot owners and for a fair share of off-site
improvements that are reasonably related to the impacts of the proposed
subdivision. Timing, expenditures, construction coordination, and other details
may be addressed through a development agreement, as provided at chapter 6 of
this title. These conditions may include, but are not limited to:
      1.   Provisions for on- or off-site facilities, roads, or services.
      2.   Measures to mitigate the impact of the subdivision on adjoining
properties or to reduce potential hazards.
      3.   Dedication of land for public rights-of-way, utility easements,
parks, or other uses or rights directly related to the proposed development and
its impacts on the ability of the City or other political subdivisions to
provide public services without compromising the quality of present services or
imposing substantial additional costs to current taxpayers.
      4.   In approving variations to plat design or requirements authorized at
section
9-5-5 of this title, the City Council may require conditions to ensure the
purpose and standards of this title are met.
   D.   Subdivisions Phasing: Phasing may be allowed for sequential development
of a project. The City may approve a phased subdivision, provided the
preliminary plat application includes a proposed phasing plan and each phase
contains all the necessary improvements to function independently. The phasing
plan shall include:
      1.   Boundaries of each phase.
      2.   Proposed sewer, water, and access plans demonstrating how each phase
will be designed to function independently and how future phases will be
integrated with existing infrastructure.
      3.   Sequence of improvements and assurances of completion.
      4.   Any temporary street configurations or facility provisions planned.
      5.   Timing of infrastructure construction, dedications, off- site
improvements, landscaping, or other elements of the subdivision.
      6.   Timetables for completion of each phase.
   E.   Written Decision: The City shall notify the developer in writing of the
Council's decision and the relevant standards of subsection
9-3-6A of this chapter and record information relied upon in making the
decision. If the subdivision is denied, the City shall notify the applicant of
the action to be taken, if any, to obtain approval. (Ord. 216, 7-11-2017)
9-3-7 EXPIRATION, EXTENSIONS, AND MODIFICATIONS:
   A.   The preliminary plat shall be valid for a period not exceeding three
(3) years from the date of written approval. Failure to record the final plat
within three (3) years of the date of approval shall cause all approvals of
said subdivision plan to be null and void, unless an extension not exceeding
one (1) year has been applied for by the developer and approved by the City
Council. Such request by the developer shall be submitted in writing and
approved by the Council prior to the expiration date of the preliminary plat.
Failure to do so shall result in the expiration of the preliminary plat
approval. A developer may apply for and receive additional extensions for good
cause if actual work has commenced and is continuing on the installation of the
improvements, with approval by the City Council.
   B.   Changes to the preliminary plat that are not substantial, as identified
in subsection
9-3-4D of this chapter, may be made, provided:
      1.   A written request for a minor modification is submitted to the City,
along with any applicable fees.
      2.   The request is consistent with subdivision and zoning standards.
      3.   The City staff provides written approval of the minor changes.
   C.   Substantial changes, as identified in subsection
9-3-4D of this chapter, proposed for a preliminary plat after City Council
approval are subject to additional agency review and public hearing, as
provided in section
9-8-8 of this title. Revisions approved by the City Council shall be documented
as an addendum to the development agreement. (Ord. 216, 7-11-2017)
CHAPTER 4
MINOR SUBDIVISIONS
SECTION:
9-4-1: Minor Subdivision Applicability
9-4-2: Minor Subdivision Application
9-4-3: Administrative Review And Procedures
9-4-4: Minor Subdivision Construction And Improvements
9-4-5: Minor Subdivision Completion
9-4-1 MINOR SUBDIVISION APPLICABILITY:
The division of land into four (4) or fewer contiguous lots, parcels, tracts or
sites is considered a minor subdivision, providing it meets the criteria of
this section. If any one (1) of the following criteria is not met, the
developer must file a regular subdivision application, as outlined in this
title. A minor subdivision shall be subject to all application requirements,
design standards, and development improvement standards established by this
title. To be considered a minor subdivision the proposed development shall meet
all the following criteria:
   A.   All proposed lots shall comply with minimum standards and requirements
of the zoning ordinance, and no zone change is required.
   B.   All proposed lots shall have direct access onto an existing public
street, and no new streets are required to be or will be constructed.
Dedication of additional right-of-way for future improvements may be required
as a condition of approval.
   C.   The applicant is not requesting variation to subdivision standards, as
provided in section
9-5-5 of this title.
   D.   All unplatted, adjoining land of common ownership is included in the
minor subdivision.
   E.   All proposed lots shall have adequate water and sewer services
available at the time of final plat. No extensions or improvements to sewer or
water mains other than individual lateral connections shall be permitted as
part of a minor subdivision.
   F.   Exemptions that apply to regular subdivisions shall also apply to minor
subdivisions. (Ord. 216, 7-11-2017)
9-4-2 MINOR SUBDIVISION APPLICATION:
   A.   A pre-application is encouraged but not required for minor
subdivisions. Should an applicant choose to participate in a pre-application,
the process and requirements shall be the same as for regular subdivisions,
pursuant to section
9-3-3 of this title.
   B.   The application contents shall be the same as a regular subdivision, as
set forth at subsection
9-3-3B of this title. (Ord. 216, 7-11-2017)
9-4-3 ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW AND PROCEDURES:
   A.   Upon receipt of a minor subdivision application and fees, the City
Planner shall review for completeness and submit for agency review following
the provisions of section
9-3-4 of this title, except that agencies and jurisdictions shall have not
fewer than fourteen (14) days to comment on the application.
   B.   The City shall provide written notice to landowners of record within
three hundred feet (300') of the proposed development. The notice shall include
a copy of the preliminary plat map, general information concerning the
proposal, and the deadline for submitting written comments. The comment period
shall end fourteen (14) days from the date the notice is mailed.
   C.   At the close of the agency comment period, the City shall advise the
applicant of any additional information needed prior to acting on the
application.
   D.   After all agency comments have been addressed to the satisfaction of
the City and after the close of the public comment period, the City Planner
shall issue a report containing, at a minimum, proposed findings and conditions
of approval and a recommendation for action, based upon the standards of review
of subsection
9-3-6A of this title. Any response to the report by the applicant or interested
parties shall be received by the City no later than ten (10) days after the
issuance of the report.
   E.   Following the ten (10)-day response period, the City Planner shall
forward the report and any comments received to the City Clerk for City Council
action.
   F.   The City Council shall make the final decision on the preliminary minor
subdivision at a duly noticed public meeting of the Council. The decision shall
be based upon the application record and the standards of approval set forth at
subsection
9-3-6A of this title. The City Council may:
      1.   Approve the preliminary minor subdivision, as presented;
      2.   Approve the preliminary minor subdivision, as modified in any
particular;
      3.   Continue action on the minor subdivision to a date certain, pending
changes to be made in the application, the subdivision design or the receipt of
additional information;
      4.   Deny the application for the preliminary, minor subdivision, stating
the reasons for denial and what steps the applicant must take, if any, to
receive approval.
   G.   The City shall provide the applicant with a written decision consistent
with subsection
9-3-6E of this title.
   H.   Preliminary minor plat subdivisions are subject to the same extension,
expiration, and modification standards of section
9-3-7 of this title. (Ord. 216, 7-11-2017)
9-4-4 MINOR SUBDIVISION CONSTRUCTION AND IMPROVEMENTS:
Any construction required by the conditions of approval and executed memorandum
of understanding shall conform to the design criteria and standards of chapter
5 of this title. (Ord. 216, 7-11-2017)
9-4-5 MINOR SUBDIVISION COMPLETION:
   A.   The process for completion of any construction, acceptance of
infrastructure, and warranty inspection for minor subdivisions shall conform to
the requirements of chapter 5 of this title.
   B.   The minor subdivision final plat approval shall be in accord with
chapter 7 of this title. (Ord. 216, 7-11-2017)
CHAPTER 5
SUBDIVISION DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS
SECTION:
9-5-1: Purpose
9-5-2: Applicability
9-5-3: Design And Preliminary Construction Plans
9-5-4: Design Standards
9-5-5: Variations To Standards
9-5-6: Required Dedications And Improvements
9-5-7: Final Construction Plans And Authorizations
9-5-8: Completion Of Construction
9-5-9: Acceptance Of Improvements
9-5-1 PURPOSE:
To ensure that all subdivisions are developed and completed in accord with the
City's design objectives and standards for services and transportation, the
following subdivision design and construction requirements are set forth. (Ord.
216, 7-11-2017)
9-5-2 APPLICABILITY:
All minor and regular subdivisions are subject to the standards and
requirements of this chapter, unless otherwise specifically exempt. (Ord. 216,
7-11-2017)
9-5-3 DESIGN AND PRELIMINARY CONSTRUCTION PLANS:
Preliminary construction drawing for streets, utilities, and other improvements
shall be designed in accordance with all adopted City and utility provider
plans and shall be submitted at the time of preliminary plat application. The
preliminary drawings shall include:
   A.   All streets shall be designed to the Proposed Typical Section Map and
typical section standards as identified in the Urban Area Transportation Plan,
and in accordance with design standards and policies for the City of Kootenai,
as may be adopted by the City Council. At a minimum, the following shall be
submitted for preliminary design review:
      1.   A layout of the existing and proposed streets serving the site,
showing right-of-way dimensions and locations, existing and proposed grades,
surface type, tentative names for new streets, roadway centerlines, proposed
driveway cuts, and curbing.
      2.   The location and dimensions of proposed and existing sidewalks,
pathways, bike paths, and landscaping.
      3.   Preliminary plans for utility infrastructure shall include proposed
sewer, water, fire hydrant, telephone, electrical, and cable locations, and how
the development is in accord with the sewer and water master plans (indicating
location, sizes, elevations, and estimated flows).
      4.   Any additional information determined necessary by the City Engineer
for complete design review.
   B.   Pedestrian and bicycle circulation plans, to include sidewalks, multi-
modal pathways, and bicycle lanes, as may be required;
   C.   Proposed utility infrastructure plan, including a dry utility plan,
sewer master plan (indicating location, sizes, elevations, and estimated
flows), water line locations, and approximate centerline grades;
   D.   General grading plan showing existing topography and ultimate surface
water flow patterns, and preliminary stormwater management plans for all
proposed subdivision infrastructure;
   E.   General right-of-way landscape plan;
   F.   Areas of cuts or fills of more than one foot (1'); and
   G.   Any other information required by the City to complete a preliminary
review of proposed plat improvements, as determined by the City Engineer. (Ord.
216, 7-11-2017)
9-5-4 DESIGN STANDARDS:
All construction plans shall be prepared in accordance with the public
agencies' standards or specifications, and shall be installed in conformance
with those standards. The following conditions and specifications shall apply
to all subdivisions:
   A.   Monuments shall be set in accordance with the Idaho Code. All street
monuments shall be installed in monument boxes approved by the City.
   B.   Water line construction shall be governed by the standards and
requirements established by the City of Sandpoint (the water purveyor) and
shall include a separate service line and separate water meter to each lot.
Public water supply shall be provided in conformance with the standards of the
applicable water purveyor and the Idaho Department of Environmental Quality.
   C.   Sewer line construction shall be governed by the standards and
requirements established by the Kootenai-Ponderay Sewer District, with sewer
service stubs provided to each lot within the subdivision, extending no less
than five feet (5') beyond the edge of right-of-way. Any required sewer
infrastructure shall be provided in conformance with the standards of the
Kootenai-Ponderay Sewer District, Panhandle Health District, and the Idaho
Department of Environmental Quality.
   D.   Stormwater features shall be designed and constructed in accord with
title 7, chapter 2 of this Code, to address stormwater runoff from lot
development, the public right-of- way, and along the frontage of all public
streets. Other stormwater management and treatment facilities, as may be
required or permitted as a variation to design standards approved by the City
Council, shall be designed in conformance with the performance standards of
title 7, chapter 2 of this Code.
   E.   Adequate provisions for fire protection shall be made in accordance
with the International Fire Code.
   F.   Streets shall be constructed in accordance with the Proposed Typical
Section Map and typical section standards as identified in the Urban Area
Transportation Plan, and in accordance with design standards and policies for
the City of Kootenai, as may be adopted by City Council. At a minimum, the
following design standards shall apply:
      1.   The minimum right-of-way width for any street shall be sixty feet
(60'), except as permitted through approved variations to standards, as
provided in section
9-5-5 of this chapter.
      2.   All streets and other public spaces and easements shall conform to
location and design standards of the official plan.
      3.   When adjoining undeveloped property, a half street may be dedicated.
      4.   The minimum width of any alley, wherever provided, shall be sixteen
feet (16'). Where alleys are not provided, easements may be required along lot
lines or across lots where necessary for the extension of water mains, sewers,
and similar purposes.
      5.   No block shall be longer than one thousand two hundred feet (1,200')
between intersecting streets. Blocks over eight hundred feet (800') in length
shall have one (1) crosswalk not less than ten feet (10') in width, situated
near the center of the block.
      6.   Streets shall be laid out to continue principal existing streets or
projected alignments in adjoining subdivisions or properties. The street and
alley configuration must also be such as to provide opportunity for access and
use by adjoining property owners. Whenever a street is stubbed for future
continuation (such that it does not terminate at the intersection of another
street), an adequate turn around, as detailed in the International Fire Code,
as adopted by the State of Idaho, shall be provided.
      7.   All curb corners shall have radii of not less than twenty feet (20')
on local streets; at the intersections of streets with a functional
classification of collector or higher, all curb corners shall have a radii of
not less than thirty feet (30').
      8.   Grades of streets shall be the lowest feasible and no grade shall be
in excess of five percent (5%) on through streets, nor in excess of ten percent
(10%) on any other street.
      9.   Whenever streets or alleys are required to be paved or re- surfaced,
such paving or surfacing shall be in conformance with the typical section
associated with the street's functional classification, as identified in the
Urban Area Transportation Plan.
      10.   Names for new streets shall be in accord with the Bonner County
emergency 9-1-1 system.
   G.   Sidewalks, bicycle lanes and multi-modal paths, stormwater drainage
systems, streetlights, and landscaping shall be constructed in accordance with
the design standards and policies for the City of Kootenai, as may be approved
by the City Council. Electric and communication utility lines shall be
installed underground, in accordance with the design standards and
specifications of the utility provider, with service provided to each lot
within the subdivision. (Ord. 216, 7-11-2017)
9-5-5 VARIATIONS TO STANDARDS:
The City Council may approve variations to the design standards and regulations
of this title when unique land features, service connections, or other
conditions of the site present opportunities for alternatives that could better
serve the community and future residents of the subdivision. Proposals for the
variations must be submitted with the preliminary plat application. No
variations shall be granted that would nullify the purpose and intent of this
title. The City Council shall not approve these variations unless:
   A.   The granting of the variation will not be detrimental to the public
safety, health, or welfare or be injurious to other property;
   B.   The specific site conditions warranting variations are unique and not
generally applicable to other lands;
   C.   Due to topography, shape, or physical surroundings, a hardship would be
created for the applicant or public if the strict standards or regulations are
applied; and
   D.   The variation is not contrary to the zoning regulations of the City.
(Ord. 216, 7-11-2017)
9-5-6 REQUIRED DEDICATIONS AND IMPROVEMENTS:
The following dedications and improvements shall be required of all
subdivisions prior to the approval and recording of the final plat, unless
otherwise provided in this title:
   A.   Transportation And Access:
      1.   The developer shall dedicate right-of-way for all new public
streets, serving the development, continuations of existing streets, and
projections of future streets into areas that are not presently subdivided. The
rights-of-way shall be dedicated on the plat or by a recorded deed that bears
the City's acceptance of the public right-of-way. The dimensions of the
dedicated right-of-way shall be in accord with the City's adopted street
standards and the functional classification of street as identified in the
Urban Area Transportation Plan.
      2.   All new public streets serving the development shall be constructed
to street standards, as detailed in the Urban Area Transportation Plan, and in
accordance with City design standards and policies, as may be adopted by the
City Council.
      3.   In subdivisions where contiguous or adjacent streets are not
constructed to the typical section standards for the street classification as
identified in the Proposed Typical Section Map of the Urban Area Transportation
Plan, the developer shall be required to make improvements to said streets
consistent with the typical section street standard. Said improvements may
include widening or replacement of pavement, and construction of curbs,
sidewalks and/or bicycle paths, along the frontage of the subject property.
      4.   Streetlights shall be installed by the developer in accordance with
standards as may be adopted by City Council, at locations approved by the
utility provider and the City Engineer.
      5.   Street identification and traffic control signage meeting the Manual
on Uniform Traffic Control Devices (MUTCD) standards shall be installed by the
developer.
      6.   Payment in lieu of required right-of-way improvements may be
permitted in circumstances where the City has a public improvement project
planned for construction within the next six (6) years that would address
required improvements, and the City deems such payment to be consistent with
the public interest. If payment in lieu of improvements is approved, said
payment shall be based upon cost estimates for said improvements, as provided
by the developer and approved by the City Engineer, future valued to the date
of scheduled City-sponsored improvements, as based upon the "Engineering News-
Record (ENR) 20-Cities Construction Index" or other construction cost index as
may be approved by the City Engineer. In no event, however, shall future
valuing exceed a period of six (6) years. Said payment shall be placed in a
reserve account for future street improvements.
      7.   Driveway approaches, including a culvert for each driveway approach,
shall be installed for each lot within the subdivision, in conformance with the
standards adopted by City Council.
      8.   Construction and dedication of pedestrian or bicycle pathways
providing connectivity to proximate pathways, parks, schools, or community
facilities shall be required as a condition of approval if the City Council
determines the improvement is consistent with the City's adopted park,
recreation and/or multi-modal standards, policies, and plans and will provide
pathway connectivity. Construction and dedication of sidewalks along the street
frontage of the subject property shall be a required subdivision improvement,
if said facilities are not currently constructed.
   B.   Other Required Improvements And Dedications:
      1.   Water: Water service shall be provided to meet required flows for
domestic and fire protection purposes. Water lines shall be installed in
accordance with the requirements of the applicable water purveyor. Fire
hydrants shall be installed in accordance with the requirements of the fire
district, as well as the water purveyor. All required water line easements
shall be dedicated on the plat.
      2.   Sewer: All lots shall be served by Municipal sewer. Required sewer
easements shall be dedicated on the plat.
      3.   Sewer Collection Lines: Sewer collection lines shall be extended the
length of the subdivision boundary along all adjacent street frontages as
indicated on the Kootenai- Ponderay Sewer District's current sewer master plan,
or in other such manner approved by the City Engineer to ensure service to
properties that would otherwise have been so served by Municipal sewer. All
required sewer utility easements shall be dedicated on the plat.
      4.   Stormwater: Stormwater management and treatment systems shall be
provided, in accordance with title 7, chapter 2 of this Code, and as approved
by the City Engineer.
      5.   Stormwater Systems: Stormwater treatment swales or other stormwater
features, designed and constructed in accordance with the stormwater management
plan, as approved by the City Engineer, shall be installed along all street
frontages, between the sidewalk and the curb, or within the roadway drainage
and utility easement, as may be approved by City Council on the recommendation
of the City Engineer.
      6.   Street Trees: Large, Class III trees meeting ANSI Z60.1 standards
for nursery stock shall be planted along all existing and new public streets
within and directly adjacent to the subdivision, with a minimum of one (1) tree
planted for every thirty (30) linear feet of frontage. Street trees may be
planted within the swale, provided the species selected are certified by a
landscape architect or certified arborist to be swale-appropriate species. The
schedule for planting the trees may be set through conditions of approval or
development agreement to ensure tree survival.
      7.   Underground Utilities: Underground electric, communication, and data
transmission utilities shall be provided to all lots within the subdivision.
Utility easements shall be dedicated on the plat.
      8.   Fencing: Sight-obscuring fencing, and/or landscaping may be required
as a condition of approval to mitigate adjacent potentially incompatible land
uses.
      9.   Parkland: Residential subdivisions consisting of five (5) or more
lots shall be required to dedicate and develop a minimum of five percent (5%)
of the gross land area of the subdivision for a neighborhood park or parks, to
be owned and maintained by the subdivision homeowner association as common,
open space, as a required improvement for the subdivision. Plans for the
formation of a homeowner association and covenants, conditions, and
restrictions (CC&Rs) to address continued maintenance of the park shall be
provided to the City with the final plat review and recorded with the final
plat. The parkland shall be dedicated on the final plat. Development of
required parks shall include installation of sidewalks and/or multimodal
pathways, swales/stormwater management systems, irrigation systems, ground
cover, landscaping, and other such recreational equipment and amenities as may
be deemed appropriate and desirable by the developer and the City. In areas
designated as "Agricultural", "Rural", or "Rural-Suburban Transition",
dedicated park lands may be configured as "parkways" located directly adjacent
to the public road right-of-way, along the frontage of lots, with the provision
of bicycle/pedestrian facilities. Through the variations to standards process
of section
9-5-5 of this chapter, the developer may voluntarily offer to dedicate parkland
to the City through a development agreement, if the City agrees to accept
ownership and maintenance of the park. Dedication and acceptance of the
parkland shall occur at the time of final plat approval, pursuant to section
9-7-4 of this title. (Ord. 216, 7-11-2017)
9-5-7 FINAL CONSTRUCTION PLANS AND AUTHORIZATIONS:
   A.   Prior to any construction, the developer shall submit to the City a
complete set of construction plans, prepared by an Idaho-licensed engineer,
that includes profiles, cross sections, specifications, and supporting data,
for all required streets, streetlights, utilities, fire hydrants, stormwater
features, and other facilities. All construction plans shall be prepared in
accordance with the affected public agencies' standards or specifications, and
shall be installed in conformance with said standards. Required construction
plans shall be based upon the approved subdivision, conditions of approval,
City standards, and development agreement.
   B.   Upon review and approval of the final construction plans by the City
Engineer and public agencies having jurisdiction over the various utility and
service components of the subdivision, the applicant may proceed with
construction of the subdivision improvements. No construction of any kind shall
take place on the site prior to these approvals. The staging or mobilizing of
equipment or establishing a temporary construction office or equipment storage
yards are not "construction" for the purposes of this section. During any phase
of construction, the City has the authority to conduct periodic inspections of
the project site and the required infrastructure improvements. (Ord. 216, 7-11-
2017)
9-5-8 COMPLETION OF CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Prior to scheduling final inspections of the required subdivision
infrastructure improvements, the developer's engineer shall submit to the City
Engineer the preliminary record drawings and construction documentation of the
required infrastructure improvements, in accordance with the approved design
standards and policies for the City of Kootenai. Upon City approval of the
record drawings, the developer's engineer shall submit copies of the final
record drawings in a number and format specified by the City.
   B.   The developer is responsible to submit record drawings to the affected
jurisdictions and agencies and obtain all required inspections and approvals
for all non-City infrastructure improvements.
   C.   The City will not perform final inspections of the required subdivision
improvements until the preliminary record drawings and construction documents
have been submitted.
   D.   Upon the City Engineer's approval of the constructed public
infrastructure improvements, but before final plat approval, the developer
shall provide a warranty guarantee in the amount of twenty five percent (25%)
of the actual costs of installation of the City and public infrastructure. The
developer shall be responsible for the successful operation of and all repairs
to the public infrastructure improvements for a period of eighteen (18) months
following the acceptance of infrastructure. Acceptance shall mean the date that
the City Council accepts the improvements and authorizes the Mayor and Clerk to
sign the plat. The warranty guarantee shall be either a cash deposit, certified
check, irrevocable letter of credit, or other form of guarantee as may be
approved by the City Attorney. (Ord. 216, 7-11-2017)
9-5-9 ACCEPTANCE OF IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Infrastructure Acceptance: Prior to final plat submission, the
developer shall provide written confirmation of acceptance of the completed
subdivision infrastructure for all City, public non-City, and private
infrastructure, in accord with the following:
      1.   City Of Kootenai Public Infrastructure: Upon approved completion of
the required items in section
9-5-8 of this chapter, the developer shall apply to the City for acceptance of
infrastructure.
      2.   Non-City Public Infrastructure: For public infrastructure provided
by other public entities, the developer shall provide evidence of acceptance of
infrastructure and willingness to serve by the applicable entity prior to final
plat submission.
      3.   Private Infrastructure: Upon completion of required private
infrastructure improvements, the project engineer shall certify the
improvements have been completed in accord with applicable engineering
practices.
   B.   City Review: The City Engineer's review of the application for
acceptance of public infrastructure, completion of all required terms and
conditions, and payment of all required fees, payment in lieu of improvements,
and surety, must be accomplished before the request for acceptance of
infrastructure will be forwarded to the City Clerk, with the engineer's
recommendation that it be scheduled for City Council approval.
   C.   Warranty Inspection And Release Of Surety: Sixty (60) days prior to the
completion of the eighteen (18) month warranty period, the developer shall
request that the City Engineer conduct a warranty inspection of the required
subdivision improvements. Those infrastructure improvements that are identified
as in need of repair shall be corrected by the developer, at developer's
expense before the end of the eighteen (18) month period. The warranty will not
be released until the developer receives inspection approval from the City
Engineer. (Ord. 216, 7-11-2017)
CHAPTER 6
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS
SECTION:
9-6-1: Purpose
9-6-2: General Provisions
9-6-3: Third Party Rights
9-6-1 PURPOSE:
The development agreement is a written document outlining obligations between
the City of Kootenai and the developer regarding completion of subdivision
improvements and conditions of preliminary plat approval. The purpose of a
development agreement is to identify subdivision requirements, terms of
mitigation, scope of construction improvements, timetables for completion, and
the City review and approval process for improvements. (Ord. 216, 7-11-2017)
9-6-2 GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Binding Document: A development agreement shall constitute a binding
contract between the developer and property owner of a proposed subdivision and
the City. The agreement shall contain those terms and conditions agreed to by
the parties and those required by this title, conditions of preliminary plat
approval, and other legal requirements. The staff or representatives of the
City, in conjunction with the City Attorney, are authorized to negotiate
development agreements on behalf of the City, subject to final City Council
approval. Minor subdivisions shall be exempt from this requirement, unless
special conditions of approval require the execution of a development
agreement, as determined by staff.
   B.   Construction Agreement: A construction agreement shall be included as
an addendum or component of the development agreement. The construction
agreement shall specify required infrastructure improvements, timing of
construction, duties and responsibilities, phasing, and other construction-
related details. The construction agreement shall be executed prior to
commencement of any construction relating to the subdivision. Staging or
mobilizing of equipment or placement of a temporary construction office or
storage yards shall not be considered "construction" for the purposes of this
section. (Ord. 216, 7-11-2017)
9-6-3 THIRD PARTY RIGHTS:
Except as otherwise expressly provided in a development agreement, the
development agreement shall create no rights enforceable by any party not a
party to the development agreement. Purchasers of lots in approved subdivisions
are not deemed to be third party beneficiaries of development agreements. (Ord.
216, 7-11-2017)
CHAPTER 7
FINAL PLAT APPROVAL
SECTION:
9-7-1: Final Plat Contents
9-7-2: Final Plat Review
9-7-3: Surety In Lieu Of Completion
9-7-4: Council Review Of Final Plat
9-7-5: Recordation Of Final Plat
9-7-6: Modifications
9-7-7: Building Permits And Certificates Of Occupancy
9-7-1 FINAL PLAT CONTENTS:
The final plat shall conform to the following:
   A.   Essentials Of Plat: Any plat submitted to the City of Kootenai for
final consideration and approval shall meet the minimum essentials of plat
required by Idaho Code section 50-1304. In addition, the following shall be
depicted or noted:
      1.   Private restrictions, if any.
      2.   Location of all streams, rivers, lakes, or other bodies of public
water.
   B.   Unique Name: The subdivision name shall be unique and shall conform to
the "necessity of distinctiveness" required by Idaho Code section 50-1307. The
subdivision name shall not bear the exact name of any other subdivision unless
it is a continuation or phase of an existing development.
   C.   Dedications: All public and private easements, rights-of- way,
stormwater systems, common areas, parks, pathways, and similar conveyances
shall be clearly labeled on the plat to show dimensions, purpose, and rights of
ownership or use. The dedication of these features shall be specifically
provided in the owner's certificate.
   D.   Certificates And Endorsement: The final plat shall contain the
following endorsed certificates, acknowledgments, or approvals:
      1.   Owner's certificate, containing the owner's name, a description of
the boundaries of the subject property, dedications, restrictions, and a
statement of intent to subdivide the property. The certificate shall be
accompanied by an acknowledgment in substantial compliance with the form of
acknowledgments provided at Idaho Code title 55.
      2.   Lienholder's certificate for any subdivisions for which land will be
dedicated to a public entity. The certificate shall confirm the lienholder's
knowledge and approval of the subdivision as proposed. The certificate shall be
accompanied by an acknowledgment meeting the requirements of Idaho Code title
55.
      3.   Project surveyor certificate confirming compliance with the
standards of the State of Idaho for plats and surveys.
      4.   County surveyor certificate, in conformance with Idaho Code section
50-1305.
      5.   Health district certificate meeting the requirements of Idaho Code
section 50-1326.
      6.   City of Kootenai approval, confirming the City Council has approved
the plat and containing the signatures of the City Clerk and Mayor.
      7.   City Engineer certificate.
      8.   County Treasurer certificate.
      9.   A place for recording information.
   E.   Notes And Exceptions: Standard setbacks need not be shown. (Ord. 216,
7-11-2017)
9-7-2 FINAL PLAT REVIEW:
   A.   Final Plat Draft Review: Prior to submission of the final plat to the
City for review and approval, the developer shall submit draft copies of the
final plat to the City for review to confirm the plat meets all requirements of
Idaho Code, this title, and the approved preliminary plat and conditions of
approval. The number of copies and format of the draft plat shall be
established by the City.
   B.   County Surveyor Review: Concurrent with the City final plat draft
review, the developer shall provide a copy of the final plat to the County
surveyor for review consistent with Idaho Code section 50-1305 and consistent
with the final plat review process established by the City. The County surveyor
shall establish the required format for the draft review.
   C.   Final Plat Approval: Upon completion of the City and County review
process, the developer may request final plat approval by the City. The
developer shall provide the City with the following:
      1.   A final plat prepared in accord with the requirements of Idaho Code
title 50, chapter 13, as it now exists or is subsequently amended, and
reflecting the corrections and additions requested during the review of the
paper final copy by the City and County.
      2.   The project engineer's certification that all required on- site and
off-site public improvements have been completed and are ready for acceptance
by the City.
      3.   Warranty guarantee consistent with subsection
9-5-8D of this title, where applicable.
      4.   Confirmation of the City Engineer's acceptance of the project
engineer's certifications of on- and off-site improvements.
      5.   Where applicable, letters from other public entities or utility
providers, signed by the appropriate jurisdiction(s) and/or provider(s),
certifying that the infrastructure has been constructed in accordance with the
plans and specifications as approved by that jurisdiction, and that said
infrastructure has been suitably guaranteed.
      6.   Where applicable, certifications from the developer's engineer of
record confirming that all private improvements have been completed in
accordance with the approved construction plans.
      7.   Copies of the final plat in a format acceptable to the City.
      8.   Confirmation of the completion of any other conditions of
preliminary plat approval and requirements of the development agreement.
      9.   Any payment in lieu of improvements as may be approved by the City
Council, and surety where required.
10. An executed development agreement, where applicable. (Ord. 216, 7-11-2017)
9-7-3 SURETY IN LIEU OF COMPLETION:
   A.   In lieu of the completion of improvements, the City Council may permit
the developer to provide surety for the completion of required public
improvements and repairs to public infrastructure associated with the
subdivision. Surety may be a cash deposit, certified check, irrevocable letter
of credit, or other form of surety approved by the City Attorney, in the amount
of one hundred fifty percent (150%) of the estimated cost of construction for
the public improvements to be completed. If the developer does not meet timely
completion of the improvements, the City may proceed against the guarantee. If
the cost of completion of the improvements exceeds the amount of the guarantee,
the City may recover the full cost and expenses thereof from the developer.
   B.   The surety shall be accompanied by an agreement executed by the
landowner and in a form approved by the City Attorney, setting forth the terms
of the surety, release of surety, expiration dates, and other details and
obligations.
   C.   For a phased subdivision, the required surety shall be for the phase
which is being developed. (Ord. 216, 7-11-2017)
9-7-4 COUNCIL REVIEW OF FINAL PLAT:
When the City Planner and Engineer have completed their reviews of the final
plat and have provided written determinations to the City Clerk that all
required terms and conditions are satisfied, and the City Clerk has determined
that all required fees, payment in lieu of improvements, and surety have been
paid, the City Clerk shall schedule the final plat for City Council review on
the next available City Council agenda. The Council shall review the
subdivision and plat and, upon finding that all the requirements have been
satisfied, shall accept applicable improvements and dedications and authorize
the Mayor and the City Clerk to sign the plat. (Ord. 216, 7-11-2017)
9-7-5 RECORDATION OF FINAL PLAT:
   A.   After the plat is signed by the Mayor, City Clerk and City Engineer,
the developer shall record the plat with the County Recorder, and provide the
City with a conformed copy of the recorded plat.
   B.   In addition to the conformed copy, the developer shall submit to the
City and Bonner County an electronic copy of the plat, in a form acceptable to
the City and County. (Ord. 216, 7-11-2017)
9-7-6 MODIFICATIONS:
Modifications to the terms and conditions of a final plat shall be administered
in accord with the procedures of chapter 8 of this title. (Ord. 216, 7-11-2017)
9-7-7 BUILDING PERMITS AND CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY:
   A.   No building permits will be issued for lots depicted on the final plat
until the final plat has been recorded, and a copy of the recorded plat has
been received by the City and the interior monuments have been set in
accordance with Idaho Code.
   B.   No certificates of occupancy will be issued until all required
infrastructure improvements have been constructed, the public infrastructure
has been accepted by the City and the governmental entities providing the water
and sewer, and record drawings of all public infrastructure have been received
by the City with the project engineer's signature and stamp. (Ord. 216, 7-11-
2017)
CHAPTER 8
PROPERTY LINE ADJUSTMENTS AND MODIFICATIONS TO PLATS
SECTION:
9-8-1: Purpose
9-8-2: Property Line Adjustments And Plat Amendments
9-8-3: Exclusions
9-8-4: Applications
9-8-5: Property Line Adjustment And Plat Amendment Procedures
9-8-6: Final Procedures For Property Line Adjustments
9-8-7: Final Procedures For Plat Amendments
9-8-8: Modification Of Terms And Conditions
9-8-9: Expiration
9-8-1 PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide an opportunity to review proposed
adjustments between adjoining properties to confirm compliance with zoning and
subdivision standards and to create a process for minor amendments or changes
to recorded plats. (Ord. 216, 7-11-2017)
9-8-2 PROPERTY LINE ADJUSTMENTS AND PLAT AMENDMENTS:
Property line adjustments and plat amendments include:
   A.   The reconfiguration of two (2) or more existing, adjacent platted lots,
provided no lot is made smaller than the zoning district minimum and all
reconfigured lots meet subdivision design standards. In cases where existing
lots are non- conforming with respect to acreage or design, no reconfigured lot
shall be smaller than the smallest original lot and no reconfigured lot may
further deviate from current design standards.
   B.   The combining of two (2) or more lots to create larger lots.
   C.   The incorporation of unplatted land to an existing platted lot,
provided the parcel continues to meet subdivision and zoning standards.
   D.   The amendment of a recorded plat to make corrections, add endorsements,
dedicate easements, modify notes, or make similar minor changes or amendments
to a recorded plat.
   E.   The adjustment of property lines between two (2) or more unplatted
parcels to reconfigure, enlarge or combine parcels. The boundary line
adjustment shall not reduce any parcel below the minimum parcel size for the
zoning district. If parcels are already below the zoning district minimum, no
reconfigured parcel shall be smaller than the smallest original parcel. (Ord.
216, 7-11-2017)
9-8-3 EXCLUSIONS:
A property line adjustment or plat amendment shall not include:
   A.   Any adjustment of lots or parcels where dedication of land to the
public is proposed.
   B.   Any adjustment that creates more lots or parcels than originally
existed.
   C.   An amendment to a recorded plat that is not in accord with the
conditions of approval for the original plat or approved modifications to the
plat. (Ord. 216, 7-11-2017)
9-8-4 APPLICATIONS:
   A.   All applications filed pursuant to this section shall be on forms
provided by the City and shall be accompanied by the applicable fee as
established by the City Council. Applicants are encouraged to contact the City
prior to filing the application to review procedures, standards, and criteria
for approval.
   B.   All applications for property line adjustments or amendments to
recorded plats shall include:
      1.   A copy of the original subdivision plat or map of current
configuration of unplatted properties.
      2.   A copy of the existing plat or a to-scale drawing of unplatted
parcels, marked to show proposed changes and including lot dimensions, acreage,
adjoining public rights- of-way and private streets, surface water, existing
structures, and distance from proposed lot lines.
      3.   Copies of current deeds.
      4.   For property reconfigurations, a letter from the applicable sewer
district or the Panhandle Health District, stating the requirements for
sanitary restrictions as set forth in Idaho Code, title 50, chapter 13, have
been met or are not affected by the readjustment of lot lines.
      5.   Draft property line adjustment deeds, where applicable.
      6.   Additional information reasonably required for a thorough review of
the application may be requested by the City Planner.
   C.   All applications for minor modifications of final plats shall include:
      1.   A copy of the original terms or conditions.
      2.   A summary of the requested change and reasons for the modification.
(Ord. 216, 7-11-2017)
9-8-5 PROPERTY LINE ADJUSTMENT AND PLAT AMENDMENT PROCEDURES:
   A.   The City shall have a reasonable time to examine the application to
determine completeness based upon the requirements of this title. If the
application is determined to be incomplete, the City Planner shall inform the
applicant in writing of additional items required to complete the application.
   B.   Once the application is determined to be complete, the planner shall
consider the facts of the application and the relevant ordinance standards and
shall provide a recommendation to City Council for action, based upon the
following standards:
      1.   No additional lots or parcels are being created and no lot or parcel
is being reduced below the minimum lot size required by zoning, except that any
adjustment of non- conforming properties shall not cause any of the
reconfigured land to be any more non-conforming than the original lots or
parcels.
      2.   The proposed lot line adjustment or amendment is in accord with the
purposes of this title and of the zone district in which it is located.
      3.   No additional City utilities or services are required to be extended
to serve the newly adjusted lots.
      4.   No right-of-way or land is being offered to the public for
dedication as part of the adjustment.
   C.   The City Planner shall provide a written recommendation to the City
Council, based upon the standards of subsection B of this section.
   D.   The City Council shall consider the recommendation at the next
available regular or special Council meeting, allowing sufficient time for
public notice of the meeting. The Council may approve, deny, or continue the
matter, based upon the standards of subsection B of this section. The decision
shall be accompanied by a reasoned statement explaining the relevant criteria
and standards, evidence, and the rationale for the decision based on applicable
codes. If the application is denied, the City Council shall identify in writing
the actions, if any, the applicant could take to obtain approval. (Ord. 216, 7-
11-2017)
9-8-6 FINAL PROCEDURES FOR PROPERTY LINE ADJUSTMENTS:
   A.   For adjustments of unplatted parcels, to complete the process, the
applicant shall provide to the City a copy of the recorded survey depicting the
approved boundary line adjustment and copies of the recorded deeds of exchange
describing the adjusted parcels.
   B.   For platted lots, the applicant has the option to provide to the City a
copy of the recorded deeds of exchange and the record of survey of the adjusted
lots or may record a replat, following the final plat requirements of chapter 7
of this title. (Ord. 216, 7-11-2017)
9-8-7 FINAL PROCEDURES FOR PLAT AMENDMENTS:
For plat amendments as provided in subsection
9-8-2D of this chapter, the applicant shall file a replat, in conformance with
the final plat requirements of chapter 7 of this title. The requirement for a
replat may be waived by the City Planner if the recording of an affidavit or
other document serves the same purpose as a replat and meets City and State
codes. (Ord. 216, 7-11-2017)
9-8-8 MODIFICATION OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   The terms and conditions of an approved preliminary or final plat may
only be modified with the approval of City Council. Applications to modify
approved plats shall be made on forms provided by the City and shall be filed
with the City Clerk, along with the applicable fees.
   B.   Modifications of minor plats shall be considered by the City Council at
any properly noticed public meeting, allowing sufficient time for staff to
evaluate the proposed modification and contact affected agencies.
   C.   Modifications of regular plats shall be considered by the City Council
at a public hearing, following the hearing notice and procedures of this title.
   D.   The City Council shall confine its review to the requested modification
and shall determine whether the application meets the requirements and
standards applied to the original application.
   E.   The City shall provide the applicant with a written decision, in accord
with the provisions of subsection
9-3-6E of this title. (Ord. 216, 7-11-2017)
9-8-9 EXPIRATION:
Approval of property adjustments, modifications, or amendments shall be valid
for a period of two (2) calendar years from the date of the written decision.
Within two (2) years of the approval, the final plat or applicable documents
shall be recorded and copies provided to the City. At any time prior to the
expiration date, the applicant may make a written request to the City for a
single extension of the application approval for a period of up to two (2)
years. The City Council may consider such request for extension. The extension
request must be approved or denied prior to the expiration date. (Ord. 216, 7-
11-2017)
CHAPTER 9
CONDOMINIUM PLATS
SECTION:
9-9-1: Applicability
9-9-2: General Requirements
9-9-3: Condominium Plat Application
9-9-4: Condominium Plat Review
9-9-5: Final Condominium Plat Approval
9-9-1 APPLICABILITY:
Every division of an existing or permitted building under construction, or
building and land in combination, into two (2) or more distinct units of
ownership, in such a manner as to create a common ownership interest in any
portion of the structure, or structure and lands in combination, or otherwise
creating boundaries of ownership along a common wall or structural separation
between stories of a structure, shall proceed in compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 216, 7-11-2017)
9-9-2 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Condominium subdivisions may be permitted in any zone, provided:
      1.   The parent lot meets the minimum lot size and the subject structure
meets all building setback requirements for the type of structure within the
existing zoning designation. As a special exception, condominium platting of
existing structures determined to be nonconforming because of area, lot
coverage, height, building setback, or location on the lot may be allowed, if
said nonconformity is not further increased by the proposed condominium plat.
      2.   The proposed condominium subdivision does not result in the creation
of any additional lots or parcels.
      3.   The condominium structure complies with all applicable City, State,
and Federal building regulations and fire codes pertaining to common wall and
zero lot line construction.
      4.   Common walls shall be adequately soundproofed in accordance with the
applicable Building Code requirements.
      5.   Electric, domestic water supply, sewer service, heating and air
conditioning systems, and all other incorporated utility systems shall be
appropriately designed for each unit of occupancy.
      6.   Provisions addressing the maintenance of individually or commonly
owned indoor or outdoor walls, common areas, common utilities, and outdoor yard
areas are recorded with the final condominium plat.
      7.   Maintenance or encroachment easements are recorded as necessary for
individual owners to assure access to all commonly and individually owned yard
areas and outdoor walls.
      8.   The development otherwise complies with all requirements of Idaho
Code title 55, chapter 15, and the City of Kootenai zoning ordinance, and all
other applicable City ordinances.
   B.   No condominium unit shall be sold, leased, gifted, or otherwise
conveyed until the plat has been approved by the City and has been recorded in
accord with the provisions of the Idaho Condominium Property Act. (Ord. 216, 7-
11-2017)
9-9-3 CONDOMINIUM PLAT APPLICATION:
   A.   An application for a condominium plat may be submitted for existing
buildings, buildings under construction or proposed buildings, provided a
building permit shall be obtained first for any proposed condominium structure.
The permit shall include sufficient detail to determine location of exterior
walls for future individual units and any common areas or limited common areas
of the proposed condominium structure.
   B.   Applications for condominium plats pursuant to this title shall
include:
      1.   All applicable fees, as established by City Council.
      2.   Diagrammatic floor plans of the building, as approved, and any
associated lands, in sufficient detail to identify:
         a.   The exact dimensions of the building footprint, as approved, and
any associated lands, relative to a minimum of two (2) survey monuments
recognized by the County surveyor.
         b.   Each unit, its dimensions and relative location.
         c.   All relevant floor elevations, referenced to the City's
established vertical datum, where multilevel or multi-story structures are
diagrammed.
         d.   Common and limited common areas.
      3.   Record of ownership, and copies of the certificates consenting to
condominium project by the owner of record and holder of any recorded security
interest in the property, pursuant to Idaho Code section 55-1504.
      4.   A declaration of condominium, articles of incorporation and bylaws,
pursuant to Idaho Code title 55, chapter 15.
      5.   A preliminary condominium plat showing the subject parcel or
parcels, with the location of the building in sufficient detail to identify
each unit and its relative location within the parcel. The preliminary
condominium plat shall be legibly drawn at a scale suitable to ensure the
clarity of all lines, bearings and dimensions. The preliminary condominium plat
shall also include the following:
         a.   Condominium project name, north arrow, scale, and vicinity map
showing location and boundary of the subject tract, existing road patterns and
adjoining properties in the vicinity.
         b.   Location, dimensions, and area of all proposed units to be
developed and/or divided as condominium units, with each unit labeled with its
identifying number or letter.
         c.   Existing wells, springs, drainage channels, overhead and
underground utilities lines, structures, sanitary sewer lines, and culverts
immediately within the tract and adjacent to it.
         d.   All easements of record, including sufficient recording data
(recordation number, book, and page) to identify conveyance.
         e.   All portions of the building or associated lands intended to be
dedicated as common areas, with the uses indicated.
         f.   Any other information as may be deemed necessary for
consideration of the application. (Ord. 216, 7-11-2017)
9-9-4 CONDOMINIUM PLAT REVIEW:
   A.   The City Planning Administrator shall review the preliminary
condominium plat application to determine its completeness and compliance with
this title. The Administrator shall determine whether:
      1.   The proposed plat is in conformance with all applicable City
development standards and provisions of this chapter.
      2.   The application is in conformance with the requirements of Idaho
Code title 55, chapter 15.
   B.   Once the review is complete, the Administrator shall prepare a report
to the Mayor, recommending preliminary approval, approval with conditions, or
denial.
   C.   The Mayor may grant approval of the condominium plat only if the
application meets the standards for approval of this chapter. Approval of the
application by the Mayor may be conditioned upon revisions necessary to meet
the above listed required standards.
   D.   The City shall provide the applicant with a written decision, advising
of the determination. If the application is denied, the City shall notify the
applicant of what actions, if any, can be taken to receive approval.
   E.   Preliminary condominium plat approval shall be valid for three (3)
years from date of written notification. Upon written request by the applicant
to the City Clerk, the Mayor may approve an additional one-year extension of
preliminary condominium plat approval.
   F.   Any decisions or determinations made by the Mayor in the administration
of the provisions of this section may be appealed to City Council. The appeal
shall be considered by the City Council at the next available regular or
special meeting, allowing sufficient time for meeting notice. (Ord. 216, 7-11-
2017)
9-9-5 FINAL CONDOMINIUM PLAT APPROVAL:
   A.   After the City has provided written approval of the preliminary
condominium plat, the applicant shall submit to the City the final plat of the
condominium project.
   B.   The Administrator shall review the final plat to confirm it complies
with this chapter and the conditions of preliminary plat approval.
   C.   Once the final condominium plat is determined to be in compliance, the
applicant may record the condominium project, pursuant to the provisions of
Idaho Code title 55, chapter 15. The applicant shall provide the City with the
recording instrument numbers of the final condominium plat. (Ord. 216, 7-11-
2017)
 
