COUNTY CODE
of
KOOTENAI COUNTY, IDAHO
2004
Code current through:
Ord. 616, passed June 26, 2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
This code of the County of Kootenai County, as supplemented, contains
ordinances up to and including ordinance 616, passed June 26, 2025. Ordinances
of the County adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this
code to the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult
the County office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the
code has been amended, superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not amend the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
 
 
ORDINANCE NO. 618
CASE NO. ORA25-0006
AMENDMENT RE: ROAD STANDARDS
 
AN ORDINANCE OF KOOTENAI COUNTY, IDAHO, A POLITICAL SUBDIVISION OF THE STATE OF
IDAHO, RELATING TO LAND USE REGULATION; AMENDING SECTION 8.6.707, KOOTENAI
COUNTY CODE, TO PROVIDE THAT NEW AND EXISTING ROADS WITHIN AND CONNECTING TO
MINOR SUBDIVISIONS OR CONDOMINIUMS MUST COMPLY WITH INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE
STANDARDS; PROVIDING FOR SEVERABILITY; PROVIDING FOR NON-WAIVER OF ACTIONS
OCCURRING WHILE PRIOR ORDINANCES WERE IN EFFECT; AND PROVIDING AN EFFECTIVE
DATE.
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF KOOTENAI
COUNTY, IDAHO:
SECTION 1 . That Section 8.6.707, Kootenai County Code, shall be, and the same
is hereby amended as follows:
8.6.707: ROADS AND TRAILS:
A. Public and Private Roads
1. Roads Within Subdivisions
a. Roads in major subdivisions shall comply with the Highway Standards for the
Associated Highway Districts of Kootenai County, Idaho (“the Standards”). Such
roads may be dedicated as public roads to the highway district with
jurisdiction. Otherwise, the director shall verify that all private roads
comply with the Standards, and those roads shall be dedicated to the
maintenance entity.
b. Roads in minor subdivisions or condominiums must meet, or must be brought
into compliance with the standards set forth in the then-current International
Fire Code as adopted pursuant to Title 7, Chapter 1 of this code. which provide
legal and physical access to five (5) or more parcels shall comply with the
Standards. Such roads may be dedicated as public roads to the highway district
with jurisdiction. Otherwise, the Director shall verify that those roads comply
with the Standards, and those roads shall be dedicated to the maintenance
entity.
c. When future access may be needed to adjacent parcels of land, roads within a
major subdivision, minor subdivision, or condominium shall extend to the
property line of the subdivision or condominium unless topography or other
factors make continuation of the road impossible or impracticable.
2. Roads Connecting Subdivisions to Public Roads.
a. If a new road is to be constructed between a major subdivision and the
nearest existing public road, the road shall comply with the Standards. If an
existing private road will connect a major subdivision to the nearest existing
public road, the road must be brought into compliance with the Standards. The
road may be dedicated as a public road to the highway district with
jurisdiction. Otherwise, the director shall verify that the road complies with
the Standards, and the road shall be dedicated to the maintenance entity.
b. If a new road is to be constructed between a minor subdivision or
condominium and the nearest existing public or private road, the road shall
comply with the Standards. If the road will connect to an existing public road,
it may be dedicated as a public road to the highway district with jurisdiction.
Otherwise, the Director shall verify that the road complies with the Standards,
and the road shall be dedicated to the maintenance entity.
c.b. If a new road or an existing private road will connect a minor subdivision
or condominium to the nearest existing public road, the road must meet, or must
be brought into compliance with, the standards set forth in the then-current
International Fire Code as adopted pursuant to Title 7, Chapter 1 of this code.
3. Verification of Compliance with Highway District Standards.
a. If the Director finds that the road complies with the Standards and that it
complies with the requirements of this section, the Director shall approve the
road and shall give final approval to any associated permits.
b. The Director may seek a recommendation from the highway district in which
the road is located as to whether a newly constructed private road complies
with the Standards.
c. If the Director, upon recommendation of the highway district, determines
that a road should be approved with a variance, exception or deviation from the
Standards, the road will be deemed to comply with the Standards for purposes of
this chapter and section 8.4.201 of this title.
4. Private Roads. Subdivision and condominium plats which depict private roads
shall include a notation stating that the private roads depicted on the plat
will not be maintained by any highway district, and that there are no
guarantees, warranties or promises that the highway district with jurisdiction
will ever assume maintenance of such roads.
B. Common Driveways.
1. The Board, or the Director in the case of a minor subdivision or
condominium, may approve a privately maintained common driveway as the means of
access to new lots upon the following findings:
a. The common driveway will provide legal and physical access to four (4) or
fewer parcels;
b. A road through the land proposed for subdivision is not appropriate or
necessary to provide access to private lands lying adjacent to or beyond the
subdivision;
c. Access through the land is not now necessary, nor will it be necessary in
the future, to provide continuity of public roads with functional grades and
design, and
d. The lots being created will not be further subdivided, and no additional
access to the driveway will be allowed, until it is constructed in accordance
with this chapter and with the Standards or any variance, exception or
deviation from the Standards which has been approved by the highway district
with jurisdiction. The Board may require a restriction on the plat, or the
recordation of a public covenant in favor of the County and the highway
district, to ensure compliance with this requirement.
2. Common driveways are a required infrastructure improvement, and shall be
constructed prior to final approval of a major subdivision, or recordation of a
minor subdivision or condominium plat, unless a financial guarantee which
complies with the requirements set forth in sections 8.6.711 and 8.6.903 of
this chapter is provided, in which case they shall be constructed prior to
issuance of non-infrastructure building permits. Common driveways shall be
constructed in accordance with section 8.4.201 of this title.
C. Connectivity. Roads, trails and sidewalks in subdivisions shall be designed
to complement and enhance existing transportation systems so as to create an
integrated network that allows for the safe and efficient movement of people
within the subdivision, to adjacent subdivisions, and to nearby commercial
areas, schools, places of worship, and other community facilities. Roads shall
be designed with as many connections as possible, and with relatively direct
routes in and out of the subdivision, without running traffic through
previously established neighborhoods. Cul-de-sacs are discouraged, but may be
approved where natural or built features preclude connection to existing or
future roads. A newly developed dead end road shall not serve more than twenty-
five (25) parcels. Where feasible, subdivisions shall have at least two (2)
means of emergency access which comply with the standards set forth in section
8.4.201 of this title, or alternatively, those of the fire protection district
with jurisdiction. When future access may be needed to adjacent parcels of
land, road and trail rights-of-way shall extend to the property lines of the
subdivision. Roads and trails shall be designed to minimize conflict between
vehicles and pedestrians.
D. Stream and Wetland Protection Buffers. Roads shall not be constructed within
stream and wetland protection buffers, except for crossings which comply with
the standards set forth in section 8.6.708 of this article.
E. Road Names, Signing, and Addressing. All road names, identification signs,
and addressing shall comply with the provisions of chapter 4, article 4.10 of
this title, and the applicable requirements of the highway district with
jurisdiction.
F. Pedestrian and Bicycle Access.
1. Off-road trails, lanes or walkways may be required:
a. If shown on a bicycle facilities plan adopted by the public highway agency
with jurisdiction;
b. Along through streets in subdivisions within one and one-half (1½) miles of
a school, park, bicycle trail, recreational area, or community facility; or
c. When necessary to ensure the safety of pedestrians and bicyclists.
2. The trail shall be designed to serve the intended use, and except for
bicycle lanes, shall be separated from the road by a vegetation strip at least
five (5) feet wide. If there is no direct route through a subdivision, or if
cul-de-sacs are proposed, one or more trails may be required to provide short,
direct routes for pedestrians. For safety, trails should be located in close
proximity to and visible from homes and streets. If a trail or walkway is
required, an easement or right-of-way must be dedicated or conveyed in
conformance with section 8.6.705 of this article.
SECTION 2 . If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of
this chapter is, for any reason, held to be invalid or unconstitutional by any
court of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate,
distinct, independent provision and such holding shall not affect the validity
of the remaining portions thereof.
SECTION 3. Neither the adoption of this Ordinance nor the repeal of any
ordinance shall, in any manner, affect the prosecution for violation of such
ordinance committed prior to the effective date of this Ordinance or be
construed as a waiver of any license or penalty due under any such ordinance or
in any manner affect the validity of any action heretofore taken by the
Kootenai County Board of Commissioners or the validity of any such action to be
taken upon matters pending before the Kootenai County Board of Commissioners on
the effective date of this Ordinance.
SECTION 4 .  This Ordinance shall take effect and be in full force upon its
passage, approval, and publication in one (1) issue of the Coeur d’Alene Press.
ADOPTED this 1st day of October, 2025.
 
KOOTENAI COUNTY
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
 
/s/ Bruce Mattare , Chair
 
/s/ Leslie Duncan , Commissioner
 
/s/ Marc Eberlein , Commissioner
ATTEST:
JENNIFER LOCKE, CLERK
 
By: /s/ Reba Grytness , Deputy Clerk
       
 
Publication Date: October 7, 2025
 
 
 
 
 
 
ORDINANCE NO. 619
CASE NO. ORA25-0005
AMENDMENTS RE: FAMILY AND UTILITY DIVISIONS OF LAND
 
AN ORDINANCE OF KOOTENAI COUNTY, IDAHO, A POLITICAL SUBDIVISION OF THE STATE OF
IDAHO, RELATING TO LAND USE REGULATION; AMENDING SECTION 8.6.103, KOOTENAI
COUNTY CODE, TO RE-ENACT A PREVIOUSLY ADOPTED INTERIM AMENDMENT PROVIDING THAT
DIVISIONS RESULTING FROM THE CONVEYANCE OF A PARCEL TO A GOVERNMENT AGENCY,
TAXING DISTRICT, OR A PUBLIC OR PRIVATE UTILITY ARE EXEMPT FROM THE PROVISIONS
OF TITLE 8, CHAPTER 6, KOOTENAI COUNTY CODE, AND TO PROVIDE THAT PLATTED LOTS
SHALL BE ELIGIBLE FOR THE FAMILY DIVISION EXEMPTION FROM THE PROVISIONS OF
TITLE 8, CHAPTER 6, KOOTENAI COUNTY CODE, AND THAT FAMILY DIVISIONS SHALL BE
EXEMPT FROM THE REQUIREMENTS OF AREA OF CITY IMPACT AGREEMENTS; PROVIDING FOR
SEVERABILITY; PROVIDING FOR NON-WAIVER OF ACTIONS OCCURRING WHILE PRIOR
ORDINANCES WERE IN EFFECT; AND PROVIDING AN EFFECTIVE DATE.
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF KOOTENAI
COUNTY, IDAHO:
SECTION 1 . That Section 8.6.103, Kootenai County Code, shall be, and the same
is hereby amended as follows:
8.6.103: EXEMPT DIVISIONS OF LAND: The following divisions of land shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter. A parcel of land created under an
exemption set forth in this section will be recognized as a separate parcel as
of the day the instrument which created the parcel is recorded.
A. Burial Plots. Divisions made for cemeteries or burial plots when used for
that purpose.
B. Conveyances to Public Entities or Public Utilities. Divisions resulting from
the conveyance of a parcel to a government agency, taxing district, or a public
or private utility regulated by the Idaho Public Utilities Commission.
Structures used for the purpose of housing emergency response agencies such as
fire stations, police stations or EMS services may contain habitable space. No
structures shall contain habitable space if such parcels are to be used for any
other purpose.
C. Conveyances to Conservation Organizations. Divisions resulting from the
conveyance of land to a conservation organization, providing the land is
conveyed as one parcel, and a conservation easement which complies with the
requirements of section 8.6.904 of this chapter is recorded on the parcel.
D. Boundary Line Adjustments. Boundary line adjustments which comply with the
applicable requirements of this subsection shall be exempt from the provisions
of this chapter.
1. Boundary line adjustments to legally created parcels must comply with the
following requirements:
a. No additional or non-contiguous parcels are created;
b. The resulting parcels meet the minimum size for the zone and are otherwise
in conformance with all applicable provisions of this title; and
c. The adjustment does not result in parcels separated by a public road or a
public or improved private right-of-way.
2. A boundary line adjustment may add land from an unplatted parcel to an
existing lot or from an existing lot to an unplatted parcel.
3. A parcel that is not eligible for development permits because it does not
conform to the applicable provisions of this title, or was created improperly,
cannot become eligible for development permits solely as a result of a boundary
line adjustment.
4. In order to ensure that no additional parcels of land are inadvertently
created, boundary line adjustments should be accomplished by recordation of a
deed of conveyance for the property that is to be transferred, and then by
recordation of a second deed for the receiving parcel which describes the new,
exterior parcel boundaries. A statement should also be included on the deeds of
conveyance which indicates that those instruments are being recorded for
boundary line adjustment purposes, and that no additional parcels are being
created as a result of the adjustment.
E. Large Lot Divisions. Divisions of parcels which are at least forty (40)
acres in size, when each resulting parcel is at least twenty (20) acres plus or
minus three percent (3%) in size. For purposes of this subsection, acreage may
be based on the aliquot parts of the section of land in which the parcel is
located. For example, a quarter-quarter section would be deemed to be a forty
(40) acre parcel. Boundary line adjustments of parcels divided pursuant to this
subsection, or any predecessor thereof, shall be exempt from the provisions of
this chapter so long as all such parcels remain at least twenty (20) acres plus
or minus three percent (3%) in size.
F. Decedent’s Estates. Divisions made pursuant to a will, testamentary trust,
testamentary provision of an inter vivos trust, or other similar instrument
associated with a decedent’s estate. The instrument must contain language
providing for the division to be made. Such divisions must comply with the
following requirements:
1. Each parcel has legal access to a public road;
2. Each parcel meets the minimum size for the zone, and
3. Each parcel is otherwise in conformance with all applicable provisions of
this title.
G. Eminent Domain. Divisions resulting from the exercise of eminent domain by
an agency of the State of Idaho or by any local agency or taxing district,
including any purchase negotiated between the agency and the property owner in
lieu of eminent domain proceedings.
H. Parcels Created by Court Order. Parcels of land created by court order other
than one associated with a decedent’s estate or exercise of eminent domain
shall be considered a legally created parcel, but shall not be eligible for
development permits until they are validated through approval of a major
subdivision, minor subdivision, or minor amendment pursuant to this chapter.
I. Subdivision Exemptions.
1. The Director may grant an exemption from the application of this chapter for
any subdivision of an unplatted parcel which the Director determines, pursuant
to this subsection, is not within the purposes of this chapter.
2. This subdivision exemption process requires approval of the Director.
Subdivision exemptions may be granted only on the basis of the required
findings enumerated in paragraph (3) of this subsection.
3. Required Findings. To approve an application for a subdivision exemption,
the Director must make the following findings:
   a. The parcels will not enlarge or expand an existing nonconformity.
   b. The parcels are not located within a floodway.
c. The parcels have legal access to a public road.
   d. The parcels meet the minimum size prescribed in the underlying zone, or
can be combined with a parcel that meets the minimum size prescribed in the
underlying zone.
   e. The proposal is not in conflict with the Comprehensive Plan.
4. The process for approval of a subdivision exemption shall be as set forth in
section 8.8.204 of this title, with the exception of subsection (C) thereof.
The decision of the Director may be appealed in accordance with chapter 8,
article 8.5 of this title.
J. Family Divisions: A division of platted or unplatted land which is made for
the purpose of a single inter vivos gift or sale to the landowner’s spouse,
parent, child, sibling, grandparent or grandchild in accordance with the
provisions of this subsection.
1. Familial status may be established by blood, marriage, adoption, or court
order.
2. Family divisions shall comply with all of the following standards:
a. The parcel to be divided has not previously been divided for purposes of a
gift or sale pursuant to this subsection by a prior owner. More than one parcel
may be created pursuant to the limitations of this subsection. No property
owner shall create more than four (4) parcels pursuant to this exemption in the
owner’s lifetime, whether such parcels were created by the owner as an
individual, a co-owner with a spouse, or a trustee of a trust in which the
owner retains beneficial ownership.
b. The parcel to be divided must be owned by an individual, married couple, or
a trust in which an individual or married couple retain beneficial ownership.
c. Ownership of the parcel to be divided cannot have changed within the
previous three (3) years. The following shall not be considered to be a change
of ownership:
i. The death of a spouse, so long as the surviving spouse continues to own the
property.
ii. A divorce between owners who were married prior to the divorce, so long as
at least one of the former spouses continues to own the property.
iii. A transfer of the property into trust where the owners prior to the
transfer are the beneficial owners after the transfer, or a transfer of the
property out of trust where the beneficial owners prior to the transfer are the
owners after the transfer.
d. An individual may receive only one (1) parcel created pursuant to this
subsection by gift or sale.
e. The parcels created pursuant to this subsection shall:
i. Be a minimum of five (5.00) gross acres (4.50 acres net) unless the minimum
parcel size in the underlying zone is larger than five (5.00) acres, in which
case the parcel shall comply with the applicable minimum parcel size,
ii. Have legal access to a public road, and
iii. Be otherwise in conformance with the provisions of this title.
f. The recipient of the parcel shall be at least eighteen (18) years of age at
the time of parcel creation and conveyance.
g. The parcel to be divided is not subject to any deed restrictions or
Covenants, Conditions and Restrictions (CCRs) that prohibit further division of
the parcel.
3. A Notice of Family Division for each parcel to be created shall be submitted
to the Department for review before the division is recorded. The Notice of
Family Division shall include the following:
a. Proof of approval of an approach permit from the highway district with
jurisdiction for the existing or new point of access to the adjacent public
road. Where the subject property will access onto a private road or common
driveway, proof of easements to demonstrate legal access.
b. An acknowledgment from Panhandle Health District indicating that a location
(on the subject property, or on a nearby property by easement) has been
identified and approved that can meet the wastewater disposal requirements for
the parcel in question.
c. An unrecorded conveyance deed or similar instrument that will be used to
execute the proposed division shall be attached to the Notice of Family
Division. The conveyance deed or similar instrument shall contain the legal
description of each parcel to be created and any other information deemed
necessary for approval of the proposed division.
d. A title report prepared within six (6) months of submittal of the Notice of
Family Division that contains the legal description, ownership, and any
exceptions to title, such as easements or covenants, conditions and
restrictions (CC&Rs).
4. The Director or designee shall review the Notice of Family Division and
supporting documents for compliance with the provisions of this subsection. The
Director or designee shall approve the Notice of Family Division upon a
determination that the request complies with the provisions of this subsection.
The Notice of Family Division, with the exception of the title report and any
originally submitted unrecorded conveyance deed or similar instrument, shall be
attached to all deeds to be recorded. The grantor shall provide a copy of the
recorded Notice of Family Division to the Department.
5. Parcels created pursuant to this subsection are immediately eligible for a
building or development permit as long as they are retained by the grantee.
Building and development permits issued to the grantee shall be non-
transferable.
6. Parcels created pursuant to this subsection that are not retained by the
grantee for a period of five (5) years from the date of recording of the
division shall not be eligible for building or development permits until a
period of five (5) years has elapsed from the date of recording of the
division. This restriction shall not apply to building or development permits
which the Director determines are necessary for life safety or to remedy a
nuisance or hazard, as those terms are defined in section 8.8.604 of this
title.
7. Parcels created pursuant to this subsection which are located within an area
of city impact shall be exempt from the provisions of Chapter 10 of this title.
SECTION 2 . If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of
this chapter is, for any reason, held to be invalid or unconstitutional by any
court of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate,
distinct, independent provision and such holding shall not affect the validity
of the remaining portions thereof.
SECTION 3. Neither the adoption of this Ordinance nor the repeal of any
ordinance shall, in any manner, affect the prosecution for violation of such
ordinance committed prior to the effective date of this Ordinance or be
construed as a waiver of any license or penalty due under any such ordinance or
in any manner affect the validity of any action heretofore taken by the
Kootenai County Board of Commissioners or the validity of any such action to be
taken upon matters pending before the Kootenai County Board of Commissioners on
the effective date of this Ordinance.
SECTION 4 .  This Ordinance shall take effect and be in full force upon its
passage, approval, and publication in one (1) issue of the Coeur d’Alene Press.
//
//
//
 
ADOPTED this 1st day of October, 2025.
 
KOOTENAI COUNTY
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
 
/s/ Bruce Mattare , Chair
 
/s/ Leslie Duncan , Commissioner
 
/s/ Marc Eberlein , Commissioner
ATTEST:
JENNIFER LOCKE, CLERK
 
By: /s/ Reba Grytness , Deputy Clerk
 
 
Publication Date: October 7, 2025
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ORDINANCE NO. 620
CASE NO. ORA25-0007
LAND USE AND DEVELOPMENT CODE AMENDMENTS RE: DATA CENTERS
AN ORDINANCE OF KOOTENAI COUNTY, IDAHO, A POLITICAL SUBDIVISION OF THE STATE OF
IDAHO, RELATING TO LAND USE REGULATION; AMENDING SECTION 8.2.604, KOOTENAI
COUNTY CODE, TO EXPRESSLY PROHIBIT DATA CENTERS IN THE COMMERCIAL ZONE,
AMENDING SECTIONS 8.2.807 AND 8.2.906, KOOTENAI COUNTY CODE, TO PERMIT DATA
CENTERS IN THE LIGHT INDUSTRIAL AND INDUSTRIAL ZONES, RESPECTIVELY, UPON
APPROVAL OF A CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT FOR SUCH USE, AMENDING TABLE 2-1107 IN
CHAPTER 2, ARTICLE 2.11, KOOTENAI COUNTY CODE, TO REFLECT THE AMENDMENTS TO
SECTIONS 8.2.807 AND 8.2.906 THEREOF, ADOPTING A NEW SECTION 8.5.138, KOOTENAI
COUNTY CODE, TO PROVIDE ALLOWED ZONES, STANDARDS, APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS, AND
MODIFICATION OF PREVIOUSLY ISSUED CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS FOR DATA CENTERS, AND
ADDING A NEW DEFINITION OF “DATA CENTER” TO SECTION 8.9.104, KOOTENAI COUNTY
CODE; PROVIDING FOR SEVERABILITY; PROVIDING FOR NON-WAIVER OF ACTIONS REGARDING
VIOLATIONS OCCURRING WHILE PRIOR ORDINANCES WERE IN EFFECT; AND PROVIDING AN
EFFECTIVE DATE.
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF KOOTENAI
COUNTY, IDAHO:
SECTION 1 . That Section 8.2.604, Kootenai County Code, shall be, and is hereby
amended as follows:
8.2.604: USES PROHIBITED: Except as permitted of right or with a conditional
use permit or special notice permit as set forth in this article, the following
uses are prohibited:
A. Automobile wrecking yards and junk yards.
B. Processing and manufacturing operations are prohibited unless they are part
of, and accessory to, the operation of a use permitted pursuant to this
article.
C. Sexually oriented businesses.
D. Data centers.
SECTION 2 . That Section 8.2.807, Kootenai County Code, shall be, and is hereby
amended as follows:
8.2.807: USES REQUIRING A CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT:
Above-ground storage of over five thousand (5,000) gallons (per site) of
petroleum products.
Automobile wrecking yards or junkyards.
Data Centers.
Gun clubs, rifle ranges, or archery ranges.
Re-entry facilities.
Slaughterhouses or rendering plants.
Solid waste transfer stations that are not public utility complex facilities.
Special event locations.
Transitional group housing facilities.
Wireless communication facilities; provided, however, that public safety
wireless communication facilities shall be permitted of right.
SECTION 3 . That Section 8.2.906, Kootenai County Code, shall be, and is hereby
amended as follows:
8.2.906: USES REQUIRING A CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT:
Aboveground storage of over five thousand (5,000) gallons (per site) of
petroleum products.
Automobile wrecking yards or junkyards.
Cement, gypsum, or asphalt plants.
Data Centers.
Explosives manufacturing or storage facilities.
Gun clubs, rifle ranges, or archery ranges.
Restricted surface mining operations.
Slaughterhouses or rendering plants.
Solid waste transfer stations that are not public utility complex facilities.
Special event locations.
Wireless communication facilities; provided, however, that public safety
wireless communication facilities shall be permitted of right.
SECTION 4 . That Table 2-1107 in Chapter 2, Article 2.11, Kootenai County Code,
shall be, and is hereby amended as follows:
 
Table 2-1107
Industrial, Storage, Logistical and Mining Uses
Use                          A R AS RR HDR C  M LI I
Trade, industry, or                                P1
processing facilities
Industrial uses              X X X  X  X        P1 P1
Manufacturing uses, in       X X X  X  X   X2   P1
general
Automobile Wrecking/         C C           X    C  C
Junkyards
Data Centers                               X    C  C
Sanitary landfills             C              C
Transfer, storage, and
warehouse facilities, and                  P    P  P
contractor storage1
Mini-storage facilities or   C C C              P
rental warehouses
Railroad cars or truck cargo S S S         S  P P  P
containers used for storage
Storage for uses other than
those permitted in the       X X X  X  X   X  X X  X
underlying zone
Storage                      Refer to regulations for storage in the applicable
                             zone.
Stockyards; soap
manufacturing; glue
manufacturing; tanneries;
paper manufacturing; wool
scouring and cleaning;
cotton textile sizing,                          X
scouring, leaching, dyeing,
and similar uses; varnish
manufacturing; and
manufacturing of creosote
and related products
Production of corrosive and                     X
noxious chemicals
Asphalt or concrete batch      C              S
plants
Cement, gypsum or asphalt                          C
plant
Oil and gas exploration and                     X  P3
extraction
Oil and gas processing and                      X
refining
Production of dust producing                    X
mineral products
Smelting and reduction of                       X
metallic ores
Manufacturing and storage of   C                X  C
explosives
Above-ground storage of up
to 5,000 gallons of                             P  P
petroleum products
Above-ground storage of over
5,000 gallons of petroleum                      C  C
products
Restricted surface mining    C C                X  C
Surface and subsurface
mining operations, including
processing of materials,
necessary plants and                          P X  C4
offices, equipment, storage
space, and other directly
related facilities
SECTION 5 . That a new Section 8.5.138, Kootenai County Code, shall be, and is
hereby added as follows:
8.5.138: DATA CENTERS:
A. Zones Permitted: Light Industrial, Industrial
B. Standards.
1. Maximum allowable height will correspond with height standards for the
respective zone, or as determined by the Board as a condition of approval to
mitigate obstruction of views or incompatibility with surrounding uses.
2. Setbacks.
a. All data centers shall be set back at least one hundred fifty feet (150’)
from the boundary of any parcel located within the Agricultural, Agricultural
Suburban, Restricted Residential, Rural, or High Density Residential zone, and
from the boundary of any parcel located within the Commercial zone in which a
residential use has been established.
b. Data centers with no adjacency to a zone that allows residential uses may
conform to the setbacks listed in the zone in which the center is located.
3. All data centers shall be of a design which best blends in with the
surrounding area and shall generally be painted in a neutral color, unless
otherwise approved by the Board.
4. Existing vegetation at the site shall be preserved to the maximum extent
possible.
5. The minimum parcel size for data centers shall be ten (10) acres.
6. Perimeter security fencing shall comply with any applicable federal or state
requirements and shall be designed to prevent public entry.
7. Any mechanical equipment, including power generators or other power supply
equipment, must be enclosed or screened from public view. This standard shall
not apply to solar panels.
8. Any electric distribution lines or substations associated with the facility
shall comply with the applicable standards set forth in this code and building
codes adopted thereby, and the standards of the electrical utility to which
they are connected, if applicable.
9. All equipment and structures associated with the facility, excluding
fencing, shall be a minimum of fifty feet (50’) from any property line abutting
a residential zone.
10. Parking shall be provided based on the individual needs of the facility and
must be located on-site.
11. No data center shall be located over the Rathdrum Prairie Aquifer.
C. Application Requirements. Except as may be waived by the Director with
respect to modifications to existing conditional use permits, the following
shall be submitted with a permit application for a new data center or a
modification to an existing data center:
1. A detailed site plan, including supporting facilities, parking and loading
areas, stormwater management facilities, and a proposed landscaping plan.
2. A landscape design plan prepared by a landscape design professional in
compliance with Chapter 4, Article 4.6 of this title.
3. Proposed connections to the electrical power grid and any proposed new power
plant.
4. An energy efficiency plan that describes how the facility will conserve
energy.
5. Verification of water rights sufficient to serve the facility from a source
approved by IDWR.
6. A water management plan that details how the facility will meet its
anticipated cooling needs while minimizing impacts on the local water supply
and how the used water will be discharged and disposed.
7. A noise mitigation plan prepared by an acoustical engineer that ensures that
the anticipated noise level of the facility will not exceed the standards
listed in subsection 8.4.1304(H) of this title.
8. A fire protection plan that details fire protection and suppression
measures. The plan shall be reviewed and approved by the Fire District with
jurisdiction.
9. A wastewater treatment/management plan as approved by PHD, DEQ and/or IDWR,
as applicable.
10. An aquifer recharge plan as approved by PHD, DEQ, or IDWR, as applicable.
11. In addition to the application materials set forth in this subsection, the
following shall be submitted to PHD for review and approval:
a. A Commercial/Industrial application and plans that detail all chemical
handling and storage.
b. A shallow injection well application and plans.
D. Modifications to Existing Data Centers.
1. The Director may approve a minor modification to a previously issued
conditional use permit for a data center.
2. If the Director determines that a modification to a previously issued
conditional use permit for a data center would constitute a substantial change
to the previous approval, the modification shall require approval via the
conditional use permitting process.
SECTION 6 . That the following new definition shall be, and the same is hereby
added to Section 8.9.104, Kootenai County Code, as follows:
8.9.104: DEFINITIONS – D:
DATA CENTER: A facility or portion of a facility housing networked computer
systems and telecommunications equipment used for remote storage, processing,
and distribution of data.
SECTION 7 . If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of
this chapter is, for any reason, held to be invalid or unconstitutional by any
court of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate,
distinct, independent provision and such holding shall not affect the validity
of the remaining portions thereof.
SECTION 8 . Neither the adoption of this Ordinance nor the repeal of any
ordinance shall, in any manner, affect the prosecution for violation of such
ordinance committed prior to the effective date of this Ordinance or be
construed as a waiver of any license or penalty due under any such ordinance or
in any manner affect the validity of any action heretofore taken by the
Kootenai County Board of Commissioners or the validity of any such action to be
taken upon matters pending before the Kootenai County Board of Commissioners on
the effective date of this Ordinance.
SECTION 9 . This Ordinance shall take effect and be in full force upon its
passage, approval, and publication in one (1) issue of the Coeur d’Alene Press.
ADOPTED this 2nd day of October, 2025.
 
KOOTENAI COUNTY
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
 
/s/ Bruce E. Mattare , Chair
 
/s/ Leslie Duncan , Commissioner
 
/s/ Marc Eberlein , CommissionerATTEST:
JENNIFER LOCKE, CLERK
 
By: /s/ Reba Grytness , Deputy Clerk
       
 
 
Publication Date: October 7, 2025
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 337
   AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING
   THE KOOTENAI COUNTY, IDAHO, COUNTY CODE
 BE IT ORDAINED by the County Commissioners of the County of Kootenai County,
Idaho, as follows:
   Section 1: From and after the date of passage of this ordinance, the County
Code of the County of Kootenai County, Idaho, prepared by Sterling Codifiers,
Inc., containing the compilation of all ordinances of a general nature together
with the changes made to said ordinances, under the direction of the governing
body of the County, shall be accepted in all courts without question as the
official code and law of the County as enacted by the County Commissioners.
   Section 2: There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification,
the loose-leaf type of binding together with the continuous supplement service,
provided by Sterling Codifiers, Inc., whereby each newly adopted ordinance of a
general and permanent nature amending, altering, adding or deleting provisions
of the official County Code is identified by the proper catchline and is
inserted in the proper place in each of the official copies, one copy of which
shall be maintained in the office of the County Clerk, certified as to
correctness and available for inspection at any and all times that said office
is regularly open.
   Section 3: All ordinances of a general nature included in this official
County Code shall be considered as a continuation of said ordinance provision
and the fact that some provisions have been deliberately eliminated by the
governing body shall not serve to cause any interruption in the continuous
effectiveness of ordinances included in said official County Code. All
ordinances of a special nature, such as tax levy ordinances, bond ordinances,
franchises, vacating ordinances and annexation ordinances shall continue in
full force and effect unless specifically repealed or amended by a provision of
the County Code. Such ordinances are not intended to be included in the
official County Code.
   Section 4: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of such code, or
to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such
code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the County to be
misrepresented thereby.
   Section 5: All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith, are,
to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
   Section 6: This ordinance and the code adopted by the same shall be recorded
and shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage, approval and
publication as provided by law.
SECTION 32. EFFECTIVE DATE: This Ordinance shall take full force upon its
approval, passage, and publication in one (1) edition of the Coeur d'Alene
Press, a newspaper of general circulation within Kootenai County, Idaho.
APPROVED by the Kootenai County Board of Commissioners on the  24th day of
August , 2004.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f76d2e4e8722669ad139ef438e24f88560956436/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1493.gif]
 
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
KOOTENAI COUNTY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Authorities
1-1-3: Acceptance
1-1-4: Amendments
1-1-5: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the board of county commissioners, this code is hereby
declared to be and shall hereafter constitute the official code of the county.
This county code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the KOOTENAI COUNTY
CODE and it is hereby published by authority of the board of county
commissioners and shall be kept up to date as provided in section
1-1-4 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this code by title in any legal document. (2004 Code)
1-1-2: AUTHORITIES:
The provisions of this code are enacted pursuant to general authority granted
to the board of county commissioners by Idaho constitution article 12, section
2 and Idaho Code 31-714 and 31-801. (2004 Code)
1-1-3: ACCEPTANCE:
The county code, as hereby presented in published form, shall hereafter be
received without further proof in all courts and in all administrative
tribunals of this state as the ordinances of the county of general and
permanent effect, except the excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2004 Code)
1-1-4: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this code shall set forth the title, chapter and section
number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall constitute
sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to the
amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be forwarded to the codifiers and
the said ordinance materials shall be prepared for insertion in the proper
place in each copy of this code. Each such replacement page shall be properly
identified and shall be inserted in all formats of this code. (2004 Code)
1-1-5: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
board of county commissioners. The office of the county commissioners shall see
that the replacement pages are properly inserted in the official copies
maintained in the office of the county commissioners. Any person having in his
custody an official copy of this code shall make every effort to maintain said
code in an up to date and efficient manner. He shall see to the immediate
insertion of new or replacement pages when such are delivered to him or made
available to him through the office of the county commissioners. Said code
books, while in actual possession of officials and other interested persons,
shall be and remain the property of the county and shall be returned to the
office of the county commissioners when directed to do so by order of the board
of county commissioners. (2004 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the county passed prior to the adoption of this code
are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this code or are by
necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation
ordinances; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; ordinances relating to the transfer or
acceptance of real estate by or from the county; ordinances authorizing a zone
change; ordinances authorizing a bond issue; and all special ordinances. (2004
Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, services or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this code or by virtue of the
preceding section, excepting as this code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case this code shall be considered as amending such ordinance
or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (2004 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former ordinance
whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to any offense
committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any penalty,
forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising
under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such offense
or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so
incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance takes
effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform to the
ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as practicable. If
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment be mitigated by any provision of a new
ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party affected, applied to
any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes effect.
This section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed as abating any action now
pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of the county herein
repealed and the provisions of all general ordinances contained in this code
shall be deemed to be continuing provisions and not a new enactment of the same
provision; nor shall this chapter be deemed as discontinuing, abating,
modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the
liability of any person, firm or corporation, or as waiving any right of the
county under any ordinance or provision thereof in force at the time of the
adoption of this code. (2004 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be unconstitutional
or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision
shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of the remaining portions of
this code, or any part thereof. The board of county commissioners hereby
declares that they would have passed each section, subsection, subdivision,
paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase hereof irrespective of the fact that any
one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses
or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (2004 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Rules Of Construction
1-3-2: Definitions
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION:
Unless otherwise specifically defined in this code, terms used in this code
shall have the meanings prescribed by the Idaho Code for the same terms. In the
construction of this code, and of all ordinances, the rules and definitions set
out in this chapter shall be observed, unless such construction would be
inconsistent with the manifest intent of the board of county commissioners. The
rules of construction and definitions set out herein shall not be applied to
any section of this code which shall contain any express provision excluding
such construction, or where the subject matter or context of such section may
be repugnant thereto.
   A.   Liberal Construction: All general provisions, terms, phrases and
expressions contained in this code shall be liberally construed in order that
the true intent and meaning of the board of county commissioners may be fully
carried out.
   B.   Interpretation: In the interpretation and application of any provision
of this code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the
promotion of the public health, safety and general welfare. Where any provision
imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than the general provision
imposed by this code, the provision imposing the greater restriction or
regulation shall be deemed to be controlling.
   C.   Additional Interpretations:
      1.   Computation Of Time: Whenever a notice is required to be given or an
act to be done in a certain length of time before any proceeding shall be had,
the day on which such notice is given or such act is done shall not be counted
in computing the time but the day on which such proceeding is to be held shall
be counted.
      2.   Delegation Of Authority: Whenever a provision appears requiring the
head of a department or some other county official to do some act or perform
some duty, it is to be construed to authorize the head of the department or
other officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the
required act or perform the duty unless the terms of the provision or section
specify otherwise.
      3.   Gender: A word importing the masculine gender only shall extend and
be applied to females and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well as to
males.
      4.   May/Shall: The word "may" is permissive; the word "shall" is
mandatory.
      5.   Nontechnical And Technical Words: Words and phrases shall be
construed according to the common and approved usage of the language, but
technical words and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and
appropriate meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such
meaning.
      6.   Number: A word importing the singular number only may extend and be
applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing.
      7.   Officers Generally: Whenever any officer is referred by title, such
as "recorder", "clerk", "treasurer", "sheriff", etc., such reference shall be
construed as if followed by the words "of the county of Kootenai County".
      8.   Tense: Words used in the past or present tense include the future as
well as the past and present.
      9.   Ordinance: The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the
county has been changed in the content of this code to "title", "chapter",
"section" and/or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and
clarification purposes only. Such change to the county's ordinances is not
meant to amend passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (2004
Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another.
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS: The duly elected governing board of the county.
CODE: The county code of Kootenai County, Idaho, and amendments thereto.
COUNTY: The county of Kootenai, state of Idaho.
FEE: A sum of money charged by the county for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
FISCAL YEAR: The fiscal year of the county shall begin on October 1 of each
year and end on September 30 1 .
INFRACTION: A civil public offense, not constituting a crime, which is
punishable only by a penalty not exceeding one hundred dollars ($100.00) and
for which no period of incarceration may be imposed 2 .
LICENSE: The permission granted for automobiles, domestic pets or the carrying
on of a business, profession or occupation.
MISDEMEANOR: Any offense not constituting a felony or infraction 3 .
NUISANCE: Anything offensive or obnoxious to the health and welfare of the
inhabitants of the county, or any act or thing repugnant to, or creating a
hazard to, or having a detrimental effect on the property of another person or
to the community.
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this code.
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things in small quantities
direct to the consumer.
STATE: The state of Idaho.
STREET: Shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such buildings or land, whether alone or with others.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person, or in case he is unable to write, by his proper
mark. (2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 31-1601.
2 2. IC § 18-111.
3 3. IC §§ 18-111, 18-113.
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted. (2004 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY:
Any person convicted of a violation of any section or provision of this code,
where no other penalty is set forth, shall be punished by a fine not to exceed
one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), or by imprisonment not to exceed six (6)
months, or by both such fine and imprisonment for each offense 1 ; or by a fine
not to exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00) with no imprisonment, when the
offense is designated as infraction by state law or by any section or provision
of this code 2 . (Ord. 370, 10-25-2005)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 31-714.
2 2. IC §§ 18-111 and 18-113A.
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Application Of Penalty Provisions:
      1.   The penalty provided in this chapter shall be applicable to every
section of this code the same as though it were a part of each and every
separate section. Any person convicted of a violation of any section of this
code where any duty is prescribed or obligation imposed or where any action
which is of a continuing nature is forbidden or is declared to be unlawful
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor unless otherwise provided. A separate
offense shall be deemed committed upon each day such duty or obligation remains
unperformed or such act continues unless otherwise specifically provided in
this code.
      2.   Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act
constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this code, and there shall
be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of
this chapter shall apply.
   B.   One Recovery For Same Offense: In all cases where the same offense is
made punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of this code,
the prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed, but not more than one
recovery shall be had against the same person for the same offense; provided,
that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be considered a recovery
or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced. (2004 Code)
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS 1 :
No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty unless the intention of
the board of county commissioners to impose such fine or penalty on such
officer or employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the section
creating the duty. (2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 31-2018.
CHAPTER 5
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
SECTION:
1-5-1: Board Meetings
1-5-1: BOARD MEETINGS:
   A.   Purpose: This section is enacted for the purpose of establishing a
regular meeting schedule for the Kootenai County board of commissioners
("board") in order that board activities can be carried out with greater public
participation and awareness.
   B.   Authority: This section is adopted pursuant to the authority vested in
boards of county commissioners in the state of Idaho under Idaho Code section
31-710 and the Idaho open meetings law, Idaho Code section 67-2340 et seq.
("open meetings law"), the board having determined that county affairs require
regular meetings more often than one meeting per month.
   C.   Establishment Of Regular Meeting Dates And Times: The following meeting
schedule is hereby established to be effective beginning January 1, 2012:
      1.   Weekly Business Meeting: A weekly business meeting will be held at
two o'clock (2:00) P.M. on each Tuesday afternoon, except as otherwise
scheduled, and will continue until business before the board is complete. This
weekly meeting is designated for general external business of the board,
including, without limitation:
         a.   Consideration of claims;
         b.   Consideration and approval of minute records;
         c.   Consideration of proposed ordinances (except those pertaining to
zoning or land use);
         d.   Review of license applications;
         e.   Adoption of necessary resolutions;
         f.   Conduct bid openings and awarding bids;
         g.   Conducting public hearings; and/or
         h.   Conduct such other business as it may schedule.
      2.   Notice Of Change: The date, time and/or subject matter of any
regular meeting set forth herein may be changed upon the posting of notice in
conformance with the open meetings law.
      3.   Cancellation: Any regular meeting set forth herein may be canceled
due to emergency, lack of agenda items, lack of a quorum, or for the
convenience of the board.
   D.   Special Meetings: Special meetings of the board, including those in
which the only agenda item is an executive session, may be convened for any
lawful purpose upon posting of a meeting and agenda notice complying with the
open meetings law at least twenty four (24) hours in advance of the meeting.
Notices of special meetings where the only agenda item is an executive session
shall briefly state the reason for the executive session and the specific
provision of law authorizing the executive session. The clerk shall maintain a
list of the news media requesting notification of meetings and shall make a
good faith effort to provide advance notification to them of the time and place
of each special meeting.
   E.   Emergency Meetings: The board may convene a special meeting without
complying with the twenty four (24) hour requirement when an emergency exists,
upon posting of notice which includes, at a minimum, the meeting date, time,
place and name of the public agency calling for the meeting. For purposes of
this section, "emergency" is defined as a situation involving injury or damage
to persons or property, or immediate financial loss, or the likelihood of such
injury, damage or loss, when the notice requirements of this section would make
such notice impracticable, or increase the likelihood or severity of such
injury, damage or loss. The reason for the emergency shall be stated at the
beginning of the meeting.
   F.   Location Of Meetings: All meetings shall take place at the Kootenai
County administration building, 451 N. Government Way, Coeur d'Alene, Idaho,
unless the meeting and/or agenda notice indicates otherwise. (Ord. 457, 12-19-
2011)
CHAPTER 6
COUNTY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1.6.101: Law Enforcement Training
1.6.102: Criminal Background Checks For Positions Responsible For The
Collection, Safekeeping Or Disbursement Of Taxpayer Money
1.6.101: LAW ENFORCEMENT TRAINING:
The County hereby declares that it desires to qualify to receive aid for police
training from the Law Enforcement Planning Commission under the provisions of
Idaho Code 19-5110. While receiving aid from the Idaho Peace Officer Standards
and Training Council, pursuant to Idaho Code title 19, chapter 51, the County
will adhere to the standards for employment and training established by the
Idaho Peace Officer Standards and Training Council. (Ord. 6, 1-11-1971; amd.
Ord. 501, 2-21-2017)
1.6.102: CRIMINAL BACKGROUND CHECKS FOR POSITIONS RESPONSIBLE FOR THE
COLLECTION, SAFEKEEPING OR DISBURSEMENT OF TAXPAYER MONEY:
   A.   The purpose of this section is to enable the Kootenai County Human
Resource Director, or designee, and any duly elected official of Kootenai
County (Treasurer, Clerk, Board of County Commissioners, Coroner, Assessor,
Prosecuting Attorney or Sheriff), or designee, to require an existing employee
or an applicant for employment for a position having responsibility for the
collection, safekeeping or disbursement of taxpayer money to provide the
Kootenai County Prosecuting Attorney, or designee, the information and
fingerprints necessary to obtain criminal history information to aid in
determining the suitability of the applicant for such position.
   B.   The provisions of this section are authorized under the terms and
conditions contained in Public Law 92-544 and in section 67-3008, Idaho Code.
   C.   To aid in determining the suitability of existing employees and
applicants for County positions which are responsible for the collection,
safekeeping or disbursement of taxpayer money, the Kootenai County Human
Resource Director, or designee, and any County elected official, or designee,
may require an existing employee or an applicant for any such position to
provide the Kootenai County Prosecuting Attorney, or designee, the information
and fingerprints necessary to obtain criminal history information from the
Idaho State Police (ISP) and the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI).
   D.   Pursuant to section 67-3008, Idaho Code, and congressional enactment
Public Law 92-544, the Kootenai County Prosecuting Attorney, or designee, may
request a criminal records check of State and national databases on behalf of
the Kootenai County Human Resource Director or any County elected official by
submitting a set of fingerprints obtained from the existing employee or
applicant and the required fees to the ISP Bureau of Criminal Identification.
   E.   The submission of fingerprints and information required by this section
shall be on forms prescribed by the ISP.
   F.   The Kootenai County Prosecuting Attorney, or designee, is authorized to
receive criminal history information from the ISP and from the FBI for the
purpose of aiding the Kootenai County Human Resource Director or County elected
official in determining the fitness of existing employees and applicants for
County positions which are responsible for the collection, safekeeping or
disbursement of taxpayer money.
   G.   As required by State and Federal law, further dissemination or other
use of the criminal history information is prohibited.
   H.   Nothing in this section shall affect the ability of County elected
officials or their designees to obtain criminal background checks from the ISP
and/or the FBI as otherwise authorized by law. (Ord. 501, 2-21-2017)
CHAPTER 7
INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM
SECTION:
1-7-1: Creation Of Right
1-7-2: Petition Requirements
1-7-3: Special Elections
1-7-4: Procedure Requirements
1-7-5: Legal Effect
1-7-1: CREATION OF RIGHT:
Pursuant to Idaho Code 31-717, the board of county commissioners shall provide
by ordinance for direct legislation by the people through the initiative and
referendum. For the purposes of this section, "initiative" means the right of
the people at an election to adopt, amend or repeal legislation. "Referendum"
means the right of the people at an election to approve or reject legislation
adopted by the board of county commissioners. Requirements of the initiative
and referendum ordinance adopted shall be as set out in this chapter. (Ord.
288, 10-19-1999)
1-7-2: PETITION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Number Of Petitioners Required: Petitioners for initiative or
referendum shall be equal to twenty percent (20%) of the qualified electors
voting in the county in the last general election.
   B.   Referendum Petitions: Initial petitions for referendum containing not
fewer than twenty (20) signatures of qualified electors of the county shall be
filed not less than thirty (30) days following the final publication of the
ordinance to be subject to referendum, as provided in Idaho Code 31-715. After
the initial filing of the petition, the provisions of section
1-7-4 of this chapter shall apply. Completed petitions, with the requisite
number of signatures for referendum, shall be filed with the county clerk not
more than one hundred eighty (180) days after the date of approval of the form
in subsection
1-7-4D of this chapter.
   C.   Initiative Petitions: Completed petitions, with the requisite number of
signatures for initiative, shall be filed with the county clerk not more than
one hundred eighty (180) days after the date of approval of the form in
subsection
1-7-4D of this chapter.
   D.   Time Frames: All requirements for gathering signatures shall be met by
or within the time frames imposed by subsections B and C of this section. (Ord.
288, 10-19-1999)
1-7-3: SPECIAL ELECTIONS:
A special election for initiative or referendum shall be provided as prescribed
in Idaho Code 34-106. (Ord. 288, 10-19-1999)
1-7-4: PROCEDURAL REQUIREMENTS:
The following requirements for signature, verification of valid petitions,
printing of petition, review of measures and time limits, except as expressly
modified herein, shall be as nearly as practicable as provided in Idaho Code
34-1801 through 34-1811 and 34-1813 through 34-1822:
   A.   Before beginning to circulate any petition for an initiative or for a
referendum on any ordinance passed by the board of county commissioners, the
person or persons or organization or organizations under whose authority the
measure is to be initiated or referred shall send or deliver to the county
clerk a copy of such petition duly signed by at least twenty (20) qualified
electors of the county which shall be filed by said officer in his office, and
who shall immediately transmit a copy of the petition to the prosecuting
attorney for the issuance of the certificate of review as provided in Idaho
Code 34-1809.
   B.   After receiving a copy of the petition from the county clerk, the
county prosecuting attorney may confer with the petitioner and shall, within
ten (10) working days from receipt thereof, review the proposal for matters of
substantive import and shall recommend to the petitioner such revision or
alteration of the measure as may be deemed necessary and appropriate. The
recommendations of the prosecuting attorney shall be advisory only and the
petitioner may accept or reject them in whole or in part. The prosecuting
attorney shall issue a certificate of review to the county clerk certifying
that he has reviewed the measure for form and style and that the
recommendations thereon, if any, have been communicated to the petitioner, and
such certificate shall be issued whether or not the petitioner accepts such
recommendations. Within fifteen (15) working days after the issuance of a
certificate of review, the petitioner, if he desires to proceed with his
sponsorship, shall file the ballot measure with the county clerk for assignment
of a ballot title. Other requirements shall be as provided in Idaho Code 34-
1809.
   C.   Preparation of the ballot title by the prosecuting attorney shall be as
prescribed in Idaho Code 34-1809.
   D.   After the form of the initiative or referendum petition has been
approved by the county clerk, the petition shall be printed by the person or
persons or organization or organizations under whose authority the measure is
to be initiated or referred and circulated in the county for the signatures of
legal voters.
   E.   Verification of petition and signatures shall be as prescribed in Idaho
Code 34-1807.
   F.   Upon final certification of the petition, the county clerk shall order
an election to be held pursuant to Idaho Code 34-106.
   G.   If the county clerk shall refuse to accept and file any petition for
the initiative or for the referendum with the requisite number of signatures of
qualified electors thereto attached, any citizen may apply, within ten (10)
working days after such refusal, to the district court for a writ of mandamus
to compel him to do so. If it shall be decided by the court that such petition
is legally sufficient, the county clerk shall then file it, with a certified
copy of the judgment attached thereto, as of the date on which it was
originally offered for filing in his office. On a showing that any petition
filed is not legally sufficient, the court may enjoin the county clerk and all
other officers from certifying or printing on the official ballot for the
ensuing election the ballot title and numbers of such measure. All such suits
shall be advanced on the court docket and heard and decided by the court as
quickly as possible. Either party may appeal to the supreme court within ten
(10) working days after a decision is rendered.
   H.   It shall be unlawful for any person to make any false affidavit
concerning any petition in this section or to leave a petition unattended for
the purpose of gathering signatures. Any person violating any of the provisions
of this subsection shall be guilty of a misdemeanor 1 . (Ord. 288, 10-19-1999)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  1-4-1 of this title for general penalty provisions.
1-7-5: LEGAL EFFECT:
Any measure so initiated by or referred to the people shall take effect and
become a law when it is approved by a majority of the votes cast thereon, and
not otherwise. (Ord. 288, 10-19-1999)
CHAPTER 8
TAX ISSUES
SECTION:
1.8.101: St. Maries Fire District
1.8.102: East Side Fire Protection District
1.8.103: Minimum Investment Amount Necessary To Qualify For The Business Tax
Exemption
1.8.101: ST. MARIES FIRE DISTRICT:
All real property in Kootenai County located within the boundaries of the St.
Maries Rural Fire Protection District, and located with Tax Assessor's
categories as follows:
   6 Productivity value - forestland
   7 Bare forestland value
be and the same are hereby and hereafter exempted, pursuant to authority of
Idaho Code 31-1422(2) from the tax levy of the St. Maries Fire Protection
District. All lands within the categories referred to in this section shall be
treated uniformly, and the tax exemption granted shall apply and be in effect
for the tax year 1996 and all subsequent years wherein tax levies are made by
the St. Maries Fire Protection District. (Ord. 244, 4-30-1996; amd. Ord. 524,
5-14-2018, eff. 5-15-2018)
1.8.102: EAST SIDE FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT:
All real property in Kootenai County located within the boundaries of the East
Side Fire Protection District, and located with Tax Assessor's categories as
follows:
01 Irrigated agriculture
03 Nonirrigated agriculture
04 Grazing meadow/irrigated grazing
05 Dry grazing
06 Timberland/productivity
07 Timberland/bare land and yield
be, and the same are, hereby and hereafter exempted, pursuant to authority of
Idaho Code 31-1422(2), from the tax levy of the East Side Fire Protection
District. All lands within the categories referred to in this section shall be
treated uniformly, and the tax exemption granted shall apply and be in effect
for the tax year 2005 and all subsequent years wherein tax levies are made by
the East Side Fire Protection District. (Ord. 359, 7-6-2005; amd. Ord. 524, 5-
14-2018, eff. 5-15-2018)
1.8.103: MINIMUM INVESTMENT AMOUNT NECESSARY TO QUALIFY FOR THE BUSINESS TAX
EXEMPTION:
   A.   To be eligible for the Property Tax exemption provided in section 63-
602NN(2)(g), Idaho Code, the minimum investment amount for plant investment at
project sites within Kootenai County, Idaho shall be five hundred thousand
dollars ($500,000.00). [This amount must be at least $500,000.00, but the BOCC
may set a higher amount.]
   B.   No Property Tax exemption provided in section 63-602NN(2)(g), Idaho
Code may be granted unless the Board also finds that:
      1.   The plant investment will bring significant economic benefits to
Kootenai County; and
      2.   The plant or building facilities will be for non-retail purposes
that are either commercial or industrial in nature.
   C.   Those seeking a Property Tax exemption under section 63-602NN, Idaho
Code must also comply with all other requirements set forth in that section.
   D.   The terms "plant investment" and "project site" shall have the meanings
set forth in subsection 63-602NN(2), Idaho Code. (Ord. 524, 5-14-2018, eff. 5-
15-2018)
CHAPTER 9
LOCAL IMPROVEMENT GUARANTEE FUND
SECTION:
1-9-1: Fund Created
1-9-2: Fund Appropriations
1-9-3: Payments From Fund
1-9-4: Fund Operation And Maintenance
1-9-1: FUND CREATED:
There is hereby created, pursuant to Idaho Code 31-828, a local improvement
guarantee fund of Kootenai County, as set forth in Idaho Code 50-1762, for the
purpose of guaranteeing, to the extent of such fund, the payment of the
principal of and interest on local improvement district bonds and warrants,
heretofore or hereafter issued for any local improvement created by the county
pursuant to Idaho Code title 50, chapter 17. (Ord. 160, 10-17-1990)
1-9-2: FUND APPROPRIATIONS:
   A.   The board of county commissioners may from time to time, for the
purpose of maintaining said guarantee fund, enact a general ordinance of
appropriation or may levy a tax of not to exceed the amount authorized by Idaho
Code 50-1762 in any one year, and may make appropriations from such other
legally available sources as may be determined by the board for the purpose of
guaranteeing, to the extent of such fund, payment of bonds or warrants,
including interim warrants, and interest thereon, issued against any local
improvement district of the county for the payment of local improvements.
   B.   The amount of money in the guarantee fund so levied or appropriated in
any one year shall not be more than sufficient to pay the outstanding warrants
on the guarantee fund, and to establish therein a balance, which combined levy
and appropriation in any one year shall not exceed five percent (5%) of the
outstanding obligations thereby guaranteed; provided, further, that the board
shall not levy any tax as herein provided when the amount of money in the
guarantee fund equals ten percent (10%) of the total outstanding obligations
thereby guaranteed. (Ord. 160, 10-17-1990)
1-9-3: PAYMENTS FROM FUND:
   A.   Upon the establishment of said guarantee fund by the county, when any
bond or warrant drawn against any local improvement fund is presented to the
county for payment and there is not sufficient amount in said local improvement
fund against which to draw to pay the same, unless otherwise requested by the
owner, payment therefor shall be made by warrant drawn against the guarantee
fund. Such warrants, when presented to the county treasurer for payment, if not
paid, shall be registered and shall draw interest at a rate as may be fixed by
the board. The owner of any bond or warrant issued under the provisions of
Idaho Code title 50, chapter 17 shall have no claim therefor, except for
payment from the special assessments made for the improvement for which said
bond or warrant was issued, and except as against the guarantee fund herein
provided, and the county shall not be liable to any owner of such bond or
warrant for any loss to the guarantee fund occurring in the lawful operation
thereof by the county.
   B.   Whenever there shall be paid out of the guarantee fund any sum on
account of principal or interest for a local improvement bond or warrant, the
county, as trustee for said guarantee fund, shall be subrogated to all the
rights of the owner of such bond or warrant so paid, and the proceeds thereof,
and the assessment underlying the same shall become part of the guarantee fund.
There shall be paid into the guarantee fund any surplus remaining in any local
improvement fund after the payment of all outstanding bonds or warrants,
payable out of such local improvement fund. Bonds or warrants guaranteed by
such fund shall have no preference except in the order of presentation for
payment. (Ord. 160, 10-17-1990)
1-9-4: FUND OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE:
   A.   The board may prescribe rules and regulations for the maintenance and
operation of the guarantee fund not inconsistent with Idaho Code title 50,
chapter 17. All money derived from the assignment of delinquency certificates,
redemptions, sale of property under foreclosure for delinquent local
improvement assessments, or from the rent or sale of property, title to which
has been obtained by the county pursuant to Idaho Code title 50, chapter 17,
shall be paid into the guarantee fund, and all delinquency certificates issued
and such property acquired shall be held by the county for the benefit of such
guarantee fund. Money from the guarantee fund may be used to redeem property
subject to local improvement assessments from general tax delinquencies,
underlying bonds or warrants guaranteed by the fund, or to purchase such
property at county tax sales or otherwise, from the county, for the purpose of
protecting the guarantee fund. Upon acquiring title to real property, the
county may lease or sell and convey the same for such price and on such terms
as may be determined by the board, and all proceeds resulting therefrom shall
belong to and be paid into the guarantee fund; provided, however, that in the
event the county purchases such property at tax sale or otherwise, it shall not
be sold for a lesser sum than the county paid therefor.
   B.   Whenever there is not a sufficient amount of cash in said guarantee
fund at any time to pay any and all warrants, together with interest thereon,
drawn against said guarantee fund, the board may replenish said guarantee fund
by transferring or appropriating to it monies from the general fund of the
county, or other available sources, as may be determined by said board;
subject, however, to the limitations prescribed by statute and by this chapter.
Warrants drawing interest as herein provided may be issued against said
guarantee fund to meet any financial liability against it; but at the time of
making its next annual levy, the county shall provide for the levy of a sum
sufficient with other lawfully available funds of the county appropriate
thereto and other resources of the local improvement guarantee fund to pay
warrants so issued and outstanding, the tax for this purpose not to exceed the
limitations provided by Idaho Code 50-1762 in any one year.
   C.   The owner of any local improvement bond or warrant shall have no claim
thereon against the county, except to the extent of the funds created and
received by assessments against the property within the local improvement
district and to the extent of the pro rata share of the guarantee fund
authorized and created under the provisions of this chapter.
   D.   After the effective date hereof creating a guarantee fund, any local
improvement district bonds and warrants issued thereafter shall provide that
the principal sum of such bonds and warrants and the interest thereon shall be
payable out of the local improvement fund created for the payment of costs and
expenses of the improvement, any reserve fund created therefor, or out of the
guarantee fund, and not otherwise.
   E.   The county shall have all the rights, duties and powers with reference
to the maintenance and operation of such guarantee fund as permitted by law,
and the officials of the county are hereby required to do any and all things
necessary for the establishment, maintenance, conduct and operation of said
guarantee fund for the purposes specified in this chapter and as required by
law. The county auditor is hereby authorized, directed and required to
establish and maintain the foregoing guarantee fund, and to pay therein, and to
pay thereout, and to maintain and conduct said guarantee fund, strictly in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter and as required by law. The
county auditor is further authorized, directed and required to maintain and
keep true and accurate accounts and records of all funds in, and all funds paid
into or out of said guarantee fund, together with true and correct statements
and records of the sources and origins of all monies in said guarantee fund,
and true and exact accounts and records of all bonds and warrants and redeemed,
paid, or purchased, or tax certificates or lands purchased or leased or sold in
the conduct of such guarantee fund, and of the specific local improvement
district funds paid into said guarantee fund and the bonds and warrants, and
interest thereon, for the security, payment or solution of which, in whole or
in part, the monies of such guarantee fund may be maintained and used. (Ord.
160, 10-17-1990)
CHAPTER 10
COUNTY FEES
SECTION:
1-10-1: Motor Vehicle Fees
1-10-2: Boat Fees
1-10-1: MOTOR VEHICLE FEES:
All fees to be charged for services relating to transactions involving motor
vehicles shall be set forth by resolution of the board of county commissioners.
(Ord. 142, 9-13-1989)
1-10-2: BOAT FEES:
   A.   Purpose: It is the intent and purpose of this section to provide that
those who benefit from county services protecting the health, safety and
general welfare to boaters utilizing waters within the county to pay a portion
of the cost of providing boater safety services.
   B.   Jurisdiction: This section shall apply to owners and operators of
vessels using county waterways and facilities. (Ord. 77, 5-8-1985)
   C.   Definitions: Unless the context clearly indicates otherwise, the
following words and phrases shall have the meanings given to them in this
section:
   OPERATOR: Any person who controls a vessel when using county boater
facilities.
   OWNER: Any person having a property interest in or entitled to the use or
possession of a vessel, including a person entitled to use or possession
subject to the interest in another person reserved or created by agreement and
securing payment of performance of an obligation, but not including a lessee
under lease not intended as security.
   PERSON: A natural person, firm, copartnership, association or corporation.
   SHERIFF: The elected sheriff and any duly deputized and/or authorized agent
of the sheriff acting in his proper capacity.
   VESSEL: Every motorized vessel, and sailboats fourteen feet (14') in length
and longer, excepting vessels owned by fraternal, benevolent, charitable or
religious organizations.
   D.   Fee: There shall be assessed against every vessel and the owner or
operator of any vessel using county boat waterways shall pay an annual fee of
ten dollars ($10.00). Exempted from this fee are vessels owned by fraternal,
benevolent, charitable or religious organizations which utilize the navigable
waters within Kootenai County. (Ord. 77, 5-8-1985; amd. 2004 Code)
   E.   Use Of Revenues: Funds generated by the fees required herein shall be
used for the following purposes:
      1.   For marine deputy patrols for rescue, boater assistance and law
enforcement on the waters of the county. Twenty five percent (25%) of the total
fees generated shall be distributed to the marine deputy vessel account, with
the exception that for each dollar received by the marine deputy vessel account
from the state, the Idaho safe boating act or from a federal source, fifty
cents ($0.50) of the fees generated by this section shall be transferred from
the marine deputy vessel account and distributed to the remaining dedicated
accounts as hereinafter set forth excluding the administrative account.
      2.   For the safe operation and healthful maintenance and development of
county boater facilities, including restrooms and pumping facilities, with
thirty five percent (35%) of the total fees generated hereunder to be
distributed to the operation and maintenance account of the county waterways
account.
      3.   To establish and maintain a dedicated account for the acquisition
and development of county boater access property and related facilities, with
twenty five percent (25%) of the generated fees to go to said dedicated
account.
      4.   To establish and maintain a dedicated account for the study of water
quality where evidence reflects water quality degradation may be caused by
boater activity on county waters. Funds shall be allocated on a matching fund
basis, and shall not exceed twenty five percent (25%) of any given water
quality study. The board of county commissioners shall determine the use of
these funds with five percent (5%) of the generated fees to go to this
dedicated account.
      5.   Ten percent (10%) of the funds generated shall be set aside for
administrative costs. (Ord. 77, 5-8-1985)
   F.   Boater Service Fee; Temporary Permits:
      1.   Every owner of a vessel using county waters shall apply to and
obtain from the county assessor or the assessor's agent, an annual sticker
evidencing payment of a boater services fee as set forth herein. Said sticker
shall be affixed to the transom of the vessel and be clearly visible above the
water line on the port side, and in the case of a vessel not having a transom,
on the port quarter of the stern. The accompanying trailer sticker shall be
affixed to the trailer tongue. Such sticker shall expire December 31 of the
year issued.
      2.   Temporary permits may be issued upon payment of five dollars
($5.00), and shall be valid for fifteen (15) consecutive days. Temporary
permits may be issued in lieu of regular permits. Upon receipt of the temporary
permit fee, the county assessor or his agent shall issue a permit which shall
denote the dates it is valid, which permit shall be displayed while county
waters are being used. (Ord. 77, 5-8-1985; amd. 2004 Code)
   G.   Reciprocity: Recognizing that Kootenai County and adjoining counties of
Idaho share certain costs of providing safety services to boaters, Kootenai
County will, upon adoption of a similar ordinance in each adjoining county,
recognize the permit of such adjoining county within the geographical borders
of Kootenai County. Owners and operators of vessels displaying valid permits
from adjoining counties will not be required to obtain Kootenai County permits
for the use of Kootenai County waterways.
   H.   Violation; Penalty: It shall be unlawful and punishable as hereinafter
provided for any person to use county waterways unless the vessel has properly
displayed thereon a sticker evidencing payment of the boater facilities fee.
Penalty for violation of this section shall constitute an infraction with a
maximum penalty of one hundred dollars ($100.00). Each day of violation shall
be considered a separate offense. (Ord. 77, 5-8-1985)
TITLE 2
COUNTY BOARDS, COMMISSIONS AND AGENCIES
CHAPTER 1
HEARING BODIES AND HEARING PROCEDURES 1
(Rep. by Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 8, chapter 8 of this code.
CHAPTER 2
HISTORICAL PRESERVATION COMMISSION 1
(Rep. by Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  8.8.302 of this code.
CHAPTER 3
EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES SYSTEM
SECTION:
2-3-1: Purpose
2-3-2: Authority
2-3-3: Definitions
2-3-4: System Established
2-3-5: Operation And Improvement Expenditures
2-3-6: Fees For EMS Services
2-3-7: Financial Provisions
2-3-8: Authority Of Personnel At Care Sites
2-3-9: Policies, Procedures And Standards
2-3-10: Dispatch Policies And Standards
2-3-11: Certificate Of Compliance
2-3-12: KCEMSS Service Area; Intercounty And Interstate Cooperation
2-3-13: Compliance With Laws
2-3-14: Violations; Penalties
2-3-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter is enacted for the purpose of establishing a basic framework to
direct the provision of emergency medical services within the county. Through
adoption of this chapter, it is the intention of the board to define the
structure of the county's commitment to emergency medical care, to determine
working relationships between the county, KCEMSS and medical service providers,
and to set forth the terms and conditions upon which compensation will be
provided to meet KCEMSS goals. Above all, the purpose of the provisions of this
chapter is to provide opportunities for cooperation and coordination in order
to provide the most cost effective and highest quality EMS services possible in
the county. (Ord. 345, 1-11-2005)
2-3-2: AUTHORITY:
This chapter is enacted pursuant to the authority granted by Idaho constitution
article 12, section 2; Idaho Code 31-714, 31-828 and 31-866, title 31, chapter
39 and 67-2326 through 67-2333. This authority is subject to the provisions
contained in Idaho Code 56-1011 through 56-1018B, and any valid regulations
enacted pursuant thereto.
Through these grants of authority, the board, in its capacity as the governing
board of the county ambulance district, has the authority to establish KCEMSS,
to oversee and regulate the provision of EMS services by medical service
providers within the county, to assist medical service providers by levying
taxes and supplying funds as necessary to enable provision of essential EMS
services; and to provide for safety and promote the health and welfare of the
citizens of, and visitors to, the county by whatever additional means the board
may deem appropriate. (Ord. 345, 1-11-2005)
2-3-3: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall be defined as follows:
BOARD: The board of county commissioners of Kootenai County, Idaho, whether
acting in that capacity or in its capacity as the governing board for the
Kootenai County ambulance district.
CHIEF OFFICER: The supervising administrator of KCEMSS, as appointed by the
JPB.
CONTRACTING PARTY: Any of the following:
   A.   The board, whether acting on behalf of Kootenai County or the Kootenai
County ambulance district;
   B.   KCEMSS;
   C.   Any public medical service provider which is a member of KCEMSS by
virtue of its assent to the terms of a master joint powers agreement between
the board, the JPB and certain public medical service providers; and
   D.   Any public or private medical service provider which provides EMS
services pursuant to separate agreement with the board and JPB.
DISPATCH: The system of communication which provides public access to KCEMSS,
and which activates and coordinates the responses of medical service providers.
EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES (EMS): Healthcare services provided to any person(s)
experiencing a medical emergency and any associated transport or transfer,
whether via motor vehicle, vessel, fixed wing aircraft, rotary wing aircraft,
or any combination thereof. This definition shall also include nonemergent
medical transports and transfers and all medical services performed during the
course of such transports or transfers. Expressly excluded from the definition
are the operation of medical offices by licensed physicians and the operation
of hospitals.
KCEMSS JOINT POWERS BOARD (JPB): The joint powers board created pursuant to a
master joint powers agreement authorized under Idaho Code 67-2326 through 67-
2333, to oversee the administration of KCEMSS.
KOOTENAI COUNTY EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES SYSTEM (KCEMSS): The system
responsible for meeting the needs of person(s) experiencing a medical emergency
within Kootenai County.
MEDICAL EMERGENCY: Any event or series of events which prompts an individual to
believe that immediate healthcare needs cannot be met by the individual
himself.
MEDICAL SERVICE PROVIDER: Any individual, firm, partnership, association,
corporation, limited liability company, city, fire district, municipal
corporation or other entity of any type, whether public or private, which
offers or supplies out of hospital medical care or health related
transportation services to the public within Kootenai County.
PRIVATE MEDICAL SERVICE PROVIDER: A medical service provider which is an
individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation, limited liability
company, or other private entity of any type.
PUBLIC MEDICAL SERVICE PROVIDER: A medical service provider which is a city,
fire protection district, municipal corporation or other public entity within
the definition of "public agency" as set forth in Idaho Code 67-2327.
SHERIFF: The duly elected sheriff of Kootenai County, Idaho, or his or her
designee.
TRANSFER: The transportation of a patient from one medical care facility to
another. (Ord. 460, 2-28-2012)
2-3-4: SYSTEM ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established the Kootenai County emergency medical services
system (KCEMSS), which shall be a joint administrative entity formed pursuant
to Idaho Code 67-2332 consisting of the county and those public medical service
providers who agree to participate as contracting parties.
   A.   KCEMSS Joint Powers Board (JPB):
      1.   KCEMSS shall be managed by the JPB, subject to the ultimate
regulatory authority of the board. The JPB may also advise the board and other
contracting parties with respect to any matters that may affect KCEMSS.
      2.   The JPB shall have the power:
         a.   To sue and be sued;
         b.   To purchase, hold, sell, dispose of and convey such real property
and personal property as may be necessary or convenient for the purposes of
KCEMSS;
         c.   To make and execute all necessary contracts; and
         d.   All other powers expressly stated in, or necessarily implied
from, the provisions of this chapter.
      3.   The JPB shall function pursuant to bylaws it adopts and such other
policies, procedures and standards that it may adopt. The membership of the JPB
and terms of office shall be as specified in the KCEMSS bylaws, provided that
one member of the JPB shall be a member of the board. Each member shall serve
at the pleasure of the JPB and the contracting party or parties that each
member represents. If no such bylaws are currently valid and in force,
membership may be prescribed by agreement of the contracting parties or, if no
agreement can be reached between the contracting parties, by the board.
   B.   Chief Officer: The JPB may appoint a chief officer, who shall be
responsible to and shall serve at the pleasure of the JPB. The chief officer
shall implement the policy decisions made by the JPB and shall be responsible
for:
      1.   Maintaining records of all policies, procedures and standards
adopted by the JPB and the chief officer;
      2.   Ensuring that the provisions of this chapter and all policies,
procedures and standards established by the JPB and the chief officer are
carried out; and
      3.   Carrying out such other executive and administrative functions as
the JPB may deem appropriate.
   C.   Medical Director: The JPB shall contract with one or more qualified
physicians to act as the medical director(s) for KCEMSS. The JPB and the chief
officer shall work with the medical director(s) to develop and implement a
medical control plan for the provision of EMS services in the county. The
medical director(s) and the chief officer shall determine the necessary
training on medical protocols and shall ensure that such training is provided
to KCEMSS personnel.
   D.   Agreements Between Contracting Parties: KCEMSS functions shall be
governed by a master joint powers agreement signed by the board, the JPB and
all public medical service providers which desire to participate as a
contracting party and which assent to the terms of the master joint powers
agreement. The board and the JPB may also enter into separate agreements with
other public or private medical service providers for the provision of EMS
services on such terms as are mutually agreeable. If no master joint powers
agreement is in force at any time, the provisions of the previous master joint
powers agreement shall govern, except as may otherwise be agreed to by the
parties to that agreement.
   E.   Withdrawal: No medical service provider may withdraw from KCEMSS except
pursuant to the terms of any agreement then in force to which the medical
service provider seeking withdrawal is a party. Any notice required under such
agreement shall articulate the reasons for withdrawal, and shall address
whether the medical service provider intends to continue to provide EMS
services within its boundaries or service area.
   F.   Termination: No medical service provider may be terminated from KCEMSS
except for cause pursuant to the terms of any agreement then in force to which
the medical service provider to be terminated is a party. Any notice required
under such agreement shall articulate the reasons for termination. In addition,
the JPB may revoke the certificate of compliance of any medical service
provider terminated from KCEMSS for cause. Upon such revocation, the medical
service provider shall immediately cease and desist from providing EMS services
within the county, except for transportation of patients from outside the
county to a hospital or other medical facility located within the county. Any
medical service provider which is terminated from KCEMSS for cause and has had
its certificate of compliance revoked by the JPB may be reinstated only upon
agreement of the board and JPB, and upon reissuance of a certificate of
compliance by the JPB pursuant to the terms of this chapter.
   G.   Continuation Of EMS Services Upon Withdrawal Or Termination: Upon
withdrawal or termination of a medical service provider from KCEMSS, the JPB
shall determine, in conjunction with the other remaining contracting parties,
the best practicable means for continuation of EMS services within the medical
service provider's boundaries or service area. Any medical service provider
which withdraws from KCEMSS, or is terminated from KCEMSS for cause, and is
allowed to continue to provide EMS services within the county shall continue to
comply with all requirements of this chapter insofar as they are applicable to
all medical service providers in the county.
   H.   Succession: In the event that the JPB ceases to exist or function, the
board shall assume all of the powers and duties of the JPB as provided in this
chapter. Any contracts or agreements then in effect shall survive the cessation
of existence or functioning of the JPB, and the board shall be deemed the
successor in interest to the JPB. (Ord. 430, 6-1-2009)
2-3-5: OPERATION AND IMPROVEMENT EXPENDITURES:
The JPB may expend funds for such purposes related to the provision of EMS
services as it sees fit, subject to compliance with the terms of this chapter
and any applicable policies, procedures and standards adopted by the JPB or the
chief officer, within the following categories:
   A.   For operational expenses related to the provision of EMS services
within the county;
   B.   For carrying out the provisions of this chapter and any policies,
procedures and standards adopted by the JPB or the chief officer;
   C.   For expenses related to KCEMSS administration including, but not
limited to, operating expenses of the JPB, the chief officer and KCEMSS staff;
   D.   For the conduct of planning and evaluative studies concerning current
and future EMS operations within the county; or
   E.   For provision of compensation to medical service providers which are
contracting parties.
All KCEMSS expenditures shall comply with the applicable provisions of title
31, chapter 15 and title 67, chapter 28, Idaho Code, and any other applicable
laws governing procurement of goods or services by the county.
Expenditures shall only be made if they support a cooperative and complementary
approach to the provision of EMS services within the county. Competitive
activities between medical service providers shall not receive funds. (Ord.
430, 6-1-2009)
2-3-6: FEES FOR EMS SERVICES:
   A.   Authority: KCEMSS and private medical service providers which are
contracting parties may charge fees for EMS services rendered to patients
including, but not limited to, treatment, transportation to a hospital or other
treatment facility and supplies used in the course of such treatment and/or
transportation. No fee for EMS services shall be charged except as approved by
the board. KCEMSS and private medical service providers which are contracting
parties may charge fees, in their discretion, in an amount less than or equal
to the amount approved by the board, but shall not charge fees in an amount
greater than that approved by the board.
   B.   Procedure: The JPB, upon recommendation of the chief officer, may
approve the submission of proposed fees to the board for its approval. Whenever
proposed fees have been submitted to the board by the JPB, the board shall
consider whether to approve the proposed fees at a public meeting. The board
shall comply with the requirements of Idaho Code 63-1311A, including the
requirement to hold a public hearing, prior to approval of any proposed fees
whenever any new fee is to be charged or whenever any fee is to be increased by
five percent (5%) or greater. (Ord. 430, 6-1-2009)
2-3-7: FINANCIAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Annual Budget: The JPB shall submit a proposed budget to the board and
to the county finance director on or before August 1 of each year. The proposed
budget shall include all administrative and operational costs, including those
amounts due as compensation to medical service providers pursuant to subsection
C of this section, and an estimate of anticipated revenues, which shall include
an estimate of the amount of county tax revenues necessary for KCEMSS
administration and operations. The board shall approve the annual KCEMSS budget
at its annual budget meeting pursuant to Idaho Code 31-1605.
   B.   EMS Levy: Upon approval of the KCEMSS budget, the board shall set the
amount of the EMS levy, as authorized under Idaho Code 31-3908, at its annual
budget meeting in an amount sufficient to fund the portion of the KCEMSS budget
to be funded by county tax revenue. The county shall assess and collect the
county EMS tax levy and pay all amounts collected to KCEMSS periodically as tax
revenues are received. The county shall also promptly pay to KCEMSS any monies
received from any state or federal source in the form of a fee, reimbursement,
or subsidy for EMS services which are properly payable to KCEMSS or a medical
service provider which is a contracting party.
   C.   Compensation To Medical Service Providers: KCEMSS may provide
compensation to medical service providers which have made a request for
compensation to the JPB. Such compensation shall be as determined and approved
by the JPB in the annual KCEMSS budget and shall be used only for the provision
of EMS services by the medical service provider on such terms and conditions as
may be contained in any agreement then in effect between the county, KCEMSS and
each medical service provider. The withdrawal of a medical service provider
from KCEMSS or the termination of a medical service provider from KCEMSS for
cause pursuant to this chapter and the terms of any agreement then in effect
between the county, KCEMSS and the medical service provider, shall relieve
KCEMSS of any obligation under this section beginning on the effective date of
withdrawal or termination. (Ord. 345, 1-11-2005)
2-3-8: AUTHORITY OF PERSONNEL AT CARE SITES:
Authority to direct activities of medical service providers responding to the
scene of a medical emergency shall reside in the most highly trained and
certified emergency medical technician (EMT) on scene. For purposes of this
section, the following hierarchy of certifications shall apply:
   A.   First, an emergency medical technician-paramedic (EMT-P), as defined in
Idaho Code 56-1012(4)(f); then
   B.   An emergency medical technician-intermediate (EMT-I), as defined in
Idaho Code 56-1012(4)(e); then
   C.   An advanced emergency medical technician-ambulance (advanced EMT-A), as
defined in Idaho Code 56-1012(4)(d); then
   D.   An emergency medical technician-basic (EMT-B) with ambulance rating, as
defined in Idaho Code 56-1012(4)(b)-(c); then
   E.   An emergency medical technician-basic (EMT-B), as defined in Idaho Code
56-1012(4)(b); then
   F.   A first responder (FR), as defined in Idaho Code 56-1012(4)(a).
This section is intended to apply only to medical services and shall not affect
authority at the scene of an emergency concerning overall incident command, or
law enforcement, fire suppression or other non-EMS activities undertaken by
legally responsible public agencies. (Ord. 345, 1-11-2005)
2-3-9: POLICIES, PROCEDURES AND STANDARDS:
The JPB, with the assistance of the chief officer if one is appointed, may
develop and implement policies, procedures and standards governing the
operation of KCEMSS. In addition, the JPB may authorize the chief officer to
develop and implement such policies, procedures and standards in a manner
consistent with this chapter and with the directives of the JPB. Any such
policies, procedures and standards adopted by the JPB and/or the chief officer
shall be consistent with the terms of this chapter and of any agreement between
contracting parties then in force.
The board or JPB may condition disbursement of compensation otherwise payable
to a medical service provider on compliance with this chapter and the policies,
procedures and standards adopted by the JPB or the chief officer pursuant to
this chapter. (Ord. 345, 1-11-2005)
2-3-10: DISPATCH POLICIES AND STANDARDS:
All medical service providers shall adhere to the county dispatch protocols and
policies as adopted by the sheriff. Any medical service provider who acts
contrary to the adopted dispatch protocols and policies may be denied
compensation, have compensation payments terminated or may have its certificate
of compliance revoked, or any combination of these sanctions as the JPB may
deem appropriate. (Ord. 430, 6-1-2009)
2-3-11: CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE:
No medical service provider shall provide any emergency medical services as
defined in this chapter, including nonemergent medical transports and
transfers, in Kootenai County without obtaining a certificate of compliance
from the JPB. Certificates of compliance shall be issued on an annual basis,
for no charge, to all medical service providers who submit the following
documentation to the JPB:
   A.   A copy of the current Idaho ambulance or nontransport license issued to
the medical service provider. If the medical service provider is licensed or is
to be licensed as a provider of EMS transport services, a copy of the current
state of Idaho ambulance license application listing all vehicles in its
service which will serve as ambulances shall also be submitted.
   B.   A listing of all emergency medical responders, emergency medical
technicians, advanced emergency medical technicians, paramedics, registered
nurses, and respiratory therapists who will provide EMS services on behalf of
the medical service provider. This listing shall include the name and driver's
license number of each member, and shall be updated as necessary within the
course of the year.
   C.   A copy of a certificate of insurance indicating that the medical
service provider has a general liability insurance policy currently in force
with a face amount of at least one million dollars ($1,000,000.00). If the
medical service provider owns any motor vehicles or vessels which will be used
in the provision of EMS services, it shall also provide a copy of a certificate
of insurance indicating that there is motor vehicle insurance currently in
force with respect to such vehicles or vessels. All such insurance certificates
shall name KCEMSS and the county as additional insureds. Said insurance shall
remain in force throughout the course of the certification year.
   D.   A certificate, executed by the medical service provider's governing
board or chief executive, indicating that the medical service provider will
comply with the provisions of this chapter and any applicable policies,
procedures and standards adopted by the JPB or the chief officer.
No certificate of compliance shall be issued to a new medical service provider
unless the JPB finds that the services proposed to be provided are required for
public convenience and necessity and that the applicant is fit, willing and
able to provide service that conforms to the provisions of this chapter and by
policies, procedures and standards adopted by the JPB or the chief officer
pursuant to this chapter.
All medical service providers which provide emergency medical services as
defined in this chapter, including nonemergent medical transports and
transfers, in Kootenai County shall be required to comply with the requirements
set forth under this section, regardless of whether or not they are contracting
parties pursuant to this chapter. (Ord. 460, 2-28-2012)
2-3-12: KCEMSS SERVICE AREA; INTERCOUNTY AND INTERSTATE COOPERATION:
The KCEMSS service area shall be determined by the board in consultation with
the JPB and those medical service providers which are contracting parties
pursuant to this chapter, subject to the approval of the Idaho EMS bureau,
department of health and welfare. The KCEMSS service area shall include the
county in its entirety, and may also include areas outside of the county which
are contiguous with the county. Medical service providers which are contracting
parties may provide EMS services within those portions of the KCEMSS service
area located outside of the county.
The board, in consultation with the JPB, may enter into agreements with other
counties and/or EMS service providers within and outside the state of Idaho
concerning intercounty and interstate provision of EMS services, including, but
not limited to, the method by which intercounty or interstate EMS services may
be provided, service areas and payments between counties to equitably
compensate counties and EMS service providers for the provision of intercounty
or interstate EMS services. Additionally, the JPB may enter into mutual aid
agreements with other counties and/or EMS service providers within and outside
the state of Idaho for the provision of intercounty and interstate EMS services
whenever such mutual aid is necessary. (Ord. 345, 1-11-2005)
2-3-13: COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS:
All contracting parties shall comply with the provisions of this chapter, all
applicable federal and state laws and regulations and all applicable county and
city ordinances. The following provisions of law shall be specifically
applicable to KCEMSS:
   A.   The health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996, 42 USC
1320d et seq., and its implementing regulations, 45 CFR parts 160 and 164;
   B.   Idaho Code 56-1011 through 56-1018B and the regulations of the Idaho
EMS bureau, department of health and welfare, IDAPA 16.02.03;
   C.   Idaho open meetings law, Idaho Code 67-2340 et seq.;
   D.   Idaho public records act, Idaho Code 9-335 and 9-337 et seq.;
   E.   Idaho ethics in government act, Idaho Code 59-701 et seq.;
   F.   Idaho tort claims act, Idaho Code 6-901 et seq.;
   G.   Laws regarding retention and destruction of county records, including,
but not limited to, 42 CFR 164.530(j)(2), Idaho Code 9-331, 9-331A, 9-332 and
31-871; and
   H.   All other laws cited in this chapter. (Ord. 345, 1-11-2005)
2-3-14: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
Any medical service provider who violates or fails to comply with any provision
of this chapter, or any policies, procedures, and standards adopted by the JPB
or the chief officer pursuant to this chapter, shall be deemed to have violated
this chapter. Each day a violation continues shall constitute a separate
violation.
   A.   Criminal Provision: Any person who intentionally provides or causes
another to provide EMS services, or who intentionally commits or causes another
to commit any other act affecting provision of EMS services in a manner so as
to obstruct the orderly delivery of emergency medical care by KCEMSS or by a
medical service provider acting in accord with the policies, procedures, and
standards established by the JPB or the chief officer pursuant to this chapter,
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
   B.   Civil Enforcement:
      1.   Any medical service provider which operates within Kootenai County
without a valid certificate of compliance issued by the JPB on or after January
1, 2006, shall be subject to a civil penalty in the amount of three hundred
dollars ($300.00).
      2.   The board and/or the JPB may pursue any available civil remedies to
restrain conduct which violates the terms of this chapter or the policies,
procedures, and standards adopted by the JPB or the chief officer pursuant to
this chapter, or to compel the performance of duties established by this
chapter or the policies, procedures, and standards adopted by the JPB or the
chief officer pursuant to this chapter. (Ord. 371, 10-25-2005)
CHAPTER 4
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
SECTION:
2-4-1: Definitions
2-4-2: Public Corporation Established
2-4-3: Public Corporation Charter
2-4-4: Board Of Directors
2-4-5: Powers And Duties
2-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words shall have the following meanings:
ACT: Idaho Code title 50, chapter 27.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS: The board of directors of the public corporation.
CORPORATION: The industrial development corporation of Kootenai County, Idaho.
COUNTY: Kootenai County, Idaho.
FACILITIES: Land, rights in land, buildings, structures, docks, wharves,
machinery, transmission equipment, landscaping, utilities, approaches, roadways
and parking, handling and storage areas and similar ancillary facilities.
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT FACILITY: Manufacturing, processing, production,
assembly, warehousing, transportation, pollution control, solid waste disposal
and energy facilities. (Ord. 59, 2-2-1983)
2-4-2: PUBLIC CORPORATION ESTABLISHED:
The county does hereby create a public corporation to carry out the purposes of
Idaho Code title 50, chapter 27, as that law may from time to time hereinafter
be amended. The name of the public corporation shall be the industrial
development corporation of Kootenai County, Idaho. (Ord. 59, 2-2-1983)
2-4-3: PUBLIC CORPORATION CHARTER:
A charter shall be issued to the corporation by the board of county
commissioners, which shall grant to the corporation authority to act pursuant
to the act. A copy of the initial charter to be issued is on file with the
county and incorporated herein by this reference. Said charter may be amended
from time to time by the board of county commissioners and shall contain the
limitations set forth in the act. (Ord. 59, 2-2-1983)
2-4-4: BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
   A.   The board of directors of the corporation shall be composed of the
members of the board of county commissioners as constituted from time to time.
A majority of the members of the board of directors shall constitute a quorum.
   B.   The affairs of the corporation shall be conducted and carried out by
the board of directors. The board shall elect among its own members a
president, a vice president, a treasurer and a secretary, one of whom shall be
eligible to hold two (2) offices. The board of directors shall adopt rules and
regulations governing the conduct of the corporation.
   C.   Members of the board of directors shall serve with such compensation as
may be provided in the rules and regulations (bylaws) to be adopted by the
board of directors.
   D.   No director, officer, agent or employee of the corporation shall have
directly or indirectly any financial interest in any property to be included in
or any contract for property service or materials to be furnished or used in
connection with any industrial development facilities financed through the
corporation.
   E.   Every person who was or is a party, or is threatened to be made a party
to, or is involved in any action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal,
administrative or investigative, by reason of the fact that he or a person of
whom he is the legal representative is or was a director or officer of the
corporation, or is or was serving at the request of the corporation as a
director or officer of another corporation, or as its representative in a
partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, shall be indemnified and
held harmless to the fullest extent legally permissible under the law of the
state from time to time against all expenses, liability and loss (including
attorney fees, judgments, fines and amounts paid or to be paid in settlement),
reasonably incurred or suffered by him in connection therewith. Such rights of
indemnification shall be a contract right which may be enforced in any manner
desired by such person. Such right of indemnification shall not be exclusive of
any other right which such directors, officers or representatives may have or
hereafter acquire, and without limiting the generality of such statement, they
shall be entitled to their respective right of indemnification under any bylaw,
agreement, vote of stockholders or provision of law, or otherwise, as well as
their rights under this section. The board of directors may adopt bylaws from
time to time with respect to indemnification to provide at all times the
fullest indemnification permitted by the laws of the state, and may cause the
corporation to purchase and maintain insurance on behalf of any person who is
or was a director or officer of the corporation as a director or officer of
another corporation, or as its representative in a partnership, joint venture,
trust or other enterprise, against any liability asserted against such person
and incurred in any such capacity or arising out of such status, whether or not
the corporation would have the power to indemnify such person. (Ord. 59, 2-2-
1983)
2-4-5: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The corporation shall have all the powers and be subject to all of the
limitations and provisions contained in the act, as that law may hereinafter
from time to time be amended.
   A.   The corporation shall have all the powers granted by, as well as
limited by, the act and shall include the following:
      1.   To construct and maintain one or more industrial development
facilities;
      2.   To lease to a lessee all or any part of any industrial development
facility for such rentals and upon such terms and conditions, including options
to purchase, as its board of directors considers advisable and not in conflict
with the act;
      3.   To sell by installment contract or otherwise and convey all or any
part of any industrial development facility for such purchase price and upon
such terms and conditions as its board of directors considers advisable, which
are not in conflict with the act;
      4.   To make secured loans for the purpose of providing temporary or
permanent financing or refinancing of all or part of the project cost of any
industrial development facility, including the refunding of any outstanding
obligations, mortgages or advances issued, made or given by any person for the
project costs; and to charge and collect interest on the loans for the loan
payments upon such terms and conditions as its board of directors considers
advisable which are not in conflict with the act;
      5.   To issue revenue bonds for the purpose of financing all or part of
the project cost of any industrial development facility and to secure the
payment of the revenue bonds as provided in the act;
      6.   As security for the payment of the principal of and interest on any
revenue bonds issued and any agreements made in connection therewith, to
mortgage, pledge or otherwise encumber any or all of its industrial development
facilities or any part or parts thereof, whether then owned or thereafter
acquired, and to assign any lease or mortgage and repledge any security
conveyed to the corporation, to secure any loan made by the corporation and to
pledge the revenues and receipts therefrom;
      7.   To sue and be sued, complain, and defend in its corporate name;
      8.   To make contracts and to execute all instruments necessary or
convenient for the carrying out of its business;
      9.   To have a corporate seal and to use the same by causing it, or a
facsimile thereof, to be impressed or affixed or in any other manner
reproduced;
      10.   Subject to the limitations of Idaho Code 50-2706, to borrow money,
accept grants from, or contract with, any local, state or federal governmental
agency or with any financial public or private corporation;
      11.   To make and alter bylaws not inconsistent with its charter for the
administration and regulation of the affairs of the corporation;
      12.   To collect fees or charges from users or prospective users of
industrial development facilities to recover actual or anticipated
administrative costs;
      13.   To execute financing documents incidental to the powers enumerated
in this subsection;
   B.   The corporation is limited, however, by the following:
      1.   The corporation may not operate any industrial development
facilities as a business other than as lessor, seller or lender. The purchase
and holding of mortgages, deeds of trust or other security interests and
contracting for any servicing thereof, is not considered the operation of an
industrial development facility;
      2.   The corporation may not exercise any of the powers authorized in
this section or issue any revenue bonds with respect to any industrial facility
unless the industrial development facility is located wholly within the
boundaries of the county;
      3.   The county may not give or lend any money or property nor exercise
its power of eminent domain in aid of the corporation. This provision shall not
preclude the county from dealing with the corporation on an arms length basis;
      4.   The corporation may not issue revenue obligations except upon
approval of the county and upon approval of the city within whose planning
jurisdiction the proposed industrial development facility lies.
   C.   Any net earnings of the corporation, beyond those necessary for
retirement of indebtedness incurred by it, shall inure to the county and not
for the benefit of any other person. Alteration of the charter of or
dissolution of or audits of the corporation shall be as provided by the act and
by subsequent resolutions of the county. Upon dissolution of the corporation,
title to all property owned by the corporation shall vest in the county (Ord.
59, 2-2-1983)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND COMMERCIAL REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
LIQUOR CONTROL
SECTION:
3-1-1: Definitions
3-1-2: License Required
3-1-3: Application Procedure And Requirements
3-1-4: License Fees
3-1-5: Transfer Of License
3-1-6: Expiration And Renewal Of Licenses
3-1-7: Restrictions On Sale
3-1-8: Hours Of Sale
3-1-9: Catering Permits
3-1-10: Revocation Of License
3-1-11: Penalty
3-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
The definitions set forth in sections 23-105, 23-902, 23-1001, and 23-1303,
Idaho Code, as currently enacted and as may be amended from time to time
subsequent to the effective date of this chapter, are hereby adopted and
incorporated into this chapter by reference as if fully set forth herein. In
addition, the following definitions shall apply to this chapter:
ABC: The bureau of alcohol beverage control, Idaho state police.
BOARD: The board of county commissioners of Kootenai County, Idaho.
CLERK: The clerk of the district court of Kootenai County, Idaho, or his or her
designee, whether acting in his or her capacity as clerk of the board of county
commissioners or in his or her capacity as county recorder.
SHERIFF: The sheriff of Kootenai County, Idaho, or his or her designee.
TREASURER: The county treasurer of Kootenai County, Idaho, or his or her
designee. (Ord. 463, 11-6-2012)
3-1-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell beer, wine at retail or by
the drink, or liquor by the drink without first obtaining a license therefor,
as herein provided and pursuant to title 23, Idaho Code.
   B.   No person shall sell beer, wine at retail or by the drink, or liquor by
the drink within Kootenai County except upon possession of a county issued
license for the sale of such beverage.
   C.   A county license shall be required regardless of whether the licensee
is located within or without the corporate limits of any city.
   D.   Said license shall be displayed in a prominent and conspicuous place
within the establishment. (Ord. 463, 11-6-2012)
3-1-3: APPLICATION PROCEDURE AND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Applications for licenses shall be in writing, signed and sworn to by
the applicant upon application forms furnished by the clerk. The applicant
shall fill in the required portion of the application and return it to the
office of the clerk. All applications shall be accompanied by the appropriate
license fee(s) when filed with the clerk.
   B.   The applicant for any license shall possess all of the qualifications
necessary to obtain that license from ABC, as prescribed by title 23, Idaho
Code, and maintain such qualifications throughout the period of such license.
   C.   No license shall issue except upon proof of possession of an ABC issued
license for the sale of beer, wine at retail and/or by the drink, or liquor by
the drink, as applicable.
   D.   The applicant shall further be required to present the application to
Kootenai County community development for review if the business is located
within the unincorporated area of Kootenai County and falls within one of the
following categories:
      1.   The establishment is a new business in a new location or building.
      2.   The establishment is a new business in an existing building, even if
the structure was previously used for commercial activities.
      3.   The establishment is an existing business (renewal), but is in a new
location.
Kootenai County community development shall review the proposed establishment
for compliance with Kootenai County ordinances and the laws of the state of
Idaho. Such a review shall include an inspection of the structure, if deemed
appropriate by the director of community development, for compliance with the
Kootenai County building code ordinance, title 7, chapter 1 of this code, and
shall further include inspection of the structure by the appropriate fire
protection district. Upon receipt of approval of the fire protection district
building inspector, the application may be signed by the director of community
development. Fees for such review and inspection may be set by resolution of
the board.
No compliance review shall be required for renewals of existing businesses
remaining in the same location. For businesses within incorporated cities,
compliance review shall be in accordance with city ordinance.
   E.   The board, by resolution duly enacted, may authorize the clerk to issue
county licenses pursuant to this chapter without further board action. Such
licenses shall be issued only upon a determination by the clerk that all
required portions of the application are complete and that all applicable
requirements of this chapter have been met. Otherwise, issuance of county
licenses issued pursuant to this chapter shall be vested in the board. (Ord.
463, 11-6-2012)
3-1-4: LICENSE FEES:
The annual license fees for the sale of alcoholic beverages within Kootenai
County, whether the licensee is located within or without the corporate limits
of any city, shall be as follows:
Beer:                                  
  Bottled or canned beer only, to be
 consumed off the licensed premises  $ 25.00
  only
  Bottled or canned beer only, to be
 consumed on or off the licensed     75.00
  premises
 Draught beer only, or draught beer  100.00
  and bottled or canned beer
Liquor                                 25 percent of the amount of the annual
                                       license fee collected by the state
Wine:                                  
 Retail wine                         $100.00
 Wine by the drink                   100.00
 
A pro rata share of the applicable annual license fee(s) shall be charged in
accordance with the actual months of issuance whenever a license is issued for
less than a full calendar year. This pro rata share shall be determined as of
the first day of the month in which the license is issued.
The license fees set forth in this section may be amended pursuant to
resolution of the board, as authorized under title 23, Idaho Code. (Ord. 463,
11-6-2012)
3-1-5: TRANSFER OF LICENSE:
   A.   Any license issued pursuant to this chapter shall be assignable to
persons possessing the qualifications necessary under this chapter, title 23,
Idaho Code, and ABC administrative rules, IDAPA 11.05.01, to acquire a license
to sell beer, wine at retail or by the drink, or liquor by the drink, as
appropriate, upon the filing of proper application with the clerk and the
payment of the appropriate transfer fee as set forth in subsection B of this
section.
   B.   The fees for the transfer of a license for the sale of alcoholic
beverages within Kootenai County, whether the licensee is located within or
without the corporate limits of any city, shall be as follows:
 
Beer               $5.00
Liquor             None
Retail wine        None
Wine by the drink  None
 
   C.   The transfer fees set forth in this section may be amended pursuant to
resolution of the board, to the extent authorized under title 23, Idaho Code.
   D.   The board, by resolution duly enacted, may authorize the clerk to
approve transfers of county licenses issued pursuant to this chapter without
further board action. Otherwise, approval of transfers of county licenses
issued pursuant to this chapter shall be vested in the board. (Ord. 463, 11-6-
2012)
3-1-6: EXPIRATION AND RENEWAL OF LICENSES:
   A.   All licenses issued pursuant to this chapter shall expire at two
o'clock (2:00) A.M. on March 1 of the year following issuance, or on such other
renewal date pertaining to Kootenai County as set forth in administrative rule
promulgated by ABC.
   B.   Renewals of licenses shall be for one full year from the date of
renewal (for example, from March 1 through February 28 or 29 of the next year).
   C.   The board, by resolution duly enacted, may authorize the clerk to renew
county licenses issued pursuant to this chapter without further board action.
Otherwise, approval of transfers of county licenses issued pursuant to this
chapter shall be vested in the board. (Ord. 463, 11-6-2012)
3-1-7: RESTRICTIONS ON SALE:
   A.   A holder of a valid retail wine license pursuant to title 23, chapter
13, Idaho Code who also holds a valid license for the retail sale of liquor by
the drink pursuant to title 23, chapter 9, Idaho Code may sell wine for
consumption on or off the licensed premises.
   B.   A holder of a valid retail wine license who does not possess either a
valid license for the sale of wine by the drink pursuant to title 23, chapter
13, Idaho Code, or a valid license for the retail sale of liquor by the drink,
shall not permit consumption of wine on the licensed premises and may sell the
wine only in its original unbroken, sealed container.
   C.   A holder of a valid wine by the drink license who does not possess a
valid retail wine license may sell wine for consumption on the premises only.
   D.   A holder of a valid liquor by the drink license who does not possess
either a valid retail wine license or a valid wine by the drink license shall
not sell wine for consumption on or off the premises. (Ord. 463, 11-6-2012)
3-1-8: HOURS OF SALE:
   A.   Beer: Beer may be sold only between six o'clock (6:00) A.M. and two
o'clock (2:00) A.M., prevailing local time.
   B.   Wine:
      1.   Wine sold at retail may be sold only between six o'clock (6:00) A.M.
and two o'clock (2:00) A.M., prevailing local time.
      2.   Wine sold by the drink may be sold only between ten o'clock (10:00)
A.M. and two o'clock (2:00) A.M., prevailing local time.
   C.   Liquor:
      1.   Liquor by the drink may be sold only between ten o'clock (10:00)
A.M. and two o'clock (2:00) A.M., prevailing local time.
      2.   In addition to other lawful sale times, liquor by the drink may be
sold on Sundays, on Memorial Day, and on Thanksgiving Day during the times
stated in subsection C1 of this section.
      3.   Liquor shall not be sold by the drink between two o'clock (2:00)
A.M. on Christmas Day (December 25) until ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. the
following day (December 26).
      4.   The sale or delivery of any alcoholic liquor in, on, or from the
premises of any state liquor store or distributing station within Kootenai
County on any Sunday which does not fall on Christmas Day shall be permitted.
   D.   Establishment Hours: Any establishment that sells beer, wine and/or
liquor for consumption on the premises may remain open for an additional thirty
(30) minutes for the purpose of clearing tables and service areas, and to allow
patrons to finish consuming beverages served prior to two o'clock (2:00) A.M.;
provided, however, that no alcoholic beverages shall be sold during this
period. No patron shall remain on the premises after two thirty o'clock (2:30)
A.M. until the establishment reopens for business that day, which time shall be
no earlier than six o'clock (6:00) A.M. (Ord. 463, 11-6-2012)
3-1-9: CATERING PERMITS:
   A.   The application procedure and fee for alcoholic beverage catering
permits shall be as set forth in sections 23-934A and 23-934B, Idaho Code.
   B.   If the sheriff recommends or does not object to approval of a catering
permit application, the board, by resolution duly enacted, may authorize the
clerk to approve the application and issue a catering permit to the applicant
without further board action. Otherwise, approval of catering permit
applications and issuance of catering permits shall be vested in the board.
   C.   If the sheriff recommends denial or objects to approval of a catering
permit application, the clerk shall refer the application to the board for a
decision as to whether to approve or deny the application. If the board
approves the application, the clerk shall issue the catering permit forthwith.
   D.   The regulatory and penal provisions of this chapter shall apply to
catering permits issued pursuant to this section. (Ord. 463, 11-6-2012)
3-1-10: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Pursuant to the provisions of section 23-933B, Idaho Code, the board
shall retain the right to revoke, cancel, refuse to renew, or suspend any
county license issued pursuant to this chapter on any of the following grounds:
      1.   Fraud or misrepresentation in the procurement of the license; or
      2.   Violation of any applicable federal or state law or regulation; or
      3.   Violation of any provision of this chapter; or
      4.   The occurrence of any conduct or act of the licensee or licensee's
employees, or any conduct or act permitted by licensee or licensee's employees
on the premises where the same is conducted, or in connection therewith or
adjacent thereto, tending to render such business or such premises where the
same is conducted as:
         a.   A public nuisance, as defined in title 52, Idaho Code; or
         b.   A moral nuisance, as defined in title 52, Idaho Code; or
         c.   A direct and substantial threat to the health, peace, safety or
general welfare of the county.
   B.   An action to revoke, cancel, refuse to renew, or suspend any county
license issued pursuant to this chapter may be taken at the request of the
clerk or the sheriff, or may be taken upon the board's own initiative. Notice
of the proposed action shall be served upon the licensee via personal service,
via certified mail, return receipt requested, or via other means acceptable to
the licensee. Copies of the notice shall be delivered to the clerk and to the
sheriff. The notice shall, at a minimum, include a description of the action
proposed to be taken and information regarding the licensee's right to request
a hearing before the board regarding the proposed action.
   C.   The licensee shall have fourteen (14) days from the date of service of
the notice to request a hearing. If no hearing is requested, the board shall
issue a default order and shall cause such order to be served in the same
manner as the notice of the proposed action. The proposed action shall become
final upon completion of service of the default order.
   D.   Procedures for hearings related to the revocation, cancellation,
refusal to renew, or suspension of any county license issued pursuant to this
chapter shall be as set forth in the provisions of title 67, chapter 52, Idaho
Code pertaining to contested cases.
   E.   Revocation or suspension of any state alcoholic beverage license by the
director of the Idaho state police, or his or her designee, shall be deemed
prima facie evidence for revocation, cancellation, refusal to renew, or
suspension of the license issued herein.
   F.   If the board suspends a county license issued pursuant to this chapter,
the licensee may petition the board prior to the effective date of the
suspension requesting that a monetary payment be allowed in lieu of the license
suspension. If the board determines such payment to be consistent with the
purpose of the laws of the state of Idaho and of this chapter, and is in the
public interest, it may establish a monetary payment in an amount not to exceed
one thousand dollars ($1,000.00). The licensee may reject the payment amount
determined by the board, and instead be subject to the originally imposed
suspension. Upon payment of the amount established, the board shall cancel the
suspension period. The board shall cause any payment to be paid to the
treasurer for credit to the county general fund. (Ord. 463, 11-6-2012)
3-1-11: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter or fails to
comply with any of the terms and conditions contained herein shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor punishable as provided in section 23-935, Idaho Code, unless
another penalty is specifically provided in title 23, Idaho Code or other law,
in which case that penalty shall apply. (Ord. 463, 11-6-2012)
CHAPTER 2
MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENTS
SECTION:
3-2-1: Definitions
3-2-2: Massage Establishment And Bathhouse Licenses
3-2-3: Massage Establishment Or Bathhouse Employee Licenses
3-2-4: License Fees
3-2-5: Conditions Of Licenses
3-2-6: Exemptions
3-2-7: Denial, Suspension Or Revocation Of Licenses
3-2-8: Appeals
3-2-9: Rules And Regulations
3-2-10: Records Required
3-2-11: Right Of Access
3-2-12: Liberal Construction
3-2-13: Penalty
3-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and terms as used herein shall be held and construed to
have the following meanings:
ATHLETIC CLUB: A business providing weight machines and/or squash, handball,
tennis or racquetball courts, swimming pool and other athletic activity areas,
and whose primary function is to provide services to long term members for the
learning and improvement of those skills for which equipment and facilities are
provided. Baths and massage areas in an athletic club are ancillary to the
primary function of such athletic club.
BATHHOUSE: Includes any place or portions thereof where baths by water, steam,
vapor or hot air, hot tub, whirlpool, sauna or like treatments are made
available for any fee, compensation, consideration or the expectation thereof;
provided, however, that such term shall not include any place providing only
ordinary tub or shower baths where no attendant is provided.
BATHHOUSE EMPLOYEE: Includes any person who gives baths to, or attends in any
way upon, patrons of a bathhouse, or who supervises the work of such a person,
or acts in any managerial capacity within any bathhouse; provided, however,
that such term shall not include persons who perform only custodial or
janitorial work.
MASSAGE: Includes the method, art or science of treating the human body for
hygienic, remedial or relaxational purposes or for the purpose of reducing or
contouring the human body, by rubbing, stroking, kneading, tapping, rolling or
manipulating the human body or any portion thereof with the hands or by any
mechanical or electrical apparatus or other agency or instrumentality;
provided, the definition of "massage" as used herein shall not be deemed to
authorize any activity which is lewd, disorderly or dissolute.
MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT: Includes any place or portion thereof where massages or
like treatments are performed for any fee, compensation, consideration,
consideration or the expectation thereof on the body of one person by another
person.
MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT EMPLOYEE: Includes any person who gives massages to, or
attends in any way upon, patrons of a massage establishment, or who supervises
the work of such a person, or acts in any managerial capacity within any
massage establishment, or acts as security personnel for any massage
establishment or bathhouse; provided, however, that such term shall not include
persons who perform only custodial or janitorial work.
PERSON: Includes natural persons of either sex, firms, corporations and all
associations of natural persons, whether acting by themselves or by a servant
or employee. (Ord. 144, 10-11-1989)
3-2-2: MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT AND BATHHOUSE LICENSES:
   A.   License Required: It is unlawful for any person to conduct, operate or
maintain a massage establishment or bathhouse or cause a massage establishment
or bathhouse to be conducted, operated or maintained without first obtaining a
current and valid massage establishment or bathhouse license issued pursuant to
the provisions contained herein for the premises thereof. Such license shall be
posted in a conspicuous location on the premises of such massage establishment
or bathhouse, together with the massage establishment or bathhouse employee
licenses of all persons acting as massage establishment employees or bathhouse
employees on such premises. One license shall be required for the premises of
each establishment operating as a massage establishment or a bathhouse and such
license shall permit the giving of massages or baths or both on such premises.
   B.   Application For License: Application for a massage establishment
license or bathhouse license shall be made to the county clerk and shall be
accompanied by the payment of the fee designated in section
3-2-4 of this chapter. Each application for a massage establishment or
bathhouse license shall be signed and sworn to by the person who will conduct,
operate or maintain such establishment and shall be accompanied by two (2)
black and white photographs of the applicant two inches by two inches (2" x 2")
in size and taken within six (6) months of the application, showing only the
full face of the applicant, one of which shall be affixed to the license when
it is issued, and two (2) complete sets of fingerprints of the applicant. In
the event the applicant is a corporation, the information required by this
section shall be provided for each shareholder, officer and director of the
corporation. Each application shall be in writing and shall contain the
following information:
      1.   The name, home address and telephone number of the applicant and of
all persons named under subsections B3 and B4 of this section;
      2.   The business name, business address and telephone number of the
establishment or proposed establishment and a description of the premises on
which said business will be conducted;
      3.   The names of all persons owning an interest in such business or
proposed business, including any corporate stockholders, and whether such
business will be conducted as a sole proprietorship, partnership or
corporation; if a partnership, giving the names of all persons sharing in the
profits of said business, and, if a corporation, giving the names of its
officers and directors and the title of each;
      4.   The names of all persons who will act as proprietor, manager or
person in charge of such business or proposed business;
      5.   The prior residences of the applicant and of all persons named under
subsections B3 and B4 of this section for the past five (5) years, together
with the period of residence at each address;
      6.   The age, date of birth and social security number of the applicant
and of all persons named under subsections B3 and B4 of this section;
      7.   Whether the applicant or any person named under subsections B3 and
B4 of this section have ever been convicted of any crime or have ever forfeited
a bond to appear in court for any crime, excluding minor traffic offenses, and,
if so, stating what crime, the date of conviction or forfeiture and the
circumstances and disposition of the case;
      8.   The occupation and business name and business address of all prior
employers of the applicant and of all other persons named under subsections B3
and B4 of this section during the past five (5) years and the nature of the
work performed for each of such employers;
      9.   All assumed names or aliases which have been or are used by the
applicant and by all persons named under subsections B3 and B4 of this section;
      10.   Such other information as the sheriff may reasonably require for
the administration of this chapter. (Ord. 144, 10-11-1989)
3-2-3: MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT OR BATHHOUSE EMPLOYEE LICENSES:
   A.   License Required: It is unlawful for any person to act as a massage
establishment employee or a bathhouse employee or to hold himself out as a
massage establishment employee or a bathhouse employee or to administer or
offer or agree to administer any massage or bath for any fee, compensation,
consideration or the expectation thereof without first obtaining a current and
valid massage establishment employee license or bathhouse employee license
issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, which shall be posted as
required by subsection
3-2-2A of this chapter, and it is unlawful for any owner, proprietor, manager
or person in charge of any massage establishment or bathhouse to allow any
person to act as a massage establishment employee or a bathhouse employee who
has not first obtained such license. One license shall be required hereby for a
massage establishment or bathhouse employee and such license shall permit
activities as a massage establishment employee or a bathhouse employee or both.
   B.   Application For License: Application for a massage establishment or
bathhouse employee license shall be made to the county clerk and shall be
accompanied by payment of the fee designated in section
3-2-4 of this chapter. Each application for a massage establishment or
bathhouse employee license shall be signed and sworn to by the person so
applying and shall be accompanied by two (2) black and white photographs of the
applicant two inches by two inches (2" x 2") in size and taken within six (6)
months of the application, showing only the full face of the applicant, one of
which shall be affixed to the license when it is issued, and two (2) complete
sets of fingerprints of the applicant. Each application shall be in writing and
shall contain the following information:
      1.   The name, home address, telephone number and age, date of birth and
social security number of the applicant;
      2.   The prior residences of the applicant for the past five (5) years,
together with the period of residence at each such address;
      3.   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of any crime or has
forfeited a bond to appear in court for any crime, excluding minor traffic
offenses and, if so, stating what crime, the date of conviction or forfeiture
and the circumstances and disposition of the case;
      4.   The business name, business address and telephone number of the
establishment at which the applicant will be employed;
      5.   The occupation and business name and business address of all prior
employers of the applicant during the five (5) years preceding the application
and the nature of the work performed for each of such employers;
      6.   All assumed names or aliases which have been or are used by the
applicant;
      7.   Whether the applicant will be acting as a proprietor, manager or
person in charge of any massage establishment or bathhouse;
      8.   A certificate from a licensed physician bearing a date not more than
thirty (30) days prior to the date of application, showing the applicant's
physical condition to be free of infectious and communicable diseases. This
certificate shall be renewed by the applicant annually.
      9.   Such other information as the sheriff may reasonably require for the
administration of this chapter. (Ord. 144, 10-11-1989)
3-2-4: LICENSE FEES:
   A.   License fees for either a massage establishment or bathhouse license or
a massage establishment or bathhouse employee license shall be set by
resolution of the board of county commissioners as they shall from time to time
deem appropriate.
   B.   The fee for all licenses issued pursuant to this chapter subsequent to
July 1 of each calendar year shall be one-half (1/2) of the fee designated in
subsection A of this section.
   C.   The fee for a massage establishment or bathhouse employee license or
for the renewal of such license shall be waived in the event that the applicant
for such license shall have applied for a massage establishment or bathhouse
license as the person who will conduct, operate or maintain such establishment,
and shall have paid the fee designated by subsection A of this section.
   D.   Monies received from payment of such fees shall be deposited in the
county general fund. (Ord. 144, 10-11-1989)
3-2-5: CONDITIONS OF LICENSES:
   A.   Temporary License: The county clerk may, for good cause shown, issue a
temporary massage establishment or bathhouse license or massage establishment
or bathhouse employee license, to be effective not for more than thirty (30)
days upon initial application for such license.
   B.   Expiration Of Licenses: Licenses issued pursuant to this chapter shall
be valid only until the January 1 of the following year and may be renewed
annually by filing an application for renewal with, and paying the fee
designated in section
3-2-4 of this chapter to the sheriff.
   C.   Transfer Prohibited: Licenses issued pursuant to this chapter shall not
be assigned or transferred from one holder to another.
   D.   Altering License: It is unlawful to alter or tamper in any way with a
license which has been issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
   E.   Notification Of Place Of Employment:. It is unlawful for any person to
act as a massage establishment or bathhouse employee without first notifying
the sheriff in writing of the business name, business address and telephone
number of the establishment or establishments at which said person is employed.
Any massage establishment or bathhouse employee changing the location of his
employment shall first notify the sheriff in writing of such change.
   F.   Notice Of Relocation Required: The premises of a massage establishment
or bathhouse may be relocated only if the sheriff is notified in writing of the
relocation ten (10) days in advance thereof. (Ord. 144, 10-11-1989)
3-2-6: EXEMPTIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the following persons and
circumstances and they are hereby exempted therefrom:
   A.   An individual giving a massage or bath in his home to members of his
immediate family;
   B.   Massage or baths given solely by a physician or other person licensed
by the state to treat the sick, injured or infirm;
   C.   Massages or baths given at any institution maintained by the public
funds of the state or of any of its political subdivisions or of the United
States;
   D.   Massages or baths given at the athletic department of any school or
college accredited by the state of Idaho;
   E.   Massages or baths given by persons licensed to practice barbering or
beauty culture, provided that they do not exceed the scope of their license;
   F.   Massages given by licensed physical therapist, practitioners of sports
medicine or graduates of an accredited school of massage;
   G.   Massages given in an athletic club with a regular paid membership in
excess of two hundred (200) members and whose membership fee is not determined
by amount of use of club facilities. (Ord. 144, 10-11-1989)
3-2-7: DENIAL, SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSES:
   A.   Massage Establishment Or Bathhouse License: The sheriff may refuse
issuance of any massage establishment or bathhouse license, and he may order
the suspension or revocation of such license upon his finding after such
investigation or hearing as he deems necessary that:
      1.   Such license was issued illegally or by mistake or inadvertence or
was procured by fraud, misrepresentation, false or misleading statements,
evasions or suppression of material facts or that any of the material facts
contained in the application for such license are false;
      2.   Any person owning an interest or sharing in the profits of such
business, including any corporate stockholders, or, if a corporation, any
officer or director thereof, or any person acting as proprietor, manager or
person in charge of such business:
         a.   Has been convicted within the past five (5) years of any felony
or of any violation of any federal, state or local law relating to sex offenses
or to the possession, use or sale of drugs or controlled substances, or to the
sale of alcoholic beverages, or of any act or omission in violation of this
chapter or of any crime involving moral turpitude or has forfeited a foregoing
offense;
         b.   Has been guilty of any act or omission in violation of this
chapter or any misconduct or improper, fraudulent or wrongful behavior relating
to the giving of massages or baths or to the management of massage
establishments or bathhouses or to the fitness of such person to engage in such
business, or of any act or default which is discreditable to such business of
which is lewd or dissolute;
         c.   Is not of good moral character;
         d.   Was previously sharing in the profits of any massage
establishment or bathhouse or, if a corporation, was acting as officer or
director thereof, or was acting as proprietor, manager or person in charge of
such business at a time when any license issued pursuant to this chapter for
such business was revoked.
      3.   Any servant, agent, employee or representative of such business has
been guilty of any act or omission while on the premises of such business which
is in violation of this chapter or of any misconduct or improper, fraudulent or
wrongful behavior relating to the giving of massages or baths or to the fitness
of such person to engage in such business or of any act or default which is
discreditable to such business or which is lewd or dissolute, if:
         a.   The circumstances surrounding any of the foregoing acts or
omissions are such as to establish a lack of adequate supervision or control or
are such as to establish that such act or omission was knowingly allowed by any
person sharing in the profits of said business or, if a corporation, any
officer or director thereof, or of any person acting as proprietor, manager or
person in charge of such business;
         b.   In any event, if three (3) or more such acts or omissions have
occurred on the premises of such business within a period of two (2) years;
      4.   Such denial, suspension or revocation is necessary to protect the
public safety, morals or welfare or the operation of such business would be
detrimental thereto or in violation of any federal, state or local law.
      5.   The holder of any massage establishment license or bathhouse license
and all persons owning an interest or sharing in the profits of such business,
including any corporate stockholders, and, if a corporation, all officers and
directors thereof, and all persons acting as proprietor, manager or person in
charge of such business shall be held strictly liable and shall be responsible
and accountable for any act or omission of each other under the provisions of
this section and for any act or omission of any servant, agent, employee or
representative of such business as provided by subsection A3 of this section,
if such acts or omissions establish a lack of adequate supervision or control
or were knowingly allowed or have occurred three (3) or more times within a
period of two (2) years.
   B.   Massage Establishment Or Bathhouse Employee License: The sheriff may
refuse issuance of any massage establishment or bathhouse employee license, and
he may order the suspension or revocation of such license upon his finding
after such investigation or hearing as he deems necessary that:
      1.   Such license was issued illegally or by mistake or inadvertence or
was procured by fraud, misrepresentation, false or misleading statements,
evasions or suppression of material facts or that any of the material facts
contained in the application for such license are false;
      2.   The applicant or holder of such license has been convicted within
the last five (5) years of any felony or of any violation of federal, state or
local law relating to sex offenses or to the possession, use or sale of drugs,
controlled substances or to the sale of alcoholic beverages, or of any act or
omission in violation of this chapter or of any crime involving moral turpitude
or has forfeited a bond to appear in court for any of the foregoing offenses;
      3.   The applicant or holder of such license has been guilty of any act,
or omission in violation of this chapter or of any misconduct or improper,
fraudulent or wrongful behavior relating to the giving of massages or baths or
to the management of massage establishments or bathhouses or to the fitness of
such person to engage in such business, or of any act or default which is
discreditable to such business or which is lewd or dissolute;
      4.   The applicant or holder of such license is not of good moral
character;
      5.   The applicant or holder of such license has previously had a license
issued pursuant to this chapter which has been revoked;
      6.   The applicant or holder of such license has acted in a manner which
endangers the public health, safety, morals or welfare while on the premises of
any massage establishment or bathhouse, or that issuance of such license would
be detrimental thereto or in violation of any federal, state or local law.
(Ord. 144, 10-11-1989)
3-2-8: APPEALS:
Any applicant who has duly made application for a license under the provisions
of this chapter and has been denied such license, or any person holding a
license which is revoked or suspended under the provisions of this chapter, may
file a petition with the board of county commissioners demanding a hearing
before them for the purpose of contesting such denial, revocation or
suspension; provided that such petition must be filed within ten (10) days
following receipt of notification of such denial, revocation or suspension.
Such denial, revocation or suspension shall be stayed upon the filing of such
petition pending the final determination of the board of county commissioners
as herein provided. In the event such petition is filed, the board of county
commissioners shall set a date, no less than ten (10) days following the
mailing of notice thereof for a hearing, of which all interested parties shall
be notified. All credible evidence bearing on the questions of whether such
denial, suspension or revocation is proper under the provisions of this chapter
may be received at that hearing. If the board of county commissioners shall
determine upon such hearing that such denial, suspension or revocation is not
proper under the provisions of this chapter, they shall so notify the sheriff,
who shall cause the license to be issued or reinstated forthwith. If the board
of county commissioners determines upon such hearing that such license should
be denied, suspended or revoked under the provisions of this chapter, they
shall issue such order in writing. An appeal from such order may be made in the
district court of Kootenai County in the manner provided under Idaho Code title
67, chapter 52. (Ord. 144, 10-11-1989)
3-2-9: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   Advertising Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person to place an
advertisement for the giving of massages or baths in any establishment or by
any person unless such establishment and person are first duly licensed in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 144, 10-11-1989)
   B.   Massage Or Bath Off Premises Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person
not licensed pursuant to the requirements of this chapter to administer a
massage or bath for which any fee, compensation or consideration is given or
promised or to hold himself out as administering such massage or bath unless
such massage or bath is administered or to be administered at a location and
upon premises for which a current and valid massage establishment or bathhouse
license has been issued. (Ord. 144, 10-11-1989; amd. 2004 Code)
   C.   Business Hours: It is unlawful to conduct business in a massage
establishment or bathhouse between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and
six o'clock (6:00) A.M. For the purpose of this section, "conduct business"
means the offering by either advertisement or verbal communication or the
treating or administering of any massages or water, steam, vapor or hot air
baths; provided, however, any person may submit a written request to the
sheriff for a variance of the provisions of this section. The sheriff shall
timely act on all variance requests. No variance shall be granted which is
detrimental to the general public health, safety and welfare. The denial of a
variance under this section shall be appealable to the board of county
commissioners within that time frame and under those procedures set forth in
section
3-2-8 of this chapter.
   D.   Age Of Employee: It is unlawful for the owner, proprietor, manager or
person in charge of any massage establishment or bathhouse or any employee of
such place to employ any person in such place who is not at least eighteen (18)
years of age and it is unlawful for any person under such age to act as a
massage establishment employee or a bathhouse employee.
   E.   Safety And Sanitation: The premises of all massage establishments and
bathhouses shall be maintained in a safe and sanitary manner and shall meet any
sanitary conditions established by the board of health or other applicable
regulatory agency.
   F.   Liquor And Drugs Prohibited: It is unlawful for any member of the
public, or for the proprietor, manager or person in charge of any massage
establishment or bathhouse or any employee of such place, to consume any
alcoholic beverages or liquor or use any drug or controlled substance on the
premises. It is further unlawful for the proprietor, manager or person in
charge of any massage establishment or bathhouse or any employee of such place
to allow the consumption of alcoholic beverages or liquor or the use of any
drug or controlled substance on such premises; provided, however, that the
provisions contained herein relating to alcoholic beverages or liquor shall not
apply to premises which are duly licensed by the Idaho state liquor control
board. Violation of this subsection shall constitute grounds for the revocation
of any licenses granted pursuant to this chapter.
   G.   Additional Rules And Regulations: The sheriff shall have the power from
time to time to adopt, publish and enforce rules and regulations not
inconsistent with this chapter or with the general laws of the state of Idaho,
for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this chapter and
accomplishing its goals and it is unlawful to violate or fail to comply with
any such rule or regulation.
Such rules and regulations as the sheriff shall adopt shall be in full force
and effect three (3) working days after a copy of such rules and regulations
has been mailed regular postage prepaid to each licensee under section
3-2-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 144, 10-11-1989)
3-2-10: RECORDS REQUIRED:
It shall be the duty of every owner, proprietor, manager or person in charge of
any massage establishment or bathhouse to maintain at such establishment a book
or other permanent record in which the information required herein shall be
permanently recorded. Such records shall be kept and maintained for a period of
not less than three (3) years and shall be kept available for inspection by the
sheriff upon demand. It is unlawful for any person to administer any massage or
bath for which any fee, compensation or consideration is given or promised
unless the record required herein has first been completed. It is unlawful to
fail to make entry of any record required herein or to make any false entry
therein or to falsify, obliterate or destroy such record or to refuse to allow
the sheriff to inspect such record. This record shall contain:
   A.   The date of every massage or bath given on such premises;
   B.   The name of the person administering each massage or bath;
   C.   A description of the services to be rendered to each such person;
   D.   A complete itemized statement of the price paid or to be paid,
including any tip, for such services. (Ord. 144, 10-11-1989)
3-2-11: RIGHT OF ACCESS:
Officers of the county sheriff's department and employees of Panhandle health
district shall have reasonable access at all times to any massage establishment
or bathhouse when such persons are visiting the same in the performance of
their duties for purposes of investigation, and it is unlawful to deny them
such access. (Ord. 144, 10-11-1989)
3-2-12: LIBERAL CONSTRUCTION:
This chapter shall be deemed to be an exercise of the police power of the
county to preserve the public peace, health, safety, welfare and morality and
its provisions shall be liberally construed for the accomplishment of that
purpose. (Ord. 144, 10-11-1989)
3-2-13: PENALTY:
Any person who commits, attempts to commit, conspires to commit, offers or
agrees to commit or aids or abets in the commission of any act or omission
which is in violation of the provisions of this chapter, whether individually
or in connection with one or more persons and whether as principal, agent or
accessory or who falsely, fraudulently, forcefully or wilfully induces, causes,
coerces, requires, permits or directs others to commit such violation, shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined as
provided in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 144, 10-11-1989; amd. 2004 Code)
CHAPTER 3
PAWNBROKERS AND SECONDHAND DEALERS
SECTION:
3-3-1: Purpose
3-3-2: Definitions
3-3-3: License Requirements
3-3-4: Exemptions
3-3-5: License Denial Or Revocation
3-3-6: Records
3-3-7: Pawn Tickets
3-3-8: Time Limitations
3-3-9: Prohibited Acts
3-3-10: Right Of Entry
3-3-11: Stolen Or Lost Property
3-3-12: Penalty
3-3-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is regulatory. It is intended to assist law
enforcement agencies in tracing stolen property. It is also intended to prevent
disposal of stolen property through pawnbrokers and secondhand dealers. The
requirements of this chapter are in addition to any requirements placed upon
pawnbrokers and others by Idaho Code title 63, chapter 23. Any fees paid to the
county under Idaho Code title 63, chapter 23 by pawnbrokers and others shall be
allowed as a credit towards the license fees due to the county by this chapter.
(Ord. 94, 6-2-1986)
3-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
AGENT: Any associate, partner, employee, director, officer, owner, manager or
person with a financial interest in such pawnbroker business or secondhand
dealer business other than as a lessor, mortgagee or vendee.
PAWNBROKER: Any person, partnership, association, corporation or agent thereof
which, in the course of its business, loans money and receives as security
personal property as a pledge, or holds such personal property under a
conditional sales contract or an agreement to resell such personal property to
the borrower or his assignee at a price agreed upon, at or before the time of
such transaction; except this term shall not apply to banks, trust companies or
bond brokers who are otherwise regulated by law and authorized to deal in
commercial paper, sales of stock, bonds or other certificates of value.
SECONDHAND DEALER: Any person, partnership, association, corporation or agent
thereof, engaging in, conducting, managing, or carrying on the business of
buying, selling or otherwise dealing in used or secondhand personal property,
rebuilt or reconditioned goods, wares or merchandise, providing that this term
shall not apply to a person conducting a casual or isolated sale of one's own
personal property; provided further that this term shall not apply to a retail
dealer of used or secondhand merchandise, whose stock of merchandise consists
of at least ninety percent (90%) of objects of art, curios or household
furniture or furnishings offered for sale on the basis, express or implied,
that the value of the property, in whole or substantial part, is derived from
its age and historical association; provided further that this term shall not
apply to shops dealing exclusively in coins, currency and/or precious metals,
auto wreckers, used car dealers or dealers of new articles who allow their
patrons an exchange value on used or secondhand articles of personal property.
SHERIFF: The sheriff of Kootenai County and all of his authorized
representatives. (Ord. 94, 6-2-1986)
3-3-3: LICENSE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Licenses Required: It shall be unlawful for any person, partnership,
association, corporation or agent thereof, to act as a pawnbroker or secondhand
dealer as defined in this chapter, unless a valid license therefor has been
issued as provided for in this chapter and which license is in full force and
effect.
   B.   Qualifications For License: No license shall be issued to any
pawnbroker, secondhand dealer or agent thereof if any such pawnbroker,
secondhand dealer or agent thereof, or other person having a direct financial
interest in such business other than as a lessor, mortgagee or vendee has:
      1.   Been convicted of a felony;
      2.   Had a license under this chapter revoked within five (5) years of
the date of application for such license.
   C.   Applications: All applications for a license under this chapter shall
be made to the county clerk in such form and manner as he may prescribe, and
shall be referred to the sheriff, who shall cause an investigation to be made
of the qualifications of the applicant. Such investigation shall include all
agents of applicants. Should the sheriff determine that the applicant is
qualified for a license under the provisions of this chapter, he shall report
to the county clerk that the applicant is so qualified, and the license shall
be issued by the county clerk. Should the sheriff find that the applicant does
not meet the qualification requirements under this chapter, the application
shall be denied.
   D.   License Transfer: A license issued under this chapter is not
transferable from one person, partnership, corporation or association to any
other person, partnership, corporation or association. Such license may not be
transferred from one location to another without application to and approval by
the county clerk.
   E.   Term Of License: Such license shall expire one year from the date of
its issuance unless sooner revoked or surrendered.
   F.   Minors: A license shall not be issued to a person less than eighteen
(18) years of age. (Ord. 94, 6-2-1986)
   G.   License Fee: Before the issuance of any license or renewal thereof, the
county clerk shall collect an annual license fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) per
calendar quarter. (Ord. 94, 6-2-1986; amd. 2004 Code)
3-3-4: EXEMPTIONS:
Stores dealing in secondhand clothing only, and all nonprofit, charitable
organizations are exempt from the requirements of this chapter. (Ord. 94, 6-2-
1986)
3-3-5: LICENSE DENIAL OR REVOCATION:
   A.   Any license issued under this chapter may be revoked, and an
application for issuance of a new license or renewal of said license may be
denied, when it is determined that any applicant, licensee or agent of
applicant or licensee has violated any provision of this chapter, or does not
meet the qualifications of a licensee as provided in this chapter.
   B.   Prior to the revocation of any license or upon denial of an application
for a license or renewal thereof, written notice of the reason for such action
shall be given to the applicant or licensee by the county clerk. Such notice
shall state that the applicant or licensee may request a hearing on such
decision by the board of county commissioners. Such request by the applicant or
licensee shall be made within ten (10) days of receiving the written notice.
Written notice shall be deemed received two (2) days after the mailing of said
notice or upon personal delivery to the applicant or licensee. Should the
applicant or licensee request a hearing within such ten (10) day period, the
applicant shall be notified in writing by the county clerk of the time and
place of the hearing. Such notification of the hearing shall be deemed given
two (2) days after mailing of said notice or upon personal delivery to the
applicant or licensee.
   C.   A license under this chapter may be renewed by payment of the annual
license fee. If a licensee seeks a renewal of a previously expired license, a
new investigation by the sheriff shall be required. (Ord. 94, 6-2-1986)
3-3-6: RECORDS:
   A.   Each pawnbroker and secondhand dealer shall maintain a record of each
loan, purchase or other transaction. This record shall be maintained in an
invoice book in a form approved by the sheriff. The book must be in triplicate
with invoice numbering maintained in sequence. Each invoice shall have the
following information legibly recorded upon it:
      1.   The date, hour and place of transaction;
      2.   The name of person or employee conducting the same;
      3.   The name, age, street and house number, and a general description of
the person with whom the transaction is had, including height, weight, color of
hair and eyes.
      4.   The type of identification presented;
      5.   A description of the property bought or received in pledge, which,
in the case of watches shall contain the name of the maker and the number of
both the works and the case, and in the case of jewelry, shall contain a
description of all letters and marks described thereon, and in the case of all
other personal property, the serial number of all articles so marked and any
inscriptions of identifying marks, as well as the brand or manufacturer's name;
      6.   The amount of money loaned or paid for the property; and
      7.   The number of any pawn ticket issued therefor.
   B.   The pawnbroker or secondhand dealer must require official
identification and record the name, address, date of birth, social security
number and/or driver's license number, and physical description of the person
borrowing or selling the article from said identification. A driver's license
shall be the preferred method of identification.
   C.   Such record, and all goods received, shall at all times during the
ordinary hours of business, be open to the inspection by the sheriff and
prosecuting attorney of the county, and any representative thereof, and to any
peace officer. Said records shall be maintained and kept available for
inspection for a period of three (3) years from the date of the last
transaction recorded therein. Said records shall be kept at the place of
business for which the license was issued.
   D.   Every pawnshop, pawnbroker or secondhand dealer shall render the first
carbon copy of each purchase transaction to be presented to the sheriff to be
available on a daily basis. (Ord. 94, 6-2-1986)
3-3-7: PAWN TICKETS:
Every pawnbroker shall issue numbered pawn tickets for any property received by
him as a pledge or security for a loan, which ticket shall be considered a
receipt of such property. Tags shall be attached to all such property, and upon
each tag shall be written in legible figures, a number which shall correspond
to the number on the pawn ticket issued for said property. (Ord. 94, 6-2-1986)
3-3-8: TIME LIMITATIONS:
   A.   Every pawnbroker who receives personal property in pledge or as
security for a loan, shall hold such property for redemption by the pledgor
thereof for at least ninety (90) days after the receipt of said property, and
shall not sell or assign his interest therein during said redemption period.
This time limitation shall not prevent the pledgor from redeeming the property
at any time during the redemption period.
   B.   No pawnbroker or secondhand dealer shall sell any item purchased for a
period of thirty (30) days. This time limitation shall not prevent the original
seller from repurchasing any item at any time during that period. (Ord. 94, 6-
2-1986)
3-3-9: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for a pawnbroker or secondhand dealer or agent
thereof to purchase any used or secondhand property from any person under the
age of eighteen (18) years. It shall be unlawful for any pawnbroker or
secondhand dealer or agent thereof to accept any article as a pledge for a loan
from any person under the age of eighteen (18) years.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any pawnbroker, secondhand dealer or agent
thereof to allow an employee under the age of eighteen (18) years to directly
conduct a loan or sale transactions. An employee under the age of eighteen (18)
years may, however, assist such pawnbroker, secondhand dealer or agent thereof
in any other aspect of the business of such pawnbroker or secondhand dealer.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any pawnbroker, secondhand dealer or agent
thereof to have any business dealings with an intoxicated person or one who is
obviously under the influence of alcohol and/or drugs.
   D.   It shall be unlawful for any pawnbroker, secondhand dealer or agent
thereof to:
      1.   Fail to make a complete entry in the records as provided for in this
chapter for each and every loan, purchase or other transaction;
      2.   Make any false entry therein;
      3.   Falsify, obliterate, destroy or remove from his place of business,
such book or record within three (3) years following the date of the last
recorded transaction therein;
      4.   Refuse to allow the prosecuting attorney of the county or any
representative thereof, or the sheriff or any peace officer engaged in law
enforcement within the county, to inspect the records required herein or any
goods in his possession, during the ordinary hours of business, or present
items and pawn tickets to any Idaho peace officer;
      5.   Report any material matter falsely to the prosecuting attorney of
the county or his authorized representative, or the sheriff or any peace
officer of the county;
      6.   Having forms provided therefor, fail to make available, before noon
of each business day, to the sheriff a full, true and correct transcript of the
record of all the loans, purchases or other business transactions had on the
previous business day;
      7.   Fail to report forthwith to the sheriff the possession of any
property which such pawnbroker, secondhand dealer or agent thereof may have
good cause to believe has been lost or stolen, together with the name of the
owner if known, and together with the date such property was received along
with the name, description, date of birth and other material information
required to be maintained by this chapter, of the person from whom the property
was received;
      8.   Remove, or allow to be removed, from his place of business, except
upon redemption by the owners thereof, any property received, during the
redemption period except as provided herein;
      9.   Violate any provisions of this chapter or other ordinance of the
county having application to the businesses or persons herein regulated. (Ord.
94, 6-2-1986)
3-3-10: RIGHT OF ENTRY:
The prosecuting attorney or the sheriff shall have the right at any time,
during normal business hours, to enter any premises licensed under this
chapter, and to inspect any article pawned or purchased by the licensee and
examine the same; and to determine that the licensee has and is complying with
all laws, statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations of the United States, the
state of Idaho and Kootenai County. If the licensee or agent of such licensee
is present on the premises at times other than normal business hours, such
licensee or agent of licensee shall permit the prosecuting attorney or the
sheriff or a duly authorized representative of either to enter said premises
and inspect as authorized herein. (Ord. 94, 6-2-1986)
3-3-11: STOLEN OR LOST PROPERTY:
   A.   Any article pledged or sold to a pawnbroker or secondhand dealer which
is subsequently determined by a law enforcement agency to have been stolen
shall be transferred to the custody of such agency upon the request of the
sheriff or, at the direction of the sheriff, shall be returned by the
pawnbroker or secondhand dealer to the true owner. The true owner shall not be
liable to the pawnbroker or secondhand dealer for any amounts expended by the
pawnbroker or secondhand dealer with respect to an article deemed stolen.
Restitution for the pawnbroker or secondhand dealer will be sought by the
prosecuting attorney from anyone charged in connection with the stolen
property. The pawnbroker or secondhand dealer shall not return such property
directly to the true owner until:
      1.   The pawnbroker or secondhand dealer receives written notice from the
office of the sheriff authorizing the release of the property to the true owner
and specifying the name and address of the true owner;
      2.   The true owner, in person, executes a receipt therefor, and presents
proper identification showing his name, address, social security number and
signature.
   B.   Upon the return of stolen property to the true owner either by the
pawnbroker or secondhand dealer or a law enforcement agency, the pawnbroker or
secondhand dealer shall complete the documentation as may be necessary or
required to effect the transfer of the property including such documents
pertaining to the registration of firearms as may be required by local, state
or federal authorities.
   C.   Any article pledged or sold to a pawnbroker or secondhand dealer which
is subsequently determined to have been stolen must be held by such pawnbroker
or secondhand dealer if not transferred as authorized herein except upon
written authorization from the office of the sheriff, the prosecuting attorney
or an authorized representative of either. (Ord. 94, 6-2-1986)
3-3-12: PENALTY:
Any person, partnership, association, corporation or agent thereof who violates
the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon
conviction thereof shall be punished as provided in the general penalty in
section
1-4-1 of this code. Each prohibited act, including each incomplete entry or
false entry, shall be deemed a separate violation and shall be punishable
accordingly. (Ord. 94, 6-2-1986; amd. 2004 Code)
CHAPTER 4
FUEL GAS INSTALLERS
SECTION:
3-4-1: Title
3-4-2: Purpose
3-4-3: Definitions
3-4-4: Authority And Applicability
3-4-5: License Required
3-4-6: Penalties
3-4-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the FUEL GAS INSTALLER'S LICENSING ORDINANCE.
(Ord. 242A, 2-20-1996)
3-4-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter shall be to ensure that all persons operating as
fuel gas installers in residential additions, residential new construction and
commercial new construction within the county, possess the appropriate
education, experience, knowledge and bonding requirements to safely install
fuel gas systems and appliances. This chapter does not apply to residential
home owners installing a fuel gas system or fuel gas appliances in their own
residence. (Ord. 242A, 2-20-1996)
3-4-3: DEFINITIONS:
FUEL GAS: Natural gas, propane gas, butane gas, manufactured gas or mixed gas.
FUEL GAS SYSTEMS: Natural gas, propane gas, butane gas, manufactured gas or
mixed gas systems suitable for domestic or industrial fuel including, but not
limited to, furnaces and appliances.
GAS INSTALLER: Any person who is responsible for the installation of fuel gas
piping on the outlet side of the meter, storage tank or of the service
regulator when a meter is not provided, or the connection or installation of
fuel gas appliances.
NEW COMMERCIAL CONSTRUCTION: Any building or structure which has not previously
been built in the county which will employ a fuel gas system or fuel gas
appliances and which will be occupied by a business or commercial enterprise.
NEW RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION: Any building or structure which has not
previously been built in the county which will employ a fuel gas system or fuel
gas appliances and which will be occupied as a residence or dwelling.
RESIDENTIAL ADDITION: Any addition to or enlargement of a building which has
previously been built in the county and which has previously been used as place
of residence or dwelling, and which addition will employ a fuel gas system or
fuel gas appliances. (Ord. 242A, 2-20-1996)
3-4-4: AUTHORITY AND APPLICABILITY:
Pursuant to the authority granted by Idaho Code 31-714, this chapter shall have
applicability within the county. (Ord. 242A, 2-20-1996)
3-4-5: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate as a fuel gas installer on
residential additions, new residential construction or new commercial
construction within the county without possessing a valid fuel gas installer's
license. The fuel gas installer's license must be issued by the city of Coeur
d'Alene, Idaho, the city of Spokane, Washington, or some other licensing agency
of one of the states of the United States or a political subdivision of one of
the states of the United States which, in the opinion of the building official,
verifies that the fuel gas installer has successfully demonstrated that they
possess the necessary qualifications to safely act as a fuel gas installer.
This chapter shall not apply to a residential home owner installing a fuel gas
system or fuel gas appliances in their own place of residence. (Ord. 242A, 2-
20-1996)
3-4-6: PENALTIES:
Any violation of this chapter shall be deemed to be a misdemeanor and shall be
punished as provided in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 242A, 2-20-1996; amd. 2004 Code)
TITLE 4
HEALTH AND SANITATION
CHAPTER 1
NUISANCES
SECTION:
4-1-1: Deposits On Public Ways (Rep. by Ord. 449, 11-23-2010)
4-1-2: Open Burning
4-1-1: DEPOSITS ON PUBLIC WAYS 1 :
(Rep. by Ord. 449, 11-23-2010)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  4-3-15 of this title.
4-1-2: OPEN BURNING 1 :
   A.   Title: This section may be referred to as the KOOTENAI COUNTY WILDFIRE
PREVENTION ORDINANCE.
   B.   Authority And Jurisdiction: This section is adopted pursuant to the
powers granted by Idaho constitution article 12, section 2 and the statutes of
the state of Idaho, including, but not limited to, Idaho Code 31-714. This
chapter shall apply in the unincorporated area of Kootenai County, Idaho.
   C.   Findings And Purpose:
      1.   The board of county commissioners hereby finds that an emergency
exists because of the current extremely high potential for catastrophic fire in
Kootenai County. Additionally, the board finds that the danger of catastrophic
fire in the county is likely to be extremely high in the future. Therefore, the
board finds that enactment of this section is necessary for the safety, the
promotion of the health and prosperity and the improvement of the morals, peace
and good order, comfort and convenience of the county and the inhabitants
thereof, and for the protection of public and private property situated within
the county.
      2.   This section is intended to provide a means for the enforcement of
prohibitions and restrictions on burning adopted by federal and state agencies
that administer public lands located within the county, or by any fire
protection district or other governmental entity having jurisdiction located
entirely or partially within the county.
   D.   Definitions:
   BURNING: Building, maintaining, attending or using a fire or campfire or any
other act which results in the combustion of any material.
   FIREPLACE AREA: A portion of an approved campground or other authorized
facility which is constructed of concrete or metal and which is officially
designated by the government entity having jurisdiction as the authorized
location for having fires at the facility.
   UNAUTHORIZED BURNING: Any burning that is not authorized or permitted by a
federal or state agency, fire protection district or other governmental entity
having jurisdiction.
   E.   Prohibitions:
      1.   No person shall engage in "unauthorized burning", as defined in
subsection D of this section, nor shall any person permit, cause or allow any
unauthorized burning.
      2.   No person shall permit, cause or allow any burning in a fireplace
area when the government entity having jurisdiction has prohibited burning in
such areas.
      3.   No person shall violate the terms of any order pertaining to
burning, fires or related activities that has been duly issued by a federal or
state agency, fire protection district or other governmental entity having
jurisdiction in accordance with applicable federal or state laws or regulations
and is then in full force and effect. (Ord. 317, 8-1-2003)
   F.   Penalties: Any person who violates this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and be punished as provided in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 317, 8-1-2003; amd. 2004 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. See also section
  6-2-9 of this code.
CHAPTER 2
NOXIOUS WEEDS
SECTION:
4-2-1: Purpose
4-2-2: Definitions
4-2-3: Enforcement
4-2-4: County Weed Control Advisory Committee
4-2-5: Duty To Control Noxious Weeds
4-2-6: State And Federal Lands
4-2-7: County Noxious Weed Designation And Action Plans
4-2-8: Notices For Control Of County Noxious Weeds
4-2-9: Cost Of Controlling County Noxious Weeds
4-2-10: Prevention Of Entry And Dissemination Of County Noxious Weeds And
Unknown Plants
4-2-11: Equipment And Materials
4-2-12: Special Management Zones
4-2-13: Emergency Procedures
4-2-14: Inspections
4-2-15: Appeals
4-2-16: Violations; Penalties
4-2-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the designation and control of
weeds within the county which have not been designated as noxious by state
department of agriculture but which nonetheless have the potential to cause
injury to the public welfare. Those weeds are referred to herein as "county
noxious weeds". (Ord. 168, 3-27-1991)
4-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless specified otherwise herein:
AGENCY:
   A.   In the case of the federal government, any authority which exercises
administrative control over defined areas of federal property within the
county;
   B.   In the case of the state of Idaho, any department, board, commission or
institution;
   C.   In the case of the county, cities and any legal subdivisions thereof,
drainage districts, highway districts or any special taxing district.
COMMISSIONERS: The board of county commissioners.
CONTAINMENT: Prevention of seed production, seed dissemination and/or
production of new plants by vegetative means.
COUNTY: Kootenai County, Idaho.
COUNTY NOXIOUS WEED: Any nonnative kind or species of plant or propagule
thereof having the potential to cause injury to public welfare, including, but
not limited to, health, crops, livestock, land or other property; and for which
it is feasible to devote county resources for purposes of eradication,
prevention or otherwise protecting the county or part thereof from infestation
by such weed, and which is designated as noxious by the board of county
commissioners, but does not refer to weeds declared noxious by rules and
regulations promulgated under authority of Idaho Code title 22, chapter 24.
ERADICATION: Completely eliminating all aboveground plant growth of a target
county noxious weed species for a time period longer than the expected
longevity of propagules of the species.
LAND: All soil or water or other growing media.
NONNATIVE: Any plant species so determined by reference to standard, recognized
scientific documents such as "flora of the Pacific Northwest".
PERSON AND/OR PEOPLE: Any individual, partnership, firm, corporation, company,
society, association, drainage district irrigation district, highway district
or any taxing district or other organization.
PREVENTION: Action designed to stop the introduction or establishment of a
plant species in areas not currently infested with that species.
QUARANTINE: The regulation of the production, movement or existence of plants,
plant products, animals, animal products or any other article or material, or
the normal activity of persons, to prevent or limit introduction or spread of a
county noxious weed.
SPECIAL MANAGEMENT ZONE: An area wherein the requirements of this chapter to
control certain named county noxious weeds may be suspended or modified in any
other way.
WEED: County noxious weed.
WEED CONTROL: Any and all of the following: prevention, eradication or
containment. (Ord. 168, 3-27-1991)
4-2-3: ENFORCEMENT:
The duties of enforcing this chapter and carrying out its provisions are vested
in the board of county commissioners. In addition to the following, the board
of county commissioners may perform such other acts as may be necessary or
appropriate to the administration of the provisions of this chapter:
   A.   Inspect And Certify Crops And Other Materials: The board of county
commissioners may inspect and certify county crops and imports and exports and
any other materials or items to verify freedom from county noxious weeds, and
may authorize the county weed superintendent and others to perform such
inspections and certification.
   B.   Failure To Cooperate Or Carry Out Duties:
      1.   If at any time the board of county commissioners determines that any
person or agency has failed to cooperate or carry out duties and
responsibilities required by this chapter, the board shall notify them of the
deficiency, and designate corrective action and deadline which will constitute
compliance. If the violation is not satisfactorily corrected within seven (7)
days after the time outlined in the board's corrective action plan, the board
shall initiate appropriate action, which may include quarantine, and charge to
the violator all expenses including the hiring of necessary labor and
equipment.
      2.   The board of county commissioners shall, within sixty (60) days of
receipt of a petition by an affected person, arrange for a public meeting to be
held to review the county noxious weed program and allow public comment.
   C.   County Noxious Weed Superintendent; Duties: It shall be the duty of the
county noxious weed superintendent to: examine all land within the county for
the purpose of determining whether the provisions of this chapter have been
complied with; to compile data and submit reports as the board may require;
consult, advise and provide direction on matters pertaining to the most
effective and most practical methods of county noxious weed control;
investigate or aid in the investigation and prosecution of any violation of
this chapter; and to cooperate with and assist other county weed
superintendents for the mutual benefit of counties so involved. The county
noxious weed superintendent may enter upon all lands within the county where
there are county noxious weeds to ascertain conditions, if a reasonable attempt
has been made to contact the owner prior to entry, and if there is probable
cause for the entry. (Ord. 168, 3-27-1991)
4-2-4: COUNTY WEED CONTROL ADVISORY COMMITTEE:
   A.   Established; Membership:
      1.   The board of county commissioners shall appoint a county weed
control advisory committee consisting of not less than five (5) members, who
shall be knowledgeable of county noxious weeds and the damage done by such
weeds. The county weed control advisory committee shall be a political
subdivision within the meaning of Idaho Code 6-902.
      2.   The members of the county weed control advisory committee shall be
appointed for terms of two (2) years, and the appointments shall be staggered
so that not more than three (3) members' terms may expire in any year.
   B.   Duties And Responsibilities: It shall be the duty and responsibility of
the county weed control advisory committee to meet at least once in each
calendar year to review and report on the status of the county noxious weed
program and this chapter to the board of county commissioners at least once in
each calendar year, to consult with and advise the board of county
commissioners and the county weed superintendent in implementation of this
chapter and planning county noxious weed control programs, to act as liaison to
noxious weed boards of other counties, and to provide a forum for public input
on matters relating to the control of county noxious weeds.
   C.   Expenses: Members of the county weed control advisory committee may be
reimbursed for actual and necessary expenses when on committee business. All
expense payments shall be made from the county noxious weed fund. (Ord. 168, 3-
27-1991)
4-2-5: DUTY TO CONTROL NOXIOUS WEEDS:
   A.   It is the duty and responsibility of all people, organizations and
agencies who own or manage land in the county to control county noxious weeds
on that land, in accordance with this chapter.
   B.   Weed control must be for prevention or eradication unless the special
management zone provisions of subsection
4-2-12B of this chapter apply. (Ord. 168, 3-27-1991)
4-2-6: STATE AND FEDERAL LANDS:
The county is hereby authorized, and the board of county commissioners shall
have the responsibility, to cooperate with the state or federal government or
any established agency thereof, in any program of county noxious weed control
which shall be deemed advisable, for the welfare of the people of the county.
With consent of the agency involved, the board of county commissioners may
control county noxious weeds on state or federal land within the county, with
or without reimbursement. (Ord. 168, 3-27-1991)
4-2-7: COUNTY NOXIOUS WEED DESIGNATION AND ACTION PLANS:
   A.   Designations: Any county resident may submit to the board of county
commissioners a request for county noxious weed designation of a species if
such request is in writing and includes reasons and a proposed plan for county
action on such species. All nonnative plant species reliably reported to exist
in the county, and all requests for county noxious weed designation, must be
considered by the county weed control advisory committee for recommendation for
county noxious weed designation to the board of county commissioners within six
(6) months of request or recommendation to either the board of county
commissioners or the county weed control advisory committee. Records of all
such considerations must be maintained on permanent file by the board of county
commissioners.
   B.   Action Plans: Every species for which county noxious weed designation
is deemed feasible, including species considered for temporary designation,
shall be designated a county noxious weed only upon recommendation including
reasons and a written plan for county action to control such species, including
clear designation of any special management zones, from the county weed control
advisory committee and subsequent approval by the board of county
commissioners, using the form shown in exhibit 1, on file with the board of
county commissioners. County noxious weeds under this chapter shall be
designated by a separate resolution of the board of county commissioners, and
shall be listed by both common and scientific names using the form shown in
exhibit 2, on file with the board of county commissioners. Any species
designated noxious pursuant to this chapter shall automatically and immediately
become no longer designated under this chapter if and when that species is
designated noxious under Idaho Code. (Ord. 168, 3-27-1991)
4-2-8: NOTICES FOR CONTROL OF COUNTY NOXIOUS WEEDS:
   A.   Notices for control of county noxious weeds shall consist of two (2)
kinds:
      1.   A general notice for control of county noxious weeds to be published
in a newspaper for general circulation within the county; and
      2.   Individual notices in a form prescribed by the board of county
commissioners.
   B.   Failure to publish the notice for control or to serve individual
notices herein provided does not relieve any person of the responsibility to
fully comply with this chapter. In all cases said published notices shall be
deemed legal and sufficient notices. The general notice for control shall be
published at least one time between March 1 and April 30 and shall contain a
list of both the Idaho noxious weeds and the county noxious weeds and shall
specifically indicate those noxious weeds known to be in or imminently
threatening to the county, and shall stipulate the obligation to control.
   C.   Whenever the board of county commissioners finds it necessary to secure
more prompt or definite control of county noxious weeds than is accomplished by
the general notice, they shall cause individual notices to be served upon the
person or agency owning and controlling such land, giving specific instructions
when and how certain named weeds are to be controlled. The individual notice
shall also contain information concerning the right to appeal pursuant to
section
4-2-15 of this chapter.
   D.   Whenever the owner of any land on which county noxious weeds are
present has neglected or failed to initiate control as required pursuant to
this chapter within five (5) working days from receipt of an individual notice
given pursuant to this section, the board of county commissioners shall have
such control methods as they deem appropriate used on such land, including, if
necessary, destruction of crops, and shall advise the owner of the cost
incurred in connection with such operation. The cost of any such control on
private or public land shall be at the expense of the owner or agency. If
unpaid for sixty (60) days or longer, the amount of such expense shall become a
lien upon the property. Thereafter the lien shall be subject to collection by
the county by sale of the property in the same manner as for delinquent taxes.
If the costs have not been paid to the control authority which performed the
work within sixty (60) days, the board of county commissioners may direct that
suit be brought in a court of competent jurisdiction for the unpaid charges.
Nothing contained in this section shall be construed to require satisfaction of
the obligation imposed by the sale of property or to bar the application of any
other available remedy. Amounts collected under the authority of this section
shall be deposited to the county noxious weed fund 1 .
   E.   When it appears to the board of county commissioners that upon any land
under its jurisdiction there is an infestation of county noxious weeds beyond
the ability of the owner of such land to control, the board of county
commissioners may quarantine such land and immediately apply any necessary
control of such noxious weeds including destruction of crops. The board of
county commissioners shall, prior to entry upon such land, request consultation
with the owner to consider alternatives. Prior to entry, the board of county
commissioners shall serve individual notice on the owner thereof of such
quarantine and of the date of the proposed entry, and shall advise the owner of
the completion of the control operation and the cost thereof. If the owner is
not known or readily available, notice shall be deemed satisfied after eight
(8) days from postmark of registered mail to the address as shown on the
assessment roll of the county. (Ord. 168, 3-27-1991)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection
  4-2-9B of this chapter.
4-2-9: COST OF CONTROLLING COUNTY NOXIOUS WEEDS:
   A.   Costs:
      1.   The cost of controlling county noxious weeds on private land shall
be the obligation of the owner. On other land, the cost of control of county
noxious weeds shall be the obligation of the entity or organization that has
the authority to set management and maintenance revenue for the land. In the
case of divisions which have the responsibilities for roads, highways,
airports, fairgrounds, landfills and any other lands, it shall be the
responsibility of the respective departments to budget for the control of
county noxious weeds from their general maintenance and operation accounts.
      2.   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter relating to
payment of cost, when determined by the board of county commissioners to be
justified in the interest of an effective weed control program, the board of
county commissioners may control county noxious weeds on land in the county
without costs to the owner.
   B.   Funds: Monies received by the county under this chapter shall be
apportioned to the county noxious weed fund, which is hereby created and
established as a dedicated fund and which shall be used exclusively for the
purposes prescribed by this chapter. (Ord. 168, 3-27-1991)
4-2-10: PREVENTION OF ENTRY AND DISSEMINATION OF COUNTY NOXIOUS WEEDS AND
UNKNOWN PLANTS:
   A.    County Noxious Weeds: To prevent the entry and dissemination of county
noxious weeds through any article, including machinery, equipment, plants,
materials and other things, the board of county commissioners shall, from time
to time, publish a list of articles capable of disseminating county noxious
weeds, and designate treatment of such articles as, in their opinion, would
prevent such dissemination. Until such article is treated in accordance with
the applicable regulations, it shall not be moved from designated premises
except under and in accordance with the written permission of the board of
county commissioners, and the board may hold or prevent its movement from such
premises. The movement of any such article which has not been so treated,
except in accordance with such written permission, may be stopped by the board
and further movement and disposition shall only be in accordance with the
board's direction.
   B.   Unknown Plants. No plant, including seed or other propagules, shall be
transported within or admitted into the county without accurate taxonomic
identification (as to species by either Latin name or by common name listed in
locally available standard reference works). All such plants shall be
automatically and immediately designated county noxious weeds until their
taxonomic identity is verified. (Ord. 168, 3-27-1991)
4-2-11: EQUIPMENT AND MATERIALS:
The board of county commissioners may sell materials for purposes of this
chapter to persons owning or controlling land under their jurisdiction and may
rent or otherwise make available to others the use of machinery and other
equipment and operators as they deem necessary for the control of county
noxious weeds, and the cost shall be charged at the retail value for such
material, machinery, other equipment and operators. All funds so received shall
be deposited to the county noxious weed fund. (Ord. 168, 3-27-1991)
4-2-12: SPECIAL MANAGEMENT ZONES:
   A.   The board of county commissioners may permit modification of specific
county noxious weed control requirements in certain areas after they have
consulted with or notified the landholders, have designated the area as a
special management zone, have modified the county plan for control of that
species in accordance with such special management zone provisions, after
public notice of this modification.
   B.   The board of county commissioners may propose to and accept plans from
landowners for county noxious weed control which may be extended over a period
of years if such plans include provisions to ensure against spread of the
county noxious weed infestation under consideration. (Ord. 168, 3-27-1991)
4-2-13: EMERGENCY PROCEDURES:
   A.   Whenever the board of county commissioners finds that an actual or
potential emergency situation exists concerning county noxious weed
infestations anywhere in the county, the board may take any appropriate action
necessary to control or quarantine such county noxious weed infestation.
   B.   After serving at least a five (5) day notice to the affected landowner
and person in charge of the land, the board of county commissioners may
designate a weed as temporarily noxious for one year. The notice requirement
may be satisfied by publication in a newspaper of general circulation serving
the area. (Ord. 168, 3-27-1991)
4-2-14: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   For the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this chapter, the
board of county commissioners or weed superintendent, may enter on any public
or private land at reasonable times.
   B.   Should the board of county commissioners or weed superintendent be
denied access to any land where such access was sought for the purposes set
forth in this chapter, they may apply to any court of competent jurisdiction
for a search warrant authorizing access to such land for said purpose. (Ord.
168, 3-27-1991)
4-2-15: APPEALS:
   A.   Any person dissatisfied with the amount of any charge for control work
or for the purchase of materials or use of equipment may, within thirty (30)
days after being advised of the amount of the charge, file a protest with the
board of county commissioners.
   B.   Any person dissatisfied with the control measures used or the manner in
which control is conducted upon his property may, within thirty (30) days file
a protest with the board of county commissioners.
   C.   Any person served with an individual notice may, within two (2) days of
receipt of the notice, appeal to board of county commissioners. A hearing shall
be arranged by the board of county commissioners within five (5) days after
receipt of notice of the appeal. Notice of the hearing shall be sent by the
board of county commissioners to the appellant.
   D.   Other than the procedures specifically set out in this chapter,
procedures for hearings and appeals pertaining to this chapter shall be as
provided by county law. (Ord. 168, 3-27-1991)
4-2-16: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person knowing of the existence of any county noxious weeds on
lands owned or controlled by him, who fails to control such weeds in accordance
with this chapter and any person who intrudes upon any land under quarantine or
who moves or causes to be moved any article covered by this chapter except as
provided or who prevents or threatens to prevent entry upon land as provided in
this chapter, or who interferes with the carrying out of the provisions of this
chapter, or who violates any of the provisions of this chapter, shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to a fine not to exceed one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) or up to one year in jail or both such fine and
imprisonment for each violation. All fines shall be credited to the county
noxious weed fund.
   B.   Control authorities and law enforcement officers are authorized to
issue citations to anyone who violates any provisions of this section. (Ord.
168, 3-27-1991)
CHAPTER 3
SOLID WASTE
SECTION:
4-3-1: Title
4-3-2: Purpose
4-3-3: Definitions
4-3-4: General Applicability
4-3-5: Administration
4-3-6: Solid Waste Fund
4-3-6-1: Payment For Service Provided; Owner Responsible
4-3-6-2: Nonpayment Of Fees And Charges; Discontinuance
4-3-6-3: Billing System; Agreements Required
4-3-6-4: Discontinuance Of Service
4-3-6-5: Attachment Of Delinquent Amounts
4-3-6-6: Disputed Bills
4-3-7: Rule Making Authority
4-3-8: System Use Required
4-3-9: Rights Of Ownership
4-3-10: Scavenging And Salvaging Activities
4-3-11: Dead Animal Disposal
4-3-12: Municipal And Private Collection System Permits
4-3-13: Joint Residential Collection Sites
4-3-14: Commercial Haulers; Commercial Solid Waste Producers
4-3-15: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
4-3-16: Penalties And Remedies
4-3-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the KOOTENAI COUNTY SOLID WASTE ORDINANCE. (Ord.
449, 11-23-2010)
4-3-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter shall be to protect the health, safety and welfare
of the residents of the county by providing a framework for the solid waste
disposal system which operates now and will operate in the future within the
county. It is the intent of the board of county commissioners, through
enactment of this chapter, to exercise all powers granted to them in the field
of solid waste management by relevant provisions of the Idaho constitution and
Idaho Code. (Ord. 449, 11-23-2010)
4-3-3: DEFINITIONS:
The terms listed in this section shall have the meanings set forth herein
throughout this chapter:
COMMERCIAL HAULER: Any entity including, but not limited to, person,
corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship, limited liability company or
limited liability partnership who engages in collection or hauling of solid
waste.
COMMERCIAL WASTE: All types of solid waste generated by entities including, but
not limited to, stores, offices, restaurants, warehouses and other
nonmanufacturing activities, excluding residential and industrial wastes.
DANGEROUS OR HAZARDOUS WASTE MATERIAL: Any substance in any combination of
solid, liquid or gaseous form in any quantity that is defined as hazardous
wastes under federal law, including the federal resource conservation and
recovery act, 42 USC subsection 6901 et seq., and under comparable state laws,
and any other radioactive, volatile, corrosive, flammable, explosive,
biomedical, infectious, biohazardous, or toxic waste, substance or material, as
defined by or listed or characterized under applicable federal, state, or local
laws or regulations.
DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS: Accounts that have a balance due and owing for greater
than sixty (60) days from the date of billing.
DIRECTOR: The director of the solid waste department or her/his designee.
INDUSTRIAL WASTE: Solid waste generated by manufacturing or industrial
processes that is not a hazardous waste regulated under subtitle C of RCRA or a
"dangerous or hazardous waste material" as defined herein. Such waste may
include, but is not limited to, waste resulting from the following
manufacturing processes: electric power generation; fertilizer and agricultural
chemicals; food and related products and byproducts; inorganic chemicals; iron
and steel manufacturing; leather and leather products; nonferrous metals
manufacturing/foundries; organic chemicals; plastics and resins manufacturing;
pulp and paper industry; rubber and miscellaneous plastic products; stone,
glass, clay and concrete products; textile manufacturing; transportation
equipment; and water treatment. This term does not include mining waste or oil
and gas waste.
JOINT RESIDENTIAL COLLECTION SITE: A site where, through the private agreement
between a hauler and multiple residential customers, solid waste is deposited
in and collected from containers.
PERSON: Any person, corporation, partnership, association, firm or other
business or nonprofit entity.
RATE SHEET AGREEMENT: An agreement between Kootenai County solid waste
department and property owners of Kootenai County acknowledging the property
owner's obligation for payment of solid waste disposal fees on their property
and/or authorizing billing of solid waste disposal fees to the property owner's
tenant or assignee.
RECYCLABLE MATERIALS: Those items listed in the county solid waste handbook.
Recyclable materials may (subject to their being listed in the aforementioned
handbook) include, but not be limited to: cardboard, aluminum, paper, wood
products, glass, selected plastics, metals and other materials for which
recycling markets may be developed now and in the future.
RESIDENCE: A building or other suitable structure that is used as a dwelling
and is inhabited by a person or persons. For solid waste fee purposes, said
dwelling may be constructed to provide living space for a single family up to
four (4) families (fourplex) per building regardless of the number of
structures per lot. Single-family through fourplex dwellings will be assessed a
single residential solid waste fee for each dwelling space. Multi-family
dwellings larger than a fourplex are classed as commercial property and will
fall under commercial billing procedures and are not classified as a residence.
RESIDENTIAL SERVICE: The regular weekly removal of not more than three (3)
approved thirty two (32) gallon containers, or the preapproved equivalent (96
gallons) of waste from a residence. Regular weekly removal of one yard
dumpsters (approximately 202 gallons) or greater of waste from a residence will
result in conversion of service to a commercial account and will thereafter be
billed accordingly.
RESIDENTIAL SOLID WASTE: All types of waste generated from a private household
or dwelling to sustain living or quality of life for a family residing at that
residence. Generally, waste quantities will not exceed ninety six (96) gallons
(3 garbage cans) per week. Home business waste falls under the commercial
definition and is excluded from the definition of residential solid waste. As
with all solid waste, residential solid waste is subject to the provisions and
restrictions of any and all fee resolutions passed pursuant to this chapter.
RURAL RESIDENTIAL COLLECTION SITE: A county operated collection facility and
any land upon which containers (mobile or stationary) are placed for public
collection of solid waste, whether said land is publicly owned or is provided
by an agreement with the county.
SOLID WASTE: All matter of solid substances which have been, or are intended to
be, abandoned or discarded by their owner or possessor on private or public
lands and as such may be additionally defined in the Idaho Code. Solid waste
does not include recyclable materials.
SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL SYSTEM: All lands, sites, facilities, equipment and
manpower necessary or used for the collection, transportation, storage,
treatment, processing, reuse, recycling or other means necessary for the
handling and disposal of solid waste. Said system shall include all approved
public and private disposal sites and approved system components in existence
at the time of adoption of this chapter and as approved subsequent to the
adoption of this chapter.
SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL SYSTEM COMPONENT: Any public or privately owned site,
collection location, disposal facility, transportation element or other
functioning part of the solid waste disposal system for the county where one or
more phases of solid waste disposal is carried out by one or more persons.
Component shall not include the solid waste receptacle provided by a commercial
solid waste hauler or generator for use by a single business, customer or
client.
SOLID WASTE INCREMENT: A unit for measuring solid waste. For further
clarification see the Kootenai County solid waste fee resolution for
residential and commercial solid waste fees. (Ord. 449, 11-23-2010)
4-3-4: GENERAL APPLICABILITY:
From the date of approval and publication of this chapter, as required by law,
all solid waste generated within the county shall comply with the standards and
procedures set forth herein. All solid wastes shall be managed, whether during
storage, collection, transfer, transport, processing, separation, incineration,
composting, treatment, reuse, recycling or disposal, to prevent health hazards,
public nuisances or pollution of the environment. This chapter does not
regulate discharges into the waters of the county, except as those discharges
are not governed by state and federal law. (Ord. 449, 11-23-2010)
4-3-5: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Solid Waste Department:
      1.   There is hereby established a solid waste department which is
subject to direct supervision by the board of county commissioners. The board
of county commissioners may delegate responsibility for the operation of the
department to an employee designated as the solid waste director, said employee
is selected by majority vote of the board. The director shall be responsible
for carrying out the terms of this chapter and for implementing the solid waste
policies adopted by the board. The director shall perform such duties as are
necessary to operate the waste disposal system in the county. Said duties shall
include maintaining liaison with local, state and federal regulatory agencies
on behalf of the board of county commissioners.
      2.   The scope of authority to be exercised by the board of county
commissioners through creation of the solid waste department is intended to
extend as far as allowed by the Idaho constitution and by the statutes
empowered and requiring counties to be responsible for solid waste disposal
within their jurisdiction, including, but not limited to, Idaho Code title 31,
chapter 44.
   B.   Commercial Accountability Officer: There may be, and this chapter
hereby allows for, a commercial accountability officer.
      1.   Duties shall include, but not be limited to, reporting noncompliance
with the provisions of this chapter to the solid waste director.
      2.   In order to effectuate these duties, the commercial accountability
officer may investigate individuals, private haulers, commercial haulers,
commercial users and any and all others for improper waste disposal as directed
by the solid waste director. Upon discovery of improper acts, the commercial
accountability officer may take such action as necessary to bring the
noncomplying party into compliance. These actions include, but are not limited
to, warning letters, requiring remedial action and assisting in civil and
criminal prosecution. (Ord. 449, 11-23-2010)
4-3-6: SOLID WASTE FUND:
For purposes of financing the operation of the solid waste department, there is
hereby created a solid waste fund to be maintained as a separate fund within
the county budget. This fund shall support all activities made necessary for
the continued operation of the solid waste system in the county. The board of
county commissioners may, by resolution, establish special accounts within the
solid waste fund for stated purposes to meet anticipated operational needs of
the solid waste system as it deems necessary and proper.
The board of county commissioners may choose from the various revenue options
made available to counties to support solid waste activities as outlined in
Idaho Code section 31-4404 and elsewhere. User fees may be charged to real
property owners and other system users as the board of county commissioners
deems necessary to support solid waste system operation. In accord with the
provisions of this chapter, said fees may be established at any time by the
board of county commissioners through passage of a resolution setting forth the
fees to be charged for the system. Said fee resolution may be amended at any
time to accommodate changes in the fee system and operating policies deemed
appropriate by the board of county commissioners. A resolution establishing
fees shall remain in full force and effect until subsequently repealed or
amended. All previously adopted resolutions of the board of county
commissioners not inconsistent with the terms of this chapter are hereby
ratified, approved and confirmed.
If taxes are ever to be levied for support of the solid waste system, the rate
shall be established through the annual budget process and certified to the
state tax commission as required by law.
   A.   Solid Waste Increment Fee Appeal: Kootenai County shall have a process
through which solid waste increment fees may be reduced due to special
circumstances. The following is the appeal procedure available to citizens of
Kootenai County. The appeal request must be on the form authorized by the solid
waste department. Appeal request forms may be obtained from the solid waste
department and/or the Kootenai County treasurer's office.
      1.   Deadline: The Kootenai County solid waste department shall recognize
March 1 of each year as the deadline to appeal solid waste fees on the prior
year tax statement (i.e., March 1, 2011, for all 2010 property tax bills).
         a.   The appeal process will begin the date property tax statements
are mailed.
         b.   Appeals received after the cutoff date must be postmarked no
later than March 1.
         c.   Requests for appeals received between February 19 and March 1
will be given two (2) weeks to return the written appeal form.
         d.   Exceptions to the deadline:
            (1)   Kootenai County errors - appealed when found.
            (2)   Fees on unoccupied mobile homes being moved out of Kootenai
County.
            (3)   Recommendations from the Kootenai County assessor or the
Kootenai County treasurer.
            (4)   Hardship appeals by the board of county commissioners.
      2.   Criteria: The Kootenai County solid waste department will process
the applications and evaluate appellants based upon criteria requirements.
Limit of one appeal category to any property.
         a.   Low income appeals:
            (1)   Total household income not to exceed Idaho property tax
reduction program limit;
            (2)   Full time resident of Kootenai County; and
            (3)   Must meet state requirements for Idaho property tax reduction
program; or
            (4)   A written explanation of the financial hardship that exists.
This may include supporting documents such as financial statements, state
assistance approvals, copies of medical bills, etc.
         b.   Unoccupied building appeals:
            (1)   Structure must be empty for entire year.
            (2)   Must be appealed at the end of the year in question.
         c.   Unlivable dwellings/inoperable structures:
            (1)   Must be confirmed with assessor's office.
            (2)   A written explanation justifying the condition of building
(photographs may be submitted in addition).
      3.   Reduction: Percentage reduction will be applied upon approval of a
request. The approvals will receive the following percentage (limit of one
appeal category to any property):
         a.   Low income appeals: Fifty percent (50%).
         b.   Unoccupied buildings appeals: Up to one hundred percent (100%).
         c.   Unlivable dwellings/inoperable structures: Up to one hundred
percent (100%).
      4.   Verification: The Kootenai County solid waste department may request
reasonable information to support appeal criterion. Such documentation may
include a driver's license, birth certificate, income tax return, etc.
      5.   Process: The appeal request will be filed with the Kootenai County
treasurer's office. The filed appeal request will be acted upon within thirty
(30) days of the application date.
         a.   The Kootenai County solid waste director shall make
recommendations and forward approvals to the board of county commissioners.
         b.   A letter will be forwarded to appellants whose requests have been
denied in the original procedure. Those desiring to appeal the findings of the
solid waste director may make a written request for a hearing with the board of
county commissioners.
      6.   Frequency: In order to maintain an equitable billing system, the
appeals must be updated on a continual basis. Any change in ownership will
nullify the solid waste fee reduction.
         a.   Low income appeals: Every year.
         b.   Unoccupied building appeals: Every year.
         c.   Unlivable dwellings/inoperable structures: Every year. (Ord. 449,
11-23-2010)
4-3-6-1: PAYMENT FOR SERVICE PROVIDED; OWNER RESPONSIBLE:
The county accepts solid waste generated within the county from specific
physical addresses even though the beneficiary of such service may not be
located directly thereon or immediately adjacent thereto. The owner of the
property served shall be ultimately responsible for payment for the services
provided or available to the owner's property. The county may allow the owner
of the property to authorize a tenant or occupant to receive the billing and/or
pay for service at a given address as a convenience to the property owner. Such
convenience may be offered only if the owner of the property has executed a
rate sheet agreement, a written promise to pay for or to guarantee payment for
the service provided by the county. The owner of the property shall still
remain ultimately responsible for all solid waste fees.
The assignment of tenant responsibility authorized above must be requested by
the owner and must list the name and address of tenant for whom it is
requested. Any such assignment will only remain in effect for the duration of
the tenancy of the tenant named in the assignment. (Ord. 449, 11-23-2010)
4-3-6-2: NONPAYMENT OF FEES AND CHARGES; DISCONTINUANCE:
Failure of the owner of property generating solid waste to pay for service in
accordance with this chapter and resolutions adopted pursuant hereto shall
result in termination of all rights to use the solid waste system to the
physical address for which service has been made available or provided. In
addition to discontinuance of service, the director may initiate collection
procedures or legal action in the civil courts to facilitate collection of
amounts due and owing for solid waste. County staff may take the necessary
administrative steps to implement the provisions of this section. (Ord. 449,
11-23-2010)
4-3-6-3: BILLING SYSTEM; AGREEMENTS REQUIRED:
Upon a request to receive solid waste services the solid waste department is
hereby authorized to establish account procedures to ensure proper provision of
services and payment therefor. Such procedures include the requirement that the
customer/owner execute a rate sheet agreement regarding the services to be
provided. Such requirements will be invoked as necessary to comply with
provisions of this code and other provisions of law and to assure that the
solid waste system will be solvent and capable of meeting the needs of the
community. Service requirements may include the payment of a minimum monthly
charge necessary to have services available to the property, either to supply
the direct needs of the user or to serve the lands of the user in the context
of maintaining the public health, safety and general welfare. Additionally, in
order to secure payment, the solid waste director may require a deposit from
the owner and/or a cosignature from the owner of the property served.
All residential customers that have been converted to commercial accounts will
be entitled to a credit equivalent to the residential solid waste fee assessed
on their taxes.
Upon documented verification of services received but not billed by the county,
the solid waste department is authorized to bill the customer back to the
maximum allowable by law from the date of discovery. Said billing shall be at
the discretion of the county. (Ord. 449, 11-23-2010)
4-3-6-4: DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE:
The director is authorized to discontinue service to any premises if the entire
bill is not paid within sixty (60) days of the date of billing. The customer's
service may be discontinued for noncompliance with any provisions of this
chapter. See also section
4-3-14 of this chapter.
The director is authorized to establish deposit requirements in whatever amount
may be deemed reasonably necessary to assure payment of the solid waste charges
in question. At any time the director may give notice to the property owner
that the guarantee requirements of this code have been established. The
director is authorized to take such steps as may be necessary to implement the
provisions of this section.
When service is discontinued for delinquency for greater than two (2) times in
a twelve (12) month period, a deposit equivalent to three (3) months' service
or two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00), whichever is greater, shall be required
to restart service. The deposit will be applied to the account after twelve
(12) consecutive months of on time payments, or at the time the account is
closed, whichever comes first. (Ord. 449, 11-23-2010)
4-3-6-5: ATTACHMENT OF DELINQUENT AMOUNTS:
In addition to the above remedies, and subject to any appeals, the county may
attach the amount of delinquent solid waste fees to the real property taxes,
subject to compliance with applicable law, when the account balance is greater
than one hundred twenty (120) days past due and greater than one hundred
dollars ($100.00). Any attachment shall be to the real property that is served
regardless of whether the service is for the direct benefit of the landowner or
a tenant of the landowner. (Ord. 449, 11-23-2010)
4-3-6-6: DISPUTED BILLS:
If requested in writing, the customer is entitled to an audience before the
Kootenai County solid waste director and the Kootenai County finance director
prior to any adverse action being taken against the customer. The written
request for such audience must be received by the solid waste department no
later than ten (10) days after the billing statement is mailed to the customer
or is delivered to the premises. The audience before the finance director and
the solid waste director shall be held within thirty (30) days of receipt by
the solid waste department.
The procedure will be quasi-judicial and the formal rules of evidence will not
be enforced. If both the finance director and the solid waste director do not
agree to amend the billing, then the amount stated in the bill will remain
unchanged. If both the finance director and the solid waste director do agree
to a changed amount then that shall be the amount due. The decision of the
finance director and the solid waste director is final if not appealed in
accordance with subsection
4-3-16B of this chapter. Said written decision shall be mailed to the customer
within five (5) business days of conclusion of the audience. (Ord. 449, 11-23-
2010)
4-3-7: RULE MAKING AUTHORITY:
The board of county commissioners shall have authority to adopt and implement
rules necessary for operation of the county solid waste system. Said rules may
be adopted by resolution of the board of county commissioners and may be
enforced by imposition of additional fees and charges to cover costs incurred
through noncompliance and/or by such other administrative remedies as the board
of county commissioners deems appropriate in the circumstances.
The board of county commissioners hereby authorizes the solid waste department
director to promulgate rules and regulations reasonably necessary for the
implementation of this chapter. (Ord. 449, 11-23-2010)
4-3-8: SYSTEM USE REQUIRED:
No person shall discard or dispose of any solid waste in the county except by
approved use of the county solid waste disposal system. The system shall
consist of all components of the disposal and collection system operated by the
county, the collection and disposal systems operated by cities within the
county, and such private disposal systems as may comply with permitting
requirements established by this chapter and applicable state and federal
regulations.
Should a generator of commercial waste, or a business owner of a commercial
activity, fail to take garbage service and fail to have a commercial account,
then the owner of the property and the commercial generator shall be jointly
and severally assessed an appropriate number of commercial increments as
defined above. (Ord. 449, 11-23-2010)
4-3-9: RIGHTS OF OWNERSHIP:
Upon delivery of solid waste to an approved transfer or disposal site, all
rights of ownership and exclusive possession to lawfully deposited solid waste
shall vest in the county or in the owner of the site, if the site is not county
owned. Any waste collection sites provided by contractors who collect or haul
solid waste pursuant to contracts with the county shall be considered county
operated sites for purposes of this section and ownership of solid waste
lawfully deposited and delivered to any such site shall vest in the county. The
county reserves the right to authorize recycling of materials in the waste
stream in accordance with standards and conditions to be set by the board of
county commissioners. Hazardous or improperly handled wastes shall remain in
the ownership of their prior possessor until they are disposed of in compliance
with this chapter and other applicable laws and regulations. (Ord. 449, 11-23-
2010)
4-3-10: SCAVENGING AND SALVAGING ACTIVITIES:
No person shall scavenge or attempt to salvage materials from waste delivered
to or deposited at a solid waste collection site. Nor shall any such party
interfere or intercede in any way with the lawful activities of residents of
the county or collection system users who are delivering or depositing solid
waste for collection at an approved solid waste site or with commercial haulers
or county employees who are removing or handling waste which has been deposited
at an approved collection site. For purposes of this chapter, a solid waste
collection site shall include any landfill or other collection facility and any
land upon which containers are placed for public collection of solid waste,
whether said land is publicly owned or is provided by an agreement with the
county. No person shall act in violation of the posted regulations at any
approved solid waste collection site. No person shall dispose of waste at a
county operated collection system component without having paid his solid waste
fees or other obligations on a current basis.
Kootenai County reserves the right to authorize recycling of materials in the
waste stream in accordance with standards and conditions to be set by the board
of county commissions.
Any person who violates any provisions of this section shall be deemed to have
violated this chapter and shall be subject to the provisions of section
4-3-16 of this chapter. (Ord. 449, 11-23-2010)
4-3-11: DEAD ANIMAL DISPOSAL:
   A.   Acceptance:
      1.   The county solid waste system will accept dead animals and parts
thereof for disposal. Dead animals and all parts thereof constitute a health
hazard and will be disposed of in such a manner as to minimize exposure to and
handling by landfill personnel.
      2.   Disposal of dead animals processed by large volume generators and/or
commercial generators such as animal control activities, veterinarians or
humane societies as well as large dead animals such as livestock, including
sheep, pigs, cows, horses and llamas, will be disposed of at the county farm
landfill at Fighting Creek.
      3.   To allow adequate preparation time, twenty four (24) hours' notice
will be given to the solid waste department prior to disposal of large dead
animals and animals disposed of by commercial or large volume generators at the
county farm landfill at Fighting Creek. All disposal locations will be logged
in the operational log at the end of each workday. When practical, the
operation of equipment and trafficking of personnel through the disposal site
will be minimized and if possible avoided to preclude unnecessary exposure to
potential health hazards.
   B.   Small Animals: Owners of small dead household personal pets may bring
them directly to a solid waste transfer station for disposal at any time. To
preclude trips through a solid waste transfer station, nonprofit animal control
customers may set up a schedule which will include day and hour of disposal.
Because of processing constraints, customer must arrive within one hour of the
scheduled time.
   C.   Large Animals: Disposal of large dead animals, parts thereof, and
commercial/large volume generators will be under one of two (2) options. Both
options require at least one stop at a solid waste transfer station to obtain
authorization before going to Fighting Creek.
Option 1: The generator will weigh in at a solid waste transfer station before
going to Fighting Creek and then return to the same solid waste transfer
station to weigh in upon return from Fighting Creek. Disposal fee will be
charged on a per ton basis at the current rate.
Option 2: The generator will come to a solid waste transfer station and pay on
a per animal basis, receive a paid receipt and authorization for disposal and
continue to Fighting Creek. Customer need not return to the solid waste
transfer station. The per animal rate is reflected in the county waste fee
resolution.
   D.   Government Agencies: Government agencies such as municipalities, the
Idaho department of fish and game, Idaho department of transportation and
others whose duties require the disposal of animal remains may be exempt from
disposal fees outlined in the county solid waste fee resolution.
   E.   Enforcement:
      1.   Dead animals or parts thereof may only be disposed of in accordance
with the above procedures. Failure to give the required notice or obtain
authorization for disposal at a solid waste transfer station will result in
denial of disposal. Loads will be returned to the solid waste transfer station
or point of origin until proper processing and documentation occurs.
      2.   Any person unlawfully depositing or disposing of or in any way
aiding or assisting in the depositing or disposing of, or provide for delivery
of, any dead animals within the county disposal system or anywhere within the
county in an improper manner shall be civilly liable for the full costs and
expenses of cleanup, control, elimination, abatement, decontamination,
disinfection or other remediation which is undertaken by the county or any
other public agency to properly correct damages or potential damages associated
with said violation. (Ord. 449, 11-23-2010)
4-3-12: MUNICIPAL AND PRIVATE COLLECTION SYSTEM PERMITS:
No person shall operate a solid waste collection system component excluding
collection and transportation without a permit, properly issued by the solid
waste department. This requirement shall not apply to a municipal corporation
operating a collection system for its residents, wholly within its own
corporate limits.
Permits may be granted for operation of waste collection system components upon
compliance with the procedural standards set forth in this chapter and its
attendant rules and upon compliance with applicable rules for collection sites
and practices adopted by the board and appropriate state and federal agencies.
Permit applicants shall bear full responsibility for showing compliance with
the standards applicable to their proposed operation of a solid waste
collection system component. Fees may be charged for permit issuance as
established by resolution of the board of county commissioners.
No person shall dispose of solid waste within the county at a location not
approved for disposal, collection or transfer by the county and state and
federal regulatory agencies unless a prior exemption has been granted by the
authority with jurisdiction. Permits for operation of a solid waste collection
site may be obtained from the county subject to Panhandle health district
approval. To obtain a permit for operation of a collection site, the applicant
must show that it meets at least the following criteria: (Ord. 449, 11-23-2010)
   A.   That the site proposed complies with requirements of the county land
use regulations. (Ord. 449, 11-23-2010; amd. Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
   B.   That the site has been reviewed and approved as an appropriate location
for a solid waste collection site by the Panhandle health district and any
state or federal agency with jurisdiction.
   C.   That an operations plan for use and closure of the site has been
approved by the Panhandle health district and any state or federal agency
having jurisdiction (58.01.06 IDAPA, review). This subsection shall not apply
to rural residential collection sites.
   D.   That any private site operator has posted a performance bond to
guarantee adequate financial resources to assure proper operation and closure
of the site.
   E.   That operation and closure will comply with any rules, regulations or
policies adopted by the county regarding the operation of solid waste
collection sites in addition to all applicable state and federal regulations.
   F.   That the operator has provided adequate safeguards to see that no
hazardous wastes, as such are classified by county, state or federal
regulations, are to be disposed of in the solid waste collection site.
   G.   The application shall have been first reviewed and signed by the
director of the solid waste department. (Ord. 449, 11-23-2010)
4-3-13: JOINT RESIDENTIAL COLLECTION SITES:
   A.   When establishing a site, hauler shall advise customers that the
container is for the sole use of those who have paid for it and that commercial
waste, industrial waste, medical waste or hazardous waste is not to be placed
in said container. If appropriate, hauler will cause adequate safeguards
including, but not limited to, locking covers, fences, card lock devices, etc.,
to be put in place to assure only contracted residences use the container.
   B.   Upon entering into an agreement for the creation of a joint residential
collection site, the hauler shall report to the county the size of the
container, the addresses of the customers serviced, the frequency of pick up
and the physical location of the container. Container should be sized to
accommodate an amount of a weekly average of three (3) approved thirty two (32)
gallon containers, or the preapproved equivalent (96 gallons) per household
serviced. Customers shall be billed as a residential unit as fixed by the
county solid waste fee resolution.
   C.   Hauler will use all reasonable means necessary to keep site clean, free
of pests and free of odors. No public nuisance or public health issue
associated with a rural residential collection site shall be created or allowed
to be created. Placement of joint residential collection sites shall be in
conformance with all applicable federal, state and local laws, rules and
ordinances.
   D.   Establishment of a joint residential collection site automatically
implies and allows a county representative to periodically inspect the site
without being considered in trespass of private property. Hauler shall certify
in writing to the county that all users have been notified of all requirements
of this section.
   E.   Hauler shall cease collection if it is deemed by hauler or county that
waste deposited in the residential collection site is not "residential solid
waste" as defined herein, or in any way in violation of this chapter or any
other applicable law, order or resolution. (Ord. 449, 11-23-2010)
4-3-14: COMMERCIAL HAULERS; COMMERCIAL SOLID WASTE PRODUCERS:
Any person who engages in collection, hauling or disposal of solid waste within
the county or who generates solid waste as result of commercial or industrial
activities shall comply with the provisions of this chapter and any regulations
adopted pursuant to the authority established by this chapter, as well as any
and all applicable federal, state and local laws.
All haulers shall provide to the solid waste department, or its designated
agent, the original rate sheet and agreement, executed by the customer, within
seven (7) days of establishing service. Haulers are responsible for all fees of
commercial accounts established in violation of this provision.
This provision shall apply to all commercial accounts that include containers,
cans and/or wheeled carts, as defined by the current fee resolution. This
provision applies equally to commercial and noncommercial accounts.
All haulers of commercial waste are responsible for confirming the accuracy of
any agreements entered into with commercial accounts/customers, at the time
service is established.
Any person collecting or hauling commercial solid waste within the county shall
report the amounts and frequency of solid waste collected and hauled. The
reporting shall include all special pick ups, unscheduled collections and
irregular services (including no pick ups) in addition to all regularly
scheduled collections. Reporting shall be based on container size and/or the
actual weight of the refuse when requested. Said reports shall be filed in a
form acceptable to the solid waste department weekly.
Commercial containers shall not be undersized for the needs of the account.
Containers will be sized to contain all of the waste generated within the
confines of the container and shall not be undersized so that garbage is caused
to rest outside of the interior of the container including on top of and/or
adjacent to grounds or structures. If additional garbage is generated beyond
the size of the container, said additional garbage shall be reported to the
solid waste department.
Any person collecting or hauling commercial solid waste within the county shall
also report the location of disposal of all solid waste hauled or generated, no
less frequently than weekly, on forms acceptable to the solid waste department.
The county may, by regulation, establish bond requirements to assure
performance of responsibilities established by this chapter.
The county reserves the right to check accuracy of hauler records in whole or
on a case by case basis. The hauling companies are hereby required to comply
with a request for information regarding accuracy checks.
An administrative fee will be assessed to the hauling company when greater than
thirty six (36) documented reporting errors occur within a twelve (12) month
period. Following the thirty six (36) documented errors, an administrative fee
of fifty dollars ($50.00) per each occurrence will be assessed. In the event
that the customer disputes a billing due to a documented reporting error by the
hauler, then the administrative fee will be two hundred dollars ($200.00) per
each occurrence.
Failure of solid waste collectors, haulers and/or commercial solid waste
generators to comply with regulations implemented to carry out responsibilities
established by this chapter may result in imposition of a surcharge on fees
charged to the hauler for use of county operated disposal facilities. Such
failure shall also be considered a violation of this chapter, subject to all
penalties and remedies otherwise prescribed herein and in Idaho Code 31-4410.
Upon receipt of notice, by the hauler from the solid waste department or one of
its agents, that a commercial user has failed and/or refused to pay its
assessed charges to the solid waste department, the hauler shall cease
collection from said commercial user. If, after receipt of notice, the hauler
continues to collect from the commercial user the hauler shall be assessed a
one hundred dollar ($100.00) fine per violation/collection, subject to the
provisions of section
4-3-16 of this chapter. In the event that the hauler is in receipt of a notice
from a governmental entity claiming jurisdiction, requiring collection of the
specific delinquent generator, said notice shall be provided to the county.
Upon receipt of said notice by the county, hauler shall be relieved of all
liability under this section. (Ord. 449, 11-23-2010)
4-3-15: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Disposal Of Hazardous Or Dangerous Waste Material: It shall be unlawful
and a violation of this chapter for any person to deposit or dispose or in any
way aid or assist in the deposition or disposal of, or provide for delivery of,
any hazardous waste material within the Kootenai County waste disposal system
or anywhere within Kootenai County. Nothing in this chapter is intended to
conflict with the provisions of the Idaho hazardous waste management act from
Idaho Code section 39-4401 et seq., or any other state or federal regulation.
   B.   Improper Disposal At Approved Rural Residential Collection Site:
      1.   The county maintains rural residential collection sites solely for
the use of its residential citizens who reside on properties that have paid the
county solid waste fee, as defined in the current fee resolution.
      2.   Rural residential collection sites are for garbage generated from
residential dwellings. Prohibited are any commercial waste, yard waste (greater
than three 32-gallon cans or equivalent [96 gallons]), tires, batteries,
construction materials, appliances, furniture, carpet, large bulky items,
liquid waste, wood or wood products, petroleum products or any other hazardous
material (as defined in federal code and/or on the label of the container).
      3.   Any person who deposits or disposes of any hazardous or otherwise
dangerous waste matter at, or provides for delivery of same to an approved
solid waste rural residential collection site, transfer station or landfill,
shall be liable for the full costs of controlling or eliminating any posed
health hazard and/or properly disposing of said dangerous materials, as may be
incurred by the county or any other public agency.
      4.   Persons shall comply with all signs posted by the county at rural
residential collection sites, transfer stations and landfills.
      5.   Any person, commercial or industrial entity, or commercial hauler
who deposits or disposes of any waste that is prohibited, as defined herein,
at, or provides for delivery of same to an approved rural residential
collection site, shall be liable for the penalties articulated below, as well
as criminal fines.
   C.   Covered Loads:
      1.   Vehicle Requirements: No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any
street or highway unless the vehicle is so constructed, covered or loaded as to
prevent:
         a.   Any of its contents or load from dropping, sifting or leaking;
and
         b.   The possibility of any of its contents or load from blowing,
spilling or otherwise escaping therefrom.
   D.   Throwing Or Depositing Materials:
      1.   No person shall throw or deposit, nor shall the registered owner or
the driver, if such owner is not then present in the vehicle, aid or abet in
the throwing or depositing upon any street or highway any bottle, can, garbage,
glass, nail, offal, paper, wire, burning materials, any substance likely to
injure or damage traffic using the highway, or any noisome, nauseous or
offensive matter of any kind.
      2.   No person shall place, deposit or dump or cause to be placed,
deposited, or dumped, any rocks, refuse, garbage or dirt in or upon any street
or highway, including any portion of the right of way thereof, without the
consent of the state or local agency having jurisdiction over the street or
highway.
   E.   Unauthorized Deposits: No person shall deposit upon any public or
private property any debris, paper, litter, glass bottles, glass, nails, tacks,
hooks, cans, barbed wire, boards, trash, garbage, lighted material or other
waste substances on any place not authorized by any county, city, village or
the owner of such property. (Ord. 449, 11-23-2010)
4-3-16: PENALTIES AND REMEDIES:
   A.   Violations: Violation of the provisions of this chapter shall be
subject to the following penalties and/or remedies:
      1.   Past Due Accounts: All accounts that are sixty (60) days past due
will be charged a thirty five dollar ($35.00) service charge. Accounts that are
sixty (60) days past due and have a balance of two hundred dollars ($200.00) or
more will be charged an additional fifteen dollar ($15.00) fine for a total of
fifty dollars ($50.00).
      2.   Civil Responsibility For Violation: To obtain compliance with the
requirements of this chapter, the county may initiate civil action in a court
of competent jurisdiction. Said action may be either legal or equitable in
nature and may seek any remedy deemed appropriate by the board of county
commissioners or otherwise authorized by Idaho Code 31-4410 to carry out the
purposes of this chapter. In addition to the above, violators will be liable
for any and all damages incurred by the county in addition to all reasonable
costs and attorney fees incurred in the prosecution and collection of amounts
due.
      3.   Civil Liability For Cleanup Costs: Any person found to have violated
any provision of this chapter shall be civilly liable for the full costs and
expenses of cleanup, control, elimination, abatement or other remediation which
is undertaken by Kootenai County or any other public agency to properly correct
damages or potential damages associated with said violation of this chapter.
      4.   Criminal Misdemeanor Liability: Any violation of this chapter shall
be considered a misdemeanor subject to punishment to the maximum allowed by
Idaho Code 18-113 or its successor, in addition to the civil remedies above. At
the time of adoption of this chapter, the maximum penalties provided for a
misdemeanor violation are a fine of up to one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) and/
or imprisonment for up to six (6) months. A separate violation shall be deemed
to have occurred for each action committed in violation of this chapter and for
each day that a violation has been delivered to the alleged violator. The
penalty provisions of Idaho Code 31-4410 are incorporated into this section and
are made part of it as if set forth fully herein.
   B.   Notice And Hearing:
      1.   Kootenai County shall have a process through which solid waste
increment fees may be reduced due to special circumstances. Refer to section
4-3-6 of this chapter for the appeal procedure available to citizens of
Kootenai County.
      2.   Any civil penalty, administrative action, or administrative fee
imposed pursuant to the above provisions may be appealed to the board of county
commissioners by filing, within thirty (30) days after receiving notice, a
written request for a hearing before the board of county commissioners to
contest the civil penalty, administrative action, or administrative fee.
      3.   The hearing shall be informal and strict rules of evidence shall not
apply. The alleged violator may be represented by licensed legal counsel,
present oral and written evidence and cross examine witnesses.
      4.   The board of county commissioners shall issue a decision within a
reasonable time after the close of the hearing and shall notify the alleged
violator in writing of the decision.
      5.   If the alleged violator fails to appear at a hearing or fails to
request a hearing, it shall be conclusively established that this chapter was
violated, and the civil sanctions shall apply.
      6.   Additionally, if an aggrieved person disagrees with the solid waste
department's interpretation of this chapter said person may appeal the
interpretation to the board of county commissioners, as laid out above.
      7.   If the appellant prevails and it is determined that there has been
an overpayment of fees, the successful applicant shall be entitled to a credit
to be used as an offset against future billings.
      8.   If the department prevails then the outstanding balance shall attach
as a lien upon the property where the waste was generated.
      9.   Appeals of a decision of the board of county commissioners must
commence within thirty (30) days, by filing a complaint for judicial review in
the district court. (Ord. 449, 11-23-2010)
CHAPTER 4
WASTEWATER SYSTEM DISCHARGES
SECTION:
4-4-1: Purpose And Policy
4-4-2: Definitions
4-4-3: Regulations
4-4-3-1: General Discharge Prohibitions
4-4-3-2: Federal Categorical Pretreatment Standards
4-4-3-3: Accidental Discharges
4-4-4: Fees
4-4-5: Administration
4-4-5-1: Wastewater Dischargers
4-4-5-2: Wastewater Contribution Permits
4-4-5-3: Reporting Requirements
4-4-5-4: Monitoring Facilities
4-4-5-5: Inspection And Sampling
4-4-5-6: Pretreatment
4-4-5-7: Confidential Information
4-4-6: Enforcement
4-4-7: Penalties
4-4-8: Appendices
4-4-1: PURPOSE AND POLICY:
   A.   Purpose: This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for discharges
into the Kootenai County airport wastewater collection system and Hayden area
regional sewage treatment plant and enables the county to protect public health
in conformity with the clean water act of 1977 and the general pretreatment
regulations 1 .
   B.   Objectives: The objectives of this chapter are:
      1.   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the county airport
wastewater collection system and Hayden area regional sewage treatment plant
which will interfere with the normal operation of the system or contaminate the
resulting sludge.
      2.   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the county airport
wastewater collection system and Hayden area regional sewage treatment plant
which do not receive adequate treatment in the publicly owned sewage treatment
plant (POTW), and which will pass through the system into receiving waters or
the atmosphere or otherwise be incompatible with the system.
      3.   To improve the opportunity to recycle and reclaim wastewater and
sludge from the system.
   C.   Administrative Regulations: This chapter provides for the regulation of
industrial and domestic discharges into the county airport wastewater
collection system and Hayden area regional sewage treatment plant through the
enforcement of administrative regulations. This chapter does not provide for
the recovery of operations, maintenance or replacement costs of the POTW or the
costs associated with the construction of collection and treatment systems used
by industrial dischargers, in proportion to their use of the POTW, which are
the subject of separate enactments. (Ord. 153, 5-3-1990)
 
Notes
1 1. 40 CFR, part 403.
4-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
ABBREVIATIONS: The following abbreviations shall have the designated meanings:
   BOD   Biochemical oxygen demand
   CFR   Code of federal regulations
   COD   Chemical oxygen demand
   CWA   Clean water act, 33 USC 1251 et seq.
   EPA   Environmental protection agency
   l   Liter
   mg   Milligrams
   mg/l   Milligrams per liter
   NPDES   National pollutant discharge elimination system
   POTW   Publicly owned treatment works
   SIC   Standard industrial classification
   SWDA   Solid waste disposal act, 42 USC 6901 et seq.
   TSS   Total suspended solids
   USC   United States Code
ACT OR THE ACT: The federal water pollution control act, also known as the
clean water act, as amended 1 .
APPROVAL AUTHORITY: The Idaho department of health and welfare, division of
environment.
AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF INDUSTRIAL USER: An authorized representative of
an industrial user may be: a) a principal executive officer of at least the
level of vice president, if the industrial user is a corporation; b) a general
partner or proprietor if the industrial user is a partnership or
proprietorship, respectively; c) a duly authorized representative of the
individual designated above if such representative is responsible for the
overall operation of the facilities from which the indirect discharge
originates.
BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD): The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure,
five (5) days at twenty degrees centigrade (20°C) expressed in terms of weight
and concentration (milligrams per liter [mg/l]).
BUILDING SEWER: A sewer conveying wastewater from the premises of a user to the
county airport wastewater collection system and Hayden area regional sewage
treatment plant.
CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND: The amount of oxygen, in parts per million, consumed
under specified conditions in the oxidation of organic and oxidizable inorganic
matter in wastewater, corrected for the influence of chlorides.
COOLING WATER: The water discharged from any use such as air conditioning,
cooling or refrigeration, or to which the only pollutant added is heat.
COUNTY: The county of Kootenai, acting through its board of county
commissioners.
DIRECT DISCHARGE: The discharge of treated or untreated wastewater directly to
the waters of the state of Idaho.
DOMESTIC DISCHARGER: Any person who discharges only human wastes including the
typical flow from the bathroom, noncommercial laundry and kitchen, together
with such ground water and surface water as may be present.
DOMESTIC WASTEWATER: Sewage, sanitary sewage, water carried waste from
residences, business buildings, institutions and industrial establishments
which includes the typical flow from the bathroom, noncommercial laundry and
kitchen, together with such ground water and surface water as may be present.
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY OR EPA: The U.S. environmental protection
agency, or where appropriate, the term may also be used as a designation for
the administrator or other duly authorized official of said agency.
GRAB SAMPLE: A sample which is taken from a waste stream on a one time basis
with no regard to the flow in the waste stream and without consideration of
time.
HOLDING TANK WASTE: Any waste from holding tanks such as vessels, chemical
toilets, campers, trailers, septic tanks and vacuum pump tank trucks.
INDIRECT DISCHARGE: The discharge or the introduction of nondomestic pollutants
from any source regulated under section 307(b) or (c) of the act 2 , into the
POTW (including holding tank waste discharged into the system).
INDUSTRIAL DISCHARGER: Any user who discharges other than domestic wastewater
into the POTW by means of pipes, conduits, pumping stations, force mains,
constructed drainage ditches, surface water intercepting ditches and all
constructed devices and appliances appurtenant thereto. This includes
significant industrial discharges.
INDUSTRIAL WASTE: Any solid, liquid or gaseous waste, except sewage, which
results from any industrial, manufacturing, trade or business process or from
the development, recovery or processing of natural resources.
INTERFERENCE: Inhibition or disruption of the POTW treatment processes or
operations. Inhibition or disruption of the POTW treatment processes or
operations which contributes to a violation of any requirement of any NPDES
permit issued to the Hayden area regional sewage treatment plant (POTW). The
term includes prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal by the POTW in
accordance with section 405 of the act 3 , or any criteria, guidelines or
regulations developed pursuant to the solid waste disposal act (SWDA), the
clean air act, the toxic substances control act, or more stringent state
criteria (including those contained in any state sludge management plan
prepared pursuant to title IV of SWDA) applicable to the method of disposal or
use employed by the POTW.
NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD OR PRETREATMENT STANDARD: Any
regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by the EPA in
accordance with section 307(b) and (c) of the act 4  which applies to a
specific category of industrial users.
NATIONAL POLLUTION DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM OR NPDES PERMIT: A permit
issued pursuant to section 402 of the act 5 .
NATIONAL PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE STANDARD OR PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE STANDARD: Any
regulation developed under the authority of 307(b) of the act and 40 CFR,
section 403.5.
NEW SOURCE: Any source, the construction of which is commenced after the
publication of proposed regulations prescribing a section 307(c) 6  categorical
pretreatment standard which will be applicable to such source, if such standard
is thereafter promulgated within one hundred twenty (120) days of proposal in
the federal register. Where the standard is promulgated later than one hundred
twenty (120) days after proposal, a new source means any source, the
construction of which is commenced after the date of promulgation of the
standard.
O&M: Operation and maintenance of the county airport wastewater collection
system and Hayden area regional sewage treatment plant.
POTW TREATMENT PLANT: That portion of the POTW designed to provide treatment to
wastewater.
PERSON: Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company, corporation,
association, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental entity or any
other legal entity, or their legal representatives, agents or assigns. The
masculine gender shall include the feminine, the singular shall include the
plural where indicated by the context.
pH: The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the concentration of hydrogen
ions expressed in grains per liter of solution.
POLLUTANT: Any dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage,
garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, chemical wastes, biological materials,
radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discharged equipment, rock, sand,
cellar dirt and industrial, municipal and agricultural waste discharged into
water.
POLLUTION: The manmade or man induced alteration of the chemical, physical,
biological and radiological integrity of water.
PRETREATMENT OR TREATMENT: The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the
elimination of pollutants or the alteration of the nature of pollutant
properties in wastewater to a less harmful state prior to or in lieu of
discharging or otherwise introducing such pollutants into a POTW. The reduction
or alteration can be obtained by physical, chemical or biological processes, or
process changes other means, except as prohibited by 40 CFR section 403.6(d)
PROHIBITED DISCHARGES: Discharges specified in the national pretreatment
standards as listed in appendix D herein.
PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW): Those treatment works which are owned
jointly by the city of Hayden, Kootenai County and the Hayden Lake recreational
water and sewer district. This definition includes any sewers under Kootenai
County's jurisdiction that convey wastewater to the POTW, but does not include
pipes, sewers or other conveyances not connected to a facility providing
treatment. For the purposes of this chapter, POTW shall also include any sewers
that convey wastewaters to the POTW from persons outside the county airport who
are, by contract or agreement with the county users of the county airport
wastewater collection system and Hayden area regional sewage treatment plant
(POTW).
SHALL/MAY: Shall is mandatory; may is permissive.
SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER: Any industrial user of the county airport
wastewater collection system and Hayden area regional sewage treatment plant
who: a) has a discharge flow of five thousand (5,000) gallons or more per
average workday; or b) has a flow greater than five percent (5%) of the flow
capacity or organic loading of the county airport wastewater collection system;
or c) has in his wastes toxic pollutants as defined pursuant to section 307 of
the act or Idaho statutes and rules; or d) is found by the Hayden area regional
sewer board, Kootenai County, Idaho department of health and welfare, division
of environment, or the U.S. environmental protection agency (EPA) to have
significant impact, either singly or in combination with other contributing
industries, on the wastewater treatment system, the quality of sludge, the
system's effluent quality or air emissions generated by the system. This
includes, but is not limited to, the following industries:
Auto laundry and car wash
Electroplating
Mechanical products manufacturing
Printing and publishing
SLUGLOAD: Any substance released in a discharge at a rate and/or concentration
which causes interference to a POTW.
STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC): A classification pursuant of the
standard industrial classification manual issued by the executive office of the
president, office of management and budget, 1972.
STATE: The state of Idaho.
STORMWATER: Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation and resulting therefrom.
SUPERINTENDENT: The person designated by the Kootenai County board of
commissioners and/or the regional sewer advisory board to supervise the
operation of the POTW and who is charged with certain duties and
responsibilities by this chapter, or his duly authorized representative.
SUSPENDED SOLIDS: The total suspended matter that floats on the surface of, or
is suspended in, water, wastewater or other liquids, and which is removable by
laboratory filtering.
TOXIC POLLUTANT: Any pollutant or combination of pollutants listed as toxic in
regulations promulgated by the administrator of the environmental protection
agency under the provision of CWA 307(a) or other acts.
USER: Any person who contributes, causes or permits the contribution of
wastewater into the county airport wastewater collection system and Hayden area
regional sewage treatment plant (POTW).
WASTEWATER: The liquid and water carried industrial or domestic wastes from
dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial facilities and institutions,
together with may be present, whether treated or untreated, which is
contributed into or permitted to enter the POTW.
WASTEWATER CONTRIBUTION PERMIT: As set forth in section
4-4-5-2 of this chapter.
WATERS OF THE STATE: All streams, lakes, ponds, marshes, watercourses,
waterways, wells, springs, reservoirs, aquifers, irrigation systems, drainage
systems and all other bodies or accumulations of water, surface or underground,
natural or artificial, public or private, which are contained within, flow
through or border upon the state or any portion thereof. (Ord. 153, 5-3-1990)
 
Notes
1 1. 33 USC § 1251 et. seq.
2 1. 33 USC § 1317.
3 1. 33 USC § 1345.
4 2. 33 USC § 1347.
5 3. 33 USC § 1342.
6 4. 33 USC § 1317.
4-4-3: REGULATIONS:
4-4-3-1: GENERAL DISCHARGE PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   No user shall contribute or cause to be contributed, directly or
indirectly, any pollutant or wastewater which will interfere with the operation
or performance of the POTW. These general prohibitions apply to all such users
of the POTW whether or not the user is subject to national categorical
pretreatment standards or any other national, state or local pretreatment
standards or requirements. A user may not contribute the following substances
to the POTW:
      1.   Any liquids, solids or gases which by reason of their nature or
quantity are, or may be, sufficient either alone or by interaction with other
substances to cause fire or explosion or be injurious in any other way to the
POTW or to the operation of the POTW. At no time, shall two successive readings
on an explosion hazard meter, at the point of discharge into the system (or at
any point in the system) be more than five percent (5%) nor any single reading
over ten percent (10%) of the lower explosive limit (LEL) of the meter.
Prohibited materials include, but are not limited to, gasoline, kerosene,
naphtha, benzene, toluene, xylene, ethers, alcohols, ketones, aldehydes,
peroxides, chlorates, perchlorates, bromates, carbides, hydrides and sulfides
and any other substances which the county, the state or EPA has notified the
user is a fire hazard or a hazard to the system.
      2.   Solid or viscous substances which may cause obstruction to the flow
in a sewer or other interference with the operation of the wastewater treatment
facilities such as, but not limited to: grease, garbage with particles greater
than one-half inch (1/2") in any dimension, animal guts or tissues, paunch
manure, bones, hair, hides or fleshings, entrails, whole blood, feathers,
ashes, cinders, sand, spent lime, stone or marble dust, metal, glass, straw,
shavings, grass clippings, rags, spent grains, spent hops, wastepaper, wood,
plastics, gas, tar, asphalt residues, residues from refining, or processing of
fuel or lubricating oil, mud, or glass grinding or polishing wastes.
      3.   Any wastewater having a pH less than 5.0, unless the POTW is
specifically designed to accommodate such wastewater, or wastewater having any
other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment and/or personnel of the POTW.
      4.   Any wastewater containing toxic pollutants in sufficient quantity,
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, to injure or interfere
with any wastewater treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or
animals, create a toxic effect in the receiving waters of the POTW or to exceed
the limitation set forth in a categorical pretreatment standard. A toxic
pollutant shall include, but not be limited to, any pollutant identified to
section 307(a) of the act.
      5.   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases or solids which either
singly or by interaction with other wastes are sufficient to create a public
nuisance or hazard to life or are sufficient to prevent entry into the sewers
for maintenance and repair.
      6.   Any substance which may cause the POTW's effluent or any other
product of the POTW such as residues, sludges, or scums, to be unsuitable for
reclamation and reuse or to interfere with the reclamation process. In no case,
shall a substance discharged to the POTW cause the POTW to be in noncompliance
with sludge use or disposal criteria, guidelines or regulations developed under
section 405 of the act; any criteria, guidelines or regulations affecting
sludge use or disposal developed pursuant to the solid waste disposal act, the
clean air act, the toxic substances control act, or state criteria applicable
to the sludge management method being used.
      7.   Any substances which will cause the POTW to violate its NPDES and/or
state disposal system permit or the receiving water quality standards.
      8.   Any wastewater with objectionable color not removed in the treatment
process, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable tanning
solutions.
      9.   Any wastewater having a temperature which will inhibit biological
activity in the POTW treatment plant resulting in interference, but in no case
wastewater with a temperature at the introduction into the POTW which exceeds
forty degrees centigrade (40°C) (104°F) unless the POTW treatment plant is
designed to accommodate such temperature. At no time shall any user introduce
wastewater above the temperature of forty degrees centigrade (40°C) without the
prior written authorization of the superintendent.
      10.   Any pollutants, including oxygen demanding pollutants (BOD, etc.)
released at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration which a user knows or
has reason to know will cause interference to the POTW. In no case shall a
slugload have a flow rate or contain concentration or qualities of pollutants
that exceed for any time period longer than fifteen (15) minutes more than five
(5) times the average twenty four (24) hour concentration, quantities, or flow
during normal operation.
      11.   Any wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes if
such half life or concentration as may exceed limits established by the
drinking water standards as adopted by the state department of health and
welfare.
      12.   Any wastewater which, in the opinion of the superintendent, can
cause harm either to the sewers, sewage treatment process or equipment; have an
adverse effect on the receiving stream; or can otherwise endanger life, limb,
public property, or constitute a nuisance, unless permitted under special
written agreement by the superintendent.
      13.   Wastewater containing substances not amenable to treatment or
reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed.
      14.   Any pollutant described in appendices A and B, attached hereto and
by reference made a part hereof.
   B.   When the superintendent determines that a user is contributing to the
POTW, any of the above enumerated substances in such amounts as to interfere
with the operation of the POTW, the superintendent shall: 1) advise the user of
the impact of the contribution on the POTW; and 2) develop effluent limitations
for the said user to correct the interference with the POTW. (Ord. 153, 5-3-
1990)
4-4-3-2: FEDERAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   Standards Used: Upon the promulgation of the federal categorical
pretreatment standards for a particular industrial subcategory, the federal
standard, if more stringent than limitations shown in appendices A and B,
attached hereto and by reference made a part hereof, for sources in that
subcategory, shall immediately supersede the limitations shown in appendices A
and B. The superintendent shall notify all affected users of the applicable
reporting requirements under 40 CFR, section 403.12.
   B.   Modification: Where the Hayden area regional sewage treatment
wastewater system achieves consistent removal of pollutants limited by federal
pretreatment standards, the county and Hayden area regional sewage treatment
board may apply to the approval authority for modification of specific limits
in the federal pretreatment standards. Consistent removal shall mean reduction
in the amount of a pollutant or alteration of the nature of the pollutant by
the wastewater treatment system to a less toxic or harmless state in the
effluent which is achieved by the system ninety five percent (95%) of the
samples taken when measured according to the procedures set forth in section
403.7(c)(2) of title 40 of the code of federal regulations, part 403, general
pretreatment regulations for existing and new sources of pollution, promulgated
pursuant to the act. The county may then modify pollutant discharge limits in
the federal pretreatment standards if the requirements contained in 40 CFR,
part 403, section 403.7, are fulfilled and prior approval from the approval
authority is obtained.
   C.   State Requirements: State requirements and limitations on discharges
shall apply in any case where they are more stringent than federal requirements
and limitations or those in this chapter.
   D.   County's Right Of Revision: The county reserves the right to establish
by ordinance more stringent limitations or requirements on discharges to the
wastewater disposal system if deemed necessary to comply with the objectives
presented in section
4-4-1 of this chapter.
   E.   Dilution Prohibited: No user shall ever increase the use of process
water or in any way, attempt to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete
substitute for adequate treatment to achieve compliance with the limitations
contained in the federal categorical pretreatment standards, or in any other
pollutant specific limitation developed by the county or state. (Ord. 153, 5-3-
1990)
4-4-3-3: ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGES:
   A.   Facilities: Each user shall provide protection from accidental
discharge of prohibited materials or other substances regulated by this
chapter. Facilities to prevent accidental discharge of prohibited materials
shall be provided and maintained at the owner or user's own cost and expense.
Detailed plans showing facilities and operating procedures to provide this
protection shall be submitted to the county for review, and shall be approved
by the county before construction of the facility. All existing users shall
complete such a plan within one hundred eighty (180) days of the effective date
hereof.
No user who commences contribution to the POTW after the effective date hereof
shall be permitted to introduce pollutants into the system until accidental
discharge procedures have been approved by the county. Review and approval of
such plans and operating procedures shall not relieve the industrial user from
the responsibility to modify the user's facility as necessary to meet the
requirements of this chapter. In the case of an accidental discharge, it is the
responsibility of the user to immediately telephone and notify the POTW of the
incident. The notification shall include location of discharge, type of waste,
concentration and volume and corrective actions.
   B.   Notice: Within five (5) days following an accidental discharge, the
user shall submit to the superintendent a detailed written report describing
the cause of the discharge and the measures to be taken by the user to prevent
similar future occurrences. Such notification shall not relieve the user of any
expense, loss, damage or other liability which may be incurred as a result of
damage to the POTW, fish kills or any other damage to person or property; nor
shall such notification relieve the user of any fines, civil penalties or other
liability which may be imposed by this chapter or other applicable law.
   C.   Notice To Employees: A notice shall be permanently posted on the user's
bulletin board or other prominent place advising employees whom to call in the
event of a dangerous discharge. Employers shall ensure that all employees who
may cause or suffer such a dangerous discharge to occur are advised of the
emergency notification procedure. (Ord. 153, 5-3-1990)
4-4-4: FEES:
   A.   Purpose: It is the purpose of this chapter to provide for the recovery
of costs from users of the county's wastewater disposal system for the
implementation of the program established herein. Applicable charges or fees
shall be set forth by the county's schedule of charges and fees, to be adopted
by separate ordinance.
   B.   Charges And Fees: The county may adopt charges and fees which may
include:
      1.   Fees for reimbursement of costs of setting up and operating the
county's pretreatment program;
      2.   Fees for monitoring, inspections and surveillance procedures
      3.   Fees for reviewing accidental discharge procedures and construction;
      4.   Fees for permit applications;
      5.   Fees for filing appeals;
      6.   Fees for consistent removal (by the county) of pollutants otherwise
subject to federal pretreatment standards;
      7.   Other fees as the county may deem necessary to carry out the
requirements contained herein.
These fees relate solely to the matters covered by this chapter and are
separate from all other fees chargeable by the county. (Ord. 153, 5-3-1990)
4-4-5: ADMINISTRATION:
4-4-5-1: WASTEWATER DISCHARGERS:
It shall be unlawful to discharge, without a county permit, industrial wastes
to any natural outlet, or the POTW within the service area of the county
airport wastewater collection system. (Ord. 153, 5-3-1990)
4-4-5-2: WASTEWATER CONTRIBUTION PERMITS:
   A.   General Permits: All significant users proposing to connect to or to
contribute to the POTW shall obtain a wastewater discharge permit before
connecting to or contributing to the POTW. All existing significant users
connected to or contributing to the POTW shall obtain a wastewater contribution
permit within one hundred eighty (180) days after the effective date hereof.
   B.   Permit Application: Users required to obtain a wastewater contribution
permit shall complete and file with the county an application in the form
prescribed by the county. Existing users shall apply for a wastewater
contribution permit within sixty (60) days after the effective date hereof, and
proposed new users shall apply at least thirty (30) days prior to connecting to
or contributing to the POTW. In support of the application, the user shall
submit, in units and terms appropriate for evaluation, the following
information:
      1.   Name, address and location (if different from the address);
      2.   SIC number according to the standard industrial classification
manual, bureau of the budget, 1972, as amended;
      3.   Wastewater constituents and characteristics including, but not
limited to, those mentioned in section
4-4-2 of this chapter as determined by a reliable analytical laboratory;
sampling and analysis shall be performed in accordance with procedures
established by the EPA pursuant to section 304(g) of the act and contained in
40 CFR, part 136, as amended;
      4.   Time and duration of contribution;
      5.   Average daily and thirty (30) minute peak wastewater flow rates,
including daily, monthly and seasonal variations if any;
      6.   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans and details
to show all sewers sewer connections and appurtenances by the size, location
and elevation;
      7.   Description of activities, facilities and plant processes on the
premises including all materials which are or could be discharged;
      8.   Where known, the nature and concentration of any pollutants in the
discharge which are limited by any city, state or federal pretreatment
standards, and a statement regarding whether or not the pretreatment standards
are being met on a consistent basis and if not, whether additional operation
and maintenance (O&M) and/or additional pretreatment is required for the user
to meet applicable pretreatment standards.
      9.   If additional pretreatment and/or O&M will be required to meet the
pretreatment standards, the user will propose a schedule for providing such
additional pretreatment. The completion date in this schedule shall not be
later than the compliance date established for the applicable pretreatment
standard.
The following conditions shall apply to this schedule:
         a.   The schedule shall contain increments of progress in the form of
dates for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the
construction and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to
meet the applicable pretreatment standards (e.g., hiring an engineer,
completing preliminary plans, completing final plans, executing contract for
major components, commencing construction, completing construction, etc.).
         b.   No increment referred to in subsection B9a of this section shall
exceed nine (9) months.
         c.   Not later than fourteen (14) days following each date in the
schedule and the final date for compliance, the user shall submit a progress
report to the superintendent including, as a minimum, whether or not it
complied with the increment of progress to be met on such date and, if not, the
date on which it expects to comply with this increment of progress, the reason
for delay and the steps being taken by the user to return the construction to
the schedule established. In no event shall more than nine (9) months elapse
between such progress reports to the superintendent.
      10.   Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and maximum per
day).
      11.   Number and type of employees and hours of operation of plant and
proposed or actual hours of operation of pretreatment system.
      12.   Any other information as may be deemed by the county to be
necessary to evaluate the permit application.
The county will evaluate the data furnished by the user and may require
additional information. After evaluation and acceptance of the data furnished,
the county may issue a wastewater contribution permit subject to terms and
conditions provided herein.
   C.   Permit Modifications: Within nine (9) months of the promulgation of a
national categorical pretreatment standard, the wastewater contribution permit
of users subject to such standards shall be revised to require compliance with
such standard within the time frame prescribed by such standard. Where a user,
subject to a national categorical pretreatment standard, has not previously
submitted an application for a wastewater contribution permit as required by
subsection B of this section, the user shall apply for a wastewater
contribution permit within one hundred eighty (180) days after the promulgation
of the applicable national categorical pretreatment standard. In addition, the
user with an existing wastewater contribution permit shall submit to the
superintendent within one hundred eighty (180) days after the promulgation of
an applicable federal categorical pretreatment standard the information
required by subsections B8 and B9 of this section.
   D.   Permit Conditions: Wastewater discharge permits shall be expressly
subject to all provisions of this chapter and all other applicable regulations,
user charges and fees established by the county. Permits may contain the
following:
      1.   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the
wastewater to be discharged to a community sewer;
      2.   Limits on the average and maximum wastewater constituents and
characteristics;
      3.   Limits on average and maximum rate and time of discharge or
requirements for flow regulations and equalization;
      4.   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities;
      5.   Specifications for monitoring programs which may include sampling
locations, frequency of sampling, number, types and standards for tests and
reporting schedule;
      6.   Compliance schedule;
      7.   Requirements for submission of technical reports or discharge
reports (see section
4-4-3 of this chapter);
      8.   Requirements for maintaining and retaining plant records relating to
wastewater discharge as specified by the county, and affording county access
thereto;
      9.   Requirements for notification of the county or any new introduction
of wastewater constituents or any substantial change in the volume or character
of the wastewater constituents being introduced into the wastewater treatment
system;
      10.   Requirements for notification of slugload discharges as required in
this chapter;
      11.   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the county to ensure
compliance with this chapter.
   E.   Duration Of Permits: Permits shall be issued for a specified time
period, not to exceed ten (10) years. A permit may be issued for a period less
than a year or may be stated to expire on a specific date. The user shall apply
for permit reissuance a minimum of one hundred eighty (180) days prior to the
expiration of the user's existing permit The terms and conditions of the permit
may be subject to modification by the county during the term of the permit as
limitations or requirements as identified in section
4-4-2 of this chapter are modified or other just cause exists. The user shall
be informed of any proposed changes in his permit at least thirty (30) days
prior to the effective date of change. Any changes or new conditions in the
permit shall include a reasonable time schedule for compliance, except in the
case of an emergency.
   F.   Permit Transfers: Wastewater discharge permits are issued to a specific
user for a specific operation. A wastewater discharge permit shall not be
reassigned or transferred or sold to a new owner, new user, different premises
or a new or changed operation without the approval of the county. Any
succeeding owner or user shall also comply with the terms and conditions of the
existing permit. (Ord. 153, 5-3-1990)
4-4-5-3: REPORTING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Compliance Date Report: Within ninety (90) days following the date for
final compliance with applicable pretreatment standards, or in the case of a
new source, following commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the
POTW, any user subject to pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit
to the superintendent a report indicating the nature and concentration of all
pollutants in the discharge from the regulated process which are limited by
pretreatment standards and requirements and the average and maximum daily flow
for these process units in the user facility which are limited by such
pretreatment standards or requirements. The report shall state whether the
applicable pretreatment standards or requirements are being met on a consistent
basis and, if not, what additional O&M and/or pretreatment is necessary to
bring the user into compliance with the applicable pretreatment standards or
requirements. This statement shall be signed by an authorized representative of
the industrial user, and certified to be a qualified professional.
   B.   Periodic Compliance Reports:
      1.   Any user subject to a pretreatment standard, after the compliance
date of such pretreatment standard, or, in the case of a new source, after
commencement of the discharge into the POTW, shall submit to the superintendent
during the months of June and December, unless required more frequently in the
pretreatment standard or by the superintendent, a report indicating the nature
and concentration, of pollutants in the effluent which are limited by such
pretreatment standards. In addition, this report shall include a record of all
daily flows which during the reporting period exceeded the average daily flow
reported in subsection A of this section. At the discretion of the
superintendent and in consideration of such factors as local high or low flow
rates, holidays, budget cycles, etc., the superintendent may agree to alter the
months during which the above reports are to be submitted.
      2.   The superintendent may impose mass limitations on users which are
using dilution to meet applicable pretreatment standards or requirements, or in
other cases where the imposition of mass limitations are appropriate. In such
cases, the report required by subsection B1 of this section shall indicate the
mass of pollutants regulated by pretreatment standards in the effluent of the
user. These reports shall contain the results of sampling and analysis of the
discharge, including the flow and the nature and concentration, or production
and mass where requested by the superintendent, of pollutants contained therein
which are limited by the applicable pretreatment standards. The frequency of
monitoring shall be prescribed in the applicable pretreatment standard. All
analyses shall be performed in accordance with procedures established by the
administrator pursuant to section 304(g) of the act and contained in 40 CFR,
part 136 and amendments thereto or with any other test procedures approved by
the administrator. Sampling shall be performed in accordance with the
techniques approved by the administrator. (Ord. 153, 5-3-1990)
4-4-5-4: MONITORING FACILITIES:
The county shall require to be provided and operated at the user's own expense,
monitoring facilities to allow inspection, sampling and flow measurement of the
building sewer and/or internal drainage systems. The monitoring facility should
normally be situated on the user's premises, but the county may, when such a
location would be impractical or cause undue hardship on the user, allow the
facility to be constructed in the public street or sidewalk area and located so
that it will not be obstructed by landscaping or parked vehicles.
There shall be ample room in or near such sampling manhole or facility to allow
accurate sampling and preparation of samples for analysis. The facility and the
sampling and measuring equipment shall be maintained at all times in a safe and
proper operating condition at the expense of the user.
Whether constructed on public or private property, the sampling and monitoring
facilities shall be provided in accordance with the county's requirements and
all applicable local construction standards and specifications. (Ord. 153, 5-3-
1990)
4-4-5-5: INSPECTION AND SAMPLING:
The county shall inspect the facilities of any user to ascertain whether the
purpose of this chapter is being met and all requirements are being complied
with. Persons or occupants of premises where wastewater is created or
discharged shall allow the county or their representative ready access at all
reasonable times to all parts of the premises for the purposes of inspection,
sampling, records examination or in the performance of any of their duties. The
county shall have the right to set up on the user's property such devices as
are necessary to conduct sampling inspection, compliance monitoring and/or
metering operations. Where a user has security measures in force which would
require proper identification and clearance before entry into their premises,
the user shall make necessary arrangements with their security guards so that
upon presentation of suitable identification, personnel from the county,
approval authority and EPA will be permitted to enter, without delay, for the
purposes of performing their specific responsibilities. (Ord. 153, 5-3-1990)
4-4-5-6: PRETREATMENT:
Users shall provide necessary wastewater treatment as required to comply with
this chapter and shall achieve compliance with all federal categorical
pretreatment standards within the time limitations as specified by the federal
pretreatment regulations. Any facilities required to pretreat wastewater to a
level acceptable to the county shall be provided, operated and maintained at
the user's expense. Detailed plans showing the pretreatment facilities and
operating procedures shall be submitted to the county for review, and shall be
acceptable to the county before construction of the facility. The review of
such plans and operating procedures will in no way relieve the user from the
responsibility of modifying the facility as necessary to produce an effluent
acceptable to the county under the provisions of this chapter. Any subsequent
changes in the pretreatment facilities or method of operation shall be reported
to and be acceptable to the county prior to the user's initiation of the
changes.
All records relating to compliance with pretreatment standards shall be made
available to officials of the EPA or approval authority upon request. (Ord.
153, 5-3-1990)
4-4-5-7: CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION:
Information and data on a user obtained from reports, questionnaires, permit
applications, permits and monitoring programs and from inspections shall be
available to the public or other governmental agency without restriction unless
the user specifically requests and is able to demonstrate to the satisfaction
of the county that the release of such information would divulge information,
processes or methods of production entitled to protection as trade secrets of
the user.
When requested by the person furnishing a report, the portions of a report
which might disclose trade secrets or secret processes shall not be made
available for inspection by the public but shall be made available upon written
request to governmental agencies for uses related to this chapter, the national
pollutant discharge elimination system (NPDES) permit, state disposal system
permit and/or the pretreatment programs; provided, however, that such portions
of a report shall be available for use by the state or any state agency in
judicial review or enforcement proceedings involving the person furnishing the
report. Wastewater constituents and characteristics will not be recognized as
confidential information.
Information accepted by the county as confidential shall not be transmitted to
any governmental agency or to the general public by the county until and unless
a ten (10) day notification is given to the user. The user shall have the
right, within that ten (10) day notification period to request a confidential
hearing before the board of county commissioners. If such a request is made,
the information shall not be released until the hearing has been held and a
decision rendered by the board of county commissioners. (Ord. 153, 5-3-1990)
4-4-6: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Harmful Contributions: The county may suspend the wastewater treatment
service and/or a wastewater contribution permit when such suspension is
necessary, in the opinion of the county, in order to stop an actual or
threatened discharge which presents or may present an imminent or substantial
endangerment to the health or welfare of persons, to the environment or causes
interference to the POTW.
Any person notified of a suspension of the wastewater treatment service and/or
wastewater contribution permit shall immediately stop or eliminate the
contribution. In the event of a failure of the person to comply voluntarily
with the suspension order, the county shall take such steps as deemed necessary
including immediate severance of the sewer connection, to prevent or minimize
damage to the POTW system or endangerment to any individuals. The county shall
reinstate the wastewater contribution permit and/or the wastewater treatment
service upon proof of the elimination of the noncomplying discharge. A detailed
written statement submitted by the user describing the causes of the harmful
contribution and the measures taken to prevent any future occurrence shall be
submitted to the county within fifteen (15) days of the date of occurrence.
   B.   Revocation Of Permit: Any user who violates the following conditions of
this chapter or applicable state and federal regulations, is subject to having
his permit revoked in accordance with the procedures of this section:
      1.   Failure of a user to factually report the wastewater constituents
and characteristics of his discharge;
      2.   Failure of the user to report significant changes in operations or
wastewater constituents and characteristics;
      3.   Refusal of reasonable access to the user's premises for the purpose
of inspection or monitoring; or
      4.   Violation of conditions of the permit.
   C.   Notification Of Violation: Whenever the county finds that any user has
violated or is violating this chapter, wastewater contribution permit or any
prohibition, limitation of requirements contained herein, the county may serve
upon such person a written notice stating the nature of the violation. Within
thirty (30) days of the date of the notice, a plan for the satisfactory
correction thereof shall be submitted to the county by the user.
   D.   Show Cause Hearing:
      1.   The county may order any user who causes or allows an unauthorized
discharge to enter the POTW to show cause before the board of county
commissioners why the proposed enforcement action should not be taken. A notice
shall be served on the user specifying the time and place of a hearing to be
held by the board of county commissioners regarding the violation, the reasons
why the action is to be taken, the proposed enforcement action, and directing
the user to show cause before the board of county commissioners why the
proposed enforcement action should not be taken. The notice of the hearing
shall be served personally or by registered or certified mail (return receipt
requested) at least ten (10) days before the hearing. Service may be made on
any agent or officer of a corporation.
      2.   The board of county commissioners may itself conduct the hearing and
take the evidence, or may designate any of its members or any officer or
employee to:
         a.   Issue in the name of the board of county commissioners notices of
hearings requesting the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the
production of evidence relevant to any matter involved in such hearings;
         b.   Take the evidence;
         c.   Transmit a report of the evidence and hearing, together with
recommendations to the board of county commissioners for action thereon.
      3.   At any hearing held pursuant to this chapter, testimony taken must
be under oath and recorded. The transcript, so recorded, may be made available
to any member of the public or any party to the hearing upon payment of the
usual charges thereof.
      4.   After the board of county commissioners has reviewed the evidence,
it may issue an order to the user responsible for the discharge directing that,
following a specified time period, sewer service will be discontinued unless
adequate treatment facilities, devices or other related appurtenances shall
have been installed or that existing treatment facilities, devices or other
related appurtenances are properly operated. (Ord. 153, 5-3-1990)
4-4-7: PENALTIES:
   A.   Civil Penalties: Any discharger who violates an order of the board of
county commissioners, or who fails to comply with any provision of this chapter
or with any rule, regulation or permit issued by the county pursuant to
authority granted by this chapter, shall be liable to the county for a civil
penalty. The amount of said civil penalty shall not be less than two hundred
fifty dollars ($250.00), nor more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per
violation. Each day a violation occurs shall constitute a separate violation.
Such penalties may be recovered by adding to bills for monthly services or by
appropriate court action.
   B.   Recovery Of Costs: Any discharger who violates provisions of this
chapter by discharging in a manner which produces a deposit or obstruction or
causes damage to or impairs the operation of the county or Hayden area
wastewater system shall be liable to the county and Hayden area wastewater
system for any expense, loss or damage caused by such violation. The county
shall bill the discharger for the cost incurred by the county for cleaning,
repair or replacement work caused by the violation. Refusal to pay said
assessed costs shall constitute a violation of this chapter, enforceable
pursuant to the provisions of this section. In addition to the penalties
provided herein, the county may recover reasonable attorney fees, court costs
and other expenses of litigation incurred in enforcing this chapter or orders,
rules, regulations and permits issued pursuant to the authority granted by this
chapter. (Ord. 153, 5-3-1990)
   C.   Falsifying Information: Any person who knowingly makes any false
statement, representation or certification in any application, record, report,
plan or other document filed or required to be maintained pursuant to this
chapter, or who falsifies, tampers with or knowingly renders inaccurate any
monitoring device or method required under this chapter, shall, in addition to
civil and/or criminal penalties provided by state law, be punished as provided
in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code.
   D.   Criminal Penalties: Any user, be it a corporation, partnership or an
individual, who knowingly or with gross negligence, violates any provision of
this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided
in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each separate incident or day of violation shall constitute
a separate violation. (Ord. 153, 5-3-1990; amd. 2004 Code)
4-4-8: APPENDICES:
   APPENDIX A
   PRIORITY POLLUTANTS
Compound Name
Compound Name
       
  1.   *Acenaphthene
  2.   *Acrolein
  3.   *Acrylonitrile
  4.   *Benzene
  5.   *Benzidine
  6.   *Carbon tetrachloride (Tetrachloromethane)
       
 *Chlorinated benezenes (other than dichlorobenzenes)
       
  7.   Chlorobenezene
  8.   1, 2, 4-Trichlorobenzene
  9.   Hexachlorobenzene
       
 *Chlorinated ethanes (including 1, 2 dichloroethane, 1, 1, 1-trichloroethane
  and hexachloroethane)
       
  10.  1, 2-Dichloroethane
  11.  1, 1, 1-Trichloroethane
  12.  Hexachloroethane
  13.  1, 1-Dichloroethane
  14.  1, 1, 2-Trichloroethane
  15.  1, 1, 2, 2-Terrachloroethane
  16.  Chloroethane
       
 *Chloroalkyl ethers (chloromethyl, chloroethyl and mixed ethers)
       
  17.  Bis (2-chloroethly) ether
  18.  2-Chloroethyl vinyl ether (mixed)
       
 *Chlorinated naphtalene
       
  19.  2-Chloronaphthalene
       
 *Chlorinated phenols (other than those listed elsewhere. Includes
  trichlorophenols and chlorinated cresols)
       
  20.  2, 4, 6-Trichlorophenol
  21.  Parachlorometa cresol
  22.  *Chloroform (trichloromethane)
  23.  *Chlorophenol
       
 *Dichlorobenzenes
       
  24.  1, 2-Dichlorobenzene
  25.  1, 3-Dichlorobenzene
  26.  1, 4-Dichlorobenzene
       
 *Dichlorobenzidine
       
  27.  3, 3'-Dichlorobenzidine
       
 *Dichloroethylenes (1, 1-dichloroethylene and 1, 2-dichloroethylene)
       
  28.  1, 1-Dichloroethylene
  29.  1, 2-Trans-dichloroethylene
  30.  2, 4-Dichlorophenol
       
 *Dichloropropane and dichloropropene
       
  31.  1, 2-Dichloropropane
  32.  1, 3-Dichloropropylene (1, 3-dichloropropene)
  33.  *2, 4-Dimenthylphenol
       
 *Dinitrotoluene
       
  34.  2, 4-Dinitrotoluene
  35.  2, 6-Dinitrotoluene
  36.  *1, 2-Diphenylhydrazine
  37.  *Ethylbenzene
  38.  *Fluoranthene
       
 *Haloethers (other than those listed elsewhere)
       
  39.  4-Chlorophenyl phenyl ether
  40.  4-Bromephenyl phenyl ether
  41.  Bis (2-chloroisopropyl) ether
  42.  Bis (2-chloroethoxy) methane
       
 *Halomethanes (other than those listed elsewhere)
       
  43.  Methylene chloride (dichloromethane)
  44.  Methyl chloride (chloromethane)
  45.  Methyl bromide (bromomethane)
  46.  Bromoform (tribromomethane)
  47.  Dichlorobromomethane
  48.  Chlorodibromomethane
  49.  *Hexachlorobutadiene
  50.  *Hexachlorocyclopentadiene
  51.  *Isophorone
  52.  *Naphthalene
  53.  Nitrobenzene
       
 *Nirtrophenols (including 2, 4-dinitrophenol and dinitrocresol)
       
  54.  2-Nitrophenol
  55.  4-Nitrohenol
  56.  *2, 4-Dinitrophenol
  57.  4, 6-Dinitro-o-cresol
       
 *Nitrosamines
       
  58.  N-nitrosodimethylamine
  59.  N-nitrosodiphenylamine
  60.  N-nitrosodi-n-propylamine
  61.  *Pentachlorophenol
  62.  *Phenol
       
 *Phthalate esters
       
  63.  Bis (2-ethylhexyl) phthalate
  64.  Butyl benzyl phthalate
  65.  Di-n-butyl phthalate
  66.  Di-n-octyl phthalate
  67.  Diethyl phthalate
  68.  Dimethyl phthalate
       
 *Polynuclear aromatic hydracarbons
       
  69.  Benzo (a) anthracene (1, 2-benzanthracene)
  70.  Benzo (a) pyrene (3, 4-benzopyrene)
  71.  3, 4-Benzofluoranthene
  72.  Benzo (k) fluoranthane (11, 12-benzofluoranthene)
  73.  Chrysene
  74.  Acenaphthylene
  75.  Anthracene
  76.  Benzo (ghi) perylene (1, 12-benzoperylene)
  77.  Fluroene
  78.  Phenathrene
  79.  Dibenzo (a,h) anthracene (1, 2, 5, 6-dibenzanthracene)
  80.  Indeno (1, 2, 3-cd) pyrene (2, 3-o-phenylenepyrene)
  81.  Pyrene
  82.  *Tetrachloroethylene
  83.  *Toluene
  84.  *Trichloroethylene
  85.  *Vinyl chloride (chloroethylene)
       
 Pesticides and metabolites
       
  86.  *Aldrin
  87.  *Dieldrin
  88.  *Chlordane (technical mixture and metabolites)
       
 **DDT and metabolites
       
  89.  4, 4'-DDT
  90.  4, 4'-DDE (p,p'-DDX)
  91.  4, 4'-DDD (p,p'-TDE)
       
 *Endosulfan and metabolites
       
  92.  a-Endosulfan-alpha
  93.  b-Endosulfan-beta
  94.  Endosulfan sulfate
       
 *Endrin and metabolites
       
  95.  Endrin
  96.  Endrin aldehyde
       
 *Heptachlor and metabolites
       
  97.  Heptachlor
  98.  Heptachlor epoxide
       
 *Hexachlorocyclohexane (all isomers)
       
  99.  a-BHC-alpha
  100. b-BHC-beta
  101. r-BHC (lindane)-gamma
  102. g-BHC-delta
       
 *Polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs)
       
  103. PCB-1242 (arochlor 1242)
  104. PCB-1254 (arochlor 1254)
  105. PCB-1221 (arochlor 1221)
  106. PCB-1232 (arochlor 1232)
  107. PCB-1248 (arochlor 1248)
  108. PCB-1260 (arochlor 1260)
  109. PCB-1016 (arochlor 1016)
  110. *Toxaphene
  111. *Antimony (total)
  112. *Arsenic (total)
  113. *Asbestos (fibrous)
  114. *Beryllium (total)
  115. *Cadmium (total)
  116. *Chromium (total)
  117. *Copper (total)
  118. *Cyanide (total)
  119. *Lead (total)
  120. *Mercury (total)
  121. *Nickel (total)
  122. *Selenium (total)
  123. *Silver (total)
  124. *Thallium (total)
  125. *Zinc (total)
  126. *2, 3, 7, 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD)
 
* Specific compounds and chemical classes as listed in the consent degree.
** This compound was specifically listed in the consent degree because of the
extreme toxicity (TCDD).
   APPENDIX B
   GENERAL LIMITATIONS ON OTHER POLLUTANTS
Substance Concentration, mg/l
Substance                               Concentration, mg/l
 
Arsenic                                 0.41
Cadmium                                 0.26
Chromium (hexavalent)                   0.09
Chromium (total)                        5.47
Copper                                  1.51
Cyanide                                 0.82
Lead                                    0.68
Mercury                                 0.01
Methylene chloride                      0.1
Nickel                                  1.29
Oil and grease (petroleum based)        100.00
pH (standard units)                     6.0-9.0
Silver                                  0.12
Stoddard solvent                        0.0
Tetrachloroethylene (perchloroethylene) 0.0
Total heavy metals                      3.0
1, 1, 1-Trichloroethylene               0.0
Zinc                                    2.43
 
   Pollutants Released In Such Strength Or Volume As to Cause
   Interference In The Treatment Plant
The following discharges are not permitted unless approved otherwise in writing
by the public works director and county commissioners:
   A.   A standard five (5) day biochemical oxygen demand greater than four
hundred milligrams per liter (400 mg/l) or fifty (50) pounds in any one day.
   B.   Wastes containing more than four hundred milligrams per liter (400 mg/
l) of suspended solids or fifty (50) pounds in any one day.
   C.   A flow of fifty thousand (50,000) gallons or more per average workday
or a flow greater than five percent (5%) of the flow carried by the treatment
facility receiving the waste.
   D.   Chlorine demand of more than twenty milligrams per liter (20 mg/l).
   APPENDIX C
   NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS
The following national categorical pretreatment standards have been issued by
the federal government. Additions to this appendix will be made from time to
time as further categorical pretreatment standards are finalized:
   A.   Electroplating: The categorical pretreatment standards for seven (7)
subcategories of the electroplating industry have been promulgated. These
standards are listed in 40 CFR part 413 published in the "Federal Register" on
January 28, 1981.
   B.   Timber Products Processing (Wood Preserving Plant): The categorical
pretreatment standards for three (3) subcategories of the timber products
processing industry (wood preserving plants) have been promulgated. These
standards are listed in 40 CFR part 429 published in the "Federal Register" on
January 26, 1981.
   C.   Iron And Steel Manufacturing: The categorical pretreatment standards
for twelve (12) subcategories of the iron and steel manufacturing industry have
been promulgated. These standards are listed in 40 CFR part 420 published in
the "Federal Register" on May 27, 1982.
   D.   Inorganic Chemicals Manufacturing: The categorical pretreatment
standards for twenty four (24) subcategories of the inorganic chemicals
manufacturing industry have been promulgated. These standards are listed in 40
CFR part 415 published in the "Federal Register" on June 29, 1982.
   E.   Textile Mill: The categorical pretreatment standards for nine (9)
subcategories of the textile mill industry have been promulgated. These
standards are listed in 40 CFR part 410 published in the "Federal Register" on
September 2, 1982.
   F.   Petroleum Refining: The categorical pretreatment standards for five (5)
subcategories of the petroleum refining industry have been promulgated. These
standards are listed in 40 CFR part 419 published in the "Federal Register" on
October 18, 1982.
   G.   Pulp, Paper And Paperboard And The Builders' Paper And Board Mills: The
categorical pretreatment standards for twenty five (25) subcategories of the
pulp, paper and paperboard and the builders' paper and board mills have been
promulgated. These standards are listed in 40 CFR part 431 published in the
"Federal Register" on November 18, 1982.
   H.   Leather Tanning And Finishing Industry: The categorical pretreatment
standards for nine (9) subcategories of the leather tanning and finishing
industry have been promulgated. These standards are listed in 40 CFR part 425
published in the "Federal Register" on November 23, 1982.
   I.   Steam Electric Power Plant: The categorical pretreatment standards for
the steam electric power plant industry have been promulgated. These standards
are listed in 40 CFR parts 125 and 423 published in the "Federal Register" on
November 19, 1982.
   J.   Porcelain Enameling Industry: The categorical pretreatment standards
for four (4) subcategories of the porcelain enameling industry have been
promulgated. These standards are listed in 40 CFR part 466 published in the
"Federal Register" on November 24, 1982.
   K.   Coil Coating Industry: The categorical pretreatment standards for three
(3) subcategories of the coil coating industry have been promulgated. These
standards are listed in 40 CFR part 465 published in the "Federal Register" on
December 1, 1982.
   APPENDIX D
   NATIONAL PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS
Pollutants introduced into POTWs by any source of a nondomestic discharge shall
not inhibit or interfere with the operation or performance of the works. These
general prohibitions apply to all such users of a POTW, whether or not the user
is subject to other national pretreatment standards or any national, state or
local pretreatment requirements.
The following pollutants may not be introduced into a POTW:
   A.   Pollutants which create a fire or explosion hazard in the POTW.
   B.   Pollutants which will cause corrosive structural damage to the POTW,
but in no case discharges with pH lower than 5.0 unless the works is
specifically designed to accommodate such discharges.
   C.   Solid or viscous pollutants in amounts which will cause obstruction to
the flow in sewers or other interference of the POTW.
   D.   Any pollutant, including oxygen demanding pollutants (BOD, etc.),
released in a discharge of such volume or strength as to cause interference in
the POTW.
   E.   Heat in amounts which will inhibit biological activity in the POTW
resulting in interference but in no case heat in such quantities that the
temperature at the treatment works influent exceeds forty degrees Celsius
(40°C) (104°F) unless the works is designed to accommodate such heat. (Ord.
153, 5-3-1990)
TITLE 5
PUBLIC SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
ANIMAL CONTROL
ARTICLE 1.1. GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
5.1.101: Purpose
5.1.102: Authority And Applicability
5.1.103: Definitions
5.1.104: Dog Licenses
5.1.105: Dogs Without Collar And Tags
5.1.106: Dogs At Large
5.1.107: Dogfighting
5.1.108: Exotic And Wild Animals
5.1.109: Dogs With Contagious Diseases
5.1.110: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
5.1.111: Penalties
5.1.112: Process For Satisfying Notice Of Violation
5.1.113: Appeal Of Civil Penalties
5.1.114: Impoundment Of Animals
5.1.101: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article shall be to secure and maintain such levels of
animal control within the unincorporated areas of the County, and within the
corporate limits of municipalities which have adopted the provisions of this
article either by ordinance or resolution, or, for the purpose of licensing,
have not enacted and which are not enforcing an Animal Control Ordinance, to
the greatest degree practicable to prevent injury to persons and property. To
this end, it is the purpose of this article to provide a means of licensing
certain animals and controlling errant animal behavior so that it shall not
become a public nuisance. (Ord. 500, 9-13-2016)
5.1.102: AUTHORITY AND APPLICABILITY:
Pursuant to the authority granted by title 25, chapter 28, Idaho Code, and by
title 52, chapter 1, Idaho Code, this article shall have applicability within
the unincorporated areas of the County and within the corporate limits of
municipalities within the County which have not enacted and which are not
enforcing an Animal Control Ordinance. (Ord. 500, 9-13-2016)
5.1.103: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this article, the following definitions shall apply:
ABANDON: To intentionally and absolutely leave, quit, renounce, resign,
surrender, relinquish, vacate, discard, or give up.
ALTERED: A female animal who has had her ovaries and uterus surgically removed
(an ovarian hysterectomy), or a male animal who has had his testicles
surgically removed.
ANIMAL: Any member of the animal kingdom (Animalia) other than humans.
ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER: Any person designated by the Sheriff, whether a sworn
deputy or civilian employee pursuant to section 19-5109, Idaho Code, whose
primary duties involve the enforcement of this article and Municipal Animal
Control Ordinances when there is a contract for such enforcement between the
County and the municipality.
AT LARGE: Any animal which is or remains:
   A.   On any private property without permission of the person who owns or
has a right to possess or use the property; or
   B.   Unrestrained by a leash on public property, unless expressly permitted
by law; or
   C.   Unrestrained by a leash on private property open to the public without
the consent of the property owner; or
   D.   In any place or manner which presents substantial risk of imminent
interference with animal or public health, safety or welfare.
AT RISK DOG: Any dog that, without justified provocation, bites a person or
domestic animal without causing serious injury.
AUTHORIZED VENDOR: Any person, business, governmental entity, nonprofit
corporation, or other entity authorized by the sheriff to issue dog licenses.
BOARD: The board of county commissioners of Kootenai County, Idaho.
CLERK: The duly elected clerk of the district court of Kootenai County, Idaho,
in his or her capacity as the clerk of the board of county commissioners, and
his or her agents or deputies.
COMMERCIAL KENNEL: A kennel facility which includes one or more of the
following activities:
   A.   Breeding for sale of more than two (2) litters each year; or
   B.   Offering a service for compensation in conjunction with the operation
of the kennel, including, but not limited to, training, grooming, boarding, or
breeding; or
   C.   Raising of competition dogs for purposes of compensation, greyhound
racing, sled dog racing, dog pulls or any other events; or
   D.   Any pet shop regularly selling dogs.
COUNTY: Kootenai County, Idaho.
COUNTY ANIMAL SHELTER: Premises selected by the sheriff as a suitable facility
for the requirements of this article, or a facility which has contracted with
the board to meet the requirements of this article.
CRUEL OR CRUELTY: Shall be defined to include any of the following:
   A.   Any act or omission in which unjustifiable physical pain, suffering,
injury or death of an animal is caused or permitted;
   B.   Intentionally or recklessly killing, maiming, wounding, beating,
mutilating, overdriving, overloading, overworking, torturing, or tormenting an
animal, or driving an overloaded animal;
   C.   Intentionally or recklessly inflicting unnecessary cruelty or driving,
riding or otherwise using an animal unfit for such use;
   D.   Intentionally or recklessly subjecting an animal to needless suffering
or unnecessary cruelty;
   E.   Intentionally or recklessly abandoning an animal;
   F.   Intentionally or negligently failing to provide an animal with proper
drink, air, space, shelter or protection from the elements, a safe and sanitary
living environment, veterinary care or nutritious food in sufficient
quantities.
DANGEROUS DOG: Any dog which:
   A.   Without justified provocation, has inflicted death or serious injury on
a person or domestic animal; or
   B.   Has been previously found to be at risk by the sheriff pursuant to
article 1.3 of this chapter, or by the district court, and thereafter bites or
physically attacks a person or domestic animal without justified provocation;
or
   C.   Has previously been declared a dangerous dog by the sheriff pursuant to
article 1.3 of this chapter, or by the district court.
DISTURBING THE PEACE: Shall be as defined in section 18-6409, Idaho Code.
DOG: Any member of the genus Canis of either sex, altered or unaltered,
including, without limitation, wolves and wolf hybrids, if owned, kept or
harbored.
DOG LICENSE: A properly completed certification issued by the county, other
official dog licensing agency, or authorized vendor, including the dog owner's
name, address and telephone number; the dog's name and description, including
breed, color, sex, month and year of birth, if known; rabies vaccination date;
license tag number and expiration date.
DOG PACK: Dogs running at large in groups of three (3) or more.
EXOTIC ANIMAL: Any animal which is not native to, or regularly present as a
wild animal in, the state of Idaho. Exotic animal does not include any animal
commonly accepted as domestic in the United States.
HEALTH OFFICER: The director of the Panhandle health district or his or her
designee.
HEARING OFFICER: The sheriff, or a designee who is not directly involved in
animal control matters, who sits as an impartial hearer of facts and passes
judgment on appeals brought by persons who have been found to have violated the
provisions of this article.
IMPOUNDED ANIMAL: Any animal in the custody or control of the sheriff as
provided in this article.
INDOOR HOUSING FACILITY: Any enclosed building, intended to house animals,
which has the capability of controlling the environment within the enclosure.
JUSTIFIED PROVOCATION: The performance of any act or omission that a reasonable
person with common knowledge of dog behavior would conclude is likely to
precipitate a bite or other physical attack by an ordinary dog, including,
without limitation, the instances described in subsection 25-2810(3), Idaho
Code.
KENNEL: Any lot or adjacent lots, or any building, structure, enclosure or
premises on the same or adjacent lots, in which a total of six (6) or more
dogs, six (6) months of age or over, are kept or maintained by one or more
persons. This term shall not include any veterinary hospital, office or clinic
operated by a veterinarian licensed by the state of Idaho.
KENNEL OPERATOR: Any person who owns, controls or operates a kennel or any
person who is responsible for or who participates in the control or operation
of a kennel.
LEASH: Any rope, leather strap, chain or other material not exceeding five feet
(5') in length, being securely attached to a person capable of controlling the
animal to which it is attached.
LICENSE TAG: A tag issued by the sheriff or an authorized vendor, or by or
under the authority of another municipality, which is made from metal or other
durable material and has been inscribed with a date and license number.
LICENSED DOG: A dog wearing its current dog license tag.
NONCOMMERCIAL KENNEL: Any kennel operation housing six (6) or more dogs and not
meeting the definition of a "commercial kennel".
OUTDOOR HOUSING FACILITY: Any structure or building housing or intended to
house animals which does not meet the definition of "indoor housing facility".
OWNER: Any person who is the legal owner, keeper, harborer, possessor or the
actual custodian of an animal. Ownership is also established by a person
registering as the owner on a license or other legal document or by a person
claiming ownership and taking possession of an animal.
PHYSICAL ATTACK OR PHYSICALLY ATTACK: Describes any instance in which a dog
performs an aggressive action upon a person or domestic animal which results in
physical contact between the dog and the person or animal.
PRIMARY ENCLOSURE: Any structure used to immediately restrict an animal or
animals to a limited amount of space, such as a room, pen, run, cage or
compartment, exclusive of any kennel house.
RABIES VACCINATION CERTIFICATE: A certificate issued by a licensed veterinarian
showing the following:
   A.   The type, lot number and manufacturer of the rabies vaccine;
   B.   The date of vaccination and the date of expiration of inoculations for
rabies; and
   C.   The signature of the veterinarian who vaccinated the dog or other
signature authorized by the veterinarian.
SANITIZE: To make physically clean and to remove and destroy, to the maximum
degree that is practicable, agents injurious to animal or human health.
SERIOUS INJURY: An injury to a person characterized by piercing of the
hypodermis or tearing of the muscles, veins or arteries, or disfiguring
lacerations that would cause a reasonably prudent person to seek treatment from
a medical professional without regard to whether the person actually sought
medical treatment.
SHERIFF: The duly elected sheriff of Kootenai County, Idaho, and his or her
agents, deputies, and animal control division officers. This definition shall
include both sworn and civilian personnel.
VACCINATED DOG: A dog inoculated with an approved, currently valid antirabies
vaccine.
WILD ANIMAL: Any animal native to or regularly present in the state of Idaho
and regulated by the U.S. fish and wildlife service or the Idaho department of
fish and game pursuant to the authority of federal or state law. (Ord. 500, 9-
13-2016)
5.1.104: DOG LICENSES:
   A.   License Required:
      1.   Any person who owns, harbors, keeps or possesses a dog which is more
than six (6) months of age within the county shall procure a dog license as
provided by this article; provided, however, that the provisions of this
article regarding dog licensing shall not apply to any person visiting in the
county for a period not exceeding thirty (30) days, and owning or possessing a
dog currently licensed, and bearing a license tag issued by another
municipality or other licensing authority, nor shall such provisions apply to
any person who is a resident of a municipality within Kootenai County who has
licensed his or her dog according to local ordinance.
      2.   The dog owner must provide proof of the dog's currently effective
vaccination against rabies before a license is issued by the sheriff or an
authorized vendor, and must maintain current vaccination protection during the
period of the issued license. A rabies vaccination tag shall be attached to and
displayed with each dog's license tag.
      3.   Any person who owns a dog regularly kept and housed in a kennel
shall not be required to obtain a dog license as provided in this section, but
shall be required to show proof of each dog's current rabies vaccination upon
request of any animal control officer.
      4.   Dog licenses shall be issued during normal business hours at the
Kootenai County sheriff's office and at all authorized vendors.
      5.   Whenever an unlicensed dog which is over six (6) months of age and
has no proof of rabies vaccination is being redeemed at a county animal
shelter, the dog owner shall have seven (7) days to provide proof of
vaccination to the sheriff.
   B.   License Fees:
      1.   The annual license fee for each dog, unless otherwise provided
herein, shall be set by resolution of the board. A certificate of neuter or
spay issued by a veterinarian or other authorized provider of spaying and
neutering services shall be presented at the time the license is applied for in
order to secure the license rate for a neutered or spayed dog.
      2.   All license fees collected by the Sheriff or an authorized vendor
shall be deposited into the County General Fund on or before the tenth day of
the month following the month in which the fees were collected, and shall be
credited to the animal control account; provided, however, that the Board may,
by resolution, establish a designated portion of the license fees to be
remitted back to authorized vendors as reimbursement for their time and efforts
in selling said license.
      3.   Once a license number is issued to a dog owner for a particular dog,
in the event that dog should die, the Sheriff or an authorized vendor may issue
a dog license with the same license number to the owner for another dog upon
satisfactory proof of compliance with the requirements of this section.
      4.   Dog licenses may be purchased for one, two (2) or three (3) year
durations. (Ord. 500, 9-13-2016)
5.1.105: DOGS WITHOUT COLLAR AND TAGS:
   A.   It shall be the duty of the Sheriff to seize and impound any and all
dogs at large, with or without a collar or harness, and with or without a
current license and rabies vaccination tag attached thereto.
   B.   A Deputy Sheriff or animal control officer who impounds a dog shall
make reasonable efforts to notify the owner of the dog's whereabouts. Such
notification shall include information concerning requirements for redemption
of the dog, including all applicable fees.
   C.   The owner may redeem the dog by paying an impoundment fee, and a daily
care fee for each day that the dog is impounded, as set by resolution of the
Board. If the dog is not a licensed dog, the owner should also comply with all
of the requirements for the purchase of a dog license before the dog may be
redeemed. Any proceeding to contest fees imposed pursuant to this subsection
shall be conducted in accordance with the procedure for appeals of civil
penalties as set forth in section
5.1.113 of this article.
   D.   Five (5) days after impounding the dog, excluding any days on which the
impound facility is closed, if the owner of the dog has failed to redeem the
dog and to pay all amounts due under subsection C of this section, the Sheriff
may sell the dog for a price set by resolution of the Board, have the dog
destroyed in a humane manner, or otherwise dispose of the dog pursuant to the
terms of any contract between the County and a County animal shelter, as
defined in this article, then in effect.
   E.   Injured or diseased animals may be humanely destroyed without regard to
the holding time prescribed in this section in order to alleviate suffering or
to protect humans or other impounded animals from exposure to a contagious
disease. (Ord. 539, 7-16-2019; amd. Ord. 585, 9-5-2023)
5.1.106: DOGS AT LARGE:
   A.   Except as provided in subsection B of this section, no owner or keeper
of a dog shall allow or permit the dog, whether licensed or not, to be or
remain upon any street, alley or public place, or upon any premises other than
the premises of the person who owns or harbors the dog, unless the dog is
maintained on a leash no longer than five feet (5') in length and of sufficient
strength to restrain the animal, and is in control of a person of sufficient
age and physical character to restrain and control the dog.
   B.   A leash shall not be required for:
      1.   Dogs being lawfully used for hunting or retrieving purposes, so long
as under voice or other adequate control of the owner or keeper at all times.
      2.   Dogs being lawfully used in connection with law enforcement
activities, so long as under adequate voice or other control of an authorized
law enforcement officer.
      3.   Dogs being lawfully used for search and rescue operations, under
such conditions as may be reasonably necessary in the particular circumstances.
      4.   Dogs being lawfully used for controlling livestock or similar
purposes, so long as under adequate voice or other control of the owner or
keeper at all times.
      5.   Any licensed dog at large on private property with the express
permission of the property owner.
      6.   Any licensed dog who is kept at all times under the direct
supervision of a person of sufficient age to restrain and control such animal
via direct voice control.
   C.   Except as otherwise provided in this article, a violation of this
section shall constitute a civil violation subject to the civil penalty set
forth in subsection
5.1.111A of this article. (Ord. 500, 9-13-2016)
5.1.107: DOGFIGHTING:
No person shall possess, harbor or maintain care or custody of any dog for the
purpose of dogfighting, nor shall any person train, torment, badger, bait or
use any dog for the reason of causing or encouraging the dog to attack human
beings or domestic animals. This section shall not apply to dogs being lawfully
used in connection with law enforcement activities so long as the dog is under
adequate voice or other control of an authorized law enforcement officer, or
during their training when being trained by a duly qualified trainer of police
dogs. (Ord. 500, 9-13-2016)
5.1.108: EXOTIC AND WILD ANIMALS:
The owner of an exotic or wild animal shall comply with all applicable federal,
state and local laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, those of
the United States department of agriculture, the Idaho department of
agriculture, the Idaho department of fish and game, and any other federal,
state or local agency with jurisdiction. (Ord. 500, 9-13-2016)
5.1.109: DOGS WITH CONTAGIOUS DISEASES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to harbor or maintain a dog which does not have
current antirabies vaccination, or which is known to have a contagious disease,
unless under the treatment of a licensed veterinarian.
   B.   The sheriff shall secure disposition of any dog afflicted with rabies.
   C.   It is hereby made the duty of an owner of any dog showing symptoms of
rabies, or of any unvaccinated dog which has bitten any person, other than the
owner of the dog, a veterinarian, or a member of a veterinarian's staff, when
the bite has caused an abrasion of the skin, to surrender the dog to the
sheriff or to a licensed veterinarian for confinement for a minimum of ten (10)
days. If such dog is determined to be free of rabies, the dog shall be returned
to the owner upon redemption as set forth in section 
5.1.105 of this article, including payment of all applicable fees. If such fees
are not paid, the dog shall be subject to disposal as provided by section
5.1.105 of this article; provided, however, that the owner of the dog shall
remain liable to the county for payment of all applicable fees. If the rabies
vaccination is current, it shall be within the sound discretion of either the
sheriff or a Panhandle health district health officer to determine whether it
may be necessary to quarantine the dog by confining it to the premises of the
owner or other person charged with its care. If the dog is located on the
owner's premises, it shall be securely confined and kept from contact with
other animals, and shall be submitted to a veterinarian for examination at the
owner's expense to determine whether or not the dog is rabid. (Ord. 500, 9-13-
2016)
5.1.110: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Except as otherwise provided in this article, the following acts shall
constitute civil violations subject to the civil penalty set forth in
subsection
5.1.111A of this article:
      1.   Allowing any dog while in heat to be accessible to other dogs for
purposes other than controlled or planned breeding.
      2.   Allowing any dog to chase, run after or jump at vehicles using
public streets or alleys.
      3.   Harboring, keeping or maintaining a dog that barks, howls or makes
repetitive sounds occurring for at least fifteen (15) minutes during the hours
of eight o’clock (8:00 a.m.) and eight o’clock (8:00 p.m.); or for at least ten
(10) minutes during the hours of eight o’clock (8:00 p.m.) and eight o’clock
(8:00 a.m.); without being silent for at lest sixty (60) seconds between
sounds, and which unreasonably disturbs or interferes with the peace, comfort,
or repose of any person within hearing distance of those sounds. This paragraph
shall not apply to commercial kennels, animal shelters, dogs that may bark
excessively if a person is intruding or trespassing on property on which the
dog is located, or a neighboring property, or dogs used to control or protect
domesticated animals or livestock.
      4.   Harboring any dog which habitually snaps, growls, snarls, jumps upon
or otherwise threatens persons lawfully using the public sidewalk, streets,
alleys or other public ways.
      5.   Allowing a dog to run in a dog pack.
      6.   Any violation of section
5.1.104,
5.1.105, or
5.1.106 of this article.
   B.   Except as otherwise provided in this article, the following acts shall
constitute misdemeanors punishable as set forth in subsection
5.1.111C of this article:
      1.   Harboring or keeping any dog which has been declared to be a
dangerous dog, an at risk dog, or which otherwise constitutes a danger to the
safety of persons or domestic animals, in any manner not consistent with the
provisions of section
5.1.302 of this chapter or any order of the board or district court entered
pursuant to that section, or any order issued by any other jurisdiction under
equivalent legal authority pertaining to dangerous, vicious or at risk dogs.
      2.   Harboring or keeping any dog which chases or injures domestic
animals or livestock not belonging to the dog's owner and not being harbored on
the dog's owner's property. For purpose of this section, "domestic animals or
livestock" means all animals kept for commercial purposes, for purposes of
household or farm utility, or as pets.
      3.   Cruelty to any animal, or causing any animal to be cruelly treated,
or procuring any animal to be cruelly treated, or subjecting any animal to
cruelty while having charge or custody of any animal, either as owner or
otherwise.
      4.   Intentionally leaving any impounded animal at an animal shelter.
      5.   Any violation of section
5.1.107,
5.1.108 or
5.1.109 of this article. (Ord. 500, 9-13-2016; amd. Ord. 595, 7-23-2024)
5.1.111: PENALTIES:
Any violation of this article shall be punishable as follows:
   A.   Any person who commits any act defined as a civil violation in
subsection
5.1.110A of this article shall pay a civil penalty as follows:
      1.   First violation: Twenty five dollars ($25.00).
      2.   Second violation within two (2) years of first violation: Fifty
dollars ($50.00).
      3.   Third violation within two (2) years of first violation: One hundred
dollars ($100.00).
      4.   Fourth and subsequent violations within two (2) years of first
violation: Double the penalty of the previous violation, up to a maximum of
eight hundred dollars ($800.00).
   B.   Any person who fails to pay any civil penalty imposed pursuant to the
provisions of this article shall be guilty of an infraction punishable as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Upon a judgment of conviction for any violation of this
subsection, the court may also enter a civil judgment for any civil penalty
then due and owing.
   C.   Any person who commits any act defined as a misdemeanor in subsection
5.1.110B of this article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
   D.   Each day on which a civil violation or misdemeanor offense occurs shall
constitute a separate violation. (Ord. 500, 9-13-2016)
5.1.112: PROCESS FOR SATISFYING NOTICE OF VIOLATION:
Any violation may be admitted to and the penalty paid as follows:
   A.   Civil Violations: All civil penalties shall be paid at the Kootenai
County sheriff's office. A receipt showing that the penalty has been paid,
referencing the citation number of each violation, shall be issued to the payer
on receipt of payment.
   B.   Misdemeanors And Infractions: All misdemeanors and infractions shall be
processed pursuant to Idaho Code and applicable court rules. (Ord. 500, 9-13-
2016)
5.1.113: APPEAL OF CIVIL PENALTIES:
A determination that a person has committed a civil violation, as defined in
this article, may be appealed in the following manner:
   A.   A person who has received a citation for a civil violation, or his or
her agent or representative, may file a written request for a hearing before a
hearing officer within fourteen (14) days after the date of issuance of the
citation. The hearing officer shall hold a hearing within fourteen (14) days
after receipt of the written request from the appellant.
   B.   The scope of the hearing shall be limited to the following issues:
      1.   Whether a civil violation did in fact occur; and
      2.   Whether the person who received the citation had any responsibility
for the animal whose behavior gave rise to the issuance of the citation.
   C.   The hearing shall be informal and strict rules of evidence shall not
apply. The owner and the Sheriff may be represented by counsel, present
testimony and evidence, and examine witnesses.
   D.   A decision shall be issued at the close of the hearing or within
fourteen (14) days thereafter. The Hearing Officer shall notify the owner in
writing of the decision within fourteen (14) days after the close of the
hearing.
   E.   The decision of the Hearing Officer may be appealed to the Board in
writing within fourteen (14) days after the issuance of a written decision by
the Hearing Officer. The hearing before the Board shall occur within fourteen
(14) days after receipt of a written notice of appeal, unless extended with the
consent of both the appellant and the Sheriff. The hearing shall proceed in
accordance with the provisions of this section and such other rules as the
Board may establish. The decision of the Board shall be final. (Ord. 500, 9-13-
2016)
5.1.114: IMPOUNDMENT OF ANIMALS:
   A.   Conditions For Impoundment: In addition to any other remedies provided
in this chapter, the Sheriff, a Deputy Sheriff, or an animal control officer
may, if after reasonable inquiry it is determined that no other person is
available to care for such animal, seize, impound and humanely confine to an
animal shelter or veterinary facility any of the following animals:
      1.   Any domestic animals, with the exception of cats, that are found to
be running at large;
      2.   Any domestic animal constituting a public nuisance or considered a
danger to the public;
      3.   Any domestic animal that is in violation of any quarantine or
confinement order duly issued by the Sheriff, Panhandle Health District, or
other public officer with jurisdiction;
      4.   Any domestic animal that is reasonably suspected of having rabies or
other disease determined by the Sheriff, Panhandle Health District, or other
public officer with jurisdiction to pose a direct threat to human health;
      5.   Any domestic animal that a court of competent jurisdiction has
ordered impounded or destroyed;
      6.   Any domestic animal that is considered unattended or abandoned, as
in situations where the owner is deceased, has been arrested or has been
evicted from the owner's regular place of residence;
      7.   Any dog kept at a kennel facility that is not licensed, or that has
had its kennel license suspended or revoked; or
      8.   Any other circumstance in which the owner is unable or unwilling to
care for the animal and temporary housing is necessary to ensure that the
proper care is being provided. Examples include, without limitation, domestic
violence incidents, automobile crashes, or search and rescue incidents.
   B.   Additional Provisions: In such cases, the provisions of subsections
5.1.105B through E of this article shall apply regardless of the species of
animal impounded. (Ord. 539, 7-16-2019)
ARTICLE 1.2. KENNELS
SECTION:
5.1.201: Kennel Licenses
5.1.202: Performance Standards
5.1.203: Inspections; Implied Consent
5.1.204: Revocation Or Denial Of License
5.1.205: Violation; Penalty
5.1.201: KENNEL LICENSES:
   A.   Licenses Required:
      1.   No more than five (5) dogs may be kept, harbored or possessed on any
parcel of real property, including any buildings erected thereon, if the owner
of such property, or tenant in possession thereof, has not first obtained a
county kennel license as provided herein.
      2.   For purposes of this article, the litter of a female dog may be kept
with its mother until the litter reaches the age of six (6) months. Such
litter, together with the mother, shall count as one dog until the litter
reaches six (6) months of age. Animals counted in the litter must be sold,
given away, or humanely disposed of in some other manner before the litter
reaches six (6) months of age so as not to exceed the limits set out above.
      3.   Subject to the exceptions set forth in subsection
5.1.104 A of this chapter and subsection A2 of this section, all dogs owned,
kept or boarded by a kennel must be individually licensed, with the exception
of dogs that are regularly kept and housed in the kennel.
      4.   A county kennel license shall also be required for any parcel of
real property in which any of the activities listed in the definition of
"commercial kennel," as set forth in section
5.1.103  of this chapter, are occurring, regardless of the number of dogs kept,
harbored or possessed on the property.
   B.   Application For Kennel License:
      1.   Applications for a kennel license or renewal thereof shall be made
to the board. The application shall state the name and address of the owner,
the location of the kennel and the types and breeds of animals to be kept.
Kennel licenses shall not be transferred, and shall be valid for one year.
      2.   Any new application for a kennel license shall include the written
approval of Kootenai County community development showing that the kennel is in
compliance with all requirements, standards and conditions set forth in this
article, and all applicable requirements, standards and conditions established
by Kootenai County community development. Any indoor housing facility pursuant
to the requirements of this code must be permitted as a type M building and
must have a current occupancy permit issued by Kootenai County community
development prior to issuance of a kennel license. Final inspection approval
and issuance of a certificate of occupancy shall be contingent on compliance
with the performance standards set forth in section 5.1.202 of this article.
      3.   All kennels or prospective kennels shall be inspected by a deputy
sheriff or animal control officer before an application for a kennel license or
renewal thereof may be submitted to the board. Any application for a kennel
license or renewal thereof shall include the written approval from the
inspecting deputy or animal control officer which states that adequate shelter
has been provided for the number of animals to be kept, including adequate
means of restraining such animals from running at large. Such approval shall
also indicate the maximum number of animals which may be kept at the kennel.
   C.   Fees: The fees for kennel licenses shall be set by resolution of the
board. A person holding a commercial or noncommercial kennel license shall not
be required to separately license each dog regularly kept and housed therein.
However, should any dog be removed from the kennel and no longer be domiciled
therein, an individual license shall be purchased for the dog. The fees set
forth by resolution shall be paid to the clerk upon renewal of the license.
(Ord. 500, 9-13-2016; amd. Ord. 585, 9-5-2023)
5.1.202: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
   A.   Noncommercial Indoor Housing Facilities:
      1.   Interior surfaces must be of a nonporous material which is
substantially impervious to moisture and may be readily sanitized.
      2.   Wherever animals less than six (6) months old are regularly present,
floors shall be maintained at reasonable temperatures suited to the conditions
and welfare of such animals. Floors shall be maintained at reasonable
temperatures suited to adult animals in all other locations. An elevated floor
pad may be used to maintain adequate temperatures so long as the surface meets
the requirements of subsection A1 of this section.
      3.   Ceiling heights shall meet the minimum county building code
standards for a U type structure under the then current international
residential code adopted by the board.
      4.   Adequate heating and ventilation shall be provided so as to prevent
exposure of animals to extremes in temperature and ventilation shall be
sufficient to provide for the health and comfort of the animals at all times.
The exchange of ventilated air must be at least eight (8) times per hour.
      5.   Adequate space shall be provided both internal and external so as to
provide adequate exercise area for the various dogs. Minimum space requirements
shall be as provided in table 1-201 of this section.
      TABLE 1-201
      MINIMUM SPACE REQUIREMENTS
 
Weight Of Dogs Primary Enclosure      Width Kennel House
(Pounds)       Width   Square Footage       Square Footage
Up to 15       2.0'    6.0            1.5'  3.0
Over 15 - 35   2.5'    10.0           2.0'  5.0
Over 35 - 65   3.0'    15.0           2.5'  7.5
Over 65 - 95   3.0'    18.0           2.5'  9.0
Over 95 - 130  3.5'    24.0           3.0'  12.0
Over 130       4.0'    32.0           3.5'  14.0
 
      6.   All fencing or restraining methods shall be of sufficient strength
and construction to contain and control all animals. Fences shall be installed
in such a manner as to prevent animals from escaping by digging underneath or
by jumping or climbing over the top.
      7.   All kennels shall have natural lighting sufficient to comply with
county building code requirements for a U type structure under the then current
international residential code adopted by the board. Adequate artificial
lighting shall be provided in accordance with county electrical code
requirements for residential structures.
   B.   Commercial Indoor Housing Facilities: Indoor housing facilities for
commercial kennels shall meet all of the requirements set forth in subsection A
of this section, and shall also meet the following requirements:
      1.   All indoor facilities shall have three foot (3') high solid,
nontransparent walls or partitions between pens.
      2.   All flooring shall slope at one-half inch (1/2") per running foot to
prevent pooling of urine and cleaning solutions. Floors shall be of a smooth,
nonporous, water impermeable substance.
      3.   All indoor housing facilities will have sound deadening
characteristics that will prevent long sound reverberation or sound reaching
neighboring locations.
      4.   All indoor housing facilities shall also have an external space
referred to as runs so as to provide adequate outdoor area for various breeds.
All kennel runs shall provide the square footage per dog based on the maximum
weight of each dog as set forth in table 1-201 of this section.
   C.   Outdoor Housing Facilities: All outdoor housing facilities, whether
commercial or noncommercial, shall meet the following general requirements set
forth in this subsection:
      1.   Any outdoor housing facility shall be of sufficient structural
strength and shall be maintained in good repair so as to protect the animals
from injury, to contain the animals and to restrict the entrance of other
animals.
      2.   Outdoor housing facilities shall provide sufficient shade from the
sun so as to prevent overheating or discomfort to the animals.
      3.   Outdoor housing facilities shall provide access to shelter to allow
animals to remain dry during rain or snow.
      4.   Outdoor housing facilities shall provide shelters for all animals
with sufficient clean bedding and other protection so as to protect the animal
from harm when the temperatures are below fifty degrees Fahrenheit (50°F).
      5.   Outdoor housing facilities shall provide a suitable method for
elimination of urine and other liquid substances.
      6.   All outdoor housing facilities shall provide sufficient space in the
enclosure and in the kennel house. Minimum space requirements are set forth in
table 1-201 of this section. If a kennel enclosure of a kennel contains more
than one dog, the minimum number of square feet required is the sum of the
square foot requirements for each individual dog kept therein.
      7.   All fencing or restraining methods shall be of sufficient strength
and construction to contain and control all animals. Fences shall be installed
in such a manner as to prevent animals from escaping by digging underneath or
by jumping or climbing over the top.
   D.   Feeding And Care Of Animals: All kennels, whether commercial or
noncommercial, shall meet the following feeding and care requirements:
      1.   Animals shall be provided food which is free from contamination and
is wholesome, palatable and of sufficient quantity and nutritive value so as to
meet the normal daily requirements for the condition and size of the animal.
      2.   Food receptacles shall be accessible to all animals and shall be
located so as to minimize contamination by excrement. Feeding pans shall be
durable and shall be cleaned daily. Each pen shall have a satisfactory bowl or
bowl system for both water and food.
      3.   Clean potable water shall be available to the animals in conformance
with the principles of good animal husbandry unless restricted for veterinary
care. Water receptacles shall be cleaned every day.
      4.   All food and bedding for the animals shall be kept in a storage area
such that the food and bedding supplies are protected against infestation or
contamination by vermin.
      5.   Refrigeration shall be provided for any supplies of perishable food.
   E.   Sanitation Of Primary Facilities: All kennels, whether commercial or
noncommercial, shall meet the following sanitation requirements:
      1.   Excrement shall be removed from each kennel enclosure and kennel
house at least once daily to prevent contamination of the animals contained
therein and to reduce disease hazard and odors.
         a.   Individual and subsurface disposal systems used to dispose of any
kennel generated wastewater shall be reviewed by the Panhandle health district:
            (1)   At initial application for a kennel license; and
            (2)   At the discretion of the sheriff or animal control officer.
         b.   Wastewater and subsurface sewage disposal system loading will be
assessed for compliance with all state rules and regulations pertaining to
individual and subsurface sewage disposal systems, and with the Panhandle
health district environmental health code. Dry wells shall not be used for
wastewater disposal.
         c.   Solid excrement, if removed from the said property, shall be
double bagged and disposed of at the county sanitary landfill. If solid waste
is disposed of on site, such disposal shall be in such a manner as to prevent a
public health hazard.
      2.   At least once each day, each kennel enclosure shall be sanitized by
washing with water and soap or detergent.
      3.   Pens using pea gravel or its equivalent shall be sanitized by
removing the gravel and replacing it when it no longer provides adequate
sanitation so as to reduce disease hazard and odors.
      4.   Each individual dog shall be vaccinated for rabies.
      5.   An effective program for the control of insects, ectoparasites,
avian and mammalian pests shall be established and maintained.
   F.   Care Of Sick Or Injured Animals:
      1.   An isolation and quarantine area shall be a part of every commercial
kennel to prevent physical contact by or between animals that are under
quarantine or treatment for a communicable disease. The isolation and
quarantine area must protect from cross contamination by saliva, waste material
or washing solutions to the greatest extent practicable.
      2.   Animals shall be separated according to the following standards.
Commercial and noncommercial kennels shall meet these requirements:
         a.   Females in heat shall not be housed in the same kennel enclosure
as males, except for purposes of breeding;
         b.   Any animal exhibiting an unusually aggressive disposition shall
be housed individually in a separate kennel enclosure;
         c.   Puppies shall not be housed in the same kennel enclosure with any
other adult dogs other than their dam, except when the owner specifically
requests combined housing;
         d.   Dogs shall not be housed in the same kennel enclosure with other
species of animal.
   G.   Recordkeeping Requirements: The kennel operator shall keep available
for inspection on the premises a record that shall show the name, current
address and telephone number of the owner of each animal kept at the kennel,
the description of the animal, including its age (if known) or approximate age,
breed, sex and color. As a part of such record, a current valid rabies
certificate or other written proof of vaccination, verified by telephone or
electronic mail, shall be maintained for each dog required to be vaccinated by
this chapter, showing the dog owner's name, address, and telephone number; the
dog's name and description including breed, color, sex, month and year of
birth; the date of vaccination; and the name and telephone number of the
licensing agency verifying the vaccination. In addition, each kennel operator
shall have someone in attendance at the kennel that can identify each animal in
the kennel, except that animals under four (4) months of age may be identified
as to the litter. (Ord. 500, 9-13-2016)
5.1.203: INSPECTIONS; IMPLIED CONSENT:
Application for, and issuance of, a kennel license shall constitute consent to
inspection of any licensed kennel by any county deputy sheriff, animal control
officer, building inspector or planning official at any reasonable time, with
or without prior notice. (Ord. 500, 9-13-2016)
5.1.204: REVOCATION OR DENIAL OF LICENSE:
   A.   Grounds For Revocation Or Denial: A kennel license may be revoked, or
an application for kennel license may be denied, on the basis of any violation
of the provisions of sections
5.1.201 through 5.1.203 of this article, or when any of the following
conditions are found to exist:
      1.   Animals from such kennel are picked up for running at large more
than three (3) times in any twelve (12) month period.
      2.   Failure to maintain a list of animals kept at the kennel.
      3.   Keeping more than the approved number and type of animals at the
kennel.
      4.   Excessive loud noise.
      5.   Failure to adequately treat or to have adequately treated any
diseased or injured animal, or to segregate such diseased animal so as to
prevent the spread of disease to other animals.
   B.   Procedure For Revocation Or Denial:
      1.   Written Notice: Upon a finding by the sheriff of the existence of
one or more of the conditions set forth in subsection A of this section, or in
sections
5.1.201 through
5.1.203 of this article, constituting grounds for revocation or denial, the
board shall send written notice of revocation of a kennel license or denial of
a kennel license application to the license holder or applicant. Such notice
shall include information concerning the requirements for curing such
conditions, and shall include information regarding the right to contest the
revocation or denial.
      2.   Cure; Time Limit: A kennel license holder or applicant shall have
twenty eight (28) days from the date of notice of revocation or denial to cure
all conditions constituting grounds for revocation or denial.
      3.   Reinspection Of Kennel:
         a.   If the kennel license holder or applicant believes that all
conditions constituting grounds for revocation or denial have been cured, he or
she shall contact the sheriff to request an inspection of the kennel. In no
event shall such request be made later than twenty one (21) days from the date
of notice of revocation or denial. This inspection shall be conducted within
seven (7) days after receipt of the request by the sheriff.
         b.   If the sheriff finds that all conditions constituting grounds for
revocation or denial have been cured, the notice of revocation or denial shall
be voided, and the kennel license shall be issued or renewed, as applicable.
         c.   If the sheriff finds that any conditions constituting grounds for
revocation or denial continue to exist, the notice of revocation or denial
shall continue in force, subject to the right of the kennel license holder or
applicant to contest such revocation or denial.
      4.   Finality Of Revocation Or Denial: If, after the expiration of twenty
eight (28) days from the date of receipt of notice of revocation or denial, any
of the conditions constituting grounds for revocation or denial continue to
exist and no request for hearing has been filed, the revocation of the kennel
license or denial of the application shall be final. The sheriff shall then be
authorized to impound any dogs kept, harbored or possessed anywhere on the real
property, including any buildings erected thereon, which was the subject of the
kennel license or kennel license application. The sheriff may lawfully enter
any such property and/or buildings in the course of performing such
impoundment. Upon impoundment, the procedures set forth in subsections
5.1.105B through E of this chapter shall apply. The sheriff may allow up to
five (5) licensed dogs to remain on the property.
   C.   Procedure For Contesting A Revocation Of Kennel License Or Denial Of
Application:
      1.   A kennel license holder or applicant shall have twenty eight (28)
days from the date of notice of revocation or denial to file a written request
for a hearing before the board to contest the revocation or denial; provided,
however, that a kennel license holder or applicant who has requested an
inspection to determine whether the conditions constituting grounds for
revocation or denial continue to exist after an attempt to cure such conditions
shall have seven (7) days from the date of the inspection, or the remainder of
the twenty eight (28) day period from the date of notice of revocation or
denial, whichever is longer, to file such request.
      2.   The board shall hold a hearing within fourteen (14) days after
receipt of the written request from the license holder or applicant. The
hearing shall be of a quasi-judicial nature, shall be informal, and strict
rules of evidence shall not apply. The license holder or applicant and the
sheriff may be represented by counsel, present testimony and evidence, and
examine witnesses. Evidence and testimony shall be limited to the specific
issues relating to the revocation of the license or the denial of the
application.
      3.   The board shall issue a final decision at the close of the hearing
or within fourteen (14) days thereafter, and shall notify the owner in writing
of the decision within fourteen (14) days after the close of the hearing.
      4.   A final decision of revocation or denial of a kennel license issued
by the board may include an order directing the sheriff to impound any dogs
kept, harbored or possessed anywhere on the real property, including any
buildings erected thereon, which was the subject of the kennel license or
kennel license application. The sheriff may lawfully enter any such property
and/or buildings in the course of enforcing the order, with such limitations as
may be included in the order. Upon impoundment, the procedures set forth in
subsections
5.1.105B through E of this chapter shall apply. The sheriff may allow up to
five (5) licensed dogs to remain on the property unless otherwise ordered by
the board.
   D.   Liability For Impoundment: Any unpaid costs of care, including, without
limitation, necessary veterinary care, of any dogs impounded pursuant to the
provisions of this article shall constitute a lien against any ownership
interest in the dog(s) and in any real or personal property held by the owner
(s) of the impounded dog(s); provided, that Kootenai County shall perfect any
such lien by filing a notice of lien in the office of the Kootenai County
recorder and/or the office of the Idaho secretary of state, as appropriate.
(Ord. 500, 9-13-2016)
5.1.205: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   Any person who violates any provision of this article shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
   B.   Upon a judgment of conviction for operation of a kennel without a
license in violation of this article, or for keeping, harboring or possessing
more than five (5) dogs on a parcel of real property in violation of this
article, the court may enter an order directing the sheriff to impound any dogs
kept, harbored or possessed anywhere on the real property, including any
buildings erected thereon, where the kennel was being operated or the dogs were
kept, harbored or possessed. The sheriff may lawfully enter any such property
and/or buildings in the course of enforcing the order, with such limitations as
may be included in the order. Upon impoundment, the procedures set forth in
subsections
5.1.105B through E of this chapter shall apply. The sheriff may leave up to
five (5) licensed dogs on the property unless otherwise ordered by the court.
   C.   Unless otherwise ordered by the court, any unpaid costs of care,
including, without limitation, necessary veterinary care, of any dogs impounded
upon probable cause to believe that a violation of this article has occurred,
or pursuant to court order as authorized under subsection B of this section,
shall constitute a lien against any ownership interest in the dog(s) and in any
real or personal property held by the owner(s) of the impounded dog(s);
provided, that the county may perfect any such lien by filing a notice of lien
in the office of the Kootenai County recorder and/or the office of the Idaho
secretary of state, as appropriate. The sheriff may also submit a claim for
restitution for any such costs, subject to approval by the court. (Ord. 500, 9-
13-2016)
ARTICLE 1.3. DANGEROUS AND AT RISK DOGS
SECTION:
5.1.301: Declaration Of Dog As Dangerous Or At Risk
5.1.302: Requirements For Keeping Of Dangerous Or At Risk Dogs
5.1.303: Impoundment And Destruction
5.1.304: Exemptions
5.1.305: Change Of Status Or Ownership
5.1.306: Penalties
5.1.301: DECLARATION OF DOG AS DANGEROUS OR AT RISK:
   A.   Declaring A Dog Dangerous: If a deputy sheriff or animal control
officer has probable cause to believe that a dog is a "dangerous dog", as
defined in section
5.1.103 of this chapter, the sheriff may find and declare the dog to be a
dangerous dog. A dog which has been declared to be a dangerous dog as provided
in this section shall be deemed a public nuisance and shall be subject to the
provisions of this article relating to dangerous dogs for such period as the
sheriff or board may determine.
   B.   Declaring A Dog To Be At Risk: If a deputy sheriff or animal control
officer has probable cause to believe that a dog is an "at risk dog", as
defined in section
5.1.103 of this chapter, the sheriff may find and declare that dog to be an at
risk dog. A dog which has been declared to be an at risk dog as provided in
this section shall be subject to the provisions of this article relating to at
risk dogs for such period as the sheriff or board may determine.
   C.   Notice Of Declaration: Within fourteen (14) days of declaring a dog to
be a dangerous or at risk dog, the sheriff shall provide written notice of the
declaration to the owner of the dog. The notice shall state the basis for the
declaration and the requirements and conditions for maintaining a dangerous or
at risk dog as set forth in this article, and shall include information
concerning the right to contest the declaration. If the owner cannot be
located, the dog may be immediately impounded, and notice conforming to the
requirements of this subsection shall either be posted on the owner's property
or sent by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the owner's last known
address.
   D.   Procedure For Contesting A Declaration Of A Dog As A Dangerous Or At
Risk Dog:
      1.   The owner of a dog declared to be a dangerous or at risk dog shall
have the right to file a written request for a hearing before the board to
contest the declaration within fourteen (14) days from the date of the notice
of declaration. If no request for hearing has been filed within fourteen (14)
days after the date of notice of declaration, the declaration shall be final.
      2.   The board shall hold a hearing within fourteen (14) days after
receipt of the owner's written request, unless extended with the consent of
both the owner and the sheriff. The hearing shall be informal and strict rules
of evidence shall not apply. The owner and the sheriff may be represented by
counsel, present testimony and evidence, and examine witnesses.
      3.   The board may consult with and follow the recommendations of up to
three (3) independent dog trainers or handlers in making a decision regarding
the declaration.
      4.   After considering all of the relevant evidence, the board may:
         a.   Order the owner to comply with the requirements for maintaining a
dangerous or at risk dog as set forth in section
5.1.302 of this article within fourteen (14) days after receipt of the
decision, or such longer period as the board may permit; or
         b.   Order the owner to comply with such requirements as the board may
deem necessary to protect the public health or safety based on the evidence
presented at the hearing, including, without limitation, any of the
requirements set forth in section
5.1.302 of this article, within fourteen (14) days after receipt of the
decision, or such longer period as the board may permit.
      5.   The board shall issue a final decision at the close of the hearing
or within fourteen (14) days thereafter, and shall notify the owner in writing
of the decision within fourteen (14) days after the close of the hearing.
      6.   If no request for hearing is timely filed, the owner shall comply
with all of the requirements and conditions for maintaining a dangerous or at
risk dog as set forth in section
5.1.302 of this article within fourteen (14) days after the expiration of the
period to request a hearing to contest the declaration.
      7.   If the dog has been impounded pursuant to subsection B of this
section, the provisions of section
5.1.105 of this chapter shall apply, including the payment of all fees
prescribed therein, unless waived by the board. (Ord. 500, 9-13-2016)
5.1.302: REQUIREMENTS FOR KEEPING OF DANGEROUS OR AT RISK DOGS:
The owner of any dangerous or at risk dog shall license the dog, unless the
owner is in possession of a valid kennel license, and shall maintain all
vaccinations as required under the provisions of this chapter. In addition, the
board or district court may order the owner of a dangerous or at risk dog to
comply with any or all of the following requirements:
   A.   The owner of a dangerous or at risk dog may be required to provide
secure confinement of the dog indoors or in an enclosed and locked pen or
structure located on the owner's premises. Any such pen or structure must have
minimum dimensions of five feet by ten feet (5' x 10') and must have secure
sides and a secure top attached to the sides. If no bottom is secured to the
sides, the sides must be embedded into the ground no less than two feet (2').
All pens or structures must be adequately lighted and kept clean and sanitary.
The enclosure must also protect the dog from the elements.
   B.   The owner of a dangerous or at risk dog may be prohibited from allowing
the dog to go outside its kennel, pen or structure unless the dog is restrained
by a leash not more than four feet (4') in length and under the physical
control of a person. In addition, the board or district court may require a
dangerous or at risk dog to be muzzled. Any such muzzle must not cause injury
to the dog or interfere with its vision or respiration, but must prevent the
dog from biting any human or animal.
   C.   The owner of a dangerous or at risk dog may be required to display, in
a prominent place on the owner's premises, a clearly visible warning sign
stating "BEWARE OF DOG" or otherwise indicating that there is a dangerous or at
risk dog on the premises. Any such sign must be readable from the nearest
public highway or thoroughfare. The owner must also display a sign with a
symbol warning children of the presence of a dangerous or at risk dog. Similar
signs must be posted on the dog's kennel, pen or enclosed structure.
   D.   The owner of a dangerous or at risk dog may be required to provide
proof to the clerk and sheriff that the owner has procured public liability
insurance with a policy limit set by the board or district court, but not to
exceed five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00), insuring the owner for any
personal injury or property damage which may be caused by the dog. Any such
insurance must provide that the county is an additional named insured, and that
the county shall be notified by the insurance company in the event of a lapse
or cancellation of the policy. If at any time any required insurance is not in
effect, the dog may be impounded and placed in protective custody at a place
designated by the sheriff.
   E.   The owner of a dangerous or at risk dog may be required to contact the
sheriff on a periodic basis to have an inspection of the premises where the dog
is confined. Any such inspection may be conducted by a deputy sheriff or animal
control officer, and shall concern compliance with all requirements set forth
in the order of the board or district court, including, without limitation, the
security of confinement and adequacy of insurance. The fee for such inspection
shall be not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) per animal.
   F.   The identification of a dangerous or at risk dog, which must include
submittal of front and profile pictures of the dog to the sheriff. A dangerous
or at risk dog may also be required to be tattooed for positive identification.
The tattoo must consist of the owner's last name and the last four (4) digits
of the owner's social security number, and must be located on the dog's ear. In
the event that no room is available to tattoo the information on the dog's ear,
the tattoo must be placed on the inside, left hind leg of the dog or such other
location as may be deemed appropriate by the sheriff.
   G.   The board or district court may also order compliance with any of the
restrictions or requirements set forth in subsection 25-2810(5), Idaho Code.
(Ord. 500, 9-13-2016)
5.1.303: IMPOUNDMENT AND DESTRUCTION:
   A.   Order Of Impoundment And Destruction: The sheriff may order the
impoundment and destruction of a dog in any of the following circumstances:
      1.   The dog has physically attacked, bitten or injured a human being or
domestic animal in such a manner as to cause death or serious injury.
      2.   The dog, after having been declared a dangerous or at risk dog,
physically attacks, bites or injures a human being other than the owner of the
dog, a veterinarian, or a member of a veterinarian's staff, or physically
attacks, bites or injures a domestic animal.
      3.   The dog has been declared by the sheriff to be a dangerous dog and
such declaration has become final pursuant to the provisions of section
5.1.301 of this article, or the district court has found that the dog is a
dangerous dog and such finding has become final, and the owner has failed to
comply with the requirements and conditions for keeping a dangerous dog, as set
forth in section
5.1.302 of this article or as otherwise ordered by the board or district court,
within fourteen (14) days after the date on which the declaration became final,
or such longer period as permitted by the board.
      4.   The dog previously has been the subject of an order of impoundment
or destruction and has been released to the owner on the condition that the
owner would comply with the requirements and conditions for keeping a dangerous
dog, as set forth in section
5.1.302 of this article, or with such other requirements deemed necessary by
the board to protect the public health or safety, and the owner has failed to
comply with such requirements within fourteen (14) days after receipt of the
decision in the prior matter, or such longer period as permitted by the board.
      5.   The dog otherwise poses an imminent threat of serious harm to public
health or safety.
   B.   Notice Of Order Of Impoundment And Destruction: Within five (5) days of
an impoundment pursuant to an order of impoundment and destruction, the sheriff
shall provide written notice of the order to the owner of the dog.
   C.   Procedure For Contesting An Order Of Impoundment And Destruction:
      1.   The owner of a dog subject to an order of impoundment and
destruction shall have the right to file a written request for a hearing before
the board to contest the order within fourteen (14) days after receiving notice
of the order.
      2.   The board shall hold a hearing within fourteen (14) days after
receipt of the owner's written request. The hearing shall be informal and
strict rules of evidence shall not apply. The owner and the sheriff may be
represented by counsel, present testimony and evidence, and examine witnesses.
      3.   The board may consult with and follow the recommendations of up to
three (3) independent dog trainers or handlers in making a decision regarding
the order.
      4.   After considering all of the relevant evidence, the board may:
         a.   Order the destruction of the dog subject to the order;
         b.   Release the dog to its owner on the condition that the owner
complies with the requirements for maintaining a dangerous or at risk dog as
set forth in section
5.1.302 of this article within fourteen (14) days after receipt of the
decision, or such longer period as the board may permit; or
         c.   Release the dog to its owner on the condition that the owner
complies with such requirements as the board may deem necessary to protect the
public health or safety based on the evidence presented at the hearing,
including, but not limited to, any of the requirements set forth in section
5.1.302 of this article, within fourteen (14) days after receipt of the
decision, or such longer period as the board may permit.
      5.   The board shall issue a final decision at the close of the hearing
or within fourteen (14) days thereafter, and shall notify the owner in writing
of the decision within fourteen (14) days after the close of the hearing.
      6.   If the owner of a dog subject to an order of impoundment and
destruction fails to appear at a hearing or fails to timely file a request for
hearing, the order shall be final and the dog shall be destroyed.
      7.   If the dog is released to its owner pursuant to subsection C4 of
this section, the provisions of section
5.1.105 of this chapter shall apply, including the payment of all fees
prescribed therein, unless waived by the board.
   D.   Liability For Impoundment: Any unpaid costs of care, including, without
limitation, necessary veterinary care, of any dog impounded and/or destroyed
pursuant to the provisions of this article shall constitute a lien against any
ownership interest in the dog and in any real or personal property held by the
owner of the impounded dog; provided, that Kootenai County shall perfect any
such lien by filing a notice of lien in the office of the Kootenai County
recorder and/or the office of the Idaho secretary of state, as appropriate.
(Ord. 500, 9-13-2016)
5.1.304: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   The provisions of this article shall not apply to dogs used by any law
enforcement agency.
   B.   No dog may be declared to be a dangerous or at risk dog when the actual
or proximate cause of the bite or physical attack resulting in personal injury
or property damage constituted justified provocation. (Ord. 500, 9-13-2016)
5.1.305: CHANGE OF STATUS OR OWNERSHIP:
   A.   Status: The owner of a dangerous or at risk dog shall notify the
sheriff immediately if the dog is "at large", as defined in section
5.1.103 of this chapter, or has attacked a human being or domestic animal.
   B.   Ownership: If the owner of a dangerous or at risk dog sells, gives away
or otherwise transfers custody of the dog, the owner shall, within seven (7)
days, provide the sheriff with the name, address and telephone number of the
new owner. The previous owner shall notify the new owner of the dog's
designation as a dangerous or at risk dog and of the requirements and
conditions for keeping a dangerous or at risk dog, as applicable. (Ord. 500, 9-
13-2016)
5.1.306: PENALTIES:
Any person who violates any provision of this article shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Additionally, the court may, upon a judgment of conviction
for any violation of this article, order the destruction of any dog involved in
such violation. (Ord. 500, 9-13-2016)
CHAPTER 2
MOTOR VEHICLE REGULATIONS
ARTICLE 2.1. GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
5.2.101: Idaho Motor Vehicle Laws Adopted
5.2.102: Use Of Air Compression Brakes Prohibited
5.2.103: Snowmobiles
5.2.101: IDAHO MOTOR VEHICLE LAWS ADOPTED:
The Idaho motor vehicle laws, as codified at title 49, Idaho Code, are hereby
adopted as the motor vehicle laws of the county for the regulation of motor
vehicles and motor vehicle traffic within the unincorporated area of Kootenai
County, and are hereby adopted as if set forth in full in this section. (Ord.
497, 8-9-2016)
5.2.102: USE OF AIR COMPRESSION BRAKES PROHIBITED:
   A.   Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to use
or operate or cause to be used or operated a compression brake within any
designated roadway except under emergency circumstances where the use of a
compression brake is necessary to prevent an accident or injury to persons or
property.
   B.   Definitions: For purposes of this section, the following definitions
shall apply:
   COMPRESSION BRAKE: Any engine brake, air compression brake or mechanical
exhaust braking device designed to aid in the braking or deceleration of any
vehicle that results in excessive, loud, unusual, or explosive noise from such
vehicle.
   DESIGNATED ROADWAY: Any public highway, as defined in section 40-117, Idaho
Code, within the unincorporated area of Kootenai County where the use of
compression brakes are prohibited, as designated by the Idaho transportation
department or the highway district with jurisdiction and posted with
appropriate signage.
   C.   Violation: Any person who violates any provision of this section shall
be deemed guilty of an infraction punishable pursuant to section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 497, 8-9-2016)
5.2.103: SNOWMOBILES:
   A.   Designated Areas: The following areas are hereby designated as roads
upon which snowmobiles are authorized to operate under the requirements of
Idaho Code and applicable county ordinances between December 1 of each year and
March 1 of the following year, whenever snow coverage is sufficient to allow
snowmobile operation:
      1.   Bayview Area: All of the streets within the area bounded on the
north by Perimeter Road and Cape Horn Road, on the west and south by Farragut
State Park, and on the east by Lake Pend Oreille.
      2.   Twin Lakes Area: The paved portion of Twin Lakes Road beginning at
State Highway 41 and continuing along the northern bank of Twin Lakes to the
end of the pavement.
   B.   Regulations: The following regulations shall apply within the areas and
during the times designated in subsection A of this section:
      1.   All snowmobiles must be registered according to the requirements of
Idaho Code.
      2.   No snowmobile shall be operated in the Bayview City Park or cemetery
unless authorized by the sheriff.
      3.   It shall be unlawful for anyone to operate or ride a snowmobile
without safety headgear.
      4.   No snowmobile shall be operated between eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M.
on any Sunday through Thursday until six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on the following
day.
      5.   It shall be the responsibility of the operator of a snowmobile to
yield the right of way to all vehicular traffic upon any public roadway or
crossing any intersection.
      6.   It shall be unlawful for any operator of a snowmobile to:
         a.   Tow or pull any person, persons or vehicles (with the exception
of another snowmobile when the other snowmobile is inoperative) with a rope,
chain, or any flexible type of apparatus.
         b.   Operate a snowmobile without a valid motor vehicle operator's
license on his or her person.
         c.   Operate a snowmobile at a speed of more than ten (10) miles per
hour, or in a reckless manner.
   C.   Violations; Penalties: A violation of any provision of this section
shall constitute an infraction punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Any person violating any of the provisions of this section
shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense for each day during which a
violation is committed. (Ord. 497, 8-9-2016)
ARTICLE 2.2. PARKING ON PUBLIC HIGHWAYS
SECTION:
5.2.201: Title
5.2.202: Authority And Jurisdiction
5.2.203: Purpose
5.2.204: Definitions
5.2.205: Prohibitions
5.2.206: Enforcement
5.2.207: Evidence
5.2.208: Impoundment Of Vehicles
5.2.209: Concurrence Of Highway Districts
5.2.210: Penalties
5.2.201: TITLE:
This article may be referred to as the KOOTENAI COUNTY PARKING ON PUBLIC
HIGHWAYS ORDINANCE. (Ord. 497, 8-9-2016)
5.2.202: AUTHORITY AND JURISDICTION:
In addition to the general authorities listed in section
1-1-2 of this code, this article is adopted pursuant to the powers granted by
the following sections of Idaho Code including, but not limited to, the
following: 31-714, 49-202, 49-205, 49-208, 49-209, 49-212, 49-659, 49-660, 49-
661 and 49-1503. This article shall apply in the unincorporated area of the
county. (Ord. 497, 8-9-2016)
5.2.203: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article is to protect the general health, safety and public
welfare of Kootenai County residents through the enactment of regulations
governing the parking of motor vehicles in the county. The board of county
commissioners specifically finds that motor vehicles which are unlawfully
parked along the public roadways in the county and at various recreational
facilities owned or operated by the county constitute a safety hazard. This
article is also intended to provide a means for the enforcement of those
regulations adopted by the highway districts having jurisdiction over the
public roadways in the county that are not inconsistent with this article.
(Ord. 497, 8-9-2016)
5.2.204: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   Except as specifically modified by this article, the definitions
contained in title 49, chapter 1, Idaho Code, are adopted by reference as
though fully set forth herein.
   B.   For purposes of this article, the following definitions shall also
apply:
   POSTED PARKING REGULATION: Any regulation displayed on a traffic control
device permitting, regulating or prohibiting the parking, stopping or standing
of a motor vehicle.
   TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICE: Any device, whether manually, electrically or
mechanically operated, placed or erected by authority of a public body or
official having jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating, warning or guiding
traffic. (Ord. 497, 8-9-2016)
5.2.205: PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   The regulations regarding stopping, standing or parking of motor
vehicles contained in Idaho Code 49-659 through 49-662 are incorporated by
reference as if fully set forth herein.
   B.   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic in
compliance with applicable traffic laws, the directions of a peace officer, or
any traffic control device, no person shall stop, stand or park a motor
vehicle, whether occupied or not, at any place where a posted parking
regulation prohibits parking.
   C.   No person shall stop, stand or park a motor vehicle on property owned
by the county or under the regulatory control of the county or any highway
district located therein, in violation of any posted parking regulation.
   D.   Notwithstanding the prohibitions contained in subsections B and C of
this section, a person may temporarily stop, stand or park a motor vehicle for
the purpose of loading or unloading merchandise or passengers while actually
engaged in such activity.
   E.   No person shall tear down, deface or otherwise alter any traffic
control device containing a posted parking regulation without previous
authorization from an appropriate local authority. (Ord. 497, 8-9-2016)
5.2.206: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   General Provisions: A peace officer may issue an Idaho uniform citation
for any of the infractions specified in this article.
   B.   Service Of Citation:
      1.   A peace officer may serve the infraction citation in accordance with
the rules of procedure set forth in the Idaho Code or the Idaho infraction
rules.
      2.   In the event the peace officer is unable to locate the owner or
operator of the motor vehicle parked in violation of this article at the time
the citation is issued in order to effect personal service, the peace officer
may complete the uniform citation with as much information as is available and
indicate on the citation that the defendant's copy was placed conspicuously on
the offending vehicle. For purposes of alleged violations of this article, this
alternative service will be considered the equivalent of having the officer
sign the citation and personally deliver it to the registered owner of the
motor vehicle. (Ord. 497, 8-9-2016)
5.2.207: EVIDENCE:
   A.   Registered Owners:
      1.   In any prosecution against the registered owner of a motor vehicle
charging a violation of any regulation governing the standing or parking of a
vehicle under this article or other regulation of a local authority, proof that
the particular vehicle described in the complaint was parked in violation of
any such provision or regulation, together with proof that the defendant named
in the complaint, was, at the time of parking, the registered owner of the
vehicle, shall constitute prima facie evidence that the registered owner of the
vehicle was the person who parked or placed the vehicle at the point where, and
for the time during which, the violation occurred.
      2.   The presumption that the registered owner of the vehicle was the
person who parked or placed the vehicle at the time and place where the
violation occurred may be rebutted with evidence that the registered owner of
the vehicle was not the person who parked or placed the vehicle at the time and
place where the violation occurred. Such evidence may include, but shall not be
limited to, a written lease or rental agreement for a particular vehicle
described in the complaint on the date and time of the violation, which lease
or rental agreement includes the name and address of the person to whom the
vehicle is leased or rented.
      3.   In the event that there is more than one registered owner of a
vehicle cited for a violation of this article, the first named person on the
registration shall be the person subject to prosecution for such violation.
This person shall be subject to the presumption set forth in subsection A1 of
this section, which may be rebutted as set forth in subsection A2 of this
section.
      4.   For purposes of this subsection, proof that a person is the
registered owner of a vehicle is not prima facie evidence that the registered
owner has violated any other provision of law.
   B.   Lessees And Renters:
      1.   In any prosecution against the lessee or renter of a motor vehicle
charging a violation of any regulation governing the standing or parking of a
vehicle under this article or other parking regulation of a local authority,
proof that the particular vehicle described in the complaint was parked in
violation of any provision of this article or regulation, together with proof
that the defendant named in the complaint was, at the time of parking, the
lessee or renter of the vehicle, shall constitute prima facie evidence that the
lessee or renter of the vehicle was the person who parked or placed the vehicle
at the point where, and for the time during which, the violation occurred.
      2.   The presumption that the lessee or renter of the vehicle was the
person who parked or placed the vehicle at the time and place where the
violation occurred may be rebutted with evidence that the lessee or renter of
the vehicle was not the person who parked or placed the vehicle at the time and
place where the violation occurred.
      3.   For purposes of this subsection, proof that a person is the lessee
or renter of a vehicle is not prima facie evidence that the lessee or renter
has violated any other provision of this law. (Ord. 497, 8-9-2016)
5.2.208: IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES:
Any deputy sheriff is authorized, in his or her discretion, to remove and
impound at such place as may be designated by the sheriff, any vehicle found
abandoned or parked in violation of any provision of this article. All costs
and expenses of taking and keeping any such vehicle, including the costs and
expenses of towing, keeping and storing, shall be paid by the owner of such
vehicle and shall constitute a lien in favor of the county upon and against
such vehicle. (Ord. 497, 8-9-2016)
5.2.209: CONCURRENCE OF HIGHWAY DISTRICTS:
In enacting this article, the board of county commissioners does not intend to
infringe upon or usurp the regulatory authority given to highway districts
under Idaho Code title 40, chapter 13. To this end, the board of county
commissioners has sought the concurrence of each of the highway districts
located within the county prior to the enactment of this article. Resolutions
of the following highway districts adopting this article as a regulation of
each respective highway district, and officially concurring with the enactment
of this article by the board of county commissioners, are incorporated herein
by reference:
Lakes highway district
Post Falls highway district
Worley highway district
East Side highway district (Ord. 497, 8-9-2016)
5.2.210: PENALTIES:
   A.   A violation of this article shall be considered an infraction.
   B.   No violation of this article shall be considered a moving traffic
violation, and no violation points shall be assessed for any violation of this
article.
   C.   Violations of this article shall be punishable by a fine for an
infraction, as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code and as set forth in rule 9(b) of the Idaho infraction rules
or in such other rule as may be adopted and promulgated from time to time by
the Idaho supreme court. (Ord. 497, 8-9-2016)
CHAPTER 3
MINORS
SECTION:
5.3.101: Juvenile Runaways
5.3.102: Curfew
5.3.101: JUVENILE RUNAWAYS:
   A.   Title: This section shall be known as the KOOTENAI COUNTY JUVENILE
RUNAWAY ORDINANCE.
   B.   Purpose And Authority: In addition to the general authorities set out
in section
1-1-2 of this Code, this section is adopted pursuant to the provisions of Idaho
Code 20-501, 20-516 and 20-520. This chapter is intended to protect the
juveniles in the County and to provide additional protection to the community
by requiring juveniles to be prohibited from running away from or being beyond
the control of parents, guardians or legal custodians.
   C.   Definitions:
   ABSENTING: The physical absence or being away from, or at a distance from.
   ADULT HAVING LEGAL CARE AND CUSTODY OF THE CHILD: A person over the age of
twenty one (21) who has been given permission by a parent, legal guardian or
court order to have the legal care and custody of the child. This term shall
include any governmental agency having the legal care and custody of the child,
including any foster parents or adults in charge of a shelter care facility.
   LEGAL GUARDIAN: A person who has been appointed by the court to act as the
legal guardian of the minor. Legal guardian shall also include an adult who has
been delegated parental powers pursuant to a properly executed power of
attorney as authorized by Idaho Code 15-5-104.
   PARENT: Includes the natural parents of the juvenile who have legal custody
of the child. Parent shall also include a stepparent.
   D.   Juvenile Runaways Prohibited:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of eighteen (18)
years to leave the County residence of a parent, legal guardian or adult having
the legal care and custody of the child without the permission of the parent,
legal guardian or adult having the legal care and custody of said person with
the intent of absenting himself from the residence.
      2.   A violation may include, but not be limited to, the following:
         a.   A juvenile is staying overnight at a location other than their
residence without the permission of their parent, legal guardian or an adult
having the legal care and custody of the juvenile.
         b.   A juvenile has left his legal residence without the permission of
their parent, legal guardian or an adult having the legal care and custody of
the juvenile under circumstances that indicate that the juvenile does not
intend to return to the residence.
         c.   A juvenile fails or refuses to return to their legal residence
after their parent, legal guardian or an adult having the legal care and
custody of the juvenile has requested the juvenile to return to the residence
and the request has been communicated to the juvenile either verbally or in
writing.
         d.   A juvenile fails or refuses to return to their legal residence
after being informed by a peace officer that their parent, legal guardian or an
adult having the legal care and custody of the juvenile has requested that
juvenile to return to their legal residence.
         e.   A juvenile wilfully flees or attempts to elude a peace officer
after being lawfully ordered to stop by an identified police officer.
      3.   Each violation of any provision of this section shall be deemed a
misdemeanor punishable as provided in Idaho Code 20-520. (Ord. 295, 6-13-2000;
amd. Ord. 513A, 10-31-2017)
5.3.102: CURFEW:
   A.   Short Title: This section shall be known as the KOOTENAI COUNTY CURFEW
ORDINANCE.
   B.   Legal Authority: In addition to the general authorities listed in
section
1-1-2 of this Code, this section is enacted pursuant to the provisions of Idaho
Code 20-505. (Ord. 233, 9-5-1995; amd. Ord. 513A, 10-31-2017)
   C.   Definitions:
   ADULT: A person eighteen (18) years of age or older.
   CHILD: An individual who is under the age of eighteen (18) years.
   COURT: Any District Court within the State of Idaho, including the
Magistrate's Division of the District Court.
   CUSTODIAN: A person, other than a parent or legal guardian, to whom legal
custody of the child has been given by court order or who is acting in loco
parentis.
   DESIGNATED LOCATION: Any location designated by the police officer or law
enforcement official where the child is ordered to remain until released by the
officer or custody is given to the parent, guardian or legal custodian. A
designated location is not a detention center or a jail facility. A designated
location may include, but is not limited to, a police car, Sheriff's Department
or an attended care facility, if available.
   FIELD IDENTIFICATION CARD: A record kept by the Sheriff's Department
documenting persons of interest or an alleged curfew violation by a child and
which shall contain, at a minimum, the identity of the child, the date, time
and location of the incident, the officer involved and the result of the
contact.
   HOME: The residence of a parent, guardian or other adult custodian.
   LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL: Includes police officers within its scope, but it
also includes any individual designated or authorized by law to assist police
officers in carrying out their law enforcement duties, including, but not
limited to, juvenile probation officers.
   LEGAL CUSTODY: A relationship created by the court's order or decree which
imposes upon the custodian responsibilities of physical possession of the
child, the duty to protect, train and discipline the child and to provide the
child with food, shelter, education and ordinary medical care.
   LEGITIMATE BUSINESS TRAVEL: Travel upon a public thoroughfare or in any
public place within the scope of employment, including travel to and from the
child's home to the child's place of employment.
   NOTIFY: To provide actual notice. The notification may be accomplished by
any means likely to give actual notice to the interested party including, but
not limited to, telephone, personal contact, written demand or by any other
means of communication.
   POLICE OFFICER: Any employee of a police or law enforcement agency which is
a part of, or administered by, the State or any political subdivision thereof,
and whose duties include and primarily consist of the prevention and detection
of crime and the enforcement of penal, traffic or highway laws of this State or
any political subdivision. Police officer also means an employee of a police or
law enforcement agency of a Federally recognized Indian tribe who has
satisfactorily completed the peace officer standards and training academy and
who has been deputized by the Sheriff or a Chief of Police of a city of the
State of Idaho.
   PROPERLY IDENTIFY: To provide the police officer or law enforcement official
with sufficient documentation or other reliable information which includes, but
is not limited to, all information necessary to complete a field identification
card.
   REASONABLE ERRANDS: A task performed by a child on behalf of, and authorized
by, the child's parent, guardian or other adult custodian. Authorization must
be granted by the parent, guardian or other adult custodian prior to the child
performing the task in order to qualify as a reasonable errand. (Ord. 233, 9-5-
1995; amd. 2004 Code; Ord. 513A, 10-31-2017)
   D.   Curfew Designated: It is unlawful for any child under the age of
eighteen (18) years to be upon, loiter or stroll upon the public thoroughfares
or any other public place between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight
and five o'clock (5:00) A.M. Monday through Sunday, unless the child is
accompanied by a parent, legal guardian or any other adult custodian.
   E.   Duties And Responsibilities:
      1.   Parents Or Guardians: It is unlawful for any parent, legal guardian
or any other adult custodian of any child under the age of eighteen (18) years
to allow or permit the child to go upon, or be upon, any public thoroughfares
or in any public place between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight and
five o'clock (5:00) A.M. Monday through Sunday unless accompanied by a parent,
legal guardian or adult custodian.
      2.   Police Officers: Any police officer or other law enforcement
official is authorized and empowered to detain any child violating the
provisions of this section. After detaining the child who has allegedly
violated the provisions of this chapter concerning a curfew hour violation, the
police officer may exercise any of the following options, depending on the
circumstances presented:
         a.   The officer may identify the child and direct the child to
proceed directly home. The officer shall document the contact with the child
with a field identification card.
         b.   If the child refuses to properly identify themselves, then the
officer may detain the child for a reasonable amount of time in order to
identify the child. The officer shall document the contact with the child with
a field identification card.
         c.   If the child cannot be properly identified, or if the officer
reasonably believes that the child's health, safety or welfare will be
endangered if released, or if the officer reasonably believes the child will
not obey the officer's order to go directly home, then the officer may detain
the child at a designated location and notify the parent, legal guardian or
other adult custodian of the child of the violation of this section. Further,
the officer may order the parent, legal guardian or other adult custodian of
the child to immediately respond to the designated location to take custody of
the child.
         d.   The child may be detained at the designated location until
released to the parent, legal guardian or other adult custodian.
         e.   If the parent, guardian or other adult custodian of the child
does not respond to the designated location to obtain custody of the child
following the officer's request, the police officer or other law enforcement
official is authorized to take such reasonable steps as are necessary in order
to protect the child's health, safety and welfare.
   F.   Failure To Respond: It is unlawful and shall be considered a separate
offense under this section for any parent, guardian or other adult custodian of
a child to refuse or fail to come immediately to the designated location after
being notified to do so by the police officer or other law enforcement official
or their designee and take custody of the child.
   G.   Defense: It shall be a defense to an alleged violation of this section
where the child is upon any public thoroughfare or in any public place in
violation of the curfew hours of this section because of an emergency, to
perform reasonable errands, or for any legitimate business travel. (Ord. 233,
9-5-1995; amd. Ord. 513A, 10-31-2017)
   H.   Penalties:
      1.   A violation of subsection E1 or F of this section is a misdemeanor
punishable as provided in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 233, 9-5-1995; amd. 2004 Code; Ord. 513A, 10-31-2017)
      2.   A violation of subsection D of this section may form the basis for a
petition or proceedings pursuant to the Juvenile Corrections Act 1 . The court
may punish a violation of this section utilizing any of the dispositional
alternatives provided by Idaho law.
      3.   The court may order restitution to Kootenai County, or other
appropriate agencies, for any costs reasonably incurred by the County, or other
appropriate agencies, in caring for the child, including, but not limited to,
wages of police officers, law enforcement officials and attended care charges,
which resulted from a violation of subsection D, E1 or F of this section. (Ord.
233, 9-5-1995; amd. Ord. 513A, 10-31-2017)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 20-501 et seq.
CHAPTER 4
ALARM SYSTEMS
SECTION:
5.4.101: Purpose
5.4.102: Definitions
5.4.103: Alarm Equipment
5.4.104: Emergency Response Information
5.4.105: False Alarms
5.4.106: Obligation Of Public Safety Agencies
5.4.107: Penalties
5.4.101: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to promulgate regulations for the effective
implementation of this chapter and to regulate the placement of alarm systems
and the methodology for reporting of alarms within the County. Upon
recommendation of the Sheriff, the Board may enact additional regulations
consistent with this chapter by resolution duly adopted. (Ord. 513A, 10-31-
2017)
5.4.102: DEFINITIONS:
In construing the provisions of this chapter, the following definitions shall
apply:
ALARM SERVICE COMPANY: Any privately owned business entity of any type which
installs or supplies an alarm system, is responsible for monitoring alarms or
alarm systems, or which otherwise acts as an intermediary for contacting public
safety agencies when an alarm is sounded.
ALARM SERVICE COMPANY EMPLOYEE: Any person, who by reason of their experience,
training or occupation, can demonstrate to the County that he or she is
qualified to inspect and repair alarm systems. This definition shall be
interpreted broadly to include any officer, director, partner, member, employee
or agent of an alarm service company, regardless of that person's legal
employment status with the alarm service company.
ALARM SYSTEM: Any assembly of equipment, mechanical or electrical, designed to
alert public safety agencies, the public or any person of the commission or
attempted commission of a crime or any other public safety emergency at a
particular or given location.
ALARM USER: Any person, business or other entity which owns, or has control
over, any building, structure or facility where an alarm system is maintained.
FALSE ALARM: The intentional or unintentional activation of any alarm system
that elicits a response from a public safety agency when no public safety
emergency has occurred. The causes of false alarms include, but are not limited
to, the following: equipment malfunction, improper installation, improper
maintenance of equipment, human error or negligence, or any cause other than
the actual occurrence of a public safety emergency.
PUBLIC SAFETY AGENCY: Any governmental entity or agency which responds to law
enforcement emergencies, fire emergencies or medical emergencies, including,
without limitation, any Federal, State, County, tribal, or city law enforcement
agency, any fire protection district, city Fire Department, or other public
agency providing firefighting services, any provider of emergency medical
services, and any provider of emergency communications services.
PUBLIC SAFETY EMERGENCY: A public safety emergency shall be present under the
following circumstances:
   A.   When a criminal act has been committed or attempted.
   B.   A fire has occurred on or near the premises served by the alarm, or a
situation is presented which requires the immediate response of fire protection
agencies.
   C.   A person has an illness or injury which requires immediate medical
attention by trained emergency medical personnel. (Ord. 513A, 10-31-2017)
5.4.103: ALARM EQUIPMENT:
   A.   Prohibited Equipment: Alarm systems designed to alert any public safety
agency by providing unattended automatic dialing to any public phone number of
a public safety agency for the purpose of transmitting a preprogrammed signal
message or code shall be prohibited.
   B.   Required Equipment: All alarm systems shall have a standby backup power
source which will automatically assume the operation of the alarm system should
any interruption occur in power to the system. The transfer of power from the
primary source to the backup source must occur in a manner that does not
activate the alarm.
   C.   Time Limit On Audible Alarms: It shall be unlawful for any person to
install or to operate an audible alarm system which does not shut off within a
maximum of thirty (30) minutes from the time of activation. Shutoff may be
accomplished either with an automatic cutoff or by manual operation. If the
alarm system has an automatic cutoff with a rearming phase, the rearming phase
must be able to distinguish between an open and closed circuit, and if the
circuit is broken, the system will not rearm. (Ord. 513A, 10-31-2017)
5.4.104: EMERGENCY RESPONSE INFORMATION:
   A.   Alarm Information File: No person or business shall establish or
maintain an alarm system unless a current alarm information file is always
maintained with the alarm monitoring company or at the alarm point of
termination.
   B.   Required Information: The alarm file must contain the following
information:
      1.   A street or marine address assigned in accordance with title 8,
chapter 4, article 4.10 of this Code and approved for use by the 9-1-1 Division
of the Kootenai County Sheriff's Office;
      2.   Detailed directions from a major road or landmark;
      3.   A list of persons authorized to enter the premises;
      4.   Where the alarm is located; and
      5.   Where the shutoff or disarming device is located.
   C.   Incomplete Address Or Directions: If the address or directions are
incomplete, the call shall be deemed a false alarm. The name of the monitoring
service and a twenty four (24) hour telephone number must be clearly displayed
outside of the premises where the alarm is located.
   D.   Incidents Requiring Action By An Alarm Service Company Or Alarm User:
      1.   Upon notification by a public service agency that action is
required, an alarm user, or the alarm user's representative, shall render, or
cause to be rendered, such services as are deemed necessary by the responding
public service agency within thirty (30) minutes of notification. Such services
may include, without limitation, turning off the alarm, disarming the alarm
system, or opening the alarmed premises so a search can be made. Physical
presence shall not be required if the alarm user can render the necessary
services remotely.
      2.   Circumstances that require action by the alarm user may include,
without limitation, continual malfunction of an alarm system which causes
repeated false alarms over a short period of time, evidence at the alarmed
premises indicating a crime was committed or attempted and further
investigation is necessary, or the premises are not, or cannot be, properly
secured.
      3.   Any alarm service company, upon notification that a false alarm has
sounded, shall immediately notify the public service agency that a false alarm
has been sounded, that the alarm service company has been notified that it is a
false alarm and that the public service agency no longer needs to respond to
the earlier reported location. (Ord. 513A, 10-31-2017)
5.4.105: FALSE ALARMS:
   A.   General Rule: No alarm user shall cause or allow a false alarm.
   B.   Violations:
      1.   The intentional activation of an alarm system to summon a public
service agency for any reason other than an actual public safety emergency
shall be punishable as a misdemeanor.
      2.   The failure of an alarm service company employee to notify the
public safety agency of the cancellation of an alarm signal shall constitute an
infraction.
      3.   The third false alarm and any subsequent false alarm, from the same
location or alarm system within a six (6) month period, resulting from
equipment malfunction, improper installation, improper maintenance of
equipment, human error or negligence shall constitute an infraction. (Ord.
513A, 10-31-2017)
5.4.106: OBLIGATION OF PUBLIC SAFETY AGENCIES:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed or interpreted to create a duty to
respond on the part of any public safety agency. Public safety agencies will
respond to alarms on such basis and in accordance with the availability of
resources, manpower and preexisting duties. No cause of action shall arise from
the failure of a public safety agency to respond to any alarm. (Ord. 513A, 10-
31-2017)
5.4.107: PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person who violates subsection
5.4.105B1 of this chapter shall be subject to the general penalty provided in
section
1-4-1 of this Code.
   B.   Any person who violates subsection
5.4.105B2 of this chapter shall be subject to a fine of three hundred dollars
($300.00).
   C.   Any person who violates subsection
5.4.105B3 of this chapter shall be subject to a fine of one hundred dollars
($100.00) for the first violation, two hundred dollars ($200.00) for the second
violation, and three hundred dollars ($300.00) for the third and any subsequent
violations. The fines set forth in this subsection may be waived upon a showing
of a good faith effort to repair or replace the alarm system so as to prevent
further false alarms. (Ord. 513A, 10-31-2017)
CHAPTER 5
FIREWORKS
SECTION:
5.5.101: Title
5.5.102: Jurisdiction
5.5.103: Purpose
5.5.104: Definitions
5.5.105: Permit Requirements
5.5.106: Conditions Of Sales Or Use
5.5.107: General Prohibitions
5.5.108: Penalties
5.5.101: TITLE:
This chapter will be known as the FIREWORKS ORDINANCE OF KOOTENAI COUNTY. (Ord.
79B, 5-26-1998; amd. Ord. 513A, 10-31-2017)
5.5.102: JURISDICTION:
The provisions of this chapter are applicable to the storage, use, possession
and sale of fireworks within any unincorporated areas of Kootenai County. (Ord.
79B, 5-26-1998; amd. Ord. 513A, 10-31-2017)
5.5.103: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to protect the general health, safety and public
welfare of County residents and visitors by regulating the use, possession and
sale of fireworks. (Ord. 79B, 5-26-1998; amd. Ord. 513A, 10-31-2017)
5.5.104: DEFINITIONS:
AUTHORITY HAVING JURISDICTION: A city Fire Department if the area is within the
city, or a fire protection district formed pursuant to provision of the Idaho
Code if the area is within a fire protection district, or the Board of County
Commissioners if the area is not within a city or fire protection district.
DEPARTMENT: The Department of Insurance, Division of the State Fire Marshal.
FIREWORKS: Any combustible or explosive composition, or any substance or
combination of substances, or article prepared for the purpose of producing a
visible or audible effect by combustion, explosion, deflagration or detonation.
Fireworks include items classified as common or special fireworks by the United
States Bureau of Explosives or contained in the regulations of the United
States Department of Transportation and designated as UN 0335.1.3G or UN 0336
1.4G. The term "fireworks" shall not include any automotive safety flares, toy
guns, toy cannons, caps or other items designed for use with toy guns or toy
cannons, party poppers, pop-its or other devices which contain twenty-five
hundredths (0.25) of a grain or less of explosive substance.
NONAERIAL COMMON FIREWORKS: Any fireworks such as ground spinners, fountains,
sparklers, smoke devices or snakes designed to remain on or near the ground and
not to travel outside a fifteen foot (15') diameter circle above a height of
twenty feet (20').
PERMIT: An authorization given by the authority having jurisdiction pursuant to
Idaho Code 39-2604 or 39-2605.
SPECIAL FIREWORKS: Any fireworks designed primarily for display and classified
as special fireworks by the United States Bureau of Explosives or designated as
UN 0335.1.3G.
WHOLESALE: Sale of fireworks to a retailer or wholesaler. (Ord. 79B, 5-26-1998;
amd. Ord. 513A, 10-31-2017)
5.5.105: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Retail Sales:
      1.   The local authority having jurisdiction may require a permit for the
retail sale of nonaerial common fireworks.
      2.   If a permit is required, the applications shall be on a form
approved by the authority having jurisdiction and shall include the name and
address of the applicant (or the names of all partners, if a partnership, the
name of the corporation and the corporate officers if a corporation, or the
name of the limited liability company and all of its members, if a limited
liability company), the primary location of the business, each location at
which fireworks are to be stored and the applicant's Idaho Sales Tax seller's
permit number, if applicable.
      3.   A bond or valid certificate of public liability and property
casualty insurance providing coverage of up to one million dollars
($1,000,000.00) for personal injury and property damage shall be required at
the time of application.
      4.   The authority having jurisdiction may assess a fee for issuing a
permit under this section which shall not exceed twenty five dollars ($25.00).
      5.   The permit shall be issued if the application is complete in
compliance with applicable law, shall be valid for twelve (12) months from the
date of issuance and shall be nontransferable.
      6.   The permit required under this subsection may be revoked if the
permittee violates any provisions of this chapter. A permit revocation
proceeding shall comply with the provisions of Idaho Code title 67, chapter 52.
      7.   The permit shall be displayed in public view at the location listed
on the permit.
   B.   Public Displays Or Other Events:
      1.   The authority having jurisdiction may, at its discretion, issue a
permit for public display or other events in the following circumstances:
         a.   After determining that the public display will be supervised by a
qualified person and will not constitute an unreasonable hazard to persons or
property. Appropriate National Fire Protection Association or County Fire Code
provisions may be used as guidance for this determination.
         b.   After determining that sales and use of fireworks outside the
normal sales period provided in Idaho Code 39-2606, or proposing the use of
fireworks in addition to nonaerial common fireworks will not constitute an
unreasonable hazard to persons or property.
      2.   An application for a permit for public display or other event shall
be on a form approved by, and contain the information reasonably requested by,
the authority having jurisdiction.
      3.   The permit shall be nontransferable, shall list the specific date or
dates upon which the display or event shall occur and the types of fireworks
and uses that will be allowed.
      4.   A bond or valid certificate of public liability and property-
casualty insurance providing coverage of up to one million dollars
($1,000,000.00) for personal injury and property damage may be required at the
time of application for public display of special fireworks.
      5.   The authority having jurisdiction may assess a fee for issuing a
permit for public display under this subsection which shall not exceed one
hundred twenty five dollars ($125.00). There shall be no fee for the issuance
of a permit for any event other than a public display event.
      6.   Alteration of fireworks may be performed by a person in possession
of a valid public display permit.
      7.   If a public display or other event using fireworks is to be held
over a lake, river or other navigable waterway in the County, the applicant
must obtain a marine event permit 1  from the Sheriff. (Ord. 79B, 5-26-1998;
amd. Ord. 513A, 10-31-2017)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  6-2-11 of this Code.
5.5.106: CONDITIONS OF SALES OR USE:
   A.   Authorized Dates: Nonaerial common fireworks may be sold at retail and
used beginning at twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight June 23, and ending at twelve
o'clock (12:00) midnight July 5, and beginning at twelve o'clock (12:00)
midnight December 26 and ending at twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight January 1.
   B.   Temporary Fireworks Stands: Temporary fireworks stands shall be
governed by Idaho Code 39-2607.
   C.   Short Term Storage: Short term storage of fireworks shall be governed
by Idaho Code 39-2608. (Ord. 79B, 5-26-1998; amd. Ord. 513A, 10-31-2017)
5.5.107: GENERAL PROHIBITIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person, except in compliance with this chapter to:
   A.   Alter any fireworks;
   B.   Throw any fireworks from, into, or at a moving vehicle or at any
person;
   C.   Sell, use or possess any fireworks at any time not permitted under this
chapter;
   D.   Use fireworks in any area that constitutes a severe fire threat based
on the vegetative conditions during the current fire season as determined by
the Board of County Commissioners or authority having jurisdiction, provided
that notice of such areas is given in advance or the area is posted with
appropriate notices points of access.
   E.   Fail to obtain a permit from the authority having jurisdiction, for a
public display or other event using fireworks before holding the public display
or other event using fireworks.
   F.   Fail to obtain a permit from the authority having jurisdiction before
engaging in retail sales of nonaerial common fireworks. (Ord. 79B, 5-26-1998;
amd. Ord. 513A, 10-31-2017)
5.5.108: PENALTIES:
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter or any rules issued
hereunder is guilty of a misdemeanor punished as provided in the general
penalty in section
1-4-1 of this Code. Fireworks being used, sold or possessed in violation of
this chapter may be confiscated by the authority having jurisdiction or by any
peace officer. (Ord. 79B, 5-26-1998; amd. 2004 Code; Ord. 513A, 10-31-2017)
TITLE 6
PUBLIC PROPERTIES AND WATERWAYS
CHAPTER 1
ROAD NAMING AND ADDRESS SYSTEM 1
(Rep. by Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 8, chapter 4, article 4.10 of this code.
CHAPTER 2
COUNTY PARKS AND WATERWAYS
SECTION:
6.2.101: Title And Authority
6.2.102: Purpose
6.2.103: Definitions
6.2.104: Vessel Operation
6.2.105: Control Of Noise From Motor Driven Watercraft
6.2.106: Restricted Zones
6.2.107: Age Restrictions; Adult Supervision
6.2.108: Eluding Peace Officer; Failure To Yield
6.2.109: Use Of County Facilities; General
6.2.110: Commercial And Special Uses
6.2.111: Marine Event Permits
6.2.112: RV And Boat Sewage Disposal
6.2.113: Derelict Docks And Float Houses
6.2.114: Removal Of Persons, Vessels, Equipment, Or Other Property From
Facilities
6.2.115: Impoundment
6.2.116: Additional Facility Restrictions
6.2.117: Penalties
6.2.118: Appeals
6.2.119: Jurisdiction In Tribal Waters
6.2.120: Severability
6.2.121: Codification Of Resolutions
6.2.122: Appendix - Regulations Adopted By Resolution
6.2.123: No Entry Zones
6.2.101: TITLE AND AUTHORITY:
This chapter shall be known as the KOOTENAI COUNTY PARKS AND WATERWAYS
ORDINANCE, and by authority of Idaho Code sections 31-806, 31-807 and 67-7031
in addition to the general authorities set out in section
1-1-2  of this Code, the Board of County Commissioners hereby enacts this
chapter. (Ord. 379, 8-30-2006; amd. Ord. 571, 10-19-2021)
6.2.102: PURPOSE:
It is necessary for the protection of health, safety and welfare of the general
public, and for the protection of public and private property, to regulate the
operation of vessels and swimming on the public waters of the State of Idaho
situated in Kootenai County but outside the municipal boundaries of the various
incorporated cities within the County. The Board of County Commissioners
specifically finds that it is necessary for the protection of the health,
safety and welfare of the general public to adopt and enforce rules and
regulations governing all County parks and waterways facilities, including,
without limitation, all facilities directly owned by Kootenai County or under
its sole control as a public easement, or under a cooperative agreement on
public lands with other public agencies such as the Idaho Department of Lands,
Idaho Department of Fish and Game, United States Bureau of Land Management,
United States Forest Service, City of Coeur d'Alene, City of Post Falls, City
of Harrison, City of Hauser, City of Fernan, City of Hayden or the City of
Spirit Lake. (Ord. 379, 8-30-2006; amd. Ord. 571, 10-19-2021)
6.2.103: DEFINITIONS:
ADULT SUPERVISION: The presence of a responsible person age eighteen (18) years
or over on or in a vessel.
BOARD: The Board of County Commissioners of Kootenai County, Idaho.
BOAT CAMPING: The act of sleeping overnight in or on a vessel attached or
moored to a public dock, pier, mooring buoy or other designated structure.
CAMP OR CAMPING: The act of physically placing any type of personal belonging
on or above the ground, or on or above a concrete slab, pier, dock, picnic
table, bench or other structure, in order for one or more persons to rest, nap
or sleep overnight.
COMMERCIAL USE: Use of any County facility in connection with any activity or
enterprise conducted for profit.
DIRECTOR: The Director of the Kootenai County Parks and Waterways Department,
or his or her designee.
EXCESSIVE WAKE: The wave resulting from operating a vessel: (1) at the speed at
which boats create the most wake, moving quickly and displacing the most water,
i.e. plowing; (2) in an artificially bow high manner to increase or enhance a
wake, including wake enhancement by use of ballast, mechanical hydrofoils,
uneven loading; or (3) to cause water to lap over a dock, pier, or other
lawfully permitted encroachment.
FACILITY: Any park, trail, boat launch facility, or other waterways facility
owned, operated, managed or maintained by Kootenai County.
FIREARM: Any weapon from which a shot, projectile or other object which may be
discharged by force or combustion, explosion, gas or mechanical means. This
definition shall include, but not be limited to, pistols, rifles, shotguns, BB
guns, pellet guns, paintball guns, slingshots, crossbows, bow and arrows or a
spear gun.
FIREPLACE AREA: A portion of a facility which is constructed of concrete, rock
or metal and which is officially designated by the county at the location for
having fires at the facility.
MOORAGE OR MOORING: Parking a vessel in the water.
MOTOR DRIVEN WATERCRAFT: Any vessel which is propelled by any type of motor or
machinery.
NIGHT: From one hour after sunset until one hour before sunrise.
OVERNIGHT: From one hour after sunset until one hour before sunrise.
PARK OR PARKING: When used as a verb, the act of leaving a vehicle, trailer or
vessel in a certain place, whether on land or water. When used as a noun, the
term "park" shall mean any land owned, managed or controlled by the county,
whether improved or unimproved, which is provided for public recreation and is
not primarily used for launching of vessels or for parking.
PERSONAL WATERCRAFT: A vessel less than twelve feet (12') in length which uses
an outboard or inboard motor powering a water jet pump as its primary source of
power and is designed to be operated by a person sitting, standing or kneeling
on, rather than in the conventional manner of sitting or standing inside the
vessel.
PICNICKING: The physical act of setting up and/or using personal belongings
that provide seating, an eating surface, food preparation, cooking, shade or
the dispensing or storage of food and beverages.
POSTED AREA: An area which is a portion of the waters of the county and which
either the board or the director has caused to be marked with regulatory
markers in compliance with Idaho Code section 67-7031 and IDAPA 26.66.21 to
regulate the actions of vessels and persons in such marked portions of the
waters.
POWER LOADING: The loading or unloading of a vessel from or to its trailer by
use of the vessel's propulsion system to facilitate the movement of the vessel
onto or off the trailer.
PRIVATE MOORAGE: The mooring of a vessel anywhere within one or more county
facilities allowing overnight moorage and upon issuance of a valid overnight
moorage permit, for more than forty eight (48) consecutive hours in a seventy
two (72) hour period is prohibited. This definition shall not include mooring
of a vessel for a longer period of time if authorized by a duly issued
overnight moorage permit.
PUBLIC WATERS: Any river, lake, or other body of water within Kootenai County,
Idaho, other than those which are entirely privately owned, regardless of
navigability.
SHERIFF: The sheriff of Kootenai County, Idaho, or his or her designee.
SHORELINE: The line of demarcation between water and land at the time in
question without regard to property lines or high or low water lines or marks.
SPECIAL USE: Any use of a facility, whether commercial or noncommercial in
nature, which may be reasonably expected to have one hundred (100) or more
people at any given time.
VESSEL: Every description of watercraft, including a seaplane on the water,
used or capable of being used as a means of transportation on water, but does
not include float houses, diver's aids operated and designed primarily to
propel a diver below the surface of the water, and nonmotorized devices not
designed or modified to be used as a means of transportation on the water, such
as inflatable air mattresses, single inner tubes and beach and water toys.
WAKE: The visible track of turbulence created by the movement of a vessel
through the water.
WATERWAYS: Any river, lake, or other body of water within Kootenai County,
Idaho. (Ord. 480, 2-10-2015; amd. Ord. 568, 7-13-2021; Ord. 571, 10-19-2021;
Resolution 2023-22, 3-21-2023)
6.2.104: VESSEL OPERATION:
   A.   Basic Rule: It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any type of
vessel on any public waters within Kootenai County in a negligent manner
without having due regard to the actual and potential hazards then existing, or
at any rate of speed greater than stated herein, or at any rate of speed
greater than that which will permit, in the exercise of reasonable care, the
vessel to come to a stop within the assured clear distance ahead.
   B.   Speed Limits: Specific speed limits for all public waters within
Kootenai County, except the Spokane River from the headwater to the Post Falls
Dam, the Coeur d'Alene River from the mouth to the county boundary, and Lower
Twin Lake, are as follows:
      1.   Within two hundred feet (200') of any shoreline or any dock, pier,
other structure or any person in the water, will be designated as a no wake
zone in which the speed limit shall be five (5) miles per hour. This section
shall not apply to any vessel having in tow or otherwise assisting a person on
waterskis, aquaplane or similar contrivance upon start.
      2.   Within one hundred feet (100') of any other vessel, the speed shall
be reasonable and prudent, but not in excess of fifteen (15) miles per hour.
      3.   At night, where the speed is not otherwise restricted, the speed
limit shall be twenty-five (25) miles per hour.
      4.   During the day, where the speed is not otherwise restricted, the
speed limit shall be reasonable and prudent, but not in excess of fifty (50)
miles per hour; provided, however, that this subsection shall not apply to any
motor driven watercraft while the same is being operated while actively engaged
in any regatta, race, tournament or exhibition authorized pursuant to a valid
marine event permit issued by the sheriff, if the permit allows the motor
driven watercraft participating in that regatta, race, tournament or exhibition
to exceed the posted speed limits; provided further, that this subsection shall
not apply to a seaplane on the water.
      5.   This subsection shall not apply to any motor driven watercraft being
operated under emergency conditions or by any authorized agent of any law
enforcement agency of the state of Idaho, a political subdivision or the United
States while said agent is acting in the performance of his duties.
   C.   Speed Limits For Certain Waterways: Specific speed limits for the
Spokane River from the headwater to the Post Falls Dam, the Coeur d'Alene River
from the mouth to the county boundary, and Lower Twin Lake are as follows:
      1.   During the day, where the speed is not otherwise restricted, the
speed limit shall be reasonable and prudent, but not in excess of thirty five
(35) miles per hour.
      2.   At night, where the speed is not otherwise restricted, the speed
limit shall be twenty-five (25) miles per hour.
      3.   During the day or night, no motor driven watercraft shall be
operated at a speed or in a manner that creates an excessive, dangerous or
damaging wake.
      4.   Within one hundred feet (100') of the shoreline, dock, pier, other
structure or person in the water, the speed limit shall be five (5) miles per
hour, and no wake shall be created by any vessel.
      5.   The speed limit shall be fifteen (15) miles per hour within fifty
feet (50') of another vessel.
      6.   This subsection shall not apply to any motor driven watercraft being
operated under emergency conditions or by any authorized agent of any law
enforcement agency of the state of Idaho, the United States or any political
subdivision, while said agent is acting in the performance of his duties.
   D.   Boater Right Of Way: All persons using docks primarily placed for
vessel use shall not interfere with vessels approaching or departing dockage.
   E.   Approaching Emergency Vessels: All vessels approaching emergency
vessels displaying flashing lights and/or law enforcement vessels displaying
flashing lights shall reasonably and prudently operate at no wake speed, at a
distance of not less than two hundred feet (200') from the emergency and/or law
enforcement vessel when practicable, until completely past the emergency and/or
law enforcement vessel. (Ord. 379, 8-30-2006; amd. Ord. 571, 10-19-2021;
Resolution 2022-19, 3-15-2022)
6.2.105: CONTROL OF NOISE FROM MOTOR DRIVEN WATERCRAFT:
   A.   Muffler System Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to
operate, or permit the operation of, any motor driven watercraft on any public
waters within Kootenai County unless such motor driven watercraft is equipped
at all times with a muffler or a muffler system in good working order and in
constant operation and effectively installed to prevent any excessive or
unusual noise.
   B.   Muffler, Muffler System Defined: For the purposes of this section,
"muffler" or "muffler system" shall mean a sound suppression device or system,
underwater exhaust system, or other device or system which is designed and
installed to abate the sound of exhaust gases emitted from an internal
combustion engine and which prevents excessive or unusual noise.
   C.   Noise Levels Generally: It shall be unlawful for any person to operate,
or permit the operation of, any motor driven watercraft on any public waters
within Kootenai County in such a manner as to exceed the following noise
levels:
      1.   For motor driven watercraft manufactured before January 1, 1995, a
noise level of ninety (90) dBA when subjected to a stationary sound level test
as prescribed by SAE J2005;
      2.   For motor driven watercraft manufactured on or after January 1,
1995, a noise level of eighty eight (88) dBA when subjected to a stationary
sound level test as prescribed by SAE J2005.
   D.   Noise Levels; Public Waters Greater Than Five Hundred Feet In Width: It
shall be unlawful for any person to operate, or permit the operation of, any
motor driven watercraft on any public waters within Kootenai County, which is
more than five hundred feet (500') in width, in such a manner as to exceed a
noise level of seventy five (75) dBA measured as specified in SAE J1970;
provided, that such measurement shall not preclude a stationary sound level
test as prescribed by SAE J2005.
   E.   Altered Mufflers Prohibited: No person shall operate, or give
permission for the operation of, any motor driven watercraft on any public
waters within Kootenai County that is equipped with an altered muffler or a
muffler cutout, bypass or other device designed or so installed so that it can
be used to continually or intermittently bypass or otherwise reduce or
eliminate the effectiveness of any muffler or muffler system installed in
accordance with the provisions of this section.
   F.   Muffler Removal, Alteration, Modification Prohibited: No person shall
remove, alter or otherwise modify in any way a muffler or muffler system in a
manner which will prevent it from being operated in accordance with the
provisions of this section.
   G.   Amplification Device Prohibited: No engine or motor shall be equipped
with any device designed to amplify the sound of the exhaust.
   H.   Noise Level Compliance Required; Exemption: No person shall
manufacture, sell or offer for sale any motor driven watercraft unless it is
equipped with a muffler or muffler system which complies with subsection C of
this section. This subsection shall not apply to motor driven watercraft
designed, manufactured and sold for the sole purpose of competing in racing
events and for no other purpose.
   I.   Marine Event Exemption: The provisions of this section shall not apply
to motor driven watercraft registered and actually participating in an
authorized marine event pursuant to a valid marine event permit issued by the
sheriff.
   J.   Noise Level Test: Any peace officer who has reason to believe that a
motor driven watercraft is not in compliance with the noise levels established
in this section may direct the owner or operator of such motor driven
watercraft to submit the motor driven watercraft to an on site test to measure
noise levels, with the officer on board if such officer chooses, and the owner
or operator shall comply with such request. The sheriff may, by order, set a
fee for such test not to exceed the actual cost of administration of the test.
If such motor driven watercraft exceeds the decibel levels established in this
section, or if the owner or operator refuses to submit the motor driven
watercraft to an on site test, the officer may direct the owner or operator to
take immediate and reasonable measures to abate the violation, or to compel
submission to an on site test, including, without limitation:
      1.   Ordering the mooring of the motor driven watercraft, and requiring
that it continue to be moored or removed from the water;
      2.   Ordering the removal of the motor driven watercraft from the water;
or
      3.   Ordering the impoundment of the motor driven watercraft until such
time as the owner or operator agrees to submit the motor driven watercraft to
an on site test as required in this subsection. The registered owner of any
such motor driven watercraft shall be liable for all towing fees, storage fees
and any other expenses reasonably incurred as a result of such impoundment, and
the county shall have a lien against the motor driven watercraft for any unpaid
fees.
No motor driven watercraft ordered moored, removed from the water or impounded
pursuant to this subsection shall be operated on any public waters within
Kootenai County until a test is conducted which confirms that the motor driven
watercraft is in compliance with subsection C of this section. This test may be
conducted by any tester capable of conducting the test according to the
requirements set forth in the standards referenced in subsection C of this
section.
   K.   Penalties:
      1.   The first violation of any provision of this section shall
constitute an infraction.
      2.   A second violation of any provision of this section occurring within
one year of the first violation shall also constitute an infraction.
      3.   A third violation, and any subsequent violations, of any provision
of this section occurring within one year of the second violation shall
constitute a misdemeanor.
      4.   The failure or refusal to comply with any order lawfully made by a
peace officer pursuant to subsection J of this section shall constitute a
misdemeanor. (Ord. 379, 8-30-2006; amd. Ord. 571, 10-19-2021)
6.2.106: RESTRICTED ZONES 1 :
   A.   General Restrictions: The board, by resolution, may designate or repeal
a designation of a specific area or areas on the public waterways of Kootenai
County as restricted zones. These zones shall be defined as follows:
      1.   ''No Entry Zone'' shall mean the area above and below the Post Falls
Dams North, Middle, and South Spokane River Channels within the designated
boundaries, whether water, ice, dried or open river bottom conditions exist, in
which access by watercraft, vehicle, swimming, walking, wading, hiking, biking,
rock climbing, fishing, or any other means of entering the area is prohibited
at all times.
      2.   "No motor driven watercraft zone" is defined as an area in which no
motor of any kind can be used to propel a vessel within the designated
boundaries of the area.
      3.   "No swimming zone" is defined as an area in which swimming and the
operation of float tubes and other nonmotorized devices not designed or
modified to be used as a means of transportation on water, such as inflatable
air mattresses, single inner tubes and beach and water toys, are prohibited
within the designated boundaries of the area in order to protect and promote
the health, safety and welfare of the general public.
      4.   "No wake zone" is defined as an area in which the operation of a
vessel must be accomplished at not more than five (5) miles per hour and where
no water shall produce a wake greater than four inches (4") in height within
the designated boundaries of the area.
      5.   “No excessive wake zone” is defined as an area prohibiting any wave
resulting from operating a vessel: (1) at the speed at which boats create the
most wake, moving quickly and displacing the most water, i.e. plowing; (2) in
an artificially bow high manner to increase or enhance a wake, including wake
enhancement by use of ballast, mechanical hydrofoils, uneven loading; or (3) to
cause water to lap onto or over a dock, pier, or other lawfully permitted
encroachment.
      6.   "No watercraft zone" is defined as an area in which the operation of
any vessel is prohibited within the designated boundaries of the area in order
to protect and promote the health, safety and welfare of the general public.
      7.   "No waterskiing zone" is defined as an area in which motor driven
watercraft are prohibited from towing a waterskier, a tube, a wakeboard, a knee
board, or any other type of appliance within the designated boundaries of the
area. This is not intended to prohibit the towing of a vessel at no wake speed
as defined in subsection A3 of this section.
      8.   "Restricted personal watercraft zone" is defined as a designated
operational zone for personal watercraft on public waters within the county. A
restricted personal watercraft zone may limit the operation of personal
watercraft within the zone to: a) no wake or less than five (5) miles per hour;
b) personal watercraft only; c) no personal watercraft allowed; or d) a
specified distance from the shoreline.
      9.   "Restricted motor zone" is defined as an area in which the type of
motor or the horsepower of a motor which may be used to power a vessel on the
water is limited within the designated boundaries of the area.
      10.   "Restricted length zone" is defined as an area in which the
launching of any vessel in excess of a specified maximum length is prohibited
at designated county facilities, or in which the parking of any motor vehicle,
trailer or combination thereof in excess of a specified maximum length is
prohibited at designated county facilities.
   B.   Flooding Or Threat Of Flooding:
      1.   No Wake Zones; Automatic Designation:
         a.   The Coeur d'Alene River and all navigable waters within the Coeur
d'Alene River drainage (including the Chain Lakes) shall be automatically
designated as no wake zones in their entirety whenever one or more of the
following conditions exist:
            (1)   The gauge on the Coeur d'Alene River at Cataldo reads forty
three feet (43') or higher; or
            (2)   The gauge on the Coeur d'Alene River at Enaville, in Shoshone
County, reads seventy two feet (72') or higher.
         b.   Coeur d'Alene Lake, Fernan Lake, and the Spokane River shall be
automatically designated as no wake zones in their entirety whenever the gauge
on the Coeur d'Alene Lake at Tubbs Hill reads two thousand one hundred thirty
three feet (2,133') or higher.
The designation of these waters as no wake zones shall automatically expire
when the conditions giving rise to the designation no longer exist, except as
otherwise provided in this chapter or any resolution authorized by this chapter
that has been enacted by the board and is effective and in force.
      2.   Restricted Zone Designations; Resolution Required: The board, by
resolution duly enacted, may impose any or all of the restricted zone
designations listed in this section on any public waterway within the county
upon a finding that actual flooding has occurred or that an imminent threat of
flooding exists.
      3.   Lawful Uses Prohibited; Resolution Required: The board, by
resolution duly enacted, may also prohibit any or all otherwise lawful uses of
any public waterway within the county upon a finding that actual flooding has
occurred or that an imminent threat of flooding exists.
      4.   Time Limits On Resolutions: Any resolution enacted pursuant to this
subsection shall automatically expire thirty (30) days after enactment unless
extended for another thirty (30) day period by subsequent resolution.
   C.   Violation: It shall be unlawful to operate a vessel or to swim in a
manner contrary to the restrictions or prohibitions set forth in this section
and/or any resolution enacted pursuant to this section while such resolution is
effective and in force. A violation of any provisions of this section shall
constitute a misdemeanor except as otherwise provided in this chapter or
resolution adopted pursuant to this chapter. (Ord. 416, 7-22-2008; amd. Ord.
568, 7-13-2021; Ord. 571, 10-19-2021)
 
Notes
1    See also section
  6-2-122 of this chapter.
6.2.107: AGE RESTRICTIONS; ADULT SUPERVISION:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to allow the operation of a motor driven
watercraft by a person under the age of ten (10) years except under direct
adult supervision.
   B.   It shall be unlawful to operate, or to allow someone to operate, a
vessel when the operator is under the age of fourteen (14) years without adult
supervision if the vessel is powered by a motor rated at greater than fifteen
(15) horsepower.
   C.   The age restrictions provided for in this section shall also apply to
the operation of personal watercraft. (Ord. 379, 8-30-2006; amd. Ord. 571, 10-
19-2021)
6.2.108: ELUDING PEACE OFFICER; FAILURE TO YIELD:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person operating a vessel to wilfully flee
or attempt to elude a pursuing law enforcement vessel, when given a visual or
audible signal to bring the vessel to a stop. The signal given by a peace
officer may be by emergency lights or siren. The signal given by a peace
officer by emergency lights or siren need not conform to the standards for
decibel ratings or light visibility specified in Idaho Code section 49-623(3).
It is sufficient proof that a reasonable person knew or should have known that
the visual or audible signal given by a peace officer was intended to bring the
pursued vessel to a stop.
   B.   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized law enforcement or other
emergency vessel making use of any audible or visible signal, the driver of
every other vessel shall yield the right of way and stop, remaining in that
position until the authorized law enforcement or other emergency vessel has
passed, except when otherwise directed by a peace officer. The driver of the
vessel shall yield to the authorized law enforcement or other emergency vessel
by turning their vessel in a manner that is parallel to the direction of the
law enforcement or other emergency vessel and stopping.
   C.   A violation of any provision of this section shall constitute a
misdemeanor. (Ord. 379, 8-30-2006; amd. Ord. 571, 10-19-2021)
6.2.109: USE OF COUNTY FACILITIES; GENERAL:
   A.   Parking Of Motor Vehicles And Trailers, And Mooring Of Vessels, At
County Facilities:
   1.   No person shall moor a vessel at a county facility which provides
overnight moorage upon issuance of a valid overnight moorage permit, for more
than forty eight (48) hours within any seventy two (72) hour period, or such
longer or shorter period as may be provided by permit or by posted regulations
applicable to the facility.
      2.   It shall be unlawful to move a vessel either onto a trailer or off a
trailer by means of "power loading", as defined in section
6.2.103 of this chapter.
      3.   No person shall park a motor vehicle, vessel, trailer, or any
combination thereof, at any facility for more than forty eight (48) hours
within any seventy two (72) hour period or such longer or shorter period as may
be provided by a duly issued overnight moorage permit or by posted regulations
applicable to the facility.
      4.   Parking on boat ramp areas or blocking access to a boat ramp is
prohibited except when in the actual process of loading or unloading a vessel.
No vehicle, trailer, or combination thereof shall be left unattended while on a
boat ramp.
      5.   No person shall park a motor vehicle, trailer or combination thereof
at any facility in a manner so as to impede the movement of other motor
vehicles, trailers, or combinations thereof, or in a manner so as to impede the
ability to park a motor vehicle, trailer, or combination thereof.
      6.   No person shall park a motor vehicle, trailer or combination thereof
at any facility in such a manner as to occupy a portion of two (2) or more
marked parking spaces.
      7.   No person shall launch or load a vessel, nor shall any person park a
motor vehicle, trailer, or combination thereof, at any facility designated by
resolution of the board as a "restricted length zone", as defined in section
6-2-106 of this chapter, which is in excess of the maximum length specified for
that facility.
      8.   No person shall use any facility, or any combination of facilities,
for the purpose of private moorage. In addition to any penalties provided in
this chapter, the director or designee thereof may prohibit any person found to
have committed such violation from using or being present on any or all county
facilities for a period not to exceed one year.
      9.   All vessels which are thirty feet (30') in length or longer shall
use stern moorage whenever available at any facility at which stern moorage is
provided.
      10.   Enforcement of the provisions of this subsection A, including the
provisions regarding issuance and service of Idaho uniform citations and the
provisions regarding evidence and recovery of costs, shall be as set forth in
title 5, chapter 2, article 2.2 of this code, which are incorporated in this
subsection A10 by reference herein and are hereby made specifically applicable
by such reference to vessels in the water which are parked by mooring to a
county owned or regulated dock, pier or mooring buoy.
      11.   Any motor vehicle, vessel, trailer, or other personal property left
at any facility in violation of this subsection A, except as permitted pursuant
to a facility reservation, special use or commercial use permit issued by the
director, may be impounded at the owner's expense in addition to any penalty
described in this chapter.
   12.   The parking of single vehicles without trailers and/or vehicles with
trailers other than a boat trailer shall be prohibited in parking spaces marked
"VEHICLES WITH BOAT TRAILERS ONLY."
   13.   Moorage at county facilities which do not offer overnight moorage upon
issuance of an overnight moorage permit shall be limited to a maximum of
fifteen (15) minutes, and shall be for loading and unloading only.
   14.   Violation of moorage limitation provisions shall be a civil infraction
pursuant to title 1, chapter 4, section 1 of this code. Moorage at county
facilities which provide overnight moorage upon issuance of a valid overnight
moorage permit, for more than forty-eight (48) hours in any seventy-two (72)
hour period shall incur a civil penalty of one hundred dollars ($100.00) per
day, with each calendar day on which the violation occurs constituting a
separate civil infraction. Moorage at county facilities which do not offer
overnight moorage upon issuance of an overnight moorage permit, for more than
fifteen (15) minutes shall incur a civil penalty of one hundred dollars
($100.00) per day, with each calendar day on which the violation occurs
constituting a separate civil infraction.
   B.   Use Of County Facilities: It shall be unlawful:
      1.   For any person or business to engage in the repair of a vessel at
any facility for a time period in excess of four (4) hours per day.
      2.   To engage in any activity requiring a special use or commercial use
permit pursuant to this chapter and/or resolution of the board without first
having obtained a special use or commercial use permit, respectively, from the
director specifically authorizing such activity.
      3.   To engage in the construction of a private dock at any facility.
      4.   To place any advertisement on any post, pole, sign, fence, dock,
piling, or any other fixture located at any facility without a commercial
advertising permit issued pursuant to section
6.2.110 of this chapter.
      5.   To sell or offer for sale any goods or services at any facility
without a commercial concession permit issued pursuant to section
6.2.110 of this chapter.
      6.   For any person or entity, while engaged in the business of selling,
leasing or renting vessels, to launch or load a vessel, or to allow the
embarkation onto and debarkation from a vessel by customers or potential
customers of such business, without a commercial vessel demonstration permit
issued pursuant to section
6.2.110 of this chapter. It shall also be unlawful to violate any provisions of
any resolution duly enacted by the board governing commercial vessel
demonstrations.
      7.   For a commercial marine repair business to engage in the repair of a
vessel at any facility without a commercial vessel repair permit issued
pursuant to section
6.2.110 of this chapter.
      8.   To use any facility for the moorage of a vessel for the purpose of
commercial transportation of persons without a permit for the commercial
transportation of persons issued pursuant to section
6.2.110 of this chapter.
      9.   To engage in fueling of a vessel at any facility without a
commercial vessel fueling permit issued pursuant to section
6.2.110 of this chapter; provided, however, that noncommercial fueling of a
vessel using a container with a capacity no greater than six (6) gallons which
has been approved for such purpose pursuant to applicable federal and/or state
regulations shall be permitted.
      10.   To place, stage, or store any materials or equipment which is being
used, or is to be used, in any construction, demolition, excavation or site
disturbance activities at any facility except with a marine contractor permit
issued pursuant to section
6.2.110 of this chapter, or with a onetime exemption from the requirements of
such permit granted by the director pursuant to section
6.2.110 of this chapter.
   C.   Camping And Picnics:
      1.   Overnight Camping: No person shall camp overnight at any county
facility, except at such locations in the county that are in joint management
with either the Idaho department of lands, Idaho department of fish and game,
Idaho department of parks and recreation, United States bureau of land
management or the United States forest service, or other public agency, if
camping is permitted under such agency's rules and regulations. In addition,
the director may, at such locations as he or she deems proper, permit camping
and/or boat camping by posting signs specifying thereon the amount of
consecutive days camping and/or boat camping will be permitted. In no case
shall camping or boat camping be allowed for more than ten (10) days within any
thirty (30) day period or as permitted by other agencies. All personal property
left on county property in violation of this subsection may be subject to
impoundment at the owner's expense in addition to any penalty prescribed in
this chapter.
      2.   Picnicking: No person shall engage in picnicking in any manner that
restricts access (a minimum clear width of 36 inches) required under the
Americans with disabilities act of 1990 (ADA), regulations promulgated
thereunder (28 CFR part 35 and 36 CFR part 1191), and the Americans with
disabilities act accessibility guidelines for buildings and facilities (ADAAG)
(28 CFR 35.151 and 36 CFR part 1191, appendix B), on any easement, sidewalk,
pathway, boat launch, ramp, pier or moorage dock located at any county
facility.
   D.   Horses, Motor Vehicles Or Bicycles: No person shall ride or drive a
motor vehicle or bicycle, operate a skateboard, roller skates or rollerblades,
or ride or permit a horse under his control to be on any beach, boat ramp,
trail, dock, or dock area located at any county facility, except that motor
vehicles used in the process of launching a vessel shall be permitted on boat
ramps for that purpose only. No person shall operate a snowmobile or off road
vehicle on any beach, boat ramp, park, trail, dock, or dock area located at any
county facility.
   E.   Woodcutting And Removal: No person shall cut, injure, dig or remove any
crops, trees, shrubs, grasses, indigenous plants, logs or fuel wood from any
county facility unless written permission is first obtained from the director.
   F.   Littering, Dumping Trash, Glass Containers:
      1.   No person shall litter or dump garbage, refuse, yard waste, or any
other waste material at any county facility, including county buildings and
outhouses.
      2.   Glass containers shall be prohibited from all beach areas. The board
may prohibit the use and possession of glass containers on or at any county
facility or any portion thereof.
   G.   Classification Of Violations; Civil Penalties:
      1.   A violation of any provision of subsection A of this section shall
constitute an infraction.
      2.   The first violation of any provision of subsections B through F of
this section shall constitute an infraction. Any subsequent violation of the
same provision within one year after the most recent violation shall constitute
a misdemeanor.
      3.   In addition to or in lieu of any infraction penalty, the director or
sheriff, or designee thereof, or a court of competent jurisdiction, may impose
a civil penalty of twenty five dollars ($25.00) for each violation of
subsections A through F of this section; provided, however, that the civil
penalty for violations of subsections B4 through B10 of this section shall be
three (3) times the amount of the applicable permit fee(s) for each such
violation. Failure to pay any civil penalty imposed as authorized in this
subsection G3 shall constitute an infraction. Upon a conviction for any
violation of subsections A through F of this section, the court may also enter
a civil judgment for any unpaid fees or civil penalties then due and owing.
   H.   Animals:
      1.   No person who is the owner, handler or harborer of any animal shall
permit the animal to run free, remain on or use any county facility in
violation of any state or county law, ordinance or regulation.
      2.   Dogs must be physically confined by a leash or other similar item of
restraint not more than ten feet (10') in length.
      3.   Violations of this subsection H shall be punishable as provided in
title 5, chapter 1 of this code. All dogs found at large in violation of this
subsection H shall be subject to impoundment at the owner's expense and may be
destroyed or otherwise disposed of after impoundment pursuant to title 5,
chapter 1, article 1.3 of this code.
      4.   No animals shall be allowed in the Carlin Bay swim area.
   I.   Fires: Fires will be allowed only in designated fireplace areas
provided by the county, or in barbecue grills which stand off the ground. It is
further prohibited to leave a fire unattended. Any violation of this subsection
shall constitute a misdemeanor.
   J.   Firearms: Any person who unlawfully discharges any firearm within or
into any county facility shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   K.   Fireworks: Any person who possesses or uses any form of fireworks or
explosives on or upon any county facility without obtaining prior written
authorization from the board shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   L.   Vandalism: Any person who causes intentional destruction or vandalism
to any county facility shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Further, any person
who removes, destroys, mutilates, modifies or defaces any building or other
structure, water control device, fence, gate poster, notice, sign, survey or
section marker, fee collection box, fee envelope, or any object of
archaeological, geological or historical value or interest shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor. In addition to misdemeanor penalties, any person violating this
subsection shall be liable for payment of the repair and replacement costs of
property damaged or destroyed.
   M.   Reservation Of Facilities: Reservations for the use of facilities which
does not involve activities requiring a commercial use permit or special use
permit may be made for such facilities, and upon such terms and conditions, as
may be determined by the director. Fees for facility reservations may be
established by resolution of the board.
   N.   Cataldo Facilities Restriction:
      1.   No overnight camping, no overnight parking, no fires, and no
commercial uses or events whatsoever are permitted at Kootenai County
facilities located in Cataldo, Idaho (Sections 33 and 34, Township 49 North,
Range 1 East B.M., Kootenai County, Idaho).
      2.   Any violation of this prohibition shall constitute an infraction.
(Ord. 480, 2-10-2015; amd. Ord. 6.2.109, 12-22-2020; Ord. 571, 10-19-2021;
Resolution 2022-36, 5-31-2022; Resolution 2023-22, 3-21-2023)
6.2.110: COMMERCIAL AND SPECIAL USES:
   A.   Permit Required: Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, it shall
be unlawful to engage in any commercial use of, or activity at, any county
facility except with a commercial use permit issued pursuant to this section.
   B.   Permitted Uses And Activities:
      1.   Commercial Uses: The following commercial uses and activities shall
be permitted at county facilities only upon issuance of a commercial use permit
by the director, upon payment of such fees as may be established by resolution
of the board, and upon such terms and conditions as may be specified by this
chapter or by resolution of the board, or as promulgated in writing by the
director:
Advertising.
Concession businesses.
Fueling of vessels.
Loading, unloading and staging of construction materials and equipment in
connection with transportation of such materials and equipment across a public
waterway.
Transportation of persons for hire.
Vessel demonstrations by dealers.
Vessel repairs by a commercial marine repair business.
      2.   Special Uses: Special uses and activities shall be permitted at
county facilities only upon issuance of a special use permit by the director,
upon payment of such fees as may be established by resolution of the board, and
upon such terms and conditions as may be specified by this chapter or by
resolution of the board, or as promulgated in writing by the director.
      3.   Specifications In Writing: Any applicable fees, terms and conditions
associated with a permit shall be specified in writing on the permit.
   C.   Exemptions:
      1.   Kootenai County shall be exempt from the requirements of this
section.
      2.   All other federal, state, and local public entities shall be exempt
from the payment of any fees which would otherwise be required under this
section. Such entities shall be required to obtain any permit required under
this section, and to comply with all other requirements of this section, any
resolutions enacted by the board pursuant thereto, any policies, procedures or
criteria promulgated in writing by the director, and any requirements specified
on the permit.
   D.   General Requirements Of Permit Holders: All holders of commercial use
permits and special use permits issued pursuant to this section shall be
responsible for the following:
      1.   All permit holders shall display their name, business name (if
applicable), street address, telephone number, and permit number(s) on all
vehicles and vessels used in any activity pursuant to a county commercial or
special use permit.
      2.   All permit holders shall be responsible for any necessary cleanup of
any facility, including, but not limited to, cleanup of any spill or discharge
of hazardous materials which directly or indirectly resulted from the
activities of the permit holder.
      3.   All permit holders shall be responsible for any necessary repairs
to, or replacement of, property or fixtures at any facility which directly or
indirectly resulted from the activities of the permit holder.
      4.   All permit holders shall be liable for the cost of any necessary
cleanup of, repairs to, or replacement of property or fixtures at, any facility
performed by employees of, or independent contractors acting on behalf of,
Kootenai County, which directly or indirectly resulted from the activities of
the permit holder. Any such costs shall constitute a lien against any ownership
interest in any real or personal property held by the permit holder; provided,
that Kootenai County shall perfect any such lien by filing a notice of lien in
the office of the Kootenai County recorder and/or the office of the Idaho
secretary of state, as appropriate.
      5.   Permits shall not be transferable.
   E.   Regulation Of Permitted Commercial Uses:
      1.   Advertising:
         a.   A commercial advertising permit may authorize the placement of
signs or posters on information kiosks located at county facilities when space
for such advertisement is available.
         b.   Permit holders shall deliver advertisements authorized by the
permit to the Kootenai County parks and waterways office at least five (5)
working days prior to the starting date specified on the permit. Permit holders
shall pick up advertisements from the Kootenai County parks and waterways
office no later than ten (10) working days after the ending date specified on
the permit.
         c.   No advertisements pertaining to any political candidate or issue
shall be posted, or permitted to be posted, at any facility.
      2.   Concession Businesses:
         a.   Authorization; Specific Products, Location: A commercial
concession permit may authorize the sale of specific products or services at a
facility from a location(s) specified on the permit.
         b.   Requirements:
            (1)   Permit holders shall be responsible for ensuring the security
of any trailers or equipment which are used in the course of the permit
holder's operations, or which are stored at the facility by the permit holder.
            (2)   Permit holders who intend to prepare, sell or distribute food
shall be responsible for obtaining any necessary permits from Panhandle health
district or other authority with jurisdiction.
         c.   Bids:
            (1)   If the director receives more than one application for a
commercial concession permit for the same facility for the same time period or
for overlapping time periods, the director may require the applicants to submit
bids for a permit. The director may set a minimum bid amount in an amount no
less than the regular permit fee, and may set such other terms and conditions
as he or she may deem to be in the best interests of the county.
            (2)   Any bid failing to meet such minimum bid amount, or any other
terms and conditions set forth in writing by the director, shall be deemed
nonresponsive. Any bidder who has been disqualified by the director for
violation of any terms and conditions of any previously issued permit, or any
other contract with Kootenai County, shall not be allowed to bid, and any bid
received by such bidder shall be deemed nonresponsive.
            (3)   The director shall receive the bids submitted and forward
them to the board, and may make a recommendation as to which bidder(s) should
be awarded a permit. The board shall award the bid to the highest responsive
bidder(s).
      3.   Vessel Demonstrations By Dealers: A commercial vessel demonstration
permit may authorize the launching and loading of vessels, and the embarkation
onto and debarkation from vessels by customers or potential customers, at
specified facilities for the purpose of selling vessels or other goods or
services. The permit may limit these activities to specified facilities on
specified days and times. In addition, the board may set additional limits on
these activities by resolution.
      4.   Vessel Repairs By A Commercial Marine Repair Business:
         a.   A commercial vessel repair permit may authorize commercial
vendors to perform repair work at designated facilities. Repair work shall not
exceed four (4) hours per vessel per day. The director may also set forth
additional restrictions on the time during which a permit holder may engage in
vessel repair at any facility. Any such restrictions shall be specified in
writing on the permit.
         b.   Permits issued pursuant to this subsection E4 shall extend to all
vehicles, vessels and trailers owned or operated by the permit holder which are
used in the course of the permit holder's operations.
         c.   Permit applicants shall provide the director with proof of
liability insurance with a policy limit of no less than one million dollars
($1,000,000.00) prior to issuance of the permit. Such insurance shall name
Kootenai County as an additional insured.
      5.   Commercial Transportation Of Persons:
         a.   Authorization; Specific Facilities, Time Periods: A permit for
the commercial transportation of persons may authorize the temporary mooring of
a vessel to be used for the commercial transportation of persons at specified
facilities for a specified time period not to exceed ten (10) minutes.
         b.   Requirements:
            (1)   Permit applicants shall provide the director with proof of
liability insurance with a policy limit of no less than one million dollars
($1,000,000.00) prior to issuance of the permit. Such insurance shall name
Kootenai County as an additional insured.
            (2)   All vessels owned or operated by the permit holder, and all
captains and pilots working for the permit holder, whether as employees or
independent contractors, shall hold valid U.S. coast guard licenses at all
times while the permit is in effect.
      6.   Fueling Of Vessels:
         a.   Authorization; Designated Facilities: A commercial vessel fueling
permit may authorize the commercial fueling of vessels at designated
facilities.
         b.   Requirements:
            (1)   The permit holder shall be responsible for cleanup of any
fuel spill into any waterway, and shall be responsible for notifying the
director and all necessary state and/or federal agencies with jurisdiction,
when necessary.
            (2)   Permit applicants shall provide the director with proof of
liability insurance with a policy limit of no less than one million dollars
($1,000,000.00) prior to issuance of the permit. Such insurance shall name
Kootenai County as an additional insured.
            (3)   During all commercial fueling operations, permit holders
shall ensure that a fuel spill containment kit which complies with all
applicable federal and state requirements is on site, and that two (2)
operators are present at all times. One operator shall be located at the
fueling vehicle or vessel, and the other operator shall be located at the
vessel receiving fuel.
      7.   Construction Materials And Equipment: Loading, unloading and staging
of construction materials and equipment in connection with transportation of
such materials and equipment across a public waterway:
         a.   Authorization; Specific Facilities, Days, Times: A marine
contractor permit may authorize the loading, unloading and staging of materials
and equipment by the permit holder in conformity with facility regulations and
any other terms and conditions stated on the permit. The permit may limit these
activities to specified facilities on specified days and times.
         b.   Exemption: The director may grant onetime exemptions from the
requirement to obtain a marine contractor permit. Any such exemptions shall be
based on criteria established by resolution of the board or, in the absence of
such resolution, on criteria established and promulgated in writing by the
director.
         c.   Requirements:
            (1)   Permit applicants shall be Idaho licensed public works
contractors.
            (2)   Permit applicants shall provide the director with proof of
liability insurance with a policy limit of no less than one million dollars
($1,000,000.00) prior to issuance of the permit. Such insurance shall name
Kootenai County as an additional insured.
            (3)   Applicants for exemption from permitting requirements shall
provide the director with proof of liability insurance with a policy limit of
no less than one million dollars ($1,000,000.00), naming Kootenai County as an
additional insured, prior to granting of the exemption, unless such requirement
is waived or modified by the director.
   F.   Waterways User Fee Account: The county auditor shall cause all revenues
from fees collected as authorized by this section to be placed into a dedicated
account known as the "waterways user fee account". Such revenues shall be used
solely for the operation, maintenance, and upkeep of county waterways
facilities. The board may enter into agreements with federal, state, tribal or
local entities further specifying the allocation and use of such fees.
   G.   Violation: The first violation of any provision of this section shall
constitute an infraction. Any subsequent violation of the same provision within
one year after the most recent violation shall constitute a misdemeanor. A
violation of any provision of this section may also result in the denial or
revocation of, or the refusal to reissue or renew, any permit required under
this section.
   H.   Civil Penalty: In addition to any infraction or misdemeanor penalty
imposed for engaging in any use or activity permitted under this section
without first having obtained the required commercial or special use permit(s),
the director or sheriff, or designee thereof, or a court of competent
jurisdiction, may impose a civil penalty in the amount of three (3) times the
amount of the applicable permit fee(s) for each such violation. Failure to pay
any civil penalty imposed as authorized in this subsection shall constitute an
infraction. Upon a conviction for any violation of this section, the court may
also enter a civil judgment for any unpaid permit fees or civil penalties then
due and owing.
   I.   Revocation: The director or his or her designee may revoke any permit
required under this section upon a report or observation of any violation of
this chapter, or of any resolution, rule, regulation, term or condition
promulgated in writing by the board or by the director pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter, or posted at a facility pursuant to the provisions
of this chapter. Such revocation shall have immediate effect, subject to the
permit holder's right to request a hearing before the board as set forth in
section
6-2-118 of this chapter. (Ord. 480, 2-10-2015; amd. Ord. 571, 10-19-2021)
6.2.111: MARINE EVENT PERMITS:
   A.   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to motor driven
watercraft operating with a permit issued pursuant to Idaho Code section 67-
7030 after approval of a marine event permit application by the sheriff, as
long as the motor driven watercraft is being operated within the conditions of
the permit. The provisions of this chapter may be waived only after approval by
the sheriff.
   B.   It is a violation of this chapter to fail to operate a vessel pursuant
to the terms and conditions imposed by a marine event permit.
   C.   Fees for marine event permits shall be set by order of the sheriff.
(Ord. 379, 8-30-2006; amd. Ord. 571, 10-19-2021)
6.2.112: RV AND BOAT SEWAGE DISPOSAL:
   A.   Dumping of recreational vehicle (RV) or boat sewage is prohibited
except in designated approved RV sanitary dump stations or boat pump out
stations.
   B.   No person shall dump sewage from holding tanks into toilet facilities
or on the ground or into the water.
   C.   The board may adopt, by resolution, a fee schedule for use of county
owned or operated boat pump out stations to offset maintenance costs.
   D.   A violation of this section shall constitute a misdemeanor. (Ord. 379,
8-30-2006; amd. Ord. 571, 10-19-2021)
6.2.113: DERELICT DOCKS AND FLOAT HOUSES:
   A.   No person shall allow a personal dock or float house to be released on
any public body of water under which the county has boater safety
responsibility.
   B.   Owners of floating devices such as docks and float houses who fail to
properly secure them will be subject to payment of recovery and abatement
costs.
   C.   All docks and float houses shall be permanently marked and labeled with
the owner's name, address and department of lands registration number on both
ends of the dock. The marking or labeling shall be done in a permanent fashion
in letters and numbers greater than two inches (2") in size. (Ord. 379, 8-30-
2006; amd. Ord. 571, 10-19-2021)
6.2.114: REMOVAL OF PERSONS, VESSELS, EQUIPMENT, OR OTHER PROPERTY FROM
FACILITIES:
   A.   Removal For Violations Of Laws And Regulations: Upon a report or
observation of any violation of Idaho Code, this chapter, or of any resolution,
rule, regulation, term or condition promulgated in writing by the board or by
the director pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, or posted at a
facility pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, the director or sheriff,
or designee thereof, may order any person who is committing, aiding, abetting,
facilitating, or allowing, or who has committed, aided, abetted, facilitated,
or allowed such violation to immediately vacate the facility, and/or to
immediately remove any vessel, vehicle, trailer, equipment, or other property
in his or her possession or control from the facility.
   B.   Removal For Specific Conduct: The director or sheriff, or designee
thereof, may order any person to immediately vacate any county facility, and/or
to immediately remove any vessel, vehicle, trailer, equipment, or other
property in his or her possession or control from that facility, upon a report
or observation that such person is committing, aiding, abetting, facilitating,
or allowing, or has committed, aided, abetted, facilitated, or allowed any of
the following:
      1.   Being under the influence of alcohol or any drug to a degree which
renders him or her incapacitated or a hazard to himself or herself or to
others;
      2.   Harassing or intimidating another person; or
      3.   Engaging in any conduct defined as disturbing the peace under
section 18-6409, Idaho Code.
   C.   Refusal To Remove: Any person who refuses to leave, or remove a vessel,
vehicle, trailer, equipment, or other property from any county facility after
being ordered to vacate the facility pursuant to subsection A or B of this
section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   D.   Prohibition; Violation: The director may prohibit any person who has
been ordered to vacate a facility pursuant to subsection A or B of this section
from using or being present on any or all county facilities for a period not to
exceed one year. Any person who violates any such prohibition shall be deemed
to be trespassing on county property, and shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 416, 7-22-2008; amd. Ord. 571, 10-19-2021)
6.2.115: IMPOUNDMENT:
   A.   The sheriff is hereby authorized to impound a vessel when the vessel
has been abandoned, when it is adrift or under circumstances where the vessel
is presenting a hazard to safe boating on the waterways of the county. The
sheriff is further authorized to impound a vessel when the operator of the
vessel has been arrested and the registered owner of the vessel is not
immediately available to assume lawful possession and control of the vessel.
   B.   Whenever an authorized officer impounds a vessel or a trailer pursuant
to the provisions of this chapter or pursuant to state law, the sheriff shall
substantially comply with the provisions of title 49, chapter 18, Idaho Code,
that provide, among other procedures, that the registered owner of the
property, if known, be given written notice of the impoundment and the
opportunity for a poststorage hearing. (Ord. 379, 8-30-2006; amd. Ord. 571, 10-
19-2021)
6.2.116: ADDITIONAL FACILITY RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Authority To Adopt Regulations: The board shall have the authority to
adopt by resolution all reasonable rules and regulations governing the conduct
of persons utilizing county facilities. Such facility restrictions may include,
but are not limited to, designating no swimming zones within a given distance
of any public boat launch unless within a designated swim area, prohibiting
diving and swimming from docks or pilings, prohibiting possession and
consumption of alcoholic beverages, prohibiting glass containers on beaches or
in swim areas or parks, prohibiting conduct detrimental to the safe and
peaceable use of county facilities, setting hours of use of the facility and
designating trails as restricted access/nonmotorized vehicles allowed. Any
resolution enacted by the board pursuant to this section shall indicate whether
the violation of any of the rules and regulations enacted therein shall
constitute a misdemeanor or an infraction.
   B.   Posting Regulations Required: The rules and regulations governing a
county facility, and the penalties for violations thereof, shall be posted in
such a manner to be visible to the general public utilizing the facility.
   C.   Authority To Restrict, Prohibit Use: The board shall have the authority
to restrict or prohibit the use of any county facility, by resolution duly
enacted, upon a finding that any of the conditions set forth in subsection
6.2.106B of this chapter exist. Such resolution shall automatically expire
thirty (30) days after enactment unless extended for another thirty (30) day
period by subsequent resolution. Any restriction or prohibition ordered by such
resolution, and the expiration date thereof, shall be posted in such a manner
as to be visible to the general public within the affected facility or
facilities, or as close to such facility or facilities as safety considerations
and road closures permit, as soon as practicable. A violation of any of the
provisions of any resolution enacted pursuant to this subsection shall
constitute a misdemeanor.
   D.   Fees For Noncommercial Use Of County Facilities:
      1.   The board shall have the authority, by resolution duly enacted, to
implement fees for noncommercial use of county facilities. Fees, the uses for
which a fee is required, and any other terms and conditions concerning such
fees and uses, shall be as specified in the resolution. Any such fees shall
comply with the requirements of sections 31-870 and 63-1311A, Idaho Code.
      2.   The county auditor shall cause all revenues from fees collected as
authorized by this subsection D to be placed into a dedicated account known as
the "waterways user fee account". Such revenues shall be used solely for the
operation, maintenance, and upkeep of county facilities. The board may enter
into agreements with federal, state, tribal or local entities further
specifying the allocation and use of such fees.
      3.   In addition to or in lieu of any infraction penalty, the director or
sheriff, or designee thereof, or a court of competent jurisdiction, may impose
a surcharge of ten dollars ($10.00) for each violation of this subsection D in
addition to the amount of the applicable fee. Failure to pay any fee or
surcharge imposed as authorized in this subsection D shall constitute an
infraction. Upon a conviction for any violation of this subsection D, the court
may also enter a civil judgment for any unpaid fees or surcharges then due and
owing. (Ord. 416, 7-22-2008; amd. Ord. 571, 10-19-2021)
6.2.117: PENALTIES:
Any violation of this chapter not specifically defined as a misdemeanor shall
constitute an infraction. Both misdemeanor offenses and infractions shall be
punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each instance of any violation of this chapter shall
constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 406, 10-15-2007; amd. Ord. 571, 10-19-
2021)
6.2.118: APPEALS:
   A.   Appeals Of Permit Decisions: The procedure for appeal of denial of a
permit, or of the revocation, refusal to issue, refusal to reissue, or refusal
to renew a permit shall be as follows:
      1.   The director shall provide written notice of any decision to deny an
application for a permit required under this chapter to the applicant within
thirty (30) days of receipt of the application, and shall provide written
notice of any decision to revoke, refuse to issue, refuse to reissue, or refuse
to renew any such permit to the permit holder as soon as practicable.
      2.   Whenever an application for a permit required under this chapter has
been denied or revoked by the director, or the director has refused to reissue
or renew such permit, the permit holder or applicant may file a written request
for a hearing before the board within fourteen (14) days after the date of the
notice of such decision. The board shall hold a hearing within thirty (30) days
after receipt of the written request from the permit holder or applicant.
      3.   The scope of the hearing shall be limited to the issue of whether
the director had a legitimate basis for the decision to deny, revoke, refuse to
reissue, or refuse to renew the permit or application.
      4.   The hearing shall be informal and strict rules of evidence shall not
apply. The applicant and the director may be represented by counsel, present
testimony and evidence, and examine witnesses.
      5.   A decision shall be issued at the close of the hearing or within
thirty (30) days thereafter. The board may refer the matter to the Kootenai
County waterways advisory board, or any subcommittee thereof, for a
recommendation at any time prior to the issuance of a decision. The board shall
notify the applicant in writing of the decision within thirty (30) days after
the close of the hearing.
      6.   The decision of the board shall be final.
   B.   Appeals Of Civil Penalties: Any civil penalty imposed as authorized
under the provisions of this chapter may be appealed in the following manner:
      1.   A person who has received a citation for a civil violation, or his
agent or representative, may file a written request for a hearing within
fourteen (14) days after the date of issuance of the citation.
      2.   The director may seek to informally resolve the matter if the
circumstances surrounding the issuance of the citation indicate that such
resolution would be desirable, and if the person who received the citation is
amenable to such resolution.
      3.   If the matter cannot be resolved through informal resolution, a
hearing shall be held within seven (7) days after receipt of the written
request from the appellant. The hearing officer shall be the director, or a
designee thereof other than the person who issued the citation. The scope of
the hearing shall be limited to the following issues:
         a.   Whether a violation did in fact occur; and
         b.   Whether the person who received the citation had any
responsibility for the conduct which gave rise to the issuance of the citation.
      4.   The hearing shall be informal and strict rules of evidence shall not
apply. The owner may be represented by counsel, present testimony and evidence,
and examine witnesses.
      5.   A decision shall be issued at the close of the hearing or within
seven (7) days thereafter. The Hearing Officer shall notify the owner in
writing of the decision within seven (7) days after the close of the hearing.
      6.   The decision of the Hearing Officer may be appealed to the Board
pursuant to such rules as it may establish. The decision of the Board shall be
final. (Ord. 480, 2-10-2015; amd. Ord. 571, 10-19-2021)
6.2.119: JURISDICTION IN TRIBAL WATERS:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as an assertion of jurisdiction over
any waters within Kootenai County, where the submerged lands thereunder are
owned by the government of the United States and held in trust for the Coeur
d'Alene Tribe, in excess of such jurisdiction authorized under Federal and
State law. (Ord. 402, 9-11-2007; amd. Ord. 571, 10-19-2021)
6.2.120: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this chapter
is, for any reason, held to be invalid or unconstitutional by any court of
competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct,
independent provision and such holding shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions thereof. (Ord. 402, 9-11-2007; amd. Ord. 571, 10-19-2021)
6.2.121: CODIFICATION OF RESOLUTIONS:
Any resolution enacted by the Board pursuant to the provisions of this chapter,
with the exception of temporary resolutions enacted pursuant to subsection
6.2.106B of this chapter, shall be codified as an appendix to this chapter for
such time as such resolution is in force. (Ord. 406, 10-15-2007; amd. Ord. 571,
10-19-2021)
6.2.122: APPENDIX - REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY RESOLUTION:
   A.   Restricted Zones:
      1.   No Wake Zones:
         a.   From the mouth of the Spokane River to a point located three
hundred feet (300’) downstream of the Highway 95 bridge.
         b.   From the east end of Templin's Marina to the Post Falls Dam on
the Spokane River.
         c.   The channel between the shoreline and the island and wetlands
area at mile 7 on the south side of the Spokane River.
         d.   The posted areas on Scenic Bay to include the public boat launch
located within the community of Bayview.
         e.   The posted areas on Rockford Bay to include the marina and public
boat launch.
         f.   On all of the connecting channels from the Coeur d'Alene River to
each of the lateral lakes commonly known as the "Chain Lakes".
         g.   Any portion of Coeur d'Alene Lake westerly of an imaginary line
extending from the south tip of Blackwell Island, south-south- westerly to
Donovan's Point, or as otherwise posted (Cougar Bay).
         h.   The portion of the bridge over the mouth of Blue Creek Bay,
identified by signs on the bridge, as follows: "5 mph within 200 feet of
bridge".
         i.   From the Fernan Lake outlet one thousand two hundred feet
(1,200') east to the No Wake buoy.
         j.   Between the north shoreline and the sandbar at Mokins Slough on
Hayden Lake.
         k.   The posted area two hundred feet (200') downstream of the float
home at Harrison Dock Builders and two hundred feet (200') upstream of the Fish
and Game boat launch on the Coeur d'Alene River.
         l.   The waterway south of the Sportsman's Access public boat launch
on Spirit Lake until said channel opens to a width of more than eight hundred
ninety-five feet (895') across. The end of this no wake zone shall be
designated by an encroachment in aid of navigation, to-wit: a buoy indicating
"End No Wake Zone."
         m.   The posted areas on Honeysuckle Bay, Hayden Lake, to include the
boat launch.
      2.   No Motor-Driven Watercraft Zones:
         a.   Wolf Lodge Creek from the Highway 97 Bridge upstream, except
pursuant to permit issued by the Director under such terms and conditions as
stated on the permit.
         b.   Lake Creek from the mouth of Lake Coeur d'Alene upstream.
         c.   Black Bay on the Spokane River.
         d.   Blackwell Island Canal from the Highway 95 Bridge downstream to
the Spokane River except from fifty feet (50') upstream of the developed Bureau
of Land Management Boat Launch downstream to the Spokane River.
         e.   Hayden Lake, within a two hundred foot (200') radius of the
Hayden Lake Dam spillway at Honeysuckle Bay, measured from the center of the
spillway on the lakeward side.
      3.   No Waterskiing Zone:
      a.   The entire Coeur d'Alene River upstream from Lake Coeur d'Alene,
beginning at a sign posted at the entrance to the river channel. This
prohibition shall not apply to the Chain Lakes adjacent to the Coeur d'Alene
River.
      b.   The Spokane River between the one hundred foot (100') no- wake zone
and 150-feet from shoreline or any dock, pier, or other structure.
      4.   No Excessive Wake Zone:
         a.   Definition. The term "excessive wake" shall be defined as the
wave resulting from operating a vessel:
            (1)   At the speed at which boats create the most wake, moving
quickly and displacing the most water, i.e., plowing;
            (2)   In an artificially bow-high manner to increase or enhance a
wake, including wake enhancement by use of ballast, mechanical hydrofoils,
uneven loading; or
            (3)   To cause water to lap onto or over a dock, pier, or other
lawfully permitted encroachment.
The prohibition against excessive wake contained herein shall not apply to the
reasonable operation of a vessel at transition speed while transiting on or off
plane.
         b.   Fernan Lake and Lower Twin Lake. There shall be a no-excessive
wake zone on Fernan Lake and on Lower Twin Lake between one hundred feet (100')
and one hundred fifty feet (150') from shoreline or any dock, pier, or other
structure.
         c.   All other public waters. There shall be a no-excessive wake zone
on all other public waters in Kootenai County between two hundred feet (200')
and three hundred feet (300') from shoreline or any dock, pier, or other
structure.
         d.   Exemption. The prohibitions on excessive wake set forth in this
paragraph shall not apply to emergency or patrol or rescue vessels.
   B.   Facility Restrictions:
      1.   Prohibition Of Alcoholic Beverages:
         a.   No alcoholic beverages shall be allowed at Hauser Park, including
all facilities and docks therein, and no alcoholic beverages shall be consumed
on any vessel while moored to said docks.
         b.   No alcoholic beverages shall be allowed at BLM Mica Bay Boater's
Park, including all facilities and docks therein, and no alcoholic beverages
shall be consumed on any vessel while moored to said docks.
      2.   Restricted Hours Of Operation:
         a.   Fernan Park, located at the northwest end of Fernan Lake within
the City limits of Fernan, shall be closed from ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. to
five o'clock (5:00) A.M.
         b.   Greensferry Park, located on the south side of the Spokane River
on Driftwood Drive, shall be closed from ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. to five
o'clock (5:00) A.M.
         c.   Rodkey Drive access, a ten foot (10') wide pathway off of Rodkey
Drive on the north side of the Spokane River, shall be closed from ten o'clock
(10:00) P.M. to five o'clock (5:00) A.M.
         d.   Greensferry Boat Launch shall be closed from ten o'clock (10:00)
P.M. to five o'clock (5:00) A.M.
         e.   Upper Twin Lakes and Middle Twin Lakes Boat Launches shall be
closed from eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. to four o'clock (4:00) A.M.
         f.   Neachen Bay Launch shall be closed from ten o'clock (10:00) P.M.
to six o'clock (6:00) A.M.
         g.   Hauser Park shall be closed between the hours of ten o'clock (10:
00) P.M. and four o'clock (4:00) A.M. daily.
         h.   McGuire Park shall be closed between the hours of ten o'clock
(10:00) P.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M. daily.
      3.   Parking Restrictions:
         a.   Parking is prohibited at Bronze Bay Launch site, located at the
west end of Spirit Lake.
         b.   Parking shall be prohibited or limited in all launch parking
facilities where signs are posted accordingly.
         c.   Parking is prohibited at Maiden Rock on Spirit Lake except when
"no parking" signs are removed during ice-fishing season and in designated
parking spaces located at the launch ramp.
         d.   Parking is prohibited at Upper Twin Lakes and Middle Twin Lakes
Boat Launches from eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. to four o'clock (4:00) A.M.
         e.   Parking is prohibited at Neachen Bay Boat Launch except for
handicap, emergency, and official vehicles.
      4.   Restrictions On Mooring Of Vessels: Mooring of vessels at all County
facilities, including mooring buoys, shall be limited to forty eight (48) hours
within any 72-hour period unless otherwise posted.
      5.   Attaching Vessels: Attachment of vessels to one another by any means
when any such vessels are moored to a dock is prohibited at all County
facilities.
      6.   Quiet Hours: Quiet hours at all County facilities shall be observed
every day starting at ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and ending at eight o'clock (8:
00) A.M. the following day. During quiet hours, noise levels shall not be
audible more than one hundred feet (100') from the sound origination point and/
or the ordinary high water mark, as that term is defined in section 58-1302,
Idaho Code, of the body of water on which the facility is located.
      7.   Penalty: Any violation of this section shall constitute an
infraction. Each instance of any violation shall constitute a separate offense.
   C.   Vessel Launch, Parking, And Overnight Moorage Fee Schedule:
      1.   Fees: The fee for launching a vessel or parking at any County
facility shall be as follows:
Vessels registered in Idaho:
 Daily launch fee                          $15.00 per facility per day
 Annual pass                               $50.00 per year
 Second vehicle sticker                    $15.00
 Replacement annual pass                   $5.00
Vessels registered outside of Idaho:
 Daily launch fee                          $30.00 per facility per day
 Annual pass                               $150.00 per year
 Second vehicle sticker                    $15.00
 Replacement annual pass                   $5.00
Parking of vehicles registered in Idaho:
 Daily parking fee                         $5.00 per day
 Annual pass                               $20.00 per year
Parking of vehicles registered outside of Idaho:
 Daily parking fee                         $10.00 per day
 Annual pass                               $40.00 per year
Citations for Violations:
 Failure to pay launch fee                 $75.00
 Failure to pay Idaho resident parking fee $30.00
 Failure to pay nonresident parking fee    $50.00
 Parking violations                        $100.00
   
      2.   Overnight Moorage Fee: The fee for overnight moorage at designated
County facilities shall be eight dollars ($8.00) per night for all vessels,
regardless of state of registration.
      3.   Daily And Annual Pass Validity: The daily vessel launch fee shall
allow the purchaser to launch a vessel at the facility at which the fee is paid
from the time of purchase until eleven fifty nine o'clock (11:59) P.M. on that
day. The annual vessel launch pass shall allow the purchaser to launch any
vessel at any County facility from the time of purchase until eleven fifty nine
o'clock (11:59) P.M. on December 31 of that year.
      4.   Overnight Moorage Time Frame: The daily overnight moorage fee shall
allow the purchaser to moor a vessel at the facility at which the fee is paid
from the time of purchase until one hour after sunset the next day. Payment of
an overnight moorage fee shall not authorize the mooring of a vessel at a
County facility for more than forty eight (48) hours within any seventy two
(72) hour period.
      5.   Notices Posted At Facilities: Notice of whether overnight moorage is
permitted or prohibited, the daily vessel launch fee, the availability and cost
of annual vessel launch passes, and penalties for non-payment of any launch fee
or civil penalty, shall be posted at each facility. At facilities where
overnight moorage is permitted, notice of the daily overnight moorage fee shall
also be posted.
      6.   Fee Collection; Annual Pass Purchase: Forms, envelopes and drop
boxes or other methods of collection of the daily vessel launch fee, and the
daily overnight moorage fee where applicable, shall be placed at each facility.
Annual passes may be purchased at the Kootenai County Parks and Waterways
Office and at such other places as the Board or Director may designate.
      7.   Penalties: Penalties for violations of this section shall be as set
forth in subsection
6.2.116D of this chapter.
      8.   Exemptions:
         a.   The provisions of this section shall not apply to holders of a
valid commercial use permit while operating within the scope of the permit.
         b.   The provisions of this section shall not apply to vessels for
which registration is not required under Idaho law.
         c.   The provisions of this section shall not apply to enrolled
members of the Coeur d'Alene Tribe who are launching a vessel or are mooring a
vessel overnight at the Spokane Point boat launch facility.
         d.   Veterans with one hundred percent (100%) service-connected
disability who reside in Kootenai County and their non-remarried widows/
widowers, or Gold Star Families, who reside in Kootenai County shall be
eligible to obtain a free annual boat launch pass or a free annual parking
pass. Eligibility therefor shall be established annually by presentation of a
VA Benefit Summary letter from the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs, and
proof of residency in Kootenai County, to the Kootenai County Parks and
Waterways Department.
   D.   Commercial Use Permit Fee Schedule: The fees for commercial use permits
shall be as follows:
 
1. Advertising permits: $0.10 per square inch (minimum fee: $20.00)
2. Concession permits:   
 7-day permit          $ 75.00
 30-day permit         150.00
 
Whenever the Director receives more than one application for a concession
permit for the same facility for the same time period or for overlapping time
periods, he or she may require the applicants to submit bids for the permit
pursuant to subsection
6.2.110E2c of this chapter. In such cases, the minimum bid amount shall be the
amount of the permit fee for the applicable time period as set forth above, or
such higher amount as the Director may determine.
      3.   Vessel Demonstration Permits:
 
Annual fee:             
 In-State dealers     $200.00
 Out-of-State dealers 500.00
 
      4.   Vessel Repair Permits:
 
Annual fee:             
 In-State dealers     $200.00
 Out-of-State dealers 500.00
Applicants requesting both a vessel demonstration permit and a vessel repair
permit will receive a fifty percent (50%) discount on the second permit.
      5.   Permits For The Commercial Transportation Of Persons:
 
Annual fee per facility $50.00 per lineal foot
 
"Lineal foot" refers to the lineal feet of moorage required for safe use in all
conditions as determined by the Director.
      6.   Vessel Fueling Permits:
 
Annual fee $500.00
 
      7.   Marine Contractor Permits:
 
Annual fee $500.00
 
      8.   Penalties: Penalties for violations of this section, including civil
penalties, shall be as set forth in section
6.2.110 of this chapter.
      9.   Notice: Notice stating generally that commercial use of County
facilities is prohibited with the exception of those uses expressly permitted
with a duly issued commercial use permit under section
6.2.110 of this chapter, and including contact information for the Kootenai
County Parks and Waterways Department, shall be posted at each facility.
   E.   Commercial Staging And Transportation Of Materials And Equipment -
Exemption From Permit Requirements:
      1.   One-Time Exemption: The Director may grant a one-time exemption from
the requirement to obtain a marine contractor permit pursuant to subsection
6.2.110E7b of this chapter if both of the following criteria exist:
         a.   There are no other permit holders physically available on the
body of water across which the materials and/or equipment are to be
transported; and
         b.   No other land access is available to transport the materials and/
or equipment to the work site.
      2.   Information Required: The applicant for exemption shall provide the
following information to the Director before the requested exemption may be
considered:
         a.   The applicant's name, address and telephone number;
         b.   The physical address of the property where the materials and/or
equipment are to be transported, and the waterway on which the property is
located, along with documentation which clearly demonstrates that the property
is landlocked;
         c.   Copies of all permits required by Kootenai County and/or other
entities with jurisdiction for the contemplated work, or proof of application
therefor;
         d.   The exact type and quantity of the materials and/or equipment to
be transported;
         e.   The exact type and quantity of any equipment to be used to
transport the materials and/or equipment from the facility to the vessel and/or
from the vessel to the facility;
         f.   The exact type of vessel to be used to transport materials and/or
equipment, including width, length, draft and vessel registration number. If a
dock will be used for this purpose, the permit number from the Idaho Department
of Lands encroachment permit associated with the dock shall be required;
         g.   The name of the facility to be used;
         h.   The requested dates, times and duration of use of the facility;
and
         i.   Documentation from all permitted contractors stating that they
cannot perform the desired work.
      3.   Considerations For Exemption: In determining whether to grant or
deny a requested exemption, the Director shall consider the following factors:
         a.   Safety considerations;
         b.   Potential harm to the facility;
         c.   Potential adverse effects on recreational use of the facility;
         d.   Whether the permits required by Kootenai County and/or other
entities with jurisdiction have been issued or applied for; and
         e.   The duration of the proposed activities.
      4.   Conditions For Exemptions: The following conditions shall apply to
any exemptions granted by the Director:
         a.   All exemptions shall be granted on a one-time basis only. No
grantee shall make a subsequent request for exemption, nor shall any such
request be considered, within twelve (12) months after the date on which the
exemption was issued.
         b.   Exemptions cannot be transferred, altered or changed in any
manner.
         c.   The grantee shall provide proof of liability insurance sufficient
to cover the full extent of permitted use.
         d.   The grantee shall be liable for all damages and cost for
corrective work to the facility which may happen as a result of permitted use.
         e.   The Director, or his or her designee, shall have the right to be
present during the performance of any permitted use. The grantee shall provide
the Director with at least twenty four (24) hours' notice prior to the
commencement of work.
         f.   Dates, times and duration of permitted use may be restricted at
various facilities. Grantees shall use such facilities only within the
timeframes specified for that facility.
         g.   An inspection of the facility upon completion of permitted use
will be performed within twenty four (24) hours by a designated County
employee.
      5.   Twenty Four Hour Use Fee: The fee for 24-hour use of County
facilities pursuant to an exemption granted by the Director under this section
shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00).
      6.   Exemptions: A written decision to grant or deny a requested
exemption shall be transmitted to the applicant within thirty (30) days of
receipt of the application. The applicant may appeal a denial of a requested
exemption to the Board in accordance with the provisions of section
6.2.118 of this chapter.
      7.   Penalties: Penalties for violations of this section shall be as set
forth in section
6.2.110 of this chapter.
   F.   Special Use Permits And Facility Reservations:
      1.   Fees:
         a.   Special Use Permit Fee: A base fee of two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00), plus one dollar ($1.00) per person based on expected attendance, as
determined by the Director.
         b.   Facility Reservation Fee: Twenty five dollars ($25.00) - one
hundred dollars ($100.00) depending on facility size, as determined by the
Director.
         c.   Mowry State Park Fees:
            (1)   Overnight camping fee: Ten dollars ($10.00) per night (May 1
through October 1).
            (2)   Reservation fee: Ten dollars ($10.00).
            (3)   Purchase of firewood: Ten dollars ($10.00) per bundle.
      2.   Additional Terms And Conditions:
         a.   For facility reservations, a deposit and/or proof of liability
insurance may be required, as determined by the Director;
         b.   For special use permits, proof of liability insurance with a
policy limit of at least one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) naming Kootenai
County as an additional insured shall be required prior to permit issuance
unless waived by the Director;
         c.   If overnight moorage is authorized at the facility, overnight
moorage fees will be charged in addition to the applicable permit fee;
         d.   Any fees required by the Kootenai County Sheriff's Office or
other agencies with jurisdiction shall be paid prior to permit issuance;
         e.   The Director may set forth such other conditions of approval as
may be reasonably related to the expected impacts of the event; and
         f.   Special use permits must be applied for at least ninety (90) days
before the event. Requests for reservation of facilities for uses not requiring
a special use permit shall be made at least seven (7) days in advance of the
first day of the requested reservation.
   G.   Speed Limits: The nighttime vessel speed limit on all County waterways
shall be twenty five (25) miles per hour. (Adopted per Ord. 406, 10-15-2007;
amd. Resolution 2014-73, 11-4-14; Resolution 2015-22, 2-10-15; Resolution 2016-
126, 12-20-16; Resolution 2018-35, 8-21-18; Resolution 2019-10, 1-15-19;
Resolution 2019-75, 9-17-2019; Resolution 2020-38, 5-21-2020; Resolution 2020-
91, 12-22-2020; Resolution 2020-100, 12-22-2020; Resolution 2021-37, 3-30-2021;
Resolution 2021-44, 5-18-2021; Resolution 2021-63, 7-6-2021; Ord. 568, 7-13-
2021; Ord. 571, 10-19-2021; Resolution 2021-124, 12-28-2021; ; Resolution 2022-
19, 3-15-2022; Resolution 2022-36, 5-31-2022; Resolution 2023-42, 4-5-2023;
Resolution 2024-70, 10-8-2024)
6.2.123: NO ENTRY ZONES:
   A.   Boundaries:
      1.   Downriver Zone: That area of the Spokane River extending from Post
Falls North, Middle and South Channel Dams down river to a distance of one
thousand two hundred feet (1,200') from the North Channel Dam or one hundred
and thirty feet (130') downstream of the WWP Arch Bridge, one thousand two
hundred feet (1,200') downstream of the Middle Channel Powerhouse Dam, and the
entire channel downstream of the South Channel Dam as indicated by warning
signs, is designated as a No Entry Zone.
      2.   Upriver Zone: That area of the Spokane River extending from the Post
Falls Dams upriver to the boater safety cable, as indicated by warning signs,
is designated as a No Entry Zone.
      3.   Upriver Periodic Zone: That area of the Spokane River extending from
the furthest upriver boater safety cable upriver to the Spokane Street Bridge
is subject to periodic no entry restriction. The restriction is in place at any
time a sign or message is posted on either side of the Spokane Street Bridge,
on public park property or on boat launch property designating this area as a
No Entry Zone. This area shall be a No Entry Zone until the signs or messages
designating it as such are removed.
   B.   Violations. It shall be unlawful to operate a vessel, swim, or
otherwise access within any of the No Entry Zones defined in section
6.2.106 of this chapter in a manner that is contrary to the restrictions set
forth in this section.
   C.   Penalties. Unless otherwise provided by law, the penalty for a
violation of any of the provisions of this section shall be as follows:
      1.   The first violation shall be an infraction punishable by up to a one
hundred dollars ($100.00) fine.
      2.   The second violation within two (2) years of the first violation
shall be an infraction punishable by up to a one hundred dollars ($100.00)
fine.
      3.   The third and any subsequent violation within two (2) years of the
most recent violation shall be a misdemeanor punishable by up to six (6) months
in the county jail and up to a one thousand dollar ($1,000.00) fine.
   D.   Joint Enforcement. The No Entry Zones defined in section
6.2.106 of this chapter are in part within the municipal boundaries of the City
of Post Falls and in part outside the municipal boundaries of the City of Post
Falls. Therefore, to ensure that the provisions of this section are effectively
enforced, such provisions may be enforced by the Kootenai County Sheriff or by
the City of Post Falls Police Department.
   E.   Exemptions For Authorized Personnel. It shall not be unlawful for
public safety personnel, law enforcement personnel or the personnel of the
owner or operator of the Post Falls Dam, including its employees, contractors
and agents, to enter into the No Entry Zones while acting in the course of
performance of their assigned or necessary professional duties. (Ord. 568, 7-
13-2021; amd. Ord. 571, 10-19-2021)
CHAPTER 3
COEUR D'ALENE AIRPORT
SECTION:
6.3.101: Purpose
6.3.102: Definitions
6.3.103: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
6.3.104: Penalties
6.3.101: PURPOSE:
It is necessary for the protection of the health, safety and welfare of the
general public, and for the protection of public and private property to
regulate certain activities on the grounds of the Coeur d'Alene airport. (Ord.
62, 2-22-1983; amd. Ord. 63, 2-22-1983; Ord. 571, 10-19-2021)
6.3.102: DEFINITIONS:
 
                            Includes, but is not limited to, horses, whether
ANIMALS:                    ridden or loose, cattle, dogs that are unleashed,
                            cats that are unleashed, pigs and poultry.
                            Includes that property owned by the county known as
                            the Coeur d'Alene air terminal, reflected on maps
                            on file in the office of the county clerk
COEUR D'ALENE AIR TERMINAL: pertaining to the Coeur d'Alene air terminal master
                            plan update as adopted by the board of county
                            commissioners in January 1982. (Ord. 63, 2-22-1983;
                            amd. Ord. 571, 10-19-2021)
 
6.3.103: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Rights Of Way: It shall be the duty of all pedestrians and all persons
operating vehicular ground traffic at the Coeur d'Alene air terminal to
immediately yield the right of way to all moving aircraft, in all
circumstances, whether the aircraft in question is landing, taking off or
taxiing.
   B.   Animals: It shall be the duty of all animal owners to ensure that such
animals do not enter upon the grounds of the Coeur d'Alene air terminal. (Ord.
62, 2-22-1983; amd. Ord. 63, 2-22-1983; Ord. 571, 10-19-2021)
6.3.104: PENALTIES:
Any person failing to yield the right of way to any moving aircraft or any
person who shall wilfully or negligently allow an animal onto the grounds of
the air terminal, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and punished as provided in
the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 62, 2-22-1983 and Ord. 63, 2-22-1983; amd. 2004 Code;
Ord. 571, 10-19-2021)
CHAPTER 4
SNOWMOBILE TRAILS
SECTION:
6.4.101: Title
6.4.102: Purpose
6.4.103: Definitions
6.4.104: General Applicability And Prohibitions
6.4.105: Fees
6.4.106: [Reserved]
6.4.107: Enforcement
6.4.108: Special Event Waivers
6.4.101: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the KOOTENAI COUNTY GROOMED SNOWMOBILE TRAIL
ORDINANCE. (Ord. 565, 4-11-2021)
6.4.102: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter shall be to provide for the regulation of
snowmobile trail use of trails groomed and maintained by Kootenai County, and
to provide for the collection of a user fee from those who use and benefit from
said trails, in order to partially cover the cost of such grooming and
maintenance efforts. (Ord. 565, 4-11-2021)
6.4.103: DEFINITIONS:
The terms listed in this section shall have the meanings set forth herein
throughout this chapter:
 
BOARD:                       The Board of County Commissioners of Kootenai
                             County, Idaho.
                             Any situation where an emergency exists or public
                             safety is endangered, or any situation in which a
                             vehicle:
                             A. Is blocking or impeding traffic; or
                             B. Is causing a hazard; or
                             C. Has the potential of impeding any emergency
                             vehicle; or
EXTRAORDINARY CIRCUMSTANCES: D. Is impeding any snow grooming or other
                             maintenance operation; or
                             E. Has been stolen but not yet reported as
                             recovered; or
                             F. Is not registered; or
                             G. Has been involved in an accident or remains on
                             the groomed trail; or
                             H. The operator of which has been arrested.
                             A snowmobile trail that is located upon public or
GROOMED TRAIL:               private property within Kootenai County and is
                             maintained with county funds.
                             An all-terrain vehicle (ATV), motorcycle, or
                             utility type vehicle (UTV), under two thousand
                             (2,000) pounds' unladen gross weight, with a
OFF HIGHWAY VEHICLE (OHV):   maximum width less than seventy four inches (74"),
                             which is designed for travel on snow or ice or
                             over natural terrain and is steered by tracks,
                             skis or runners.
OPERATOR:                    Any person who operates and is in actual physical
                             control of a snowmobile or OHV.
                             Any self-propelled vehicle under two thousand
                             (2,000) pounds' unladen gross weight, designed
SNOWMOBILE:                  primarily for travel on snow or ice or over
                             natural terrain, which may be steered by tracks,
                             skis or runners.
                             That period of time from November 1 of each year
                             to April 1 of the following year. Each winter
                             season shall be denominated by the year in which
WINTER SEASON:               it begins and the year in which it ends. For
                             example, the winter season beginning on November
                             1, 2002 and ending on April 1, 2003, would be
                             denominated the "2002-03" winter season. (Ord.
                             565, 4-11-2021; amd. Ord. 588, 11-7-2023)
 
6.4.104: GENERAL APPLICABILITY AND PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   All operators of snowmobiles and OHVs upon groomed trails within
Kootenai County shall be required to display a current State of Idaho
registration and/or validation sticker upon a snowmobile or OHV, which shall
constitute prima facie evidence of valid registration.
   B.   It shall be a misdemeanor to operate any vehicle other than a
snowmobile or OHV, with the exception of duly authorized emergency vehicles,
upon a groomed trail in the county.
   C.   All other violations of this Chapter shall be considered an infraction
and shall be punishable by a fine, as provided in section 1.4.101 of this code
and as set forth in Rule 9(b) of the Idaho Infraction Rules or in such other
rule as may be adopted or promulgated from time to time by the Idaho Supreme
Court. (Ord. 565, 4-11-2021; amd. Ord. 588, 11-7-2023)
6.4.105: FEES:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of the groomer fee established herein is to
partially fund the cost of grooming and maintaining snowmobile trails serving
Kootenai County.
   B.   Establishment of Groomer Fee: The operator of any snowmobile or OHV
operated on any groomed trail in the county shall pay an annual fee in an
amount set by resolution of the board. Payment of the fee shall entitle the
operator to use groomed trails in the county during the current winter season.
The period of authorized use shall be denoted on the groomer sticker.
   C.   Current Fee: The annual groomer fee established herein shall be as
adopted by resolution of the board.
   D.   Payment and Collection of Fee:
      1.   The fees provided for in this chapter shall be collected by the
Kootenai County Parks and Waterways, Noxious Weeds, and Snowgroomer Department
at such locations as the county may from time to time authorize and direct, and
by vendors authorized by the county to collect groomer fees and issue
registration receipts and groomer stickers.
      2.   Upon payment of the annual groomer fee, the county or vendor shall
issue a registration receipt that identifies the name and address of the
operator credited with payment. The county or vendor shall also provide the
payer with a groomer sticker to be attached in accordance with subsection
6.4.104(A) of this chapter.
      3.   Snowmobile dealers who wish to use groomed trails for snowmobile
demonstration purposes shall be required to pay the groomer fee for each state
of Idaho dealer license plate used for such demonstration purposes. The groomer
sticker shall be attached to, or shall be placed adjacent to, each dealer plate
for which the sticker is issued.
   E.   Use of User Fee Revenues: The annual revenues derived from the payment
of user fees shall be used and distributed as follows:
      1.   Fifty five percent (55%) shall be placed in the county snowmobile
fund to be used only for the county snowmobile groomer operation, including but
not limited to: equipment, maintenance on any groomed trails, posting signs,
supplies, fuel and wages for operation of the equipment.
      2.   Forty five percent (45%) shall be placed in a special snowmobile
rescue and enforcement line item to be budgeted by the board to the sheriff to
be used in activities surrounding snowmobiles, which shall include equipment,
supplies and fuel purchases, together with maintenance and wages. (Ord. 565, 4-
11-2021)
6.4.106: [RESERVED]:
6.4.107: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Removal of Accidents, Operator/Driver Arrests, and Vehicle,
Snowmobiles, or OHVs Found Under Extraordinary Circumstances: Any authorized
law enforcement officer or staff of the Kootenai County Parks and Waterways,
Noxious Weeds, and Snowgroomer Department may immediately remove any
snowmobile, OHV, or other vehicle upon a groomed snowmobile trail in Kootenai
County as a result of an accident, the operator/driver being arrested, or
extraordinary circumstances. Any such snowmobile, OHV, or other vehicle may be
placed in the custody of a tow truck operator, with all expenses of towing and
storage to be those of the operator and/or registered owner.
   B.   Notice: At the time of removal, the authorized law enforcement officer
or staff of the Kootenai County Parks and Waterways, Noxious Weeds, and
Snowgroomer Department shall complete a notice form containing, but not limited
to, the following:
      1.   Name and address of the registered owner;
      2.   Complete vehicle, OHV, or snowmobile description, including any
license plate number, groomer sticker number, and/or vehicle identification
number;
      3.   Date, time, and reason for tow;
      4.   Law enforcement agency or Kootenai County department directing the
tow;
      5.   Estimated value of vehicle, OHV, or snowmobile and daily storage
rate;
      6.   Law enforcement officer or Kootenai County staff member name and/or
badge number;
      7.   Name, address, and telephone number of towing company;
      8.   Signature of tow truck operator taking receipt of the vehicle, OHV,
or snowmobile and contents
   A copy of this notice shall be provided to the legal or registered owner at
the scene, or may be mailed by first class mail within seventy-two (72) hours
excluding weekends and holidays.
   C.   Damage: The operator and/or registered owner of any snowmobile, OHV, or
vehicle shall be responsible and held accountable to Kootenai County for any
trails, trees, shrubs, or other property that has been damaged as a result of
travel by the snowmobile, OHV, or vehicle on a groomed trail.
   D.   Failure to Comply: Failure to comply with any provision of this chapter
shall result in denial of the use of any groomed trail within the county, and
may also result in either civil action to enforce the payment of the applicable
user fee and/or for the immediate removal of any vehicle, snowmobile, or OHV
pursuant to subsection 6.4.107(B) of this chapter, or criminal action for any
violation of this chapter classified as a misdemeanor or infraction, or both.
   E.   Punishment for Violations:
      1.   Any violation of this chapter constituting a misdemeanor as
specified in subsection 6.4.104(C) of this chapter, shall be punished as
provided in the general penalty in section 1.4.101 of this code.
      2.   Any violation of this chapter constituting an infraction as
specified in subsection
6.4.104 (D) of this chapter shall be punished as provided in the general
penalty in section 1.4.101 of this code. (Ord. 565, 4-11-2021; amd. Ord. 588,
11-7-2023)
6.4.108: SPECIAL EVENT WAIVERS:
   A.   The board may, by resolution duly enacted, waive any or all of the
requirements set forth in this chapter with respect to operators of snowmobiles
or OHVs actually participating in special events. Said resolution shall
describe the event(s) to which the waiver will apply with reasonable
particularity, and shall state the provisions of this chapter to be waived.
   B.   No provision of this chapter that is the subject of a waiver enacted
pursuant to this section shall provide the basis for any enforcement action or
prosecution as to any person who is then actually participating in an event to
which the waiver pertains. Nothing in this subsection shall prevent the
enforcement of any provision of this chapter that is the subject of a waiver
enacted pursuant to this section on the date(s) of an event to which the waiver
pertains with respect to persons not then actually participating in that event.
   C.   For purposes of this section, the term "actually participating" shall
refer to those persons who begin the event to which the waiver pertains at a
designated beginning point and time, remain on the roadway(s) and/or trail(s)
designated as the official route by the organizer(s) of the event at all times
during the course of the event, and end the event at a designated ending point;
provided, however, that de minimis deviations from the official event time and
route shall not affect whether a person is considered to be actually
participating in an event.
   D.   The board may enter into agreements with public or private entities or
persons as it may deem necessary to carry out any waiver authorized under this
section. (Ord. 565, 4-11-2021)
CHAPTER 5
CENTENNIAL TRAIL
SECTION:
6.5.101: Use
6.5.102: Trail Disturbances
6.5.103: Penalties
6.5.101: USE:
   A.   Prohibited Uses:
      1.   Motorized Vehicles Prohibited: The use of any motor vehicle, as
defined in section 49-123, Idaho Code, on or within the right of way of the
Centennial Trail is prohibited.
      2.   Exceptions: The prohibition set out in this subsection A shall not
apply to:
         a.   Any portion of the trail which lies across or within a road right
of way. If the trail lies across or within a road right of way, motorized
vehicles may drive within that portion of the trail lying across or within the
road right of way unless signs or other markings prohibiting motor vehicles are
erected and maintained;
         b.   A motorized wheelchair operated by a disabled person;
         c.   Authorized emergency or maintenance vehicles engaged in the
performance of emergency or maintenance services.
      3.   Horses: Riding, leading or otherwise permitting horses on or within
the right of way of the Centennial Trail is prohibited. (Ord. 408, 11-12-2007)
6.5.102: TRAIL DISTURBANCES:
   A.   Trail Disruption:
      1.   Debris: Depositing debris on or within the right of way of the
Centennial Trail without first obtaining written approval from the Kootenai
County parks and waterways department is prohibited.
      2.   Surface Disturbances: It shall be unlawful to alter, modify, paint,
cut or destroy the surface of the Centennial Trail or the trail right of way or
to conduct any activity that prevents its normal use without first obtaining a
trail disturbance permit from the Kootenai County parks and waterways
department. An alternate route, approved by the Kootenai County parks and
waterways department, must be provided and appropriately signed before any
permitted disturbance is commenced. In addition, the permittee shall comply
with all applicable requirements of the Kootenai County site disturbance
ordinance, title 8, chapter 7, article 7.1 of this code.
      3.   Trail Closure: No person shall close any portion of the Centennial
Trail or trail right of way without first obtaining written permission from the
Kootenai County parks and waterways department. An alternate route, approved by
the Kootenai County parks and waterways department, must be provided and
appropriately signed before any permitted closure occurs.
      4.   Permit Processing: Procedures for issuance of trail disturbance
permits may be set forth by resolution of the board. Such resolution may
provide for a permitting process which is coordinated with cities, highway
districts and/or the Idaho transportation department.
      5.   Applicability: The requirements of this section apply to those
portions of the Centennial Trail outside of public highways and public highway
rights of way. The portions within public highways and public highway rights of
way shall be subject to all applicable requirements for encroachments,
excavations and other impacts as required by the Idaho transportation
department or highway district with jurisdiction, as appropriate.
   B.   Restoration Of Trail Surface:
      1.   Any permitted surface disturbance of the Centennial Trail must be
repaired or restored within twenty four (24) hours after commencement of the
surface disturbance unless additional time is specifically allowed by the
authorizing permit. An alternate route, approved by the Kootenai County parks
and waterways department, must be provided and appropriately signed during the
entire time of the trail disturbance.
      2.   Any repair or restoration not accomplished by the permittee within
the specified time will be performed by or on behalf of Kootenai County with no
prior notice to the permittee and at the permittee's expense. The county will
also make any immediate repairs, alterations or additions to any barricades,
signs or warnings as deemed necessary for the safety of the public without
prior notice to the permittee. The permittee shall reimburse the county for the
actual cost of materials, labor, equipment and overhead.
      3.   The permittee shall be responsible for the condition of trail
surface repairs or restorations for a minimum period of two (2) years following
the repair or restoration of any surface disturbance. During the two (2) year
period the permittee shall, upon request from the Kootenai County parks and
waterways department, repair to the county's satisfaction any of the repairs or
restorations that have settled, cracked, broken or are otherwise faulty. (Ord.
408, 11-12-2007)
6.5.103: PENALTIES:
Any violation of this chapter shall constitute a misdemeanor punishable as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day a violation occurs shall be deemed a separate
offense. (Ord. 408, 11-12-2007)
TITLE 7
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODE
ARTICLE 1.1. GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
7.1.101: Title
7.1.102: Authority
7.1.103: Applicability
7.1.104: Purpose
7.1.105: Definitions
7.1.101: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the BUILDING CODE ORDINANCE OF KOOTENAI COUNTY,
IDAHO. (Ord. 538, 4-18-2019, eff. 4-29-2019)
7.1.102: AUTHORITY:
These regulations are authorized by article 12, section 2 of the Idaho
Constitution, title 31, chapter 7, Idaho Code, and title 39, chapter 41, Idaho
Code, all as may be amended or subsequently codified. (Ord. 538, 4-18-2019,
eff. 4-29-2019)
7.1.103: APPLICABILITY:
This chapter shall apply within the unincorporated area of Kootenai County,
Idaho. (Ord. 538, 4-18-2019, eff. 4-29-2019)
7.1.104: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to:
   A.   Promote and safeguard the health, safety, and general welfare of the
public through the establishment of minimum performance standards and
requirements for construction and construction materials consistent with
accepted standards of engineering, fire safety, life safety and accessibility
for those with disabilities;
   B.   Provide a reasonable level of safety to firefighters and other
emergency responders during emergency operations; and
   C.   Permit the use of modern technical methods, devices, and improvements.
(Ord. 538, 4-18-2019, eff. 4-29-2019)
7.1.105: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   For purposes of this chapter and all codes adopted by reference herein,
the following definitions shall apply:
   BOARD: The Board of County Commissioners of Kootenai County, Idaho.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL: The chief building official duly appointed by the
Director of Kootenai County Community Development, or his or her designee. If
no chief building official has been designated, the Director of Community
Development shall assume the duties of the chief building official.
   DEPARTMENT: Kootenai County Community Development.
   ENGINEERING: Any work required to be performed by an Idaho licensed
engineer. Engineering required in this chapter, or in any code adopted herein,
may also be performed by an Idaho licensed architect if, and only to the extent
that, such work is within the scope of the practice of a licensed architect as
set forth in Idaho Statute or Administrative Rule.
   B.   To the extent not inconsistent with the definitions set forth in
subsection (A) of this section, the codes adopted in article 1.2 of this
chapter, or the amendments set forth in article 1.3 of this chapter, the
definitions set forth in title 8, chapter 9 of this Code shall apply to the
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 538, 4-18-2019, eff. 4-29-2019; amd. Ord.
608, 1-9-2025)
ARTICLE 1.2. ADOPTION OF CONSTRUCTION CODES
SECTION:
7.1.201: Construction Codes Adopted
7.1.201: CONSTRUCTION CODES ADOPTED:
Kootenai County hereby adopts the following Construction Codes, standards and
requirements, as amended by the State of Idaho by statute or Administrative
Rule and by article 1.3 of this chapter:
   A.   The 2018 International Building Code, as published by the International
Code Council, excluding any incorporated references to the NEC Electrical Code,
the International Plumbing Code, the International Zoning Code, and, except as
specifically noted, excluding any reference to flood requirements. All flood
requirements shall be governed by the provisions of title 8, chapter 7, article
7.2 of this Code.
   B.   THE 2018 INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL CODE, as published by the
International Code Council, including APPENDIX H and APPENDIX Q thereto, but
excluding parts VII and VIII thereof, excluding any incorporated references to
the NEC electrical code, the International Plumbing Code, the International
Zoning Code, and, except as specifically noted, excluding any reference to
flood requirements. All flood requirements shall be governed by the provisions
of Title 8, Chapter 7, Article 7.2 of this code.
   C.   THE 2018 INTERNATIONAL ENERGY CONSERVATION CODE, as published by the
International Code Council, excluding any incorporated references to the NEC
electrical code, the International Plumbing Code, and the International Zoning
Code.
   D.   The 2018 International Mechanical Code, as published by the
International Code Council, excluding any incorporated references to the NEC
Electrical Code, the International Plumbing Code, and the International Zoning
Code.
   E.   The 2018 International Fuel Gas Code, as published by the International
Code Council, excluding any incorporated references to the NEC Electrical Code,
the International Plumbing Code, and the International Zoning Code.
   F.   The 2018 International Property Maintenance Code, including appendix A,
as published by the International Code Council, excluding any incorporated
references to the NEC Electrical Code, the International Plumbing Code, and the
International Zoning Code, and excluding any reference to flood requirements.
All flood requirements shall be governed by the provisions of title 8, chapter
7, article 7.2 of this Code.
   G.   The 2018 International Existing Building Code, as published by the
International Code Council, excluding any incorporated references to the NEC
Electrical Code, the International Plumbing Code, and the International Zoning
Code, and excluding any reference to flood requirements. All flood requirements
shall be governed by the provisions of title 8, chapter 7, article 7.2 of this
Code.
   H.   The 2018 International Fire Code, as published by the International
Code Council and as adopted, amended, and approved by the Idaho State Fire
Marshal and the fire protection district with jurisdiction, if applicable,
excluding any incorporated references to the NEC Electrical Code, the
International Plumbing Code, and the International Zoning Code. The adopted
version of the International Fire Code shall be deemed to be superseded by
successive versions of such code as they are adopted or approved by the Idaho
State Fire Marshal and the fire protection district with jurisdiction, if
applicable, effective on the date that any such code becomes law.
   I.   The 2018 International Swimming Pool and Spa Code, as published by the
International Code Council, excluding any incorporated references to the NEC
electrical code, the International Plumbing Code, and the International Zoning
Code, and excluding any reference to flood requirements. All flood requirements
shall be governed by the provisions of title 8, chapter 7, article 7.2 of this
code. (Ord. 538, 4-18-2019, eff. 4-29-2019; amd. Ord. 559, 12-17-2020, eff. 1-
1-2021; Ord. 608, 1-9-2025)
ARTICLE 1.3. AMENDMENTS TO ADOPTED CODES
SECTION:
7.1.301: Amendments To International Building Code
7.1.302: Amendments To International Residential Code
7.1.303: Amendments To International Fuel Gas Code
7.1.304: Amendments To International Mechanical Code
7.1.305: Amendments To International Energy Conservation Code
7.1.306: Amendments To International Property Maintenance Code
7.1.307: Amendments To International Existing Building Code
7.1.301: AMENDMENTS TO INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE:
The following terms, conditions, and provisions shall be incorporated as
amendments to the 2018 International Building Code adopted pursuant to
subsection
7.1.201A of this chapter, and shall be administered as part of said code.
Section numbers prior to each item refer to those in the International Building
Code.
101.1: Title. Add “Kootenai County” as the NAME OF JURISDICTION.
101.4.3: Plumbing. Delete this section.
103.3: Deputies. Delete section and replace it with the following:
   In accordance with the prescribed procedures of this jurisdiction and with
the concurrence of the appointing authority, the building official shall have
the authority to appoint inspectors, plan examiners, and other technical
officers. Such employees shall have powers as delegated by the building
official.
104.2.1: Determination of substantially improved or substantially damaged
existing buildings and structures in flood hazard areas. Delete this section
and replace with the following:
For applications for reconstruction, rehabilitation, repair, alteration,
addition, or other improvement of existing buildings or structures located in
flood hazard areas, the building official and flood plain administrator shall
determine if the proposed work constitutes substantial improvement or repair of
substantial damage. Where it is determined that the proposed work constitutes
substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage, the building shall be
required to meet the requirements of Title 8, Chapter 7, Article 7.2, Kootenai
County Code.
105.1.1: Annual permit. Delete this section.
105.1.2: Annual permit records. Delete this section.
105.2: Work exempt from permit.
   Building: Delete Item No. 1 and replace it with the following:
      1. One-story detached accessory structures used as tool or storage sheds,
playhouses, gazebos, free standing pergolas, and similar uses, provided the
floor area does not exceed 120 square feet. Said accessory structure shall
conform to placement standards established in Title 8, Kootenai County Code.
Roof projections of said structures shall not extend a distance greater than
twenty-four inches from the outside of the exterior wall of the structure.
Structure floor area shall be measured from the inside of exterior walls or
columns. Such structures are limited to a ten-foot (10') eave height.
Add a new Item No. 14 to read as follows:
      14.   Agricultural buildings, as defined in Chapter 2 of this Code.
Signoffs from other public agencies and an initial erosion and storm water risk
assessment may be required. In the case of a high risk site, as defined in
Title 8, Chapter 7, Article 7.1, Kootenai County Code, a site disturbance plan
and permit will be required.
Add a new Item No. 15 to read as follows:
      15.   Equipment used primarily for industrial chemical process purposes
and for mineral extraction and mineral processing. This exemption does not
include the erection and fabrication of new boilers, pressure vessels and other
equipment required to condition a building for personnel comfort and safety.
Equipment in this regard shall mean and be limited to facilities or
installations for heating, ventilating, air conditioning, refrigerating
equipment, elevators, dumbwaiters, escalators, and boilers and pressure vessels
associated with building heating systems.
Electrical: Delete all electrical exemptions.
Plumbing: Delete all plumbing exemptions.
105.5: Expiration. Delete the last sentence and replace it with the following:
   Extensions of time shall be requested in writing and justifiable cause
demonstrated. If such extension is granted, the applicant shall be assessed a
fee equal to the amount of the re-inspection fee as published in the most
recent fee resolution adopted by the Board.
   Exception: Except as determined by the building official, no building permit
which was issued prior to January 1, 2014 shall be eligible for an extension of
time.
107.1: General. Delete this section and replace it with the following:
   Submittal documents consisting of construction documents, statement of
special inspections, geotechnical report, structural observation programs and
other data shall be submitted electronically with each permit application. The
architectural construction documents shall be prepared by, or under the direct
supervision of an Idaho licensed architect per Idaho law. Where special
conditions exist, the building official may require additional documentation
prepared by, or under the direct supervision of an Idaho licensed engineer
practicing within his or her particular field of competence per Idaho law. Any
design which is the result of standard engineering practice shall be
accompanied by supporting calculations for all load combinations and all sheets
of plans containing engineered items must bear the seal and signature of the
responsible design professional.
Exceptions:
      1.   The building official is authorized to waive the submission of
construction documents and other data not required to be prepared by an Idaho
licensed architect or engineer if it is found that the nature of the work
applied for is such that review of construction documents is not necessary to
obtain compliance with this code.
      2.   The Building Official is authorized to waive the submission of
electronic documents under special circumstances.
109.3: Building permit valuations. Delete this section and replace it with the
following:
   Valuation for permit fee calculations shall be set by the Building Official
in accordance with the current Fee Resolution adopted by the Board.
111.2: Certificate issued. Modify the first paragraph to read as follows:
   After the building official inspects the building or structure and finds no
violations of the provisions of this code or other laws that are enforced by
the Community Development Department, and finds evidence of final approval from
all relevant agencies with jurisdiction, including, but not limited to, the
fire district, highway district, Idaho Transportation Department, Panhandle
Health District, sewer districts, the Idaho State Electrical Inspector, the
Idaho State Plumbing Inspector, the Idaho Department of Health and Welfare, the
Idaho Department of Lands, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, and the Kootenai
County Airport, the Building Official shall issue a certificate of occupancy
that contains the following:
113.1: General. Delete this section and replace it with the following:
   In order to hear and decide appeals of orders, decisions, or determinations
made by the Building Official relative to the application and interpretation of
this code, there shall be and is hereby created a board of appeals. The Board
of Appeals shall consist of the Kootenai County Board of Commissioners. Appeals
shall be conducted in accordance with Section
7.1.406  of this chapter and Title 8, Chapter 8, Article 8.5, Kootenai County
Code.
113.3: Qualifications. Delete this section.
202: Definitions.
   Delete the definition of “AGRICULTURAL BUILDING” and replace it with the
following:
      AGRICULTURAL BUILDING. A structure designed and constructed to house farm
implements, hay, grain, poultry, livestock or other horticultural products,
provided the building is situated on land actively devoted to agricultural
pursuits as defined in Section 63-604 and is not being used solely to house
equine species such as horses which are owned by the property owner and are
used primarily for the owner’s pleasure. This structure shall not be a place of
human habitation or a place of employment where agricultural products are
processed, treated or packaged, nor shall it be a place used by the public.
   Add to the definition of “DWELLING UNIT”:
      For purposes of determining fire separation, energy, insulation and
fenestration, and exit configuration, habitable space or occupiable conditioned
space contained within a detached residential accessory building shall be
considered as part of the dwelling unit that the building is accessory to
unless all elements of a dwelling unit are contained within that space.
310.5: Residential Group R-4. Delete this section and replace it with the
following:
   Residential Group R-4 occupancy shall include buildings, structures or
portions thereof for more than five but not more than 16 persons, excluding
staff, who reside on a 24-hour basis in a supervised residential environment
and receive custodial care. Buildings of Group R-4 shall be classified as one
of the occupancy conditions specified in Section 310.5.1 or 310.5.2. This group
shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
      Alcohol and drug centers
      Assisted living facilities
      Congregate care facilities
      Group homes
      Halfway houses
      Residential board and care facilities
      Social rehabilitation facilities
   Group R-4 occupancies shall meet the requirements for construction as
defined for Group R-3, except as otherwise provided for in this code; provided,
however, that group homes which meet the criteria set forth in section 67-6531,
Idaho Code, may elect to comply with the International Residential Code.
406.3.2.1: Dwelling unit separation. Delete this section and replace it with
the following:
   The private garage shall be separated from the dwelling unit and its attic
area with no less than one layer of 5/8" Type X Gypsum Board or equivalent on
the garage side. If the garage ceiling is utilized as part of the separation,
the entire garage must be lined with 5/8" type X Gypsum Board or equivalent. If
there is habitable space or occupiable conditioned space above a garage space,
the garage side of the floor/ceiling assembly shall be protected with no less
than two layers of 5/8" Type X Gypsum Board or equivalent and the entire garage
must be lined with 5/8" type X Gypsum Board or equivalent. Exits from such
spaces above or below a garage shall not pass through the garage. If a common
door is provided, it shall be a self-closing, tight-fitting solid-wood door 13/
8" in thickness, or a self-closing, tight-fitting 20-minute fire-rated door, or
solid or honeycomb steel doors not less than 13/8" thick. Openings from a
private garage directly into a room used for sleeping purposes shall not be
permitted. Penetrations through the separation required in Section 406.3.4
shall be protected with approved materials to resist the passage of flame and
products of combustion. The material to fill this annular space shall be
required to meet the ASTM E 814 or UL 1479.
1202.4 Under-floor ventilation. Add to the end of the section the following:
   A minimum of Class I vapor retarder shall be provided in underfloor areas
extending from foundation wall to foundation wall.
1202.4.1.1: Ventilation area for crawl spaces with open earth floors. Delete
this section.
1604.1: General.
   Add a new section 1604.1.1 as follows:
      1604.1.1. Minimum Design Criteria. Minimum design criteria shall be as
set forth in Table 1604.1.1.
Add a new Table 1604.1.1 as follows:
   Table 1604.1.1
   Minimum Design Criteria
Wind Speed                            Per IBC 1609
Air Freezing Index                    1500
Seismic Design Category               C
Weathering                            Severe
Minimum Frost Depth                   24"
Assumed Minimum Soil Bearing Pressure 1500 psf
Decay                                 Slight
Ice Barrier Underlayment Required     Yes
 
1608.1: General. Add a new section 1608.1.1 as follows:
   1608.1.1: Flat Roof Snow Loads. The flat roof snow load for buildings to be
located on land parcels with a ground snow load not exceeding 60 psf may be
either a minimum of 40 psf or designed in accordance with accepted engineering
practice. The flat roof snow load for buildings to be located on land parcels
with a ground snow load greater than 60 psf but not exceeding 70 psf may be
either a minimum of 50 psf or designed in accordance with accepted engineering
practice. The flat roof snow load for buildings located on land parcels with a
ground snow load greater than 70 psf but not exceeding 85 psf may be either a
minimum of 60 psf or designed in accordance with accepted engineering practice.
Buildings to be located on land parcels with a ground snow load greater than 85
psf shall be designed in accordance with accepted engineering practice.
1608.2: Ground snow loads. Delete the entire section and replace it with the
following:
   The ground snow loads shall be determined using factors and methodology
contained in the publication entitled Ground and Roof Snow Loads for Idaho, and
the accompanying map entitled Normalized Ground Snow Loads for Idaho by the
University of Idaho, Moscow, Idaho, 1986.
1806.2: Presumptive load-bearing values. Add the following to the beginning of
the section:
   General Rule. Unless the “Class of Materials” in Table 1806.2 is determined
by a State of Idaho licensed engineer, the presumptive load-bearing value of
supporting material shall be 1500 psf.
1807.1.6.2: Concrete foundation walls. Add the following to the beginning of
this section:
   Use of reinforcement tables contained in this section is permitted only
where the United Soil Classification contained in IBC Table 1610.1 and Class of
Materials contained in IBC Table 1806.2 have been determined by a State of
Idaho Licensed Design Professional. In lieu of engineered determination, the
following prescriptive reinforcement shall be used.
   Minimum Reinforcement for Footings and Foundation Walls. Concrete foundation
walls shall be laterally supported at the top and bottom. All foundation and
retaining walls exceeding four feet (4') in height from bottom of footing to
top of wall must extend to and be anchored to floor or roof framing above or
shall be engineered. Minimum placement of reinforcing bars for foundation walls
for light frame construction which do not exceed four feet (4') in height shall
be no greater than twenty-four inches (24") on center, and six inches (6") of
the top and bottom of the stem wall horizontally, and forty eight inches (48")
on center vertically. Minimum placement of reinforcing bars for foundation
walls exceeding four feet (4') in height to a maximum height of nine feet (9')
shall be no greater than eighteen inches (18") on center, and six inches of the
top and bottom of the stem wall horizontally, and eighteen inches on center
vertically. All vertical reinforcement shall be embedded into the footings
without ground contact. Minimum reinforcement for all continuous footings shall
be two continuous horizontal reinforcing bars. Minimum reinforcing bar size
shall be #4.
   Foundation walls are permitted to be otherwise designed by an Idaho licensed
architect or engineer.
1809.5: Frost Protection. Delete Item No. 1 and replace it with the following:
    1. Extending below the established frost depth of twenty-four inches (24"),
or in accordance with the requirements of a site Geotechnical Report if one has
been prepared.
(Ord. 538, 4-18-2019, eff. 4-29-2019; amd. Ord. 559, 12-17-2020, eff. 1-1-2021;
Ord. 603, 10-10-2024; Ord. 608, 1-9-2025)
7.1.302: AMENDMENTS TO INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL CODE:
The following terms, conditions, and provisions shall be incorporated into the
2018 International Residential Code adopted pursuant to subsection
7.1.201 B of this chapter, and shall be administered as part of said code.
Section numbers prior to each item refer to those in the International
Residential Code.
R101.1: Title. Add “Kootenai County” as the NAME OF JURISDICTION.
R104.10.1: Flood hazard areas. Delete this section.
R105.2: Work exempt from permit.
   Building: Delete Item No. 1 and replace it with the following:
      1. One-story detached accessory structures used as tool or storage sheds,
playhouses, gazebos, free standing pergolas, and similar uses, provided the
floor area does not exceed 200 square feet. Said accessory structure shall
conform to placement standards established by the Kootenai County Land Use And
Development Code Ordinance, Title 8, Kootenai County Code. Roof projections of
said structures shall not extend a distance greater than twenty-four inches
from the outside of the exterior wall of the structure. Structure floor area
shall be measured from the inside of exterior walls or columns. Such structures
are limited to a ten-foot (10') eave height.
   Add a new Item No. 12 to read as follows:
      11. Agricultural buildings, as defined in Chapter 2 of this Code,
provided that agricultural use is permitted pursuant to Title 8, Chapter 2,
Kootenai County Code. Signoffs from other public agencies and an initial
erosion and stormwater risk assessment may be required. In the case of a high
risk site, as defined in Title 8, Chapter 7, Article 7.1, Kootenai County Code,
a site disturbance plan will be required.
   Electrical: Delete electrical exemptions.
R105.3.1.1: Determination of substantially improved or substantially damaged
existing buildings and structures in flood hazard areas. Modify this section to
read as follows:
   For applications for reconstruction, rehabilitation, repair, alteration,
addition, or other improvement of existing buildings or structures located in
flood hazard areas, the building official and floodplain administrator shall
determine if the proposed work constitutes substantial improvement or repair of
substantial damage. Where it is determined that the proposed work constitutes
substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage, the building shall be
required to meet the requirements of Title 8, Chapter 7, Article 7.2, Kootenai
County Code.
R105.5: Expiration. Delete the last sentence of this section and replace it
with the following:
   Extensions of time shall be requested in writing and justifiable cause
demonstrated. If such extension is granted, the applicant shall be assessed a
fee equal to the amount of the re-inspection fee as published in the most
recent fee resolution adopted by the Board.
   Exception: Except as determined by the building official, no building permit
which was issued prior to January 1, 2014 shall be eligible for an extension of
time.
R106.1: Submittal documents. Delete this section and replace it with the
following:
   General. Submittal documents consisting of construction documents, statement
of special inspections, geotechnical report, structural observation programs
and other data shall be submitted electronically with each permit application.
Any submittal that does not comply with prescriptive structural requirements of
this Code must be designed or partially designed under standard engineering
practice. Any design which is the result of standard engineering practice shall
be accompanied by supporting calculations for all load combinations and all
sheets of plans containing engineered items must bear the seal and signature of
the responsible design professional.
   Exceptions:
      1. The building official is authorized to waive the submission of
construction documents and other data not required to be prepared by an Idaho
licensed architect or engineer if it is found that the nature of the work
applied for is such that review of construction documents is not necessary to
obtain compliance with this code.
      2. The building official is authorized to waive the submission of
electronic documents under special circumstances.
R106.1.4: Information for construction in flood hazard areas. Revise the first
sentence of this section to read as follows:
   For buildings and structures located in whole or in part in flood hazard
areas as established in Title 8, Chapter 7, Article 7.2, Kootenai County Code,
construction documents shall include:
R108.3: Building permit valuations. Delete this section and replace it with the
following:
   Valuation for permit fee calculations shall be set by the building official
in accordance with the current fee resolution adopted by the Board of County
Commissioners.
R109.1.3: Floodplain inspections. Delete this section.
R110.3: Certificate issued. Modify the first paragraph of this section to read
as follows:
   After the building official inspects the building or structure and finds no
violations of the provisions of this code or other laws that are enforced by
the Community Development Department, and finds evidence of final approval from
all relevant agencies with jurisdiction, including, but not limited to, the
fire district, highway district, Idaho Transportation Department, Panhandle
Health District, sewer districts, the Idaho State Electrical Inspector, the
Idaho State Plumbing Inspector, the Idaho Department of Health and Welfare, the
Idaho Department of Lands, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, and the Kootenai
County Airport, the Building Official shall issue a certificate of occupancy
that contains the following:
R112.1: General. Delete this section and replace it with the following:
   In order to hear and decide appeals of orders, decisions, or determinations
made by the building official relative to the application and interpretation of
this code, there shall be and is hereby created a Board of Appeals. The Board
of Appeals shall consist of the Kootenai County Board of Commissioners. Appeals
shall be conducted in accordance with Section
7.1.406  of this chapter and Title 8, Chapter 8, Article 8.5, Kootenai County
Code.
R112.3: Qualifications. Delete this section.
R202: Definitions.
   Delete the definition of “MANUFACTURED HOME” and replace it with the
following:
      MANUFACTURED HOME and MOBILE HOME: Shall be as defined in Section 39-
4105, Idaho Code. A mobile home shall be considered a manufactured home for
purposes of this code, provided that any application for setting or significant
modification of a mobile home must be accompanied by a rehabilitation
certificate issued by the State of Idaho, Division of Building Safety.
   Add the following to the definition of “DWELLING UNIT”:
      For purposes of determining fire separation, energy, insulation,
fenestration and exit configuration, habitable space or occupiable conditioned
space contained within a detached residential accessory building shall be
considered as part of the dwelling unit that the building is accessory to
unless all elements of a dwelling unit are contained within that space.
   Add the following definitions:
      AGRICULTURAL BUILDING: A structure designed and constructed to house farm
implements, hay, grain, poultry, livestock or other horticultural products,
provided the building is situated on land actively devoted to agricultural
pursuits as defined in Section 63-604, Idaho Code and is not being used solely
to house equine species such as horses which are owned by the property owner
and are used primarily for the owner’s pleasure. This structure shall not be a
place of human habitation or a place of employment where agricultural products
are processed, treated or packaged, nor shall it be a place used by the public.
      MODULAR BUILDING: Shall be as defined in Section 39-4301, Idaho Code.
      LANDING PLATFORM: A landing provided as the top step of a stairway
providing egress from a loft.
      LOFT: A space on an intermediate level between the floor and ceiling of a
dwelling or sleeping unit, open on one or more sides to the room or space in
which the loft is located. Lofts meeting dimensional requirements of habitable
space must meet all the habitable space requirements.
      SLEEPING UNIT: A single unit that provides rooms or spaces for one or
more persons, including permanent provisions for sleeping, and may also include
provisions for living, eating, sanitation and kitchen facilities.
      TINY HOUSE: A structure supported by a permanent foundation system in
compliance with this Code that is intended to be utilized for human habitation
as a dwelling unit designed and constructed under provisions of Appendix Q of
this Code.
R301.2: Climatic and geographic design criteria. Delete Table R301.2(1) and
replace it with the following:
   Table R301.2(1)
   Climatic and Geographic Design Criteria
Ground Snow Load                                  Varies1
Wind Speed (MPH)                                   Fastest Mile: 90 mph
                                                   Three Second gust: 115 mph
Air Freezing Index                                1500
Mobile/Manufactured Snow Load                     30 psf minimum1
Seismic Design Category                           C
                                  Weathering       Severe
Subject to Damage From            Frost Line Depth 24"
                                  Termite          Slight
                                  Decay            Slight
Ice Barrier Underlayment Required                 Yes
 
   1The ground snow loads to be used in determining the design snow loads shall
be determined using the factors and methodology contained in the publication
entitled Ground and Roof Snow Loads for Idaho, and the accompanying map
entitled Normalized Ground Snow Loads for Idaho, by the University of Idaho,
Moscow, Idaho, 1986. Methodology for determining design snow loads shall be as
required in IBC Section 1608.1.
R301.2.1.2 Protection of Openings. Delete this section.
R301.2.3: Snow loads. Delete this section and replace it with the following:
   Wood framed construction, cold formed steel framed construction, and masonry
and concrete construction on land parcels with a ground snow load not exceeding
70 psf may be in accordance with Chapters 5, 6, and 8. The flat roof snow load
for buildings to be located on land parcels with a ground snow load not
exceeding 60 psf may be either a minimum of 40 psf or designed in accordance
with accepted engineering practice. The flat roof snow load for buildings to be
located on land parcels with a ground snow load greater than 60 psf but not
exceeding 70 psf may be either a minimum of 50 psf or designed in accordance
with accepted engineering practice. The flat roof snow load for buildings
located on land parcels with a ground snow load greater than 70 psf but not
exceeding 85 psf may be either a minimum of 60 psf or designed in accordance
with accepted engineering practice. Buildings to be located on land parcels
with a ground snow load greater than 85 psf shall be designed in accordance
with accepted engineering practice.
R301.2.3.1: Mobile, manufactured, and modular buildings. Add a new section
R301.2.3.1 as follows:
   R301.2.3.1: Mobile, manufactured, and modular buildings. Any manufactured or
mobile home newly set in the unincorporated area of Kootenai County, including
within mobile home parks, must be documented as meeting no less than a 30
pounds per square foot roof snow load. Any manufactured or mobile home that is
not listed as meeting the minimum roof snow requirements of sections 1608.1 and
1608.2 of the International Building Code, as amended by this article, may
satisfy these requirements by one of the following methods:
      a. A self-supporting ramada (roof cover) is erected over the manufactured
or mobile home. Such a cover must meet the appropriate snow load requirements
as required in this document and the adopted codes specific to its proposed
location. A separate building permit shall be obtained for the ramada prior to
or at the same time as the setting permit.
      b. An engineering report, with supporting calculations, shall be prepared
by a State of Idaho licensed professional engineer which documents that the
mobile or manufactured home is capable of resisting the snow loads specific to
its proposed location, pursuant to this document and the adopted codes.
      c. The mobile or manufactured home is altered so that it is capable of
resisting the snow loads specific to its proposed location. The submittal
documents for such an alteration shall contain supporting design calculations
and be the design prepared by a State of Idaho licensed professional engineer.
   Exceptions:
      1. Any mobile or manufactured home which can be verified as being
currently legally set in conformance with all Kootenai County and State of
Idaho regulations may be re-located within the jurisdiction of Kootenai County
without demonstrating compliance with options (a), (b), or (c) above, provided
said structure can be verified as being constructed to meet a minimum roof snow
load of 30 pounds per square foot. Compliance with other applicable statutes,
rules, and ordinances is required.
      2. Any mobile or manufactured home which will be utilized as an approved
temporary hardship unit as defined in Title 8, Kootenai County Code, may be
approved by the building official for issuance of a building permit without
demonstrating compliance with options (a), (b), or (c) above, provided said
structure can be verified as being constructed to meet a minimum roof snow load
of 30 pounds per square foot.
R301.2.4: Floodplain construction. Delete this section.
R301.2.4.1: Alternative provisions. Delete this section.
Table R302.1(1): Delete this table and replace it with the following:
   Table R302.1(1)
   Exterior Walls
EXTERIOR WALL ELEMENT MINIMUM FIRE RESISTANCE RATING MINIMUM FIRE SEPARATION
                                                     DISTANCE
EXTERIOR WALL ELEMENT                  MINIMUM FIRE         MINIMUM FIRE
                                       RESISTANCE RATING    SEPARATION DISTANCE
                                       1 hour-tested in
                                       accordance with ASTM
                                       E 119, UL263, or
                  Fire-resistance      Section 703.3 of the < 3 feet
Walls             rated                International
                                       Building Code with
                                       exposure from both
                                       sides
                  Not fire- resistance 0 hours              3 feet
                  rated
                                       1 hour on the
                  Fire-resistance      underside, or heavy
                  rated                timber, or fire      2 feet to < 3 feet
Projections                            retardant-treated
                                       wooda, b
                  Not fire- resistance 0 hours              3 feet
                  rated
                  Not allowed          N/A                  < 3 feet
Openings in Walls 25% maximum of wall  0 hours              3 feet to < 5 feet
                  area
                  Unlimited            0 hours              5 feet
                                       Comply with Section  < 3 feet
Penetrations      All                  R302.4
                                       None required        3 feet
 
   For Sl: I foot = 304.8 mm.   N/A = Not Applicable
   a The fire-resistance rating shall be permitted to be reduced to zero (0)
hours on the underside of the eave overhang if fireblocking is provided from
the wall top plate to the underside of the roof sheathing.
   b The fire-resistance rating shall be permitted to be reduced to zero (0)
hours on the underside of the rake overhang where gable vent openings are not
installed.
R302.6: Dwelling/garage fire separation. Delete this section and replace it
with the following:
The private garage shall be separated from a dwelling unit and its attic area
with no less than one layer of 5/8" Type X Gypsum Board or equivalent on the
garage side. If the garage ceiling is utilized as part of the separation, the
entire garage must be lined with 5/8" type X Gypsum Board or equivalent. If
there is habitable, occupiable, or any conditioned space above a garage space,
the garage side of the floor/ceiling assembly shall be protected with no less
than two layers of 5/8" Type X Gypsum Board or equivalent and the entire garage
must be lined with 5/8" type X Gypsum Board or equivalent. If a common door is
provided, it shall be a self-closing, tight-fitting solid-wood door 13/8 inches
in thickness, or a self-closing, tight-fitting 20-minute fire-rated door, or
solid or honeycomb steel doors not less than 13/8 inches thick. Openings from a
private garage directly into a room used for sleeping purposes shall not be
permitted.
R302.7: Under-stair protection. Delete reference to 1/2" gypsum and replace
with 5/8" type X gypsum.
R322: FLOOD-RESISTANT CONSTRUCTION. Delete this section.
Tables R403.1, R403.1(1), R403.1(2), and R403.1(3): Delete these tables and
replace with a new Table R403.1 (adopted Idaho amendment) as follows:
   Table R403.1
   Minimum Width of Concrete, Precast, or Masonry Footings (Inches)a
Stories LOAD-BEARING VALUE OF SOIL (psf)
        1,500 2,000 3,000 4,000
Stories LOAD-BEARING VALUE OF SOIL (psf)
        1,500 2,000 3,000 4,000
   Conventional light-frame construction
1-Story 12    12    12    12
2-Story 15    12    12    12
3-Story 23    17    12    12
   4-inch brick veneer over light frame or 8-inch hollow concrete masonry
1-Story 12    12    12    12
2-Story 21    16    12    12
3-Story 32    24    16    12
8-inch solid or fully grouted masonry
1-Story 16    12    12    12
2-Story 29    21    14    12
3-Story 42    32    21    16
 
   For SI: I inch = 25.4 mm, 1 pound per square foot = 0.0479 kPa.
   aWhere minimum footing width is twelve (12) inches, use of a single Wythe of
solid or fully grouted twelve (12)-inch nominal concrete masonry units is
permitted.
R404: Foundation and Retaining Walls. Add a new section R404.0 as follows:
   R404.0: Use of reinforcement tables contained in this section is permitted
only where the United Soil Classification contained in IRC Section R405.1 has
been determined by a State of Idaho Licensed Design Professional. In lieu of
engineered determination, the following prescriptive reinforcement shall be
used.
   Concrete foundation walls over four feet (4') in height shall be laterally
supported at the top and bottom. The minimum placement of reinforcing bars for
foundation walls which do not exceed four feet (4') in height shall be no
greater than twenty four inches (24") on center and six inches (6") of the top
and bottom of the stem wall horizontally, and forty-eight inches (48") on
center vertically. Minimum placement of reinforcing bars for foundation walls
exceeding four feet (4') in height to a maximum height of nine feet (9') shall
be no greater than eighteen inches (18") on center and six inches (6") of the
top and bottom of the stem wall horizontally, and eighteen inches (18") on
center vertically. All vertical reinforcement shall be embedded into the
footings without ground contact. Minimum reinforcement for all continuous
footings shall be two (2) continuous horizontal reinforcing bars.
   Minimum reinforcing bar size shall be #4. Foundation walls exceeding nine
feet (9') in height must be and all walls are permitted to be otherwise
designed by an Idaho licensed engineer.
R408.1: Ventilation. Add a new section R408.1.1 as follows:
   R408.1.1: Vapor retarder required. The ground surface of all under-floor
spaces shall be provided with a continuous Class I vapor retarder.
R602.10: Wall Bracing. Delete this section and replace it with the following:
   Buildings shall be braced in accordance with this Section or, when
applicable Section R602.12, or the most current edition of APA System Report
SR” 102 as an alternate method. Where a building, or portion thereof, does not
comply with one (1) or more of the bracing requirements in this Section, those
portions shall be designed and constructed in accordance with Section R301.1.
G2406.2: Prohibited locations. Delete Item Nos. 3 and 4.
G2445: Unvented Room Heaters. Delete this section in its entirety.
APPENDIX H: Patio Cover. Adopt appendix H in its entirety.
APPENDIX Q: Tiny Homes. Adopt appendix Q in its entirety.
(Ord. 538, 4-18-2019, eff. 4-29-2019; amd. Ord. 559, 12-17-2020, eff. 1-1-2021;
Ord. 603, 10-10-2024; Ord. 608, 1-9-2025)
7.1.303: AMENDMENTS TO INTERNATIONAL FUEL GAS CODE:
The following terms, conditions, and provisions shall be incorporated into the
2018 International Fuel Gas Code adopted pursuant to subsection
7.1.201E of this chapter, and shall be enforced as part of said code. Section
numbers prior to each item refer to those in the International Fuel Gas Code.
   103.2: Appointment. Delete this section.
   103.3: Deputies. Delete this section.
   109: Means of Appeal. Delete this section in its entirety.
   303.3: Prohibited locations. Delete Item Nos. 3 and 4.
   621.4: Prohibited locations. Delete this section and replace it with the
following:
      Unvented room heaters shall not be installed within occupancies in Groups
A, E, I, and R. The location of unvented room heaters shall also comply with
Section 303.3 of this code.
(Ord. 538, 4-18-2019, eff. 4-29-2019; amd. Ord. 559, 12-17-2020, eff. 1-1-2021;
Ord. 608, 1-9-2025)
7.1.304: AMENDMENTS TO INTERNATIONAL MECHANICAL CODE:
The following deletions shall be incorporated into the  2018  International
Mechanical Code adopted pursuant to subsection
7.1.201 D of this chapter. Section numbers prior to each item refer to those in
the International Mechanical Code.
   103.2: Appointment. Delete this section.
   103.3: Deputies. Delete this section.
   109: Means of Appeal. Delete this section in its entirety.
(Ord. 538, 4-18-2019, eff. 4-29-2019; amd. Ord. 559, 12-17-2020, eff. 1-1-2021;
Ord. 608, 1-9-2025)
7.1.305: AMENDMENTS TO INTERNATIONAL ENERGY CONSERVATION CODE:
The following terms, conditions, and provisions shall be incorporated into the
2018 International Energy Conservation Code adopted pursuant to subsection
7.1.201(C) of this chapter. The section numbers prior to each item refer to
those in the International Energy Conservation Code.
   C109: Board of Appeals. Delete this section in its entirety.
   C402.5: Air leakage-thermal envelope (Mandatory). Add an exception as
follows:
      Exception: For buildings having over fifty thousand (50,000) square feet
of conditioned floor area, air leakage testing shall be permitted to be
conducted on less than the whole building, provided the following portions of
the building are tested and their measured air leakage is area-weighted by the
surface areas of the building envelope: 1. The entire floor area of all stories
that have any spaces directly under a roof. 2. The entire floor area of all
stories that have a building entrance or loading dock. 3. Representative above-
grade wall sections of the building totaling at least twenty-five percent (25%)
of the above-grade wall area enclosing the remaining conditioned space. Floor
area tested under subparagraphs 1. or 2. of this exception shall not be
included in the twenty-five percent (25%) of above grade wall sections tested
under this subparagraph.
   R402.4.1: Building Thermal Envelope. Delete this section and replace it with
the following:
      1.   The building thermal envelope of a minimum of twenty percent (20%)
of all new single-family homes constructed by each builder shall comply with
Section R402.4.1.1 (Installation) and Section R402.4.1.2 (Testing). The
authority having jurisdiction may:
         1.1.   Determine how to enforce this requirement, starting with the
fifth house and continuing with each subsequent fifth house.
         1.2.   Waive this requirement if significant testing indicates the
five (5) air changes per hour (ACH) requirement is consistently being met or
exceeded (resulting in a lower ACH).
         1.3.   Grant exceptions to this requirement in rural areas where
testing equipment is not available or cost effective.
      2.   The building thermal envelope of eighty percent (80%) of all new
single-family homes constructed by each builder shall comply with Section
R402.4.1.1 (Installation) and either Section R402.4.1.2 (Testing) or Section
R402.4.1.3 (Visual inspection).
      3.   The sealing methods between dissimilar materials shall allow for
differential expansion and contraction.
   R402.4.1.1: Installation. Delete this section and replace it with the
following:
      The components of the building thermal envelope as listed in Table
R402.4.1.1 shall be installed in accordance with the manufacturer’s
instructions and the criteria listed in Table R402.4.1.1 as applicable to the
method of construction.
   R402.4.1.3: Visual inspection. Add a new section as follows:
      Building envelope tightness and insulation installation shall be
considered acceptable when the items listed in Table R402.4.1.1 applicable to
the method of construction, are field verified. Where required by code official
an approved party independent from the installer of the insulation shall
inspect the air barrier and insulation.
   R403.5.3: Hot water pipe insulation (Prescriptive). Delete this section and
replace it with the following:
      Insulation for hot water piping with a thermal resistance, R-value, of
not less than R-3 shall be applied to the following:
         1.   Piping serving more than one (1) dwelling unit.
         2.   Piping located outside the conditioned space.
         3.   Piping located under a floor slab.
         4.   Buried piping.
         5.   Supply and return piping in recirculation systems other than
demand recirculation systems.
   R404.1: Lighting equipment (Mandatory). Delete this section and replace it
with the following:
      A minimum of seventy-five percent (75%) of the lamps in permanently
installed lighting fixtures shall be high-efficacy lamps or a minimum of
seventy-five percent (75%) of the permanently installed lighting fixtures shall
contain only high efficacy lamps.
   R406.3: Energy Rating Index. Delete this Section and replace it with the
following:
      The Energy Rating Index (FRI) shall be determined in accordance with
RESNET/ICC 301. Energy used to recharge or refuel a vehicle used for
transportation on roads that are not on the building site shall not be included
in the ERI reference design or the rated design.
   Table R406.4: Delete this table and replace it with the following:
   Table R406.4
   Maximum Energy Rating Index
 
Climate Zone Energy Rating Indexa
5            68
6            68
 
      aWhere onsite renewable energy is included for compliance using the ERI
analysis of Section R406.4, the building shall meet the mandatory requirements
of Section IR406.2, and the building thermal envelope shall be greater than or
equal to the levels of efficiency and SHGC in Table R402.1.2 or Table R402.1.4
of the 2015 International Energy Conservation Code.
(Ord. 538, 4-18-2019, eff. 4-29-2019; amd. Ord. 559, 12-17-2020, eff. 1-1-2021;
Ord. 608, 1-9-2025))
7.1.306: AMENDMENTS TO INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE:
The following deletions shall be incorporated into the 2018 International
Property Maintenance Code adopted pursuant to subsection
7.1.201F of this chapter. Section numbers prior to each item refer to those in
the International Property Maintenance Code.
   103: Department of Property Maintenance Inspection. Delete section in its
entirety.
   109.4: Emergency repairs. Delete section.
   109.5: Costs of emergency repairs. Delete section.
   110.3: Failure to comply. Delete section.
   111: Means of Appeal. Delete section in its entirety.
   302.4: Weeds. Delete section.
   304.2: Protective treatment. Delete section.
   304.5: Foundation walls. Delete section.
   304.6: Exterior walls. Delete section.
   304.13: Window, skylight and door frames. Delete section.
   304.14: Insect screens. Delete section.
   304.15: Doors. Delete section.
   304.16: Basement hatchways. Delete section.
   304.17: Guards for basement windows. Delete section.
   304.18: Building security. Delete section and all subsections thereunder.
   304.19: Gates. Delete section.
   305.1: General. Delete section.
   305.3: Interior surfaces. Delete section.
   305.6: Interior doors. Delete section.
   306.1.1: Unsafe conditions. Delete Item 3 and all items thereunder.
   308.2: Disposal of rubbish. Delete sections and all subsections thereunder.
   308.3: Disposal of garbage. Delete sections and all subsections thereunder.
   309: Pest Elimination. Delete section in its entirety.
   Chapter 4: Light, Ventilation and Occupancy Limitations. Delete chapter in
its entirety.
   Chapter 5: Plumbing Facilities and Fixture Requirements. Delete chapter in
its entirety.
   Chapter 6: Mechanical and Electrical Requirements. Delete chapter in its
entirety.
   Chapter 7: Fire Safety Requirements. Delete chapter in its entirety.
(Ord. 538, 4-18-2019, eff. 4-29-2019; amd. Ord. 559, 12-17-2020, eff. 1-1-2021;
Ord. 608, 1-9-2025)
7.1.307: AMENDMENTS TO INTERNATIONAL EXISTING BUILDING CODE:
The following deletions shall be incorporated into the 2018 International
Existing Building Code adopted pursuant to subsection
7.1.201G of this chapter. Section numbers prior to each item refer to those in
the International Existing Building Code.
   103.2: Appointment. Delete section.
   103.3: Deputies. Delete section.
   112: Board of Appeals. Delete section in its entirety.
(Ord. 538, 4-18-2019, eff. 4-29-2019; amd. Ord. 559, 12-17-2020, eff. 1-1-2021)
ARTICLE 1.4. ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
7.1.401: Administrative Authority
7.1.402: Inter-Department And Interagency Coordination
7.1.403: Correction Of Existing Violations
7.1.404: Vesting Of Permit Applications
7.1.405: Right Of Entry
7.1.406: Appeal From Administrative Rulings
7.1.407: Remedies And Penalties
7.1.401: ADMINISTRATIVE AUTHORITY:
The building official, or his designee, shall be responsible for administering
and enforcing the provisions of this chapter, other related provisions of this
Code, and the codes adopted herein with the exception of the International Fire
Code. The building official may establish procedures for permit applications,
plan checking, issuance of permits, and field inspections, and may collect
fees, as approved by resolution of the Board, for services associated with the
administration of building permits. (Ord. 538, 4-18-2019, eff. 4-29-2019)
7.1.402: INTER-DEPARTMENT AND INTERAGENCY COORDINATION:
To ensure effective coordination with other departments, agencies and
organizations with jurisdiction, the building official may request comment and/
or require approval from affected agencies prior to issuance of permits, and
prior to final approval and/or issuance of a Certificate of Occupancy.
Applications shall meet the following requirements:
   A.   Demonstrate that the proposal meets the requirements of this chapter,
the codes adopted herein, and the requirements of all other applicable
provisions of this Code. With the application, the applicant shall provide
copies of Orders of Decision approving any associated applications, such as
those for variances, conditional use permits, temporary hardship permits, final
subdivision plats, planned unit developments, or zone changes.
   B.   Demonstrate that the proposal has received required permits and
approvals from Panhandle Health District and sewer and water districts.
   C.   Demonstrate that the proposal has received required access, approach,
or encroachment permits or approvals from the highway district, Idaho
Transportation Department, the Kootenai County Airport, and the fire protection
district, as applicable.
   D.   For mobile or manufactured home setting permits, provide verification
from the Appraisal Division of the Kootenai County Assessor's Office that
applicable taxes have been paid.
   E.   For encroachments into surface water or wetlands, demonstrate that the
proposal has received required encroachment permits from the Idaho Department
of Lands, Idaho Department of Water Resources, or the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers.
   F.   Demonstrate that the proposal complies with all applicable requirements
of the fire protection district with jurisdiction, including, without
limitation, the International Fire Code, and has received approval from that
fire protection district. (Ord. 538, 4-18-2019, eff. 4-29-2019)
7.1.403: CORRECTION OF EXISTING VIOLATIONS:
Applications for permits authorized by this chapter will not be processed until
all violations of any provision of this Code on the subject parcel are
corrected, except when the purpose of the permit is to correct such violations.
(Ord. 538, 4-18-2019, eff. 4-29-2019)
7.1.404: VESTING OF PERMIT APPLICATIONS:
   A.   Building permits shall be governed by the laws and regulations in
effect at the time a complete permit application is accepted.
   B.   Location permits issued, and applications for location permits
submitted, pursuant to ordinance provisions previously in effect shall be
vested under the provisions of the ordinance in effect at the time of
application. Such location permits shall expire one year after issuance, and
shall, upon request, be extended by the Director for successive one-year
periods. If an extension request is not made by the property owner before the
permit expires, the structure shall be deemed complete and transferred to the
property assessment rolls. (Ord. 538, 4-18-2019, eff. 4-29-2019)
7.1.405: RIGHT OF ENTRY:
The property owner or authorized agent's signature on a permit application
shall constitute approval for the department to enter onto and inspect the
property and structures associated with a permit or application. (Ord. 538, 4-
18-2019, eff. 4-29-2019)
7.1.406: APPEAL FROM ADMINISTRATIVE RULINGS:
   A.   Any affected person, agency or organization may appeal a decision made
by the building official by submitting, within twenty eight (28) days of the
decision, a written request for an appeal hearing before the Board, an
explanation of the grounds for the appeal, and applicable fees.
      1.   An affected person is defined as one having a bona fide interest in
real property which may be affected by the decision.
      2.   Appeal hearings shall be conducted in accordance with title 8,
chapter 8, article 8.5 of this Code. The Board may adopt additional procedures
for the hearing of appeals by ordinance or resolution.
      3.   The final decision on the appeal shall be made by the Board of
County Commissioners.
   B.   Appeals shall be based on a claim that the true intent of this Code, or
any of the codes adopted herein, has been incorrectly interpreted, the
provisions of this Code do not fully apply, or an equally good or better form
of construction is proposed. A denial of a permit or Certificate of Occupancy
due to the refusal of a jurisdiction other than Kootenai County to approve the
permit or certificate, may also be appealed.
   C.   The Board shall not have authority to waive any requirement of any of
the codes adopted herein. (Ord. 538, 4-18-2019, eff. 4-29-2019)
7.1.407: REMEDIES AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Legal Action: Any person who violates any provisions of this chapter,
or the codes adopted herein, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable as
provided in section 39-4126, Idaho Code. The building official may also seek
equitable relief from a court of competent jurisdiction to restrain conduct in
violation of this chapter or to compel performance of duties established under
this chapter. Each structure that is in violation of any provision of this
chapter, and each day of an ongoing offense, will be considered a separate
violation for purposes of both civil and criminal action.
   B.   Withholding Of Permits:
      1.   The building official may withhold permits, including building
permits and certificates of occupancy, on lots or parcels of land where a
violation of any provision of this Code then exists. The building official may
also suspend issuance of permits, including building permits and certificates
of occupancy, to applicants who have demonstrated a record of unresolved
noncompliance with the provisions of this Code.
      2.   If a permit is withheld, the building official shall set forth the
nature of noncompliance in writing. The applicant may submit a written response
to the compliance issues raised by the building official. Upon consideration of
the response and the full record of performance, the building official shall
issue a final ruling in the case, which may include a list of conditions which
must be met before any additional permits may be issued. A decision of the
building official may be appealed within twenty eight (28) days of issuance
according to the procedure outlined in section
7.1.406 of this article.
   C.   Stop Work Orders: Whenever any terrain modification, construction or
other site work is not in compliance with any provision of this chapter,
adopted codes, conditions of approval, or related laws, regulations or
requirements, including, without limitation, title 8, chapter 7, article 7.1 of
this Code, the building official may order the work stopped by written notice.
Such notice shall be served on any persons engaged in doing or causing such
work to be done, and persons shall stop such work until authorized by the
building official to proceed. A stop work order may be appealed within twenty
eight (28) days of issuance according to the procedure outlined in section
7.1.406 of this article.
   D.   Notice Of Building Ordinance Violation: If a permit expires prior to
the final inspection, or if the applicant fails to obtain a Certificate of
Occupancy as required under this chapter, or if the building official
determines that an applicant has failed to comply with any provision of this
chapter, the codes adopted herein, or any other provision of this Code, the
building official may issue a Notice of Building Ordinance Violation, subject
to the following provisions.
      1.   The building official shall prepare and mail, via certified mail, a
Notice of Building Ordinance Violation. The notification shall include:
         a.   The property owner and the legal description of the parcel.
         b.   The nature of the violation.
         c.   The remedial action that must be undertaken to resolve the
violation.
         d.   The length of time allotted to resolve the violation.
         e.   Information regarding the process for appeal.
      2.   The property owner shall have forty five (45) days from the date the
notice was mailed to resolve the violation. If resolution does not occur within
the forty five (45) day time period, the Notice of Building Ordinance Violation
shall be filed in the Office of the County Recorder. A copy of the recorded
notice shall be mailed to the property owner via certified mail.
      3.   A Notice of Building Ordinance Violation may be appealed within
twenty eight (28) days of issuance according to the procedure outlined in
section
7.1.406 of this article.
      4.   If the Board affirms the violation on appeal, the decision of the
Board shall specify an exact number of days for the property owner to comply
with the applicable provisions of this chapter before the Notice of Building
Ordinance Violation is recorded. If the Board reverses the violation on appeal,
the decision of the Board shall specify the actions to be taken by the building
official to release the violation. The Board may also elect to add or remove
conditions of remedial action.
      5.   At such time as the Building Ordinance violation is resolved, the
owner shall pay the fee specified in the current adopted fee schedule and the
building official shall file in the Office of the County Recorder a Release of
Notice of Building Ordinance Violation. The Release shall contain all of the
information contained in the Notice of Building Ordinance Violation, as well as
the corrective action taken to resolve the violation. A copy of the release
shall be mailed to the owner, via certified mail.
   E.   Compliance Agreements: The building official may enter into compliance
agreements on a case by case basis, subject to the following provisions or
conditions:
      1.   The building official finds that the violations that are the subject
of the compliance agreement do not pose an imminent threat to people or
property.
      2.   The party responsible for compliance agrees to remedy the violation
(s) in an expeditious manner by a certain date.
      3.   The party responsible for compliance agrees to hold the building
official and Kootenai County harmless and to defend against any claims arising
through operation of the compliance agreement. The responsible party shall
provide evidence of general liability coverage for personal injury and property
damage for the premises subject to the compliance agreement, with Kootenai
County named as an additional insured.
      4.   The responsible party shall pay any costs and/or attorney fees
incurred to enforce a compliance agreement.
   F.   Effect Of Article: The provisions of this article shall be construed to
supersede any conflicting administrative provisions contained in any code
adopted by this chapter, including, without limitation, any provisions
regarding Appeal Boards. (Ord. 538, 4-18-2019, eff. 4-29-2019)
CHAPTER 2
HISTORICAL PRESERVATION 1
(Rep. by Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  8.8.302 of this code.
CHAPTER 3
PREFABRICATED STRUCTURES
SECTION:
7.3.101: Authority
7.3.102: Purpose
7.3.103: Definitions
7.3.104: Moving Or Sale Of Prefabricated Structure
7.3.105: Violation; Penalties
7.3.101: AUTHORITY:
In addition to the authorities set out in section
1-1-2 of this code, this chapter is enacted and adopted pursuant to the
authority granted by the application provisions of title 63, Idaho Code. (Ord.
456, 12-19-2011)
7.3.102: PURPOSE:
This chapter is necessary for the effective assessment and collection of
property taxes on manufactured homes, mobile homes and modular buildings. (Ord.
456, 12-19-2011)
7.3.103: DEFINITIONS:
 
ASSESSOR:                The duly elected or appointed county assessor of
                         Kootenai County, Idaho, or his or her designee.
                         Shall include any structure meeting the definition of
                         either a manufactured home, as defined in section 39-
                         4105(8), Idaho Code, a mobile home, as defined in
PREFABRICATED STRUCTURE: section 39-4105(9), Idaho Code, or a modular building,
                         as defined in section 39-4301(7), Idaho Code, or any
                         successor to any of the Idaho Code provisions set
                         forth herein.
                         The duly elected or appointed county treasurer of
TREASURER:               Kootenai County, Idaho, or his or her designee. (Ord.
                         456, 12-19-2011)
 
7.3.104: MOVING OR SALE OF PREFABRICATED STRUCTURE:
   A.   Moving Into County: The owner of any prefabricated structure entering
Kootenai County shall notify the assessor of the owner's name, mailing address
and the location of the prefabricated structure within thirty (30) days after
its entry into the county.
   B.   Relocating: The owner of the prefabricated structure, or agent thereof,
shall notify the assessor of any planned movement of the prefabricated
structure prior to its movement. The owner or agent shall disclose, to the
fullest extent of his or her knowledge, the present location of the
prefabricated structure and its intended location. The owner shall pay all
property taxes due for the current year and any other property taxes then due
and owing before the prefabricated structure may be moved. Upon payment of all
property taxes due, a tax receipt, which shall be provided at no cost to the
owner by the treasurer, shall be affixed in a conspicuous place on the
prefabricated structure until setting of the prefabricated structure at its new
location has been completed.
   C.   Sale Of Prefabricated Structure: When a prefabricated structure is sold
and remains in Kootenai County, it shall be the responsibility of the
purchaser, within thirty (30) days of the date of sale, to notify the assessor
of the change in ownership, the purchaser's address, and the present location
of the prefabricated structure. If the prefabricated structure is to be moved,
the purchaser shall also comply with the provisions of subsection B of this
section. (Ord. 456, 12-19-2011)
7.3.105: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
A violation of any section of this chapter shall constitute a misdemeanor
punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 456, 12-19-2011)
CHAPTER 4
DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEES
SECTION:
7.4.101: Short Title, Applicability, Exemptions, And Purpose
7.4.102: Legislative Findings
7.4.103: Definitions
7.4.104: Establishment Of Service Areas
7.4.105: Imposition Of Impact Fees; Fee Schedule
7.4.106: Exemptions
7.4.107: Collection Of Impact Fees; Enforcement
7.4.108: Certification
7.4.109: Individual Assessment
7.4.110: Developer Credits And Reimbursement
7.4.111: Methodology For Calculation Of Fire Or EMS Impact Fees
7.4.112: Extraordinary Impact
7.4.113: Fee Payer Refunds
7.4.114: Establishment Of County, Fire District And Kcemss Capital Projects
Funds And Trust Accounts
7.4.115: Expenditure Of Fire Or EMS Impact Fees
7.4.116: Appeals, Protests And Mediation
7.4.117: Periodic Reviews; Annual Budget
7.4.118: Audit
7.4.119: Impact Fee Advisory Committee
7.4.120: Miscellaneous Provisions
7.4.101: SHORT TITLE, APPLICABILITY, EXEMPTIONS, AND PURPOSE:
   A.   Short Title: This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the
Kootenai County Development Impact Fee Ordinance.
   B.   Authority: This chapter is enacted pursuant to the County’s general
police powers and its authority to enact ordinances as set forth in Article
XII, Section 2 of the Idaho Constitution and section 31-714, Idaho Code, its
authority as provided by the Act and other applicable laws of the state of
Idaho to impose and collect development impact fees on its own behalf and on
behalf of a fire protection district or an ambulance district; and the County’s
authority to enter into an Intergovernmental Agreement with one or more fire
protection districts or ambulance districts as provided for in section 67-
8204A, Idaho Code when jointly affected by growth and development for the
purpose of agreeing to impose, collect and expend development impact fees in
order for new growth and development pay their proportionate share of the cost
of public facilities to serve that new growth and development.
   C.   Applicability: This chapter shall apply to the Development of property
located within the boundaries of the following taxing districts in
unincorporated Kootenai County: East Side Fire Protection District, Hauser Lake
Fire Protection District, Kootenai County Fire and Rescue, Mica-Kidd Island
Fire Protection District, Northern Lakes Fire Protection District, Spirit Lake
Fire Protection District, and Timberlake Fire Protection District
(collectively, “the participating Fire Districts”), each city which has entered
into an intergovernmental agreement with the County for the collection and
expenditure of Development Impact Fees (collectively, “the participating
cities”), the Kootenai County Ambulance District, operating by and through the
Kootenai County Emergency Medical Services System (KCEMSS), and Kootenai
County.
   D.   Purpose: The intent of this chapter is to ensure that new residential
and non-residential development bear a proportionate share of the cost of
System Improvements, to ensure that such proportionate share does not exceed
the cost of such System Improvements required to accommodate new Development,
and to ensure that funds collected from new Development are actually used for
System Improvements in accordance with the Act. (Ord. 579, 10-20-2022; amd.
Ord. 604, 11-14-2024)
7.4.102: LEGISLATIVE FINDINGS:
The Board of County Commissioners of Kootenai County, Idaho hereby finds that:
   A.   Kootenai County is experiencing considerable growth and development
within the unincorporated area of the County.
   B.   The new growth and development occurring within unincorporated Kootenai
County is placing, and will continue to place, ever-increasing demands on the
County, on the participating Fire Districts whose boundaries include land in
unincorporated Kootenai County, and on KCEMSS, which serves Kootenai County in
its entirety, to provide, improve and expand existing public safety facilities
to serve that new growth and development, and the tax revenues generated from
that new growth and development does not generate sufficient funds to provide
the necessary improvements and expansion of those public safety facilities to
protect the public health, safety and welfare. Therefore, the users that create
the increased demand should bear their proportionate share of the cost of
public safety facilities needed to serve the new growth and development.
   C.   The County, the participating Fire Districts and KCEMSS have adopted
their respective Capital Improvements Plans by resolution or other official
action. In addition, the County has planned for the improvement of Capital
Facilities in the Capital Improvements chapter of the Kootenai County
Comprehensive Plan, including the approval of the respective Capital
Improvements adopted by the County, the participating Fire Districts and
KCEMSS.
   D.   The Act authorizes counties and cities to adopt a Development Impact
Fee system to offset, recoup, or reimburse the portion of the costs of needed
improvements to the Capital Facilities caused by new Development within the
County.
   E.   The creation of an equitable Development Impact Fee System would
promote the purposes set forth in the Idaho Development Impact Fee Act, in that
it would:
      1.   Ensure that adequate Public Facilities are available to serve new
growth and Development;
      2.   Promote orderly growth and Development by establishing uniform
standards by which local governments may require that those who benefit from
new growth and Development pay a Proportionate Share of the cost of new Public
Facilities needed to serve new growth and Development;
      3.   Ensure that those who benefit from new growth and Development are
required to pay no more than their Proportionate Share of the cost of Public
Facilities needed to serve new growth and Development, and
      4.   Prevent duplicate and ad hoc Development Requirements.
   F.   The creation of an equitable Development Impact Fee system would enable
the County to accommodate new Development, and would assist the County to
implement the Capital Improvements Element of the Comprehensive Plan.
   G.   In order to implement an equitable Development Impact Fee system for
Capital Facilities, the County, the participating Fire Districts and KCEMSS
retained Galena Consulting to prepare impact fee studies for their respective
Capital Facilities, and the County subsequently retained TischlerBise to
prepare an impact fee study pertaining to its proposed Jail Impact Fee (all
collectively referred to as “the Development Impact Fee Studies”). The
Development Impact Fee Studies are incorporated into the Kootenai County
Comprehensive Plan by reference therein, and such chapter has been prepared in
conformance with the requirements of Title 67, Chapters 65 and 82, Idaho Code.
   H.   The methodology used in preparing the Development Impact Fee Studies,
when applied through this chapter, complies with all applicable provisions of
the Act. The incorporation of the Development Impact Fee Studies and all
updates thereto into the Comprehensive Plan satisfies the requirement in
subsection 67-8204(16), Idaho Code for a detailed description of the
methodology by which the Development Impact Fees were calculated, and the
requirement in subsection 67-8204(24), Idaho Code for a description of
acceptable Levels of Service for System Improvements.
   I.   The Development Impact Fee Studies set forth reasonable methodologies
and analyses for determining the impacts of various types of new Development on
Capital Facilities, and determines the cost of acquiring or constructing the
improvements necessary to meet the demands for such facilities created by new
Development.
   J.   In accordance with Idaho Code, the Development Impact Fee Studies are
based on actual System Improvement Costs or reasonable estimates of such costs.
In addition, the Development Impact Fee Studies use a Fee calculation
methodology that is net of credits for the Present Value of revenues that will
be generated by new growth and Development based on historical funding patterns
and that are anticipated to be available to pay for System Improvements,
including taxes, assessments, user fees, and intergovernmental transfers.
   K.   The Development Impact Fees described in this Chapter are based on the
Development Impact Fee Studies, and do not exceed the costs of System
Improvements for Capital Facilities to serve new Development that will pay the
Development Impact Fees.
   L.   The fire Public Facilities included in the calculation of Fees in the
Development Impact Fee Studies are provided by the participating Fire
Districts, each of which serves certain portions of Kootenai County, and will
benefit new growth and development occurring within each respective district.
Therefore, it is appropriate to treat each participating Fire District as a
separate Service Area for purposes of calculating, collecting and spending the
Development Impact Fees collected from residential and nonresidential
Development for these Public Facilities.
   M.   The EMS Public Facilities included in the calculation of Fees in the
Development Impact Fee Studies will benefit all new growth and development
throughout the County in its entirety. Therefore, it is appropriate to treat
all land within the unincorporated area of Kootenai County in its entirety,
plus all land within the city limits of each participating city which agrees to
collect the EMS Impact Fee in that city, as a single Service Area for purposes
of calculating, collecting and spending the Development Impact Fees collected
from residential and nonresidential Development for these Public Facilities.
   N.   The County Capital Facilities included in the calculation of the Jail
Impact Fee in the Development Impact Fee Studies will benefit all new growth
and development throughout the County in its entirety. Therefore, it is
appropriate to treat all land within the unincorporated area of Kootenai County
in its entirety, plus all land within the city limits of each participating
city which agrees to collect the Jail Impact Fee in that city, as a single
Service Area for purposes of calculating, collecting and spending the Jail
Development Impact Fee collected from residential and nonresidential
Development for those Public Facilities.
   O.   There is both a rational nexus and a rough proportionality between the
Development impacts created by each type of Development covered by this Chapter
and the Development Impact Fees that such Development will be required to pay.
   P.   This chapter creates a system by which Development Impact Fees paid by
new Development will be used to finance, defray, or reimburse a portion of the
costs incurred by the County, the participating Fire Districts, and KCEMSS to
construct improvements for Capital Facilities in ways that benefit the
Development for which each Development Impact Fee was paid within a reasonable
period of time after the Development Impact Fee is paid, and in conformance
with section 67-8210, Idaho Code.
   Q.   This chapter creates a system under which Development Impact Fees shall
not be used to correct existing deficiencies for any capital facilities, or to
replace or rehabilitate existing improvements, or to pay for routine operation
or maintenance of those facilities.
   R.   This chapter creates a system under which there shall be no double
payment of Development Impact Fees, in accordance with subsection 67-8204(19),
Idaho Code.
   S.   Fire Protection Districts organized pursuant to Title 31, Chapter 14,
Idaho Code do not have authority to make and adopt ordinances as a method of
carrying out their statutory duties.
   T.   The Kootenai County Ambulance District, organized pursuant to Title 31,
Chapter 14, Idaho Code and which is a party to the Master Joint Powers
Agreement establishing KCEMSS, also does not have authority to make and adopt
ordinances as a method of carrying out its statutory and contractual duties.
   U.   The Act requires a “governmental entity,” as defined in the Act, to
adopt an ordinance in order to impose and collect development impact fees.
   V.   The Act does provide, pursuant to section 67-8204A, Idaho Code, in
circumstances where the County and a Fire Protection District, Ambulance
District or City are both affected by the considerable growth and development,
that the County and that Fire Protection District, Ambulance District or City
may enter into an intergovernmental agreement for the purpose of agreeing to
collect and expend Development Impact Fees for System Improvements which
provides for a new funding mechanism for those System Improvements Costs
incurred by the Fire Protection District, Ambulance District, County or City to
meet the demand and growth then occurring, and which promotes and accommodates
orderly growth and development and protects the public health, safety and
general welfare of the people, residential and non-residential establishments
within the boundaries of the County.
   W.   The County has constitutional authority to make and adopt ordinances
pursuant to Article XII, Section 2 of the Idaho Constitution, and it also has
statutory authority to make and adopt ordinances pursuant to section 31-714,
Idaho Code and the Act.
   X.   This Chapter is consistent with all applicable provisions of Title 67,
Chapter 82, Idaho Code, concerning Development Impact Fee Ordinances. (Ord.
579, 10-20-2022; amd. Ord. 604, 11-14-2024)
7.4.103: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the following
meanings, unless another meaning is plainly intended, and words and terms
appearing in the singular number includes the plural and the plural the
singular:
ACT: The Development Impact Fee Act, Title 67, Chapter 82, Idaho Code.
AMBULANCE DISTRICT: The Kootenai County Ambulance District, organized pursuant
to Title 31, Chapter 39, Idaho Code, in which the County Commissioners serve as
the governing board thereof.
APPROPRIATE: To legally obligate by contract or otherwise commit to the
expenditure of funds by appropriation or other official act of the Board of
Commissioners of a participating Fire District, the County Commissioners on
behalf of the Kootenai County Ambulance District and/or KCEMSS, or the KCEMSS
Joint Powers Board.
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS: Refers to either the Board of Commissioners of a
participating Fire District or the KCEMSS Joint Powers Board, as applicable.
BUILDING PERMIT: An official document or certificate issued by the County
pursuant to Chapter 1 of this title which authorizes the construction or siting
of any structure or the setting of a mobile home, manufactured home, or modular
building.
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS: A component of the Capital Improvements Plan adopted by
the County, or between the County and a participating Fire District or KCEMSS
pursuant to Title 67, Chapter 82, Idaho Code, which meets the requirements of
capital improvements plans set forth in the Act.
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS ELEMENT: A component of the Capital Improvements Plan
adopted by the County and a participating Fire District or KCEMSS pursuant to
Title 67, Chapter 82, Idaho Code, which meets the requirements of capital
improvements plans set forth in the Act.
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS PLAN: A plan adopted pursuant to Title 67, Chapter 82,
Idaho Code that identifies Capital Improvements for which Development Impact
Fees may be used as a funding source.
CAPITAL PROJECTS FUND: Shall mean and refer to the County’s, the participating
Fire District’s or KCEMSS’ Development Impact Fee Capital Projects Fund as
established by action of the County Commissioners, the Board of Commissioners
of the participating Fire District or the KCEMSS Joint Powers Board, as set
forth in resolutions duly adopted by each respective board, and, pursuant to
section
7.4.112 of this chapter and subsection 67-8210(1), Idaho Code, is the
respective Capital Projects Fund into which the County’s, the participating
Fire District’s or KCEMSS’ Impact Fees shall be deposited and maintained by the
County, the participating Fire District or KCEMSS, respectively.
CITY: A municipal corporation organized pursuant to Title 50, Idaho Code.
“Participating city” shall refer to a city which has entered into an
intergovernmental agreement with the County, a participating Fire District and/
or KCEMSS for the collection and expenditure of Development Impact Fees.
COUNTY: Kootenai County, Idaho.
COUNTY CAPITAL FACILITIES: Describes those Kootenai County buildings and
equipment which are Public Facilities identified in the applicable County
Capital Improvements Plan, and specifically including those related costs
including System Improvement Costs, but not including maintenance, operations,
or improvements that do not expand its capacity.
COUNTY COMMISSIONERS: The Board of County Commissioners of Kootenai County,
Idaho.
COUNTY IMPACT FEE or FEES: Refers to the Development Impact Fees duly adopted
by the County Commissioners pursuant to this chapter.
COUNTY IMPACT FEE ADMINISTRATOR: The Director of Kootenai County Community
Development, or his or her designee.
DEVELOPER: Any person or legal entity undertaking Development and/or the
subdivision of property pursuant to sections 50-1301 through 50-1334, Idaho
Code.
DEVELOPMENT: Any construction or installation of a building or structure, or
any change in use of a building or structure, or any change in the use,
character or appearance of land, which creates additional demand and need for
public facilities and/or subdivision of property that would permit any change
in the use, character or appearance of land.
DEVELOPMENT APPROVAL: Any written duly authorized document from the County
which authorizes the commencement of a Development.
DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEE: See Impact Fee.
DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENT: A requirement attached to an approval of particular
Development or other County governmental action approving or authorizing a
particular Development project including, but not limited to, a rezoning, which
requirement compels the payment, dedication or contribution of goods, services,
land or money as condition of approval.
DWELLING UNIT: Any structure, or portion thereof, providing living facilities
for one family as herein defined, including provisions for living, sleeping,
eating, cooking and sanitation.
EXTRAORDINARY COSTS: Those costs incurred as result of an extraordinary impact.
EXTRAORDINARY IMPACT: An impact which is reasonably determined by the County, a
participating Fire District, or KCEMSS to:
   A.   Result in the need for County, Fire or EMS System Improvements, the
cost of which will significantly exceed the sum of the Development Impact Fees
to be generated from the project or the sum agreed to be paid pursuant to a
development agreement as allowed by subsection 67-8214(2), Idaho Code; or
   B.   Result in the need for County, Fire or EMS System Improvements which
are not identified in the applicable Capital Improvements Plan(s). Plan(s).
FAMILY: Shall be as defined in section
8.9.202 of this code.
FEE PAYER: The person who pays or is required to pay the Development Impact
Fees provided for in this chapter. A fee payer may include a Developer.
FIRE DISTRICT: A fire protection district organized pursuant to Title 31,
Chapter 14, Idaho Code. "Participating Fire District" shall refer to a Fire
District which has entered into an intergovernmental agreement with the County
for the collection and expenditure of Development Impact Fees.
FIRE DISTRICT IMPACT FEE ADMINISTRATOR: The Administrator of Development Impact
Fees for or on behalf of the participating Fire District, or his or her
designee.
FIRE or EMS CAPITAL FACILITIES: Describes those stations, apparatuses, vehicles
and equipment of the participating Fire District or KCEMSS which are Public
Facilities identified in the applicable Capital Improvements Plan, and
specifically including those related costs including System Improvement Costs,
but not including maintenance, operations, or improvements that do not expand
their capacity.
GOVERNING BOARD: The County Commissioners, the Board of Commissioners of a
participating Fire District, the Mayor and City Council of a participating
City, or the KCEMSS Joint Powers Board, as applicable.
IMPACT FEE: A payment of money imposed as condition of Development Approval to
pay for a proportionate share of the costs of System Improvements needed to
serve the Development. This term shall not include the following:
   A.    A charge or fee to pay the administrative plan review, or inspection
cost associated with permits required for Development;
   B.    Connection or hookup charges;
   C.    Availability charges for drainage, sewer, water or transportation
charges for services provided directly to the development; or
   D.    Amounts collected from a Developer in a transaction in which the
County, the participating Fire District or KCEMSS has incurred expenses in
constructing Capital Improvements for the Development if the Owner or Developer
has agreed to be financially responsible for the construction or installation
of those Capital Improvements, unless a written agreement is made, pursuant to
subsection 67-8209(3), Idaho Code, for credit or reimbursement.
INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT: An agreement between the County and a
participating City, a participating Fire District or KCEMSS, or between a
participating City and a participating Fire District or KCEMSS, pursuant to
section 67-8204A, Idaho Code, for the collection and expenditure of County,
Fire or EMS Impact Fees, as applicable, established pursuant to this chapter.
IMPACT FEE ADVISORY COMMITTEE: The Development Impact Fee Advisory Committee
formed and staffed by the County pursuant to section 67-8205, Idaho Code, to
consider and recommend the respective Capital Improvements Plans prepared by
the County, the participating Fire Districts and KCEMSS, and any amendments,
revisions or updates of the same.
KCEMSS: The Kootenai County Emergency Medical Services System, a joint
administrative entity established via a Master Joint Powers Agreement between
the County Commissioners, in their capacity as the governing board of the
Ambulance District, the City of Coeur d'Alene, and the fire protection
districts located within Kootenai County, for the provision of emergency and
non-emergency medical services within Kootenai County.
KCEMSS IMPACT FEE ADMINISTRATOR: The Administrator of Development Impact Fees
for or on behalf of KCEMSS, or his or her designee.
LAND USE ASSUMPTIONS: A description of the service area and projections of land
uses, densities, intensities and population in the service area over at least a
ten (10) year period.
LEVEL OF SERVICE: A measure of the relationship between service capacity and
service demand for Public Facilities.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure, constructed after June 15, 1976, in accordance
with the HUD manufactured home construction and safety standards, and is
transportable in one (1) or more sections, which, in the traveling mode, is
eight (8) feet or more in width or is forty (40) body feet or more in length,
or when erected on site, is three hundred twenty (320) or more square feet, and
which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling
with or without a permanent foundation when connected to required utilities,
and includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical systems
contained in such structure, except that such term shall include any structure
which meets all the requirements of this subsection except the size
requirements and with respect to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a
certification required by the secretary of housing and urban development and
complies with the standards established under 42 U.S.C. §§ 5401 et seq.
MOBILE HOME: A factory-assembled structure or structures constructed prior to
June 15, 1976, and equipped with the necessary service connections and made so
as to be readily movable as a unit or units on their own running gear and
designed to be used as a dwelling unit or units with or without a permanent
foundation.
MODULAR BUILDING: Any building or building component, other than a manufactured
or mobile home, that is of closed construction and is either entirely or
substantially prefabricated or assembled at a place other than the building
site.
PRESENT VALUE: The total current monetary value of past, present or future
payments, contributions or dedications of goods, services, materials,
construction or money.
PROJECT: A particular Development on an identified parcel of land.
PROJECT IMPROVEMENTS: In contrast to System Improvements, shall mean site
improvements and facilities that are planned and designed to provide service
for a particular Development Project and that are necessary for the use and
convenience of the occupants or users of the Project.
PROPORTIONATE SHARE: That portion of System Improvement Costs determined
pursuant to section 67-8207, Idaho Code which reasonably relates to the service
demands and needs of the Project.
PUBLIC FACILITIES: Land, buildings, apparatus, vehicles and equipment used for
incarceration, fire suppression, protection, and prevention, rescue, and
emergency medical services, and water supply production, storage and
distribution facilities, which have a useful life of ten (10) years or more.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A motor home, travel trailer, fifth-wheel trailer, park
model recreational vehicle, truck camper or folding camping trailer, with or
without motive power, designed for recreational or emergency occupancy. This
definition does not include pickup truck hoods, shells, or canopies designed,
created or modified for occupational usage, but does include school buses and
van-type vehicles which have been converted to recreational use.
SERVICE AREA: Those areas designated as Service Areas pursuant to section
7.4.104 of this chapter.
SERVICE UNIT: A standardized measure of consumption, use, generation or
discharge attributable to an individual unit of Development calculated in
accordance with generally accepted engineering or planning standards for a
particular category of Capital Improvements. As specifically used in this
chapter, service units shall include all dwelling units as defined herein and
also includes nonresidential Development on a square-foot basis.
SYSTEM IMPROVEMENTS: In contrast to Project Improvements, shall mean Capital
Improvements to Public Facilities which are designed to provide service to a
Service Area. For purposes of this chapter, System Improvements are for County,
Fire or EMS Capital Facilities designed to provide both fire protection and
emergency medical services.
SYSTEM IMPROVEMENT COSTS: Costs incurred for construction or reconstruction of
System Improvements, including design, acquisition, engineering and other
costs, and also including, without limitation, the type of costs described in
subsection 50-1702(h), Idaho Code, to provide additional Public Facilities
needed to service new growth and Development.
For clarification, System Improvement Costs do not include:
   A.    Construction, acquisition or expansion of Public Facilities other than
Capital Improvements identified in the Capital Improvements Plan;
   B.    Improvements, repair, operation or maintenance of existing or new
capital;
   C.    Upgrading, updating, expanding or replacing existing Capital
Improvements to serve existing Development in order to meet stricter safety,
efficiency, environmental or regulatory standards;
   D.    Upgrading, updating, expanding or replacing existing Capital
Improvements to provide better service to existing Development;
   E.    Administrative and operating costs of a participating Fire District,
KCEMSS, and/or the County, unless such costs are attributable to Development of
the Capital Improvements Plan, as provided in section 67-8208, Idaho Code, as
it may be amended; or
   F.   Principal payments and interest or other finance charges on bonds or
other indebtedness except financial obligations issued by or on behalf of the
County, the participating Fire District or KCEMSS to finance Capital
Improvements identified in the Capital Improvements Plan.
TRUST ACCOUNT: The interest-bearing account(s) within the County’s, a
participating Fire District’s or KCEMSS’ Impact Fee Capital Projects Fund, as
established in this chapter. (Ord. 579, 10-20-2022; amd. Ord. 604, 11-14-2024)
7.4.104: ESTABLISHMENT OF SERVICE AREAS:
   A.   Establishment of Service Areas for Participating Fire Districts. There
is hereby established a Service Area for each participating Fire District
consisting of all land that is within the boundary of the participating Fire
District and either within the unincorporated area of Kootenai County or within
the city limits of a participating city which agrees to collect the Fire Impact
Fee in that city.
   B.   Establishment of Service Area for KCEMSS. There is hereby established a
Service Area for KCEMSS consisting of all land within the unincorporated area
of Kootenai County in its entirety and all land within the city limits of each
participating city which agrees to collect the EMS Impact Fee in that city.
   C.   Establishment of Service Area for the Kootenai County Jail. There is
hereby established a Service Area for the Kootenai County Jail consisting of
all land within the unincorporated area of Kootenai County in its entirety and
all land within the city limits of each participating city which agrees to
collect the Jail Development Impact Fee in that city. (Ord. 579, 10-20-2022;
amd. Ord. 604, 11-14-2024)
7.4.105: IMPOSITION OF IMPACT FEES; FEE SCHEDULE:
   A.   Imposition of Impact Fees.
      1.   Fire Impact Fees are hereby imposed on all new Development located
within the boundaries of each participating Fire District’s Service Area as set
forth in this section.
      2.   An EMS Impact Fee is hereby imposed on all new Development located
within the Service Area for KCEMSS as set forth in this section.
      3.   A Jail Impact Fee is hereby imposed on all new Development located
within the Service Area for the Kootenai County Jail as set forth in this
section.
   B.   Fee Schedule. Jail, Fire and EMS Impact Fees shall be calculated in
accordance with the fee schedule set forth below, which provides for standard
fees based on the total number of Dwelling Units or square feet of
nonresidential space in the Development, unless (a) the Fee Payer requests an
individual assessment pursuant to section
7.4.109 of this chapter; or (b) the County, the participating Fire District
with jurisdiction, or KCEMSS, as applicable, finds that the Development will
have an Extraordinary Impact pursuant to section
7.4.112 of this chapter. The methodology for determining the costs per Service
Unit provided for in the fee schedule is set forth in the Jail’s, the
participating Fire District’s, or KCEMSS’ Capital Improvements Plan as adopted
by the County pursuant to section 67-8208, Idaho Code.
      1.   East Side Fire Protection District.
         Residential (per Dwelling Unit):          $1,800
         Non-Residential (per square foot):         $0.90
      2.   Hauser Lake Fire Protection District.
         Residential (per Dwelling Unit):         $3,666
         Non-Residential (per square foot):          $1.83
      3.   Kootenai County Emergency Medical Services System (KCEMSS).
         Residential (per Dwelling Unit):          $132
         Non-Residential (per square foot):          $0.07
      4.   Kootenai County Fire and Rescue.
         Residential (per Dwelling Unit):          $1,207
         Non-Residential (per square foot):          $0.60
      5.   Mica-Kidd Island Fire Protection District.
         Residential (per Dwelling Unit):          $1,994
         Non-Residential (per square foot):          $1.00
      6.   Northern Lakes Fire Protection District.
         Residential (per Dwelling Unit):          $1,302
         Non-Residential (per square foot):          $0.65
      7.   Spirit Lake Fire Protection District.
         Residential (per Dwelling Unit):          $1,725
         Non-Residential (per square foot):          $0.98
      8.   Timberlake Fire Protection District.
         Residential (per Dwelling Unit):          $2,842
         Non-Residential (per square foot):          $1.42
      9.   Kootenai County Jail.
         Residential (per Dwelling Unit):
         Single Family                  $1,228
         Multifamily                     $937
      Lodging (per room)                  $877
      Non-Residential (per 1,000 sq. ft. except as indicated):
         Retail                        $1,425
         Office                        $549
         Industrial                     $247
         Institutional                     $546
   C.   Annual Inflationary Adjustment: On January 1 of each calendar year the
impact fee may be adjusted to account for year over year inflationary increases
in System Improvement Costs based on the Construction Cost Index (CCI) prepared
by the Engineering News Record and/or some other inflationary increase as
recommended in the annual periodic report filed by the Impact fee Advisory
Committee. This index measures the cost of construction materials and labor and
is distinctly different from the Consumer Price Index.
   D.   Developer’s Election: A Developer shall have the right to elect to pay
a project’s proportionate share of System Improvements Costs by payment of
Impact Fees in accordance with this section as full and complete payment of the
Development project’s proportionate share of System Improvements Costs, except
as provided in subsection 67-8214(3), Idaho Code.
   E.   Calculation Of Fees: Upon submittal of a complete application for a
Building Permit or setting permit for the Development to the County or a
participating city, the County shall calculate the Jail, Fire and EMS Impact
Fees for the Development within twenty-eight (28) days of submittal unless:
      1.   The Fee Payer had previously requested and been granted an
individual assessment pursuant to this chapter;
      2.   The County, the participating Fire District or KCEMSS has previously
determined the Development may have an Extraordinary Impact pursuant to this
chapter; or
      3.   The County, the participating Fire District or KCEMSS has previously
determined and entered into a written agreement for impact fee credit or
reimbursement. (Ord. 579, 10-20-2022; amd. Ord. 604, 11-14-2024)
7.4.106: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the following:
      1.   Rebuilding the same amount of floor space of a structure which is
destroyed by fire or other catastrophe, provided the structure is rebuilt and
ready for occupancy within two (2) years of its destruction;
      2.   Remodeling or repairing a structure which does not increase the
number of Service Units;
      3.   Replacing a residential unit, including a manufactured home, mobile
home, or modular building, with another residential unit on the same parcel;
provided that the number of Service Units does not increase;
      4.   Placing a temporary construction trailer or office on a parcel;
      5.   Constructing an addition on a residential structure which does not
increase the number of Service Units;
      6.   Adding accessory uses that are customarily incidental to a
residential use, such as a tennis court or a clubhouse, unless it can be
clearly demonstrated that the use creates a significant impact on the capacity
of System Improvements;
      7.   The placement of a recreational vehicle on a parcel in accordance
with the applicable provisions of Title 8 of this code; or
      8.   The setting of a mobile home, manufactured home, or modular
building, if the Fee Payer can demonstrate by documentation such as utility
bills and tax records that either:
         a.   A mobile home, manufactured home, or modular building was
lawfully in place on the lot or space prior to the effective date of this
chapter; or
         b.   An Impact Fee has been paid previously for the mobile home,
manufactured home, or modular building on that same lot or space.
      9.   Construction, expansion, alteration or other improvement of a
structure performed by the United States government, the State of Idaho, any
county or other political subdivision thereof, or any City or other taxing
district duly established pursuant to the laws of the State of Idaho.
   B.   Exemption Claim Process: A Fee Payer shall claim an exempt development
activity upon application for a Building Permit, or if no Building Permit is
required, before construction or setting commences. Any exemption not so
claimed shall be deemed waived by the Fee Payer. Claims for exemption shall be
determined by the County within fourteen (14) days of receipt of the claim for
exemption. (Ord. 579, 10-20-2022; amd. Ord. 604, 11-14-2024)
7.4.107: COLLECTION OF IMPACT FEES; ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Payment Of Fees: Impact Fees shall be paid to the County at the
following times:
      1.   If a Building Permit is required, then before or at the time the
permit is issued;
      2.   If no Building Permit is required, then before or at the time that
construction commences; or
      3.   At such other time as the Fee Payer or Developer, and the County,
the participating Fire District with jurisdiction and/or KCEMSS, have agreed
upon in writing with notice to the County.
      4.   Payment of County Impact Fees for Development occurring within the
city limits of a participating City shall be as set forth in an
intergovernmental agreement executed by the County and that participating City.
   B.   Enforcement. When any County, Fire or EMS Impact Fee is due pursuant to
this chapter, or pursuant to the terms of any written agreement between a Fee
Payer and the participating County, Fire District or KCEMSS, and such County,
Fire or EMS Impact Fee has not been paid in a timely manner, the County may
exercise any or all of the following powers as applicable to its authority, in
any combination, to enforce the collection of the unpaid County, Fire or EMS
Impact Fee:
      1.   Withhold, suspend, or revoke Building Permits, Certificates of
Occupancy, or other County Development Approvals related to the Development for
which the County, Fire or EMS Impact Fee is due until all County, Fire or EMS
Impact Fees due have been paid, and issue stop work orders for any work
associated with the Development;
      2.   Add interest to the County, Fire or EMS Impact Fee not paid in full
at the legal rate provided for in section 28-22-104, Idaho Code plus five
percent (5%), beginning on the date at which the payment of the County, Fire or
EMS Impact Fee was due until paid in full;
      3.   Impose a penalty of five percent (5%) of the total County, Fire or
EMS Impact Fee (not merely the portion dishonored, late or not paid in full)
per month beginning on the date at which the payment of the County, Fire or EMS
Impact Fee was due until paid in full; and
      4.   Impose a lien pursuant to the authority of subsection 67-8213(4),
Idaho Code, for failure to timely pay a County, Fire or EMS Impact Fee
following the procedures contained in Title 45, Chapter 5, Idaho Code.
   C.   In the event a Fire or EMS Impact Fee is paid directly to a
participating Fire District or KCEMSS, then the Fire District or KCEMSS Impact
Fee Administrator shall immediately notify the County Impact Fee Administrator
of said payment.
   D.   All County, Fire and EMS Impact Fees paid to the County shall be
transferred to the County, Fire District or KCEMSS Impact Fee Administrator, as
applicable, on a monthly basis. (Ord. 579, 10-20-2022; amd. Ord. 604, 11-14-
2024)
7.4.108: CERTIFICATION:
   A.   A Fee Payer may request a written certification of the impact fee
schedule or individual assessment which shall establish the impact fees for
that Development. Such certification shall establish the County, Fire and EMS
Impact Fees so long as there is no material change to the particular
Development as identified in the individual assessment application, or the
impact fee schedule.
   B.   A certification may be applied for in the following manner:
      1.   Requests for certification shall be in writing and made to the
County, Fire District or KCEMSS Impact Fee Administrator.
      2.   Within twenty-eight (28) days after receiving such request, the
County, Fire District or KCEMSS Impact Fee Administrator shall issue a written
certification of the amount of the County, Fire and EMS Impact Fees due for the
proposed Development. The certification shall include an explanation of the
calculation of the County, Fire and EMS Impact Fees, including an explanation
of factors considered under section 67-8207, Idaho Code, and shall also specify
the System Improvement(s) for which the County, Fire and EMS Impact Fees are
intended to be used.
      3.   The Fire District or KCEMSS Impact Fee Administrator shall provide
the certification to the Fee Payer and the County. The County Impact Fee
Administrator shall provide the certification to the Fee Payer. (Ord. 579, 10-
20-2022; amd. Ord. 604, 11-14-2024)
7.4.109: INDIVIDUAL ASSESSMENT:
   A.   Requests for Individual Assessment Authorized. In lieu of calculating
the amount of a County, Fire or EMS Impact Fee using the impact fee schedule in
section 7.4.105 of this chapter, an individual assessment of Impact Fees is
permitted when the Fee Payer demonstrates by clear and convincing evidence that
the established Impact Fee is inappropriate.
   B.   Individual Assessment Process.
      1.   A Fee Payer may file a written request for an Individual Assessment
of the Development by the County, the participating Fire District or KCEMSS
with the County, Fire District or KCEMSS Impact Fee Administrator prior to the
receipt of a Building Permit or other necessary Development Approval from the
County. The Individual Assessment process shall involve consideration of
studies, data, and any other relevant information submitted by the Fee Payer in
support of adjusting the amount of the challenged County, Fire or EMS Impact
Fee(s). If a Fee Payer files a request for the use of an Individual Assessment,
the Fee Payer shall be responsible for retaining a qualified professional to
prepare an Individual Assessment that complies with the requirements of the Act
and this chapter, at the Fee Payer’s expense. The Fee Payer shall bear the
burden of proving by clear and convincing evidence that the resulting
Individual Assessment is a more accurate measure of its proportionate share of
the cost of System Improvements, based on the County’s, the participating Fire
District’s or KCEMSS’ adopted Level of Service, than the development impact
fees that would otherwise be due pursuant to the fee schedule.
      2.   Each Individual Assessment request and supporting documentation
submitted by the Fee Payer shall be based on the same level of service
standards and unit costs for System Improvements used in the County’s, the
participating Fire District’s or KCEMSS’ Capital Improvements Plan, shall use
an average cost (not a marginal cost) methodology, and shall document the
relevant methodologies and assumptions used.
      3.   Each Individual Assessment request delivered to the County, Fire
District or KCEMSS Impact Fee Administrator may then be accepted, rejected, or
accepted with modifications by the County, Fire District or KCEMSS Impact Fee
Administrator as the basis for calculating the County, Fire or EMS Impact Fee.
The criteria for acceptance, rejection or acceptance with modifications shall
be whether the Individual Assessment is a more accurate measure of demand for
System Improvements elements created by the proposed Development, or the costs
of those facilities, than the applicable fee shown in the fee schedule.
      4.   The County, Fire District or KCEMSS Impact Fee Administrator shall
issue a written decision within twenty-eight (28) days following receipt of a
completed request for Individual Assessment together with all supporting
information from the Fee Payer, so as not to unreasonably delay the Fee Payer’s
subsequent applications to the County for a Building Permit or other necessary
Development Approval.
      5.   The decision by the County, Fire District or KCEMSS Impact Fee
Administrator on an application for an Individual Assessment shall include an
explanation of the calculation of the County, Fire or EMS Impact Fee, shall
specify the System Improvement(s) for which the County, Fire or EMS Impact Fee
is intended to be used, and shall include an explanation of those factors
identified in section 67-8207, Idaho Code.
      6.   If an Individual Assessment is accepted or accepted with
modifications by the County, Fire District or KCEMSS Impact Fee Administrator,
then the County, Fire or EMS Impact Fee due under this chapter for such
Development shall be calculated according to such Individual Assessment.
      7.   The Fire District or KCEMSS Impact Fee Administrator shall provide
notice of final determination of an Individual Assessment to the Fee Payer and
Kootenai County. The County Impact Fee Administrator shall provide notice of
final determination of an Individual Assessment to the Fee Payer and the
participating City, if applicable. (Ord. 579, 10-20-2022; amd. Ord. 604, 11-14-
2024)
7.4.110: DEVELOPER CREDITS AND REIMBURSEMENT:
   A.   When Credits are Authorized. Whenever a Developer or a predecessor in
title or interest has constructed System Improvements of the same category as
the County’s, a participating Fire District’s or KCEMSS’ Capital Improvements
Element, or has contributed or dedicated land or money towards the completion
of System Improvements of the same category as an element of the County’s, a
participating Fire District’s or KCEMSS’ Capital Improvements Plan, and the
County, the participating Fire District or KCEMSS has accepted such
construction, contribution or dedication, the County, the participating Fire
District or KCEMSS shall issue a credit against the County, Fire or EMS Impact
Fees otherwise due for the same County’s, Fire District’s or KCEMSS’ Capital
Improvements Element in connection with the proposed Development as set forth
in this section. Credit shall be issued regardless of whether the contribution
or dedication to System Improvements was required by the County, the
participating Fire District or KCEMSS as a condition of Development Approval or
was offered by the Developer and accepted by the County, the participating Fire
District or KCEMSS in writing, and regardless of whether the contribution or
dedication was contributed by the Developer or by a local improvement district
controlled by the Developer.
   B.   When Credits are Not Authorized. Credits against a County, Fire or EMS
Impact Fee shall not be given for: (a) Project Improvements; or (b) any
construction, contribution or dedication not agreed to in writing by the
County, the participating Fire District or KCEMSS before the construction,
contribution, or dedication occurred. Credits issued for one Capital
Improvements Element of the County, a participating Fire District or KCEMSS may
not be used to reduce County, Fire or EMS Impact Fees due for a different
capital improvement. No credits shall be issued for System Improvements
contributed or dedicated prior to the effective date of this chapter.
   C.   Valuation of Credits at Present Value.
      1.   Land. Credit for qualifying land dedications shall, at the Fee
Payer’s option, be valued at the present value of: (a) one hundred percent
(100%) of the most recent assessed value for such land as shown in the records
of the county assessor; or (b) that fair market value established by a private
appraiser acceptable to the County, the participating Fire District or KCEMSS
in an appraisal paid for by the Fee Payer.
      2.   Improvements. Credit for qualifying acquisition or construction of
System Improvements shall be valued by the County, the participating Fire
District or KCEMSS at the present value of such improvements based on complete
engineering drawings, specifications, and construction cost estimates submitted
by the Fee Payer to the County, the participating Fire District or KCEMSS. The
County, Fire District or KCEMSS Impact Fee Administrator shall determine the
amount of credit due based on the information submitted, or, if it determines
that such information is inaccurate or unreliable, then on alternative
engineering or construction costs acceptable to the County, the participating
Fire District or KCEMSS as a more accurate measure of the value of the offered
System Improvements to the County, the participating Fire District or KCEMSS.
   D.   When Credits Become Effective.
      1.   Land. Approved credits for land dedications shall become effective
when the land has been conveyed to the County, the participating Fire District
or KCEMSS in a form acceptable to the County, the participating Fire District
or KCEMSS, at no cost to the County, the participating Fire District or KCEMSS,
and has been accepted by the County, the participating Fire District or KCEMSS.
Upon request of the Fee Payer, the County, the participating Fire District or
KCEMSS Fire District or KCEMSS shall issue a letter stating the amount of
credit available.
      2.   Improvements. Approved credits for acquisition or construction of
System Improvements shall generally become effective when (a) all required
construction has been completed and has been accepted by the County, the
participating Fire District or KCEMSS, (b) a suitable maintenance and warranty
bond has been received and approved by the County, the participating Fire
District or KCEMSS, and (c) all design, construction, inspection, testing,
bonding, and acceptance procedures have been completed in compliance with all
applicable requirements of the County, the participating Fire District or
KCEMSS and the state of Idaho. Upon request of the Fee Payer, the County, the
participating Fire District or KCEMSS shall issue a letter stating the amount
of credit available.
   E.   Credit Request Process.
      1.   Request. In order to obtain a credit against a County, Fire or EMS
Impact Fee otherwise due, a Fee Payer must submit to the County, Fire District
or KCEMSS Impact Fee Administrator a written offer to dedicate to the County,
the participating Fire District or KCEMSS specific parcels of qualifying land,
or a written offer to contribute or construct specific System Improvements to
County, participating Fire District or KCEMSS Capital Facilities in accordance
with all applicable design and construction standards, and must specifically
request a credit against the type of County, Fire or EMS Impact Fee for which
the land dedication or System Improvements are offered.
      2.   Review. After receipt of the written offer and request for credit,
the County, Fire District or KCEMSS Impact Fee Administrator shall review the
request and determine whether the land or System Improvements offered for
credit will reduce the costs of providing County, participating Fire District
or KCEMSS Capital Facilities by an amount at least equal to the value of the
credit. If the County, Fire District or KCEMSS Impact Fee Administrator
determines that the offered credit satisfies that criterion and will be
acceptable to the governing board of the County, the participating Fire
District or KCEMSS, then the credit shall be issued. The County, the
participating Fire District or KCEMSS shall complete its review and
determination of an application within twenty-eight (28) days after receipt of
an application for credit.
      3.   Credits Exceeding Fee Amounts Due. If the credit due to a Fee Payer
pursuant to subsection (C) of this section exceeds the County, Fire or EMS
Impact Fee that would otherwise be due from the Fee Payer pursuant to the
chapter (whether calculated through the Impact Fee schedule in section 7.4.105
of this chapter or through an individual assessment), the Fee Payer may choose
to receive such credit in the form of either: (a) a credit against future
County, Fire or EMS Impact Fees due for the same System Improvements; or (b) a
reimbursement from County, Fire or EMS Impact Fees paid by future Development
that impacts the System Improvements contributed or dedicated by the Fee Payer.
Unless otherwise stated in an agreement with the Fee Payer, the County, the
participating Fire District or KCEMSS shall be under no obligation to use any
of the County, Fire or EMS Impact Fee funds, other than County, Fire or EMS
Impact Fees paid by other Development for the same System Improvements, to
reimburse the Fee Payer for any credit in excess of County, Fire or EMS Impact
Fees that are due.
      4.   Written Agreement Required. If credit or reimbursement is due to the
Fee Payer pursuant to this section, the County, the participating Fire District
or KCEMSS shall enter into a written agreement with the Fee Payer, negotiated
in good faith, prior to the contribution, dedication, or funding of the System
Improvements giving rise to the credit. The agreement shall provide for the
amount of credit or the amount, time and form of reimbursement, and shall have
a term not exceeding ten (10) years.
      5.   The Fire District or KCEMSS Impact Fee Administrator’s determination
on a written offer of request for credit shall be provided to the Fee Payer and
the County. The County Impact Fee Administrator’s determination on a written
offer of request for credit shall be provided to the Fee Payer. (Ord. 579, 10-
20-2022; amd. Ord. 604, 11-14-2024)
7.4.111: METHODOLOGY FOR CALCULATION OF FIRE OR EMS IMPACT FEES:
   A.   General Provisions.
      1.   Accounting Principles. The calculation of the County, Fire and EMS
Impact Fees shall be in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles. A development impact fee shall not be deemed invalid because
payment of the fee may result in an incidental benefit to owners or Developers
within the service area other than the Fee Payer.
      2.   Levels of Service. Each County, Fire or EMS Impact Fee shall be
calculated on the basis of levels of service for Public Facilities in the
adopted Capital Improvement Plan that are applicable to existing Development as
well as new growth and Development. The construction, improvement, expansion or
enlargement of new or existing Public Facilities for which the County, Fire or
EMS Impact Fee is imposed must be attributable to the capacity demands
generated by the new Development.
   B.   Methodology. County, Fire and EMS Impact Fees shall not exceed a
proportionate share of the cost of the System Improvements determined in
accordance with section 67-8207, Idaho Code. County, Fire and EMS Impact Fees
shall be based on actual System Improvements Costs or reasonable estimates of
such costs. The amount of each County, Fire or EMS Impact Fee shall be
calculated using the methodology contained in the then-current Capital
Improvements Plan duly adopted by the County, each respective participating
Fire District or KCEMSS, as appropriate.
   C.   Proportionate Share Determination.
      1.   The County, Fire or EMS Impact Fee shall be based on a reasonable
and fair formula or method under which the County, Fire or EMS Impact Fee
imposed does not exceed a proportionate share of the costs incurred or to be
incurred by the County, the participating Fire District or KCEMSS in the
provision of System Improvements to serve the new Development. The
proportionate share is the costs attributable to the new Development after the
County, the participating Fire District or KCEMSS considers the following:
         a.   Any appropriate credit, offset or contribution of money,
dedication of land or construction of System Improvements;
         b.   Payments reasonably anticipated to be made by or as a result of a
new Development in the form of user fees and debt service payments;
         c.   That portion of general tax or other revenues allocated by the
County, the participating Fire District or KCEMSS to System Improvements; and
         d.   All other available sources of funding such System Improvements.
      2.   In determining the proportionate share of the cost of System
Improvements to be paid by the Developer, the following factors shall be
considered by the County, the participating Fire District or KCEMSS and
accounted for in the calculation of the County’s, participating Fire District’s
or KCEMSS’ Impact Fee:
         a.   The costs of existing System Improvements within the Service
area;
         b.   The means by which existing System Improvements have been
financed;
         c.   The extent to which the new Development will contribute to System
Improvement Costs through taxation, assessments, or developer or landowner
contributions, or has previously contributed to System Improvement Costs
through Developer or landowner contributions;
         d.   The extent to which the new development is required to contribute
to the cost of existing System Improvements in the future;
         e.   The extent to which the new Development should be credited for
providing System Improvements, without charge to other properties within the
Service Area;
         f.   Extraordinary costs, if any, incurred in serving the new
Development;
         g.   The time and price differential inherent in a fair comparison of
fees paid at different times; and
         h.   The availability of other sources of funding for System
Improvements, including, without limitation, user charges, general tax levies,
intergovernmental transfers and special taxation. (Ord. 579, 10-20-2022; amd.
Ord. 604, 11-14-2024)
7.4.112: EXTRAORDINARY IMPACT:
   A.   The County, a participating Fire District or KCEMSS may make an initial
determination that Development may impose an Extraordinary Impact as a result
of a review of a Development application received by the County and transmitted
to the participating Fire District or KCEMSS pursuant to the County’s zoning
authority under the Local Land Use Planning Act, Title 67, Chapter 65, Idaho
Code.
   B.   Process.
      1.   Within twenty-eight (28) days after the County, Fire District or
KCEMSS Impact Fee Administrator’s receipt of the Development application, the
County, Fire District or KCEMSS Impact Fee Administrator will notify the Fee
Payer and, when necessary, the County, of the County, Fire District or KCEMSS
Impact Fee Administrator’s initial determination that the Development may
impose an Extraordinary Impact. Such notice shall also state that a
supplemental study will be required at the Fee Payer’s expense.
      2.   Within twenty-eight (28) days following the designation of a
Development with Extraordinary Impact, the County, Fire District or KCEMSS
Impact Fee Administrator shall meet with the Fee Payer to discuss whether the
Fee Payer wants to: (a) pay for the supplemental study necessary to determine
the System Improvements Costs related to the proposed Development; (b) modify
the proposal to avoid generating Extraordinary Impact; or (c) withdraw the
Development application.
      3.   If the Fee Payer agrees to pay for the supplemental study required
to document the proposed Development’s proportionate share of System
Improvements Costs, then the County, the participating Fire District or KCEMSS
and the Fee Payer shall jointly select an individual or organization acceptable
to both to perform such study. The Fee Payer shall enter into a written
agreement with such individual or organization to pay the costs of such study.
Such agreement shall require the supplemental study to be completed within
twenty-eight (28) days of such written agreement, unless the Fee Payer agrees
to a longer time.
      4.   Once the study has been completed, the Fee Payer may choose to: (a)
pay the proportionate share of System Improvements Costs documented by the
supplemental study; or (b) modify the proposed Development to reduce such
costs; or (c) withdraw the application. The County, Fire District or KCEMSS
Impact Fee Administrator shall notify the County Commissioners of the Fee
Payer’s choice within fourteen (14) days of the Fee Payer’s decision.
      5.   If the Fee Payer agrees to pay the System Improvements Costs
documented in the supplemental study, that agreement shall be reduced to
writing between the County, the participating Fire District or KCEMSS and the
Fee Payer prior to review and consideration of any application for any Building
Permit or other necessary Development Approval related to the proposed
Development. The County, Fire District or KCEMSS Impact Fee Administrator shall
provide a copy of the agreement to the County Commissioners within fourteen
(14) days after the agreement has been signed by both parties.
      6.   Notwithstanding any agreement by the Fee Payer to pay the
proportionate share of System Improvements Costs documented by the supplemental
study, nothing in this ordinance shall obligate the County to approve
Development that results in an Extraordinary Impact to the County, a
participating Fire District or KCEMSS. (Ord. 579, 10-20-2022; amd. Ord. 604,
11-14-2024)
7.4.113: FEE PAYER REFUNDS:
   A.   Duty to Refund:
      1.   A County, Fire or EMS Impact Fee shall be refunded to a Fee Payer,
or successor in interest, or a property owner in the following circumstances:
         a.   Service is available but never provided;
         b.   A Building Permit, or permit for installation of a manufactured
home, is denied or abandoned;
         c.   The Fee Payer pays a County, Fire or EMS Impact Fee under protest
and a subsequent review of the fee paid or the completion of an individual
assessment determines that the fee paid exceeded the proportionate share to
which the County, the participating Fire District or KCEMSS was entitled to
receive;
         d.   The County, the participating Fire District or KCEMSS has
collected a County, Fire or EMS Impact Fee and the County, the participating
Fire District or KCEMSS has failed to appropriate or expend the collected fees
pursuant to paragraph (2) below; or
         e.   Failure of the County, the participating Fire District or KCEMSS
to commence construction or encumber the fund in the County’s, the
participating Fire District’s or KCEMSS’ Development Impact Fee Capital
Projects Fund.
      2.   Any County, Fire or EMS Impact Fee paid shall be refunded if the
County, the participating Fire District or KCEMSS has failed to commence
construction of System Improvements in accordance with this chapter, or to
appropriate funds for such construction, within eight (8) years after the date
on which such fee was collected by the County, the participating Fire District
or KCEMSS. Any refund due shall be paid to the owner of record of the parcel
for which the County, Fire or EMS Impact Fee was paid. The County, the
participating Fire District or KCEMSS may hold County, Fire or EMS Impact Fees
for longer than eight (8) years, but in no event longer than eleven (11) years,
from the date collected if the County, the participating Fire District or
KCEMSS identifies in writing:
         a.   A reasonable cause why the fees should be held longer than eight
(8) years; and
         b.   An anticipated date by which the fees will be expended. If the
County, the participating Fire District or KCEMSS complies with the previous
sentence, then any County, Fire or EMS Impact Fees so identified shall be
refunded to the Fee Payer if the County, the participating Fire District or
KCEMSS has failed to commence construction of System Improvements in accordance
with the written notice, or to appropriate funds for such construction on or
before the date identified in such writing.
      3.   After a County, Fire or EMS Impact Fee has been paid pursuant to
this chapter and after a certificate of occupancy has been issued by the
County, no refund of any part of such fee shall be made if the project for
which the fee was paid is later demolished, destroyed, or is altered,
reconstructed, or reconfigured so as to reduce the size of the project or the
number of units in the project.
      4.   Each refund shall include a refund of interest at one-half the legal
rate provided for in section 28-22-104, Idaho Code, from the date on which the
fee was originally paid.
   B.   Process. The County, the participating Fire District or KCEMSS shall
make a determination of whether a refund is due within twenty-eight (28) days
after receipt of a written request for a refund from the Fee Payer, successor
in interest, or an owner of record of the property for which the fee was paid.
When the right to a refund exists, the County, the participating Fire District
or KCEMSS shall send the refund within ninety-one (91) days after the County,
the participating Fire District or KCEMSS determines that a refund is due.
(Ord. 579, 10-20-2022; amd. Ord. 604, 11-14-2024)
7.4.114: ESTABLISHMENT OF COUNTY, FIRE DISTRICT AND KCEMSS CAPITAL PROJECTS
FUNDS AND TRUST ACCOUNTS:
   A.   Capital Projects Funds Established. The Capital Projects Fund
established by the County, each participating Fire District and KCEMSS will be
maintained by the County, that Fire District or KCEMSS, as applicable, for the
purpose of ensuring that all County, Fire or EMS Impact Fees collected,
pursuant to this chapter, are used to address impacts reasonably attributable
to new Development for which the County, Fire or EMS Impact Fees are paid. The
Capital Projects Fund shall have its own interest-bearing Account. The interest
earned on the account pursuant to subsection 67-8210(1), Idaho Code, shall not
be governed by section 57-127, Idaho Code, but shall be considered funds of the
Capital Projects Fund, and shall be subject to the same restrictions on uses of
funds as the County, Fire or EMS Impact Fees on which the interest is
generated.
   B.   Deposit of Impact Fees. All monies paid by a Fee Payer, pursuant to
this chapter, shall be identified as County, Fire or EMS Impact Fees, and upon
receipt by the County, the participating Fire District or KCEMSS, shall be
promptly deposited by the County, participating Fire District or KCEMSS Impact
Fee Administrator in the Capital Projects Fund Account.
      1.   Monies in the Capital Projects Fund Account shall be spent in the
order collected, on a first-in, first-out basis.
      2.   The County, participating Fire District or KCEMSS shall maintain and
keep accurate financial records for the Account. Such records shall:
         a.   Show the source and disbursement of all revenues;
         b.   Account for all monies received;
         c.   Ensure that the disbursement of funds from the Account shall be
used solely and exclusively for the provisions of projects specified in the
Capital Improvements Plan; and
         d.   Provide an annual accounting for the County, Fire or EMS Impact
Fee Capital Projects Fund Account showing the source and amount of all funds
collected and the projects that were funded. A copy of this annual accounting
shall be provided to the County as part of the annual audit process set forth
in section 7.4.118 of this chapter. (Ord. 579, 10-20-2022; amd. Ord. 604, 11-
14-2024)
7.4.115: EXPENDITURE OF FIRE OR EMS IMPACT FEES:
   A.   Expenditures. Expenditures of County, Fire or EMS Impact Fees collected
and deposited in the Capital Projects Fund shall be made only for System
Improvements within the Service Area for which the Impact Fee was collected in
accordance with the Capital Improvements Plan.
   B.   Capital Improvements Plan Reimbursement; Surcharge. A portion of each
Impact Fee collected may be designated as a surcharge for reimbursement of the
County, participating Fire District or KCEMSS for the cost of preparing the
Capital Improvements Plans in accordance with section 67-8208, Idaho Code. The
surcharge shall not exceed the Development’s proportionate share of the cost of
preparing the Capital Improvements Plans. (Ord. 579, 10-20-2022; amd. Ord. 604,
11-14-2024)
7.4.116: APPEALS, PROTESTS AND MEDIATION:
   A.   Appeals. Any Fee Payer that is or may be obligated to pay a County,
Fire or EMS Impact Fee, Individual Assessment or an Extraordinary Impact, or
that claims a right to receive a refund, reimbursement, exemption or credit
under this chapter, and who is dissatisfied with a decision made either by the
County, participating Fire District or KCEMSS Impact Fee Administrator in
applying this chapter, may appeal such decision. The Fee Payer shall have the
burden on appeal of proving by clear and convincing evidence that the decision
was in error.
   B.   Appeal Process.
      1.   Appeals of denials of an exemption from Impact Fees under section
7.4.106 of this chapter.
         a.   A Fee Payer shall file a written notice of the appeal with
Kootenai County Community Development within twenty-eight (28) days after the
date of a denial of an exemption. The notice of appeal shall include a
statement describing why the Fee Payer believes that the appealed decision was
in error, together with copies of any documents that the Fee Payer believes
support the claim.
         b.   Kootenai County Community Development staff shall schedule a
hearing in front of the County Commissioners within sixty-three (63) days of
receiving the appeal.
         c.   Appeal hearings shall be conducted in accordance with section
8.8.506 of this code. The Fee Payer or its representative shall have a right to
be present and to present evidence in support of the appeal. The County
personnel who made the decision under appeal or their representatives shall
likewise have the right to be present and to present evidence in support of the
decision.
         d.   The County Commissioners shall consider the decision denying the
exemption and also consider any additional evidence that may be offered by the
Fee Payer and County, participating fire district or KCEMSS staff. The County
Commissioners may affirm, reverse, or modify in whole or in part the decision
appealed from, and shall issue a written decision within twenty-eight (28) days
after the conclusion of the hearing.
         e.   A final decision of the County Commissioners may be judicially
reviewed pursuant to section 31-1506, Idaho Code, and Rule 84 of the Idaho
Rules of Civil Procedure.
      2.   Appeals of impact fee schedule assessments, refunds, reimbursements,
credits, individual assessments, or extraordinary impacts under this chapter.
         a.   The Fee Payer shall file a written notice of appeal with the
County, Fire District or KCEMSS Impact Fee Administrator within twenty-eight
(28) days after the date of the County, Fire District or KCEMSS Impact Fee
Administrator’s decision, or the date on which the Fee Payer submitted a
payment of the County, Fire or EMS Impact Fee under protest, whichever is
later. The notice of appeal shall include a statement describing why the Fee
Payer believes that the appealed decision was in error, together with copies of
any documents that the Fee Payer believes support the claim.
         b.   The County Commissioners or the governing board of the
participating Fire District or KCEMSS, as applicable, shall hear the appeal
within sixty-three (63) days after receipt of a written notice of appeal.
         c.   Appeal hearings shall be conducted substantially in accordance
with section
8.8.506 of this code. The Fee Payer or its representative shall have a right to
be present and to present evidence in support of the appeal. The County, Fire
District or KCEMSS Impact Fee Administrator who made the decision under appeal
or its representatives shall likewise have the right to be present and to
present evidence in support of the decision.
         d.   The criteria to be used by the County Commissioners or the
governing board of the participating Fire District or KCEMSS, as applicable, in
considering the appeal shall be whether: (a) the decision or interpretation
made by the County, Fire District or KCEMSS Impact Fee Administrator, or (b)
the alternative decision or interpretation offered by the Fee Payer, more
accurately reflects the intent of this chapter that new development in the
Service Area pay its proportionate share of the costs of system improvements to
County, participating Fire District or KCEMSS facilities necessary to serve new
development, and whether the chapter has been correctly applied.
         e.   The County Commissioners or the governing board of the
participating Fire District or KCEMSS, as applicable, shall issue a decision
upholding, reversing, or modifying the decision being appealed within twenty-
eight (28) days after hearing the appeal.
   C.   Payment Under Protest. A Fee Payer may pay a County, Fire or EMS Impact
Fee under protest in order not to delay the issuance of a Building Permit or
other necessary Development Approval by the County. A Fee Payer making a
payment under protest shall not be estopped from exercising the right to appeal
provided herein, nor shall such Fee Payer be estopped from receiving a refund
of any amount deemed to have been illegally collected.
   D.   Mediation.
      1.   Any Fee Payer that has a disagreement with a decision made by the
County, Fire District or KCEMSS Impact Fee Administrator regarding a County,
Fire or EMS Impact Fee determination that is or may be due for a proposed
Development pursuant to this chapter, may enter into a voluntary agreement with
the County and/or the governing board of the participating Fire District or
KCEMSS to subject the disagreement to mediation by a qualified independent
party acceptable to all parties to the mediation.
      2.   Mediation may take place at any time following the filing of a
timely appeal, or as an alternative to such appeal, provided that a request for
mediation filed prior to the filing of an appeal must be filed no later than
the last date on which a timely appeal could be filed pursuant to this section.
      3.   Participation in mediation does not preclude the Fee Payer from
pursuing other remedies provided for in this section, but no such remedies
shall be pursued while the mediation is pending except as necessary to prevent
prejudice to the pursuit of such remedies.
      4.   If mediation is requested, any related mediation costs shall be
shared equally by the parties to the mediation, including the Fee Payer, the
participating Fire District or KCEMSS and/or the County, and a written
agreement regarding the payment of such costs shall be executed prior to the
commencement of mediation.
      5.   In the event that mediation does not resolve the issues, the Fee
Payer retains all rights of appeal as set forth in this section. (Ord. 579, 10-
20-2022; amd. Ord. 604, 11-14-2024)
7.4.117: PERIODIC REVIEWS; ANNUAL BUDGET:
   A.   Review and Modification of Capital Improvements Plan. Unless the County
Commissioners or the governing board of the participating Fire District or
KCEMSS, as applicable, deems some other period is appropriate, each governing
board shall, at least once every five (5) years, commencing from the date of
the original adoption of the Capital Improvements Plan, review the then-current
Development potential within its Service Area and update the Capital
Improvements Plan in accordance with the procedures set forth in section 67-
8206, Idaho Code. Each update shall be prepared by the County, Fire District or
KCEMSS Impact Fee Administrator in consultation with the Impact Fee Advisory
Committee.
   B.   Annual Budget. The County, each participating Fire District and KCEMSS
shall annually adopt a capital budget and deliver a copy to the County within
twenty-eight (28) days of adoption. (Ord. 579, 10-20-2022; amd. Ord. 604, 11-
14-2024)
7.4.118: AUDIT:
As part of its annual audit process, the County, each Fire District and KCEMSS
shall prepare and forward to the County Auditor an annual report: (a)
describing the amount of all County, Fire or EMS Impact Fees collected,
appropriated or spent during the preceding year; and (b) describing the
percentage of taxes and revenues from sources other than the County, Fire or
EMS Impact Fees collected, appropriated or spent for System Improvements during
the preceding year. (Ord. 579, 10-20-2022; amd. Ord. 604, 11-14-2024)
7.4.119: IMPACT FEE ADVISORY COMMITTEE:
   A.   Purpose. Pursuant to section 67-8205, Idaho Code, there is hereby
established an Impact Fee Advisory Committee whose purpose is to carry out the
duties as set forth in subsection 67-8205(3), Idaho Code.
   B.   Membership. The Impact Fee Advisory Committee shall be composed of not
fewer than five (5) members. Two (2) or more members shall be active in the
business of development, building or real estate. Two (2) or more members shall
be persons who are not active in the business of development, building or real
estate. All members must be residents of Kootenai County.
   C.   Meetings. Meetings may be called by the Impact Fee Advisory Committee
by giving reasonable notice of the time and place of the meeting, and the
agenda for the meeting, in accordance with the Open Meetings Law, Title 74,
Chapter 2, Idaho Code. The Impact Fee Advisory Committee may adopt reasonable
rules as are necessary to carry out the duties and responsibilities of the
committee, subject to the approval of the County Commissioners, and elect such
officers as deemed necessary. (Ord. 579, 10-20-2022; amd. Ord. 604, 11-14-2024)
7.4.120: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS:
   A.   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the County, a participating Fire
District or KCEMSS from requiring a Developer to construct reasonable Project
Improvements, as are required by the fire codes and other rules that are
adopted by the state fire marshal, in conjunction with a Development.
   B.   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent or prohibit
private agreements between property owners or developers, the Idaho
Transportation Department and governmental entities in regard to the
construction or installation of System Improvements or providing for credits or
reimbursements for System Improvements Costs incurred by a Developer, including
inter-project transfers of credits or providing for reimbursement for Project
Improvements which are used or shared by more than one (1) Development project.
   C.   Nothing in this chapter shall obligate the County to approve
Development which results in an Extraordinary Impact.
   D.   Nothing in this chapter shall obligate the County, any participating
Fire District or KCEMSS to approve any Development request which may reasonably
be expected to reduce levels of service below minimum acceptable levels
established in this chapter.
   E.   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to create any additional
right to develop real property or to diminish the County’s ability to regulate
the orderly development of real property within its boundaries.
   F.   Nothing in this chapter shall work to limit the use by the County of
the power of eminent domain or supersede or conflict with requirements or
procedures authorized in Idaho Code for local improvement district or general
obligation bond issues.
   G.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, that portion of a
Project for which a complete application for a Building Permit has been
received by the County or a participating city prior to the initial effective
date of any impact fee imposed by this chapter, shall not be subject to that
Impact Fee. If the resulting Building Permit is later revised or replaced after
the initial effective date of the impact fee at issue, and the new Building
Permit reflects a development density, intensity, development size or number of
Service Units more than ten percent (10%) higher than that reflected in the
original Building Permit, then the County, Fire or EMS Impact Fee may be
charged only on the difference in density, intensity, development size or
number of Service Units between the original and the revised or replacement
Building Permit.
   H.   Any monies, including any accrued interest not assigned to specific
System Improvements within such Capital Improvements Plan and not expended or
refunded pursuant to this chapter, shall be retained in the same account until
the next participating County, Fire District or KCEMSS fiscal year.
   I.   If the County, a participating Fire District or KCEMSS discovers an
error in the Capital Improvements Plan that results in assessment or payment of
more than a proportionate share of System Improvement Costs on any proposed
Development, the County, Fire District or KCEMSS Impact Fee Administrator
shall: (a) adjust the appropriate County, Fire or EMS Impact Fee to collect no
more than a proportionate share; or (b) discontinue the collection of any
County, Fire or EMS Impact Fees until the error is corrected by ordinance.
   J.   If County, Fire or EMS Impact Fees are calculated and paid based on a
mistake or misrepresentation, they shall be recalculated.
      1.   Any amounts overpaid by a Fee Payer shall be refunded by the County,
the participating Fire District or KCEMSS within twenty-eight (28) days after
the County’s, participating Fire District’s or KCEMSS’ acceptance of the
recalculated amount, with interest at the legal rate provided for in section
28-22-104, Idaho Code, from the date on which the fee was paid.
      2.   Any amounts underpaid by the Fee Payer shall be paid to the County,
the participating Fire District or KCEMSS within twenty-eight (28) days after
the County, Fire District or KCEMSS Impact Fee Administrator’s acceptance of
the recalculated amount, with interest at the legal rate provided for in
section 28-22-104, Idaho Code, from the date on which the fee was paid.
      3.   In the case of an underpayment to a participating Fire District or
KCEMSS, the Fire District or KCEMSS Impact Fee Administrator may request the
County, and the County may withhold issuance of any Building Permit or
Development Approval for the project for which the Fire or EMS Impact Fee was
paid until such underpayment is corrected, and if amounts owed to the
participating Fire District or KCEMSS are not paid within such twenty-eight
(28) day period, the participating Fire District or KCEMSS Impact Fee
Administrator may also ask the County to, and the County may revoke any
Building Permit or Development Approval issued in reliance on the previous
payment of such Fire or EMS Impact Fee and refund such fee to the Fee Payer.
      4.   In the case of an underpayment to the County, the County may
withhold issuance of any Building Permit or Development Approval for the
project for which the County Impact Fees were paid until such underpayment is
corrected, and if amounts owed to the County are not paid within such twenty-
eight (28) day period, the County may revoke any Building Permit or Development
Approval issued in reliance on the previous payment of such County Impact Fees
and refund such fees to the Fee Payer. (Ord. 579, 10-20-2022 ; amd. Ord. 604,
11-14-2024)
TITLE 8
LAND USE AND DEVELOPMENT CODE
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
ARTICLE 1.1. TITLE, AUTHORITY, PURPOSE, AND APPLICABILITY
SECTION:
8.1.101: Title
8.1.102: Authority
8.1.103: Purpose
8.1.104: Applicability
8.1.105: Discretionary Function
8.1.106: Vesting
8.1.101: TITLE:
This title shall be known as the KOOTENAI COUNTY LAND USE AND DEVELOPMENT CODE.
(Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.1.102: AUTHORITY:
In addition to the general authorities set out in section
1-1-2 of this code, the provisions of this title are authorized under title 31,
chapter 7, Idaho Code, title 46, chapter 10, Idaho Code, title 50, chapter 13,
Idaho Code, and title 67, chapter 65, Idaho Code, as amended or subsequently
codified. This title is adopted for the purpose of promoting the health,
safety, and general welfare of the citizens of Kootenai County, Idaho, in
accordance with article XII, section 2 of the Idaho constitution. (Ord. 493, 6-
9-2016)
8.1.103: PURPOSE:
The purposes of this title are as follows:
   A.   To promote the health, safety and the general welfare of the citizens
of Kootenai County;
   B.   To protect and promote property rights and enhance property values,
while also ensuring that the use of property does not unduly interfere with the
lawful use and enjoyment of other properties;
   C.   To comply with the requirements of the local land use planning act,
title 67, chapter 65, Idaho Code, and to carry out its intent and purposes;
   D.   To carry out the goals and policies of the Kootenai County
comprehensive plan;
   E.   To establish zoning districts within Kootenai County in conformance
with section 67-6511, Idaho Code, and in accordance with the goals and policies
of the Kootenai County comprehensive plan;
   F.   To provide standards for the orderly growth and development of Kootenai
County and to avoid undue concentration of population and overcrowding of land;
   G.   To ensure that development:
      1.   Is performed in conformance with Idaho Code, the requirements of
this title, and the requirements of other agencies with jurisdiction;
      2.   Mitigates negative environmental, social and economic impacts;
      3.   Creates buildable lots of reasonable utility and livability;
      4.   Aids in the establishment of a transportation system that is safe,
efficient, cost effective, and minimizes congestion;
      5.   Provides for adequate and affordable fire, water, sewer, stormwater
and other services;
      6.   Encourages the conservation of open space and environmentally
sensitive areas;
   H.   To protect property, surface water, and groundwater against significant
adverse effects from excavation, filling, clearing, unstable earthworks, soil
erosion, sedimentation, and stormwater collection and runoff;
   I.   To provide maximum safety in the development and design of building
sites, roads, and other service amenities;
   J.   To minimize public and private losses due to flood conditions in
specific areas by provisions designed:
      1.   To protect human life and health;
      2.   To minimize expenditure of public money and costly flood control
projects;
      3.   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
      4.   To minimize prolonged business interruptions;
      5.   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets, and bridges
located in special flood hazard areas;
      6.   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use
and development of special flood hazard areas so as to minimize future flood
blight areas;
      7.   To ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in a
special flood hazard area;
      8.   To ensure that those who occupy special flood hazard areas assume
responsibility for their actions; and
      9.   To meet federal requirements so Kootenai County may participate in
the national flood insurance program;
   K.   To provide a method of administration and enforcement of the provisions
of this title.
   L.   To ensure that all property owners and affected persons are afforded
due process of law. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016; amd. Ord. 545, 10-3-2019)
8.1.104: APPLICABILITY:
The provisions of this title shall apply to all property located within the
unincorporated areas of Kootenai County, Idaho, with the following exceptions:
   A.   Lands owned by the federal government or any agency thereof;
   B.   Lands located within the exterior boundaries of the Coeur d'Alene
Indian Reservation which are owned by the Coeur d'Alene Tribe, or any enrolled
member thereof, or by the federal government in trust for the tribe or any
enrolled member thereof; and
   C.   Lands owned by the state of Idaho that are:
      1.   School endowment lands;
      2.   Transportation systems of statewide importance, as determined by the
Idaho transportation board; or
      3.   Submerged lands under the jurisdiction of the Idaho department of
lands. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.1.105: DISCRETIONARY FUNCTION:
The regulation of land use and the enforcement thereof, as set forth in the
provisions of this title, are hereby declared to be discretionary functions and
duties of county government within the meaning of section 6-904, Idaho Code.
(Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.1.106: VESTING:
All applications for permits or approvals made pursuant to the provisions of
this title shall be governed by the rules and policies in effect as of the day
on which a complete application is submitted to the department. Vesting may be
waived in writing by the applicant, but in executing such waiver, the applicant
must agree that the application will be subject to all of the then current
provisions of this title as of the date on which the waiver was submitted to
the department. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
ARTICLE 1.2. RULES OF INTERPRETATION
SECTION:
8.1.201: Interpretation
8.1.202: Minimum And Uniform
8.1.203: Compliance With Zoning Regulations Required
8.1.204: Coordination With Other Ordinances
8.1.201: INTERPRETATION:
Except when the context clearly indicates otherwise, the provisions of this
title shall be observed and applied as follows:
   A.   Words used in the present tense shall include the future tense.
   B.   Words used in the singular number shall include the plural number and
the plural the singular.
   C.   The words "shall" and "must" are mandatory.
   D.   The word "may" is permissive, and indicates the ability to exercise
sound discretion. "Sound discretion" involves the following:
      1.   Recognizing a matter as discretionary;
      2.   Acting within the outer boundaries of that discretion and
consistently with any legal standards applicable to specific choices; and
      3.   Reaching a decision through an exercise of reason.
   E.   The phrase "used for" shall include the phrases "arranged for",
"designed for", "maintained for", and "occupied for". (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.1.202: MINIMUM AND UNIFORM:
   A.   The requirements of this title will be held to be minimum requirements,
in that whenever the provisions of any other duly adopted statute, ordinance,
or regulation require more restrictive standards than those contained in this
title, the provisions of such standards shall govern and, in any event, the
applicant or proponent may voluntarily elect to incorporate more restrictive
standards than might otherwise apply.
   B.   The provisions of this title shall be applied in a uniform manner.
Provisions which apply to a particular zone shall apply uniformly within that
zone.
   C.   The provisions of this title shall be interpreted:
      1.   In a manner that best carries out the purpose and intent of the
zones adopted herein, as shown on the official zoning map of Kootenai County;
      2.   In accordance with the Kootenai County comprehensive plan; and
      3.   In a manner consistent with applicable federal and state law. (Ord.
493, 6-9-2016)
8.1.203: COMPLIANCE WITH ZONING REGULATIONS REQUIRED:
Subject to the provisions of chapter 8, article 8.7 of this title, no building,
structure, or land shall hereafter be used or occupied, and no building or
structure or part thereof shall hereafter be erected, constructed,
reconstructed, moved, or structurally altered, except in conformity with all of
the provisions of this title which apply in the zone in which it is located,
except to the extent that such provisions may be preempted under applicable
federal or state law, or fully covered by other applicable laws or regulations
(where, in the case of a conflict, such laws or regulations shall apply). (Ord.
493, 6-9-2016)
8.1.204: COORDINATION WITH OTHER ORDINANCES:
The provisions of the Kootenai County building code ordinance, title 7, chapter
1 of this code, and all codes adopted by reference therein, shall remain in
effect under the administration of the director to the extent that they
regulate the construction of buildings or other structures. If any conflict
occurs between provisions of this title, or between a provision of this title
and a provision of title 7, chapter 1 of this code, the more restrictive
provision shall take precedence. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
ARTICLE 1.3. OFFICIAL ZONING MAP
SECTION:
8.1.301: Official Zoning Map Adopted
8.1.302: Replacement Of Official Zoning Map
8.1.303: Rules And Interpretation
8.1.301: OFFICIAL ZONING MAP ADOPTED:
   A.   The county shall be divided into zones as established herein, with the
zones applying to individual properties being as shown on the official zoning
map of Kootenai County, Idaho ("official zoning map"). The then current
official zoning map, together with all explanatory matter thereon, is hereby
adopted and incorporated into this title by reference herein.
   B.   The official zoning map shall be identified by the physical or
electronic signature of the chairman of the board, attested by the county
clerk:
This is to verify that this is the Official Zoning Map of Kootenai County,
Idaho referred to in Title 8 of the Kootenai County Code last adopted on [date
of last adoption or amendment].
   C.   Changes in boundaries of zones shall be made by ordinance after duly
noticed public hearing as prescribed by Idaho Code and chapter 8, article 8.4
of this title. Upon adoption and publication of such amendment ordinance, said
changes shall be made on the official zoning map, along with a notation of the
date, file number(s), and initials of the person making the changes.
   D.   The official zoning map shall be in electronic format available for
public viewing on the county website. The official zoning map shall be
continuously updated as changes in zoning are approved by the board. The
official zoning map, as updated, shall be the final authority as to the current
zoning status of land and water areas, buildings, and other structures in the
county. One or more physical reproductions of the official zoning map shall be
located in the office of Kootenai County community development. Any
reproductions of the official zoning map shall be true and correct
reproductions of the official zoning map to the greatest extent possible (with
the exception of signatures), but any such reproductions shall not be
considered official. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.1.302: REPLACEMENT OF OFFICIAL ZONING MAP:
   A.   In the event that the official zoning map is destroyed, lost, or
becomes irreparably damaged, compromised, or difficult to interpret, the board
may, by ordinance, adopt a new official zoning map which shall supersede all
previously adopted official zoning maps. The new official zoning map may
correct drafting or other errors or omissions contained in any previously
adopted official zoning map. The new official zoning map shall be identified by
the physical or electronic signature of the chairman of the board, attested by
the county clerk, as follows:
This is to verify that this Official Zoning Map supersedes and replaces the
Official Zoning Map adopted (date of Adoption of map being replaced) as part of
Title 8 of the County Code of Kootenai County, Idaho.
   B.   Except in the event of total loss or destruction, all previously
adopted versions of the official zoning map, or any remaining significant parts
thereof, shall be preserved together with all available records pertaining to
its adoption or amendment. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.1.303: RULES AND INTERPRETATION:
Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of a zone, as shown on the
official zoning map, the following rules shall apply:
   A.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the centerline of
streets, highways, or alleys shall be construed to follow such centerlines;
   B.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following platted lot lines shall
be construed as following such lot lines;
   C.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following city limits shall be
construed as following such city limits;
   D.   Boundaries indicated as following railroad lines shall be construed to
follow the centerline of the railroad right of way;
   E.   Boundaries indicated as following a shoreline of a lake or reservoir
shall be construed to follow the ordinary high water mark of that lake or
reservoir. Boundaries indicated as approximately following the centerlines of
streams, rivers, canals, lakes, or other bodies of water shall be construed to
follow such centerlines;
   F.   Boundaries indicated as parallel to or extensions of features indicated
in subsections A through E of this section, shall be so construed. Distances
not specifically indicated on the official zoning map shall be determined by
the scale of the map;
   G.   Boundaries indicated as following section or township lines shall be
construed as following such section or township lines;
   H.   Where physical or cultural features existing on the ground are at
variance with those shown on the official zoning map, or in other circumstances
not covered by subsections A through G of this section, the director shall
provide an interpretation regarding the location of the zone boundary upon
written request of an affected person.
   I.   If a zone boundary line divides a parcel, the director may permit the
entire parcel to be included in one of the zones that then apply to that parcel
so that only one zone and its associated regulations will apply to that parcel.
(Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
ARTICLE 1.4. AMENDMENTS
SECTION:
8.1.401: Amendments To Text
8.1.402: Amendments To Official Zoning Map
8.1.403: Required Notice And Public Hearing Procedures
8.1.404: Required Findings For Text Amendments
8.1.405: Required Findings For Amendments To The Official Zoning Map
8.1.401: AMENDMENTS TO TEXT:
   A.   Amendments to any provision of the text of this title may be proposed
by any person at any time. Text amendments may also be initiated by department
staff, the planning commission, or the board. An application for a text
amendment other than one initiated by department staff, the planning
commission, or the board, must be in writing on a form approved by the
department, must include the appropriate application fee, and must also include
a narrative addressing the following:
      1.   The nature of the proposed amendment, clearly showing the language
to be added, amended, or repealed, and the conditions supporting the proposed
amendment.
      2.   Facts to justify the proposed amendment on the basis of advancing
public health, safety, and general welfare.
      3.   The effect the proposed amendment will have on property rights,
hazardous or sensitive areas, community design, neighborhood character,
delivery of public services and utilities, etc., with respect to properties
potentially affected by the proposed amendment.
      4.   The potential effects of denial of the proposed amendment.
      5.   How the proposed amendment would be in accordance with the
comprehensive plan.
   B.   For text amendments initiated by department staff, the planning
commission, or the board, department staff shall prepare a report detailing the
above listed considerations.
   C.   The department shall schedule a public hearing on a proposed text
amendment before the commission for its consideration and recommendation. In
the event the commission finds that it is inclined to recommend a material
change to the proposed text amendment, it may include that material change in
its recommendation to the board, or may direct the department to schedule a
second public hearing before the commission on the proposed change. The notice
for the second public hearing shall include both the proposed text amendment
and the proposed change.
   D.   Upon receipt of the commission's recommendation, the department shall
schedule a public hearing before the board for consideration of the proposed
amendment and the recommendation of the commission. In the event the board
finds that it is inclined to make a material change to the recommendation of
the commission, the department shall schedule a second public hearing before
the board on the proposed change. The notice for the second public hearing
shall include both the recommendation of the commission and the proposed
change. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.1.402: AMENDMENTS TO OFFICIAL ZONING MAP:
   A.   An application for an amendment to the official zoning map may be made
by any owner or person with a bona fide interest in the property that is the
subject of the proposed amendment. The application must be in writing on a form
approved by the department, must include the appropriate application fee, and
must also include a narrative addressing the following:
      1.   The existing zoning of the property, and the date on which that
zoning became effective.
      2.   The nature of the proposed amendment.
      3.   The circumstances which justify the proposed amendment. These may
include, without limitation, changes in conditions or changes to the
Comprehensive Plan or this title since the existing zoning was adopted, or that
the existing zoning was made in error.
      4.   Why the proposed amendment promotes the public health, safety, and
general welfare.
      5.   The effect the proposed amendment will have on the property that is
the subject of the proposed amendment, and on the property rights, value and
character of neighboring properties.
      6.   The effect on the property owner if the proposed amendment is not
granted.
      7.   Why the proposed amendment would not be in conflict with the
Comprehensive Plan.
      8.   Authorization for application by the owner of record of the affected
property, if not the applicant.
   B.   Amendments to the official zoning map may also be initiated by
department staff, the Planning Commission, or the Board.
   C.   A proposed amendment to the official zoning map which is Countywide or
area wide in scope, or involves the potential rezoning of multiple parcels,
shall initially be heard before the commission, and proceedings on such
amendments shall be deemed to be legislative in nature. A proposed amendment to
the official zoning map which is site specific and has been proposed by one or
more individual property owners shall initially be heard before a hearing
examiner, and proceedings on such amendments shall be deemed to be quasi-
judicial in nature.
   D.   The department shall schedule a public hearing on a proposed amendment
to the official zoning map before the appropriate hearing body for its
consideration and recommendation. In the event the hearing body finds that it
is inclined to recommend a material change to the proposed amendment, it may
include that material change in its recommendation to the Board, or may direct
the department to schedule a second public hearing before the hearing body on
the proposed change. The notice for the second public hearing shall include
both the proposed amendment and the proposed change.
   E.   Upon receipt of the hearing body's recommendation, the department shall
schedule a public hearing before the Board for consideration of the proposed
amendment and the recommendation of the hearing body. In the event the Board
finds that it is inclined to make a material change to the recommendation of
the hearing body, the department shall schedule a second public hearing before
the Board on the proposed change. The notice for the second public hearing
shall include both the recommendation of the commission and the proposed
change. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.1.403: REQUIRED NOTICE AND PUBLIC HEARING PROCEDURES:
The notice requirements and procedures for legislative public hearings, as set
forth in section 67-6509, Idaho Code and in chapter 8, article 8.4 of this
title, shall apply to all public hearings to consider a proposed amendment to
the text of this title or to the official zoning map. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.1.404: REQUIRED FINDINGS FOR TEXT AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Before a proposed amendment to the text of this title can be approved,
the Board must find that the proposed amendment is not in conflict with the
policies set forth in the Comprehensive Plan.
   B.   Standards pertaining to overlay zoning districts shall not be approved
unless they are clear and objective, and can be applied in a manner which does
not constitute a regulatory taking pursuant to Idaho or Federal law. (Ord. 514,
9-28-2017)
8.1.405: REQUIRED FINDINGS FOR AMENDMENTS TO THE OFFICIAL ZONING MAP:
   A.   Before a proposed change to the Official Zoning Map can be approved,
the Board must make the following findings:
      1.   The applicant has demonstrated sufficient justification for the
proposed change based on the requirements of subsection
8.1.402A of this article.
      2.   The proposed change is generally consistent with the land use
designation in the Comprehensive Plan which applies to the subject property.
      3.   The proposed change is generally compatible with the present and
reasonably expected future land uses within the vicinity of the subject
property.
      4.   The proposed change is supported by adequate infrastructure for the
range of uses allowed in the proposed zone, or will be supported by
infrastructure reasonably expected to be adequate to support such uses in the
near future.
      5.   After giving particular consideration to the effects of the proposed
zone change upon the delivery of public services provided by political
subdivisions, including school districts, within the County, the proposed zone
change will not result in demonstrably adverse impacts upon the delivery of
those services.
      6.   The proposed change will not have a materially adverse effect on the
value, character, or use and enjoyment of neighboring properties.
      7.   Denial of the proposed change would have a materially adverse effect
on the use and enjoyment of the property which is the subject of the
application.
      8.   The proposed change is not in conflict with the policies set forth
in the Comprehensive Plan.
      9.   The subject property is suitable for the proposed zoning.
      10.   The proposed zone change will not be materially detrimental to or
endanger the public health, safety or general welfare.
      11.   The proposed change will not result in undue traffic congestion or
traffic hazards.
   B.   For purposes of this section, "vicinity" shall mean the neighborhood,
district, or area surrounding or in close proximity to the subject property.
"Vicinity" does not imply a definite distance, but would generally be expected
to increase in proportion to the size of the subject property or the intensity
of the uses permitted in the proposed zone as compared to the existing zone.
   C.   If the proposed change to the Official Zoning Map is not approved, the
Board may remand the matter to the Planning Commission to consider a proposal
to amend the Comprehensive Plan pertaining to that property under the notice
and hearing procedures provided in section 67-6509, Idaho Code and in chapter
8, article 8.4 of this title. If the Comprehensive Plan amendment is approved,
the Board shall then hold a public hearing and make a decision on the proposed
change to the Official Zoning Map. (Ord. 513, 9-28-2017)
CHAPTER 2
GENERAL ZONING DESIGNATIONS AND USES
ARTICLE 2.1. AGRICULTURAL ZONE
SECTION:
8.2.101: General Description
8.2.102: Restrictions
8.2.103: Lot Size Requirements
8.2.104: Existing Cemeteries
8.2.105: Uses Of Right On Existing Parcels Of Less Than Five Acres
8.2.106: Uses Of Right On Parcels Of Five Acres Or More
8.2.107: Uses Prohibited
8.2.108: Setbacks
8.2.109: Uses Requiring A Conditional Use Permit
8.2.110: Uses Requiring A Special Notice Permit
8.2.101: GENERAL DESCRIPTION:
The Agricultural Zone is a zoning district in which the land has been found to
be suitable for uses related to farming, agriculture, forestry, silviculture,
aquaculture, and other similar uses. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.2.102: RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   In the Agricultural Zone, no building or premises shall be used, nor
shall any building or structure hereafter be erected or altered (unless
provided in this title), except for one or more of the following uses in
accordance with the standards set forth or referenced in this article;
provided, however, that those standards shall not be in conflict with section
67-6529, Idaho Code, which reads in part: "No power granted hereby shall be
construed to empower a board of county commissioners to enact any ordinance or
resolution which deprives any owner of full and complete use of agricultural
land for production of any agricultural product." For purposes of this title,
"agricultural land" is defined as a tract of land containing not less than five
(5.00) acres, including canal and railroad rights-of-way, used exclusively for
agricultural purposes.
   B.   Subdivisions are prohibited in the Agricultural Zone. This prohibition
shall not apply to divisions of land exempted from the requirements of chapter
6 of this title pursuant to section
8.6.103 of this title. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.2.103: LOT SIZE REQUIREMENTS:
The minimum size for parcels in the Agricultural Zone created on or after
January 3, 1973, shall be five (5.00) acres, except that the minimum size for
parcels created within the exterior boundaries of the Coeur d’ Alene Tribal
Reservation on or after August 1, 2024 shall be ten (10) acres. (Ord. 493, 6-9-
2016; amd. Ord. 598, 7-30-2024; Ord. 612, 3-13-2025)
8.2.104: EXISTING CEMETERIES:
Any cemetery existing as of June 9, 2016, shall be regarded as a conforming
use; provided, however, that expansion of any such cemetery shall comply with
the applicable provisions of Idaho Code. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.2.105: USES OF RIGHT ON EXISTING PARCELS OF LESS THAN FIVE ACRES:
Parcels created prior to January 3, 1973 which are less than five (5.00) acres
in size shall be regarded as conforming parcels for purposes of this title.
However, only the following uses shall be permitted of right:
   A.   Primary uses:
   General farming and forestry, provided that the minimum lot area for the
keeping of livestock shall be three-fourths (3/4) acre. Domestic fowl are
permitted only on parcels of eight thousand two hundred fifty (8,250) square
feet or greater in size, and must be kept in a secure yard or other enclosure
at all times.
   One single-family dwelling, which may be a Class A or Class B manufactured
home, with accessory buildings.
   Public safety wireless communications facilities.
   Utility complexes.
   Utility services.
   B.   Accessory uses. The following uses are allowed after one or more of the
primary uses listed in subsection (A) of this section have been established:
   Accessory buildings.
   Automotive hobby activities, subject to the standards set forth in section
8.4.503 of this title.
   One cargo container, subject to the standards set forth in section
8.4.304 of this title.
   Cottage industries, subject to the standards set forth in section
8.4.504 of this title, on lots or parcels that are two (2.00) acres in size or
greater.
   Home occupations, subject to the standards set forth in section
8.4.501 of this title.
   One accessory living unit, subject to the standards set forth in section
8.4.301 of this title, on lots or parcels that are two (2.00) acres in size or
greater.
   C.   One personal storage building may be built prior to the establishment
of one or more of the primary uses listed in subsection A of this section,
subject to the standards set forth in section
8.4.303 of this title.
   D.   Temporary or intermittent recreational use of up to two (2)
recreational vehicles, subject to the standards set forth in section
8.4.401 of this title. (Ord. 517, 1-25-2018; amd. Ord. 546, 10-17-2019; Ord.
611, 5-8-2025)
8.2.106: USES OF RIGHT ON PARCELS OF FIVE ACRES OR MORE:
On parcels that are a minimum of five (5.00) acres in size, the following uses
are permitted of right, provided that all uses shall leave sixty five percent
(65%) of the parcel as open space free from structures:
   A.   Primary uses:
Bed and breakfast inns, subject to the standards set forth in section
8.4.502 of this title.
Cemeteries, provided that they meet all standards of the Idaho Code and are
approved by the Panhandle Health District.
Dairy product manufacturing facilities.
General farming and forestry.
One single-family dwelling, which may be a Class A or Class B manufactured
home, or one (1) two-family dwelling.
Processing plants, feed mills, packing plants, and warehouses for the purpose
of processing, packing, and storage of agricultural products, employing
regularly not more than ten (10) persons, but excluding meat, poultry,
slaughterhouses, and commercial fertilizer manufacturing.
Public safety wireless communications facilities.
Publicly-owned parks, playgrounds, and recreational facilities.
Sales of agricultural products produced on the premises or on parcels under
common ownership. The amount of space dedicated to such use shall not exceed
three hundred (300) square feet of building area.
Utility complexes.
Utility services.
   B.   Accessory uses: The following uses are allowed after one or more of the
primary uses listed in subsection A of this section have been established:
Accessory buildings.
Automotive hobby activities, subject to the standards set forth in section
8.4.503 of this title.
Cargo containers, subject to the standards set forth in section
8.4.304 of this title.
Cottage industries, subject to the standards set forth in section
8.4.504 of this title.
Home occupations, subject to the standards set forth in section
8.4.501 of this title.
Non-commercial kennels, subject to the standards set forth in section
8.4.505 of this title.
One accessory living unit, subject to the standards set forth in section
8.4.301 of this title.
Temporary hardship use, subject to the standards set forth in section
8.4.302 of this title.
   C.   One personal storage building may be built prior to the establishment
of one or more of the primary uses listed in subsection A of this section,
subject to the standards set forth in section
8.4.303 of this title.
   D.   Temporary or intermittent recreational use of up to two (2)
recreational vehicles, subject to the standards set forth in section
8.4.401 of this title. (Ord. 517, 1-25-2018; amd. Ord. 611, 5-8-2025)
8.2.107: USES PROHIBITED:
Except as permitted of right or with a conditional use permit or special notice
permit as set forth in this article, the following uses are prohibited:
Commercial uses.
Industrial uses.
Manufacturing uses. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.2.108: SETBACKS:
The following setbacks shall apply to all structures in the Agricultural Zone:
Structure Type Setback Type Distance
Structure Type                           Setback Type             Distance
                                         Front yard               25 feet
                                         Side yard                10 feet
Residential structures                   Side yard, with an alley 6 feet
                                         Rear yard                25 feet
                                         Flanking street          15 feet
                                         Front yard               25 feet
Accessory buildings and personal storage Side yard                10 feet
buildings                                Side yard, with an alley 6 feet
                                         Rear yard                15 feet
                                         Flanking street          15 feet
                                         Front yard               30 feet
All other allowed structures             Side yard                30 feet
                                         Rear yard                30 feet
                                         Flanking street          25 feet
 
(Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.2.109: USES REQUIRING A CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT:
Agricultural products sales stores.
Airports or airstrips.
Automobile wrecking yards or junkyards.
Child care centers, preschools, or Head Start facilities.
Commercial fur farms.
Commercial kennels.
Commercial resorts.
Commercial riding arenas, boarding stables, or equine training facilities.
Feedlots.
Fish hatcheries or fish farms (aquacultural facilities).
Golf courses or driving ranges.
Gun clubs, rifle ranges, or archery ranges.
Hospitals.
Mini-storage facilities or rental warehouses.
Nonprofit trade or business associations.
Places of worship or assembly.
Privately owned recreational facilities which are open to public use.
Public safety facilities or public service facilities.
Racetracks.
Residential care facilities.
Resort lodges, retreat centers, or guest ranches.
Restricted surface mining operations.
Sawmills, shingle or planing mills, or woodworking plants.
Schools.
Slaughterhouses or rendering plants.
Special event locations.
Veterinary hospitals or clinics.
Wholesale greenhouses.
Wireless communication facilities; provided, however, that public safety
wireless communication facilities shall be permitted of right. (Ord. 517, 1-25-
2018)
8.2.110: USES REQUIRING A SPECIAL NOTICE PERMIT:
Annual special event locations, subject to the standards set forth in section
8.5.204 of this title.
Lighting for any outdoor recreational facility permitted of right.
Private resorts.
Public utility complex facilities. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016; amd. Ord. 546, 10-17-
2019; Ord. 611, 5-8-2025)
ARTICLE 2.2. RURAL ZONE
SECTION:
8.2.201: General Description
8.2.202: Restrictions
8.2.203: Lot Size, Density And Site Area
8.2.204: Uses Of Right On Existing Parcels Of Less Than Five Acres
8.2.205: Uses Of Right On Parcels Of Five Acres Or More
8.2.206: Uses Prohibited
8.2.207: Setbacks
8.2.208: Uses Requiring A Conditional Use Permit
8.2.209: Uses Requiring A Special Notice Permit
8.2.201: GENERAL DESCRIPTION:
The Rural Zone is a zoning district in which the land has been found to be
suitable for rural residential uses and uses related to agricultural pursuits,
including farming and forestry. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.2.202: RESTRICTIONS:
In the Rural Zone, no building or premises shall be used, nor shall any
building or structure hereafter be erected or altered (unless provided in this
title) except for the following uses in accordance with the standards set forth
or referenced in this article. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.2.203: LOT SIZE, DENSITY AND SITE AREA:
The minimum parcel size in the Rural Zoneshall be five (5.00) acres, except as
follows:
   A.   In conservation subdivisions, the maximum density shall be one (1)
single family dwelling per five (5.00) acres.
   B.   The minimum size for lots created within the exterior boundaries of the
Coeur d’ Alene Tribal Reservation on or after July 1, 2024 shall be ten (10)
acres. (Ord. 517, 1-25-2018; amd. Ord. 596, 6-27-2024)
8.2.204: USES OF RIGHT ON EXISTING PARCELS OF LESS THAN FIVE ACRES:
Parcels created prior to September 1, 1978 which are less than five (5.00)
acres in size shall be regarded as conforming parcels for purposes of this
title. However, only the following uses shall be permitted of right:
   A.   Primary uses:
   General farming and forestry, provided that the minimum area for the keeping
of livestock shall be three-fourths (3/4) acre. Domestic fowl are permitted
only on parcels of eight thousand two hundred fifty (8,250) square feet or
greater in size, and must be kept in a secure yard or other enclosure at all
times.
   One single-family dwelling, which may be a Class A or Class B manufactured
home, with accessory buildings.
   Public safety wireless communications facilities.
   Utility services.
   B.   Accessory uses:
   Accessory buildings.
   Automotive hobby activities, subject to the standards set forth in section
8.4.503 of this title.
   One cargo container, subject to the standards set forth in section
8.4.304 of this title.
   Cottage industries, subject to the standards set forth in section
8.4.504 of this title, on lots or parcels that are two (2.00) acres in size or
greater.
   Home occupations, subject to the standards set forth in section
8.4.501 of this title.
   One accessory living unit, subject to the standards set forth in section
8.4.301 of this title, on lots or parcels that are two (2.00) acres in size or
greater.
   C.   One personal storage building may be built prior to the establishment
of one or more of the primary uses listed in subsection A of this section,
subject to the standards in section
8.4.303 of this title.
   D.   Temporary or intermittent recreational use of up to two (2)
recreational vehicles, subject to the standards set forth in section
8.4.401 of this title. (Ord. 517, 1-25-2018; amd. Ord. 546, 10-17-2019; Ord.
611, 5-8-2025)
8.2.205: USES OF RIGHT ON PARCELS OF FIVE ACRES OR MORE:
On parcels that are a minimum of five (5.00) acres in size, the following uses
are permitted of right, provided that all uses shall leave sixty five percent
(65%) of the parcel as open space free from structures:
   A.   Primary uses:
   Bed and breakfast inns, subject to the standards set forth in section
8.4.502 of this title.
   Cemeteries, provided that they meet all standards of the Idaho Code and are
approved by Panhandle Health District.
   General farming and forestry.
   One single-family dwelling, which may be a Class A or Class B manufactured
home, or one (1) two-family dwelling.
   Public safety wireless communications facilities.
   Publicly-owned parks, playgrounds, and recreational facilities.
   Sales of agricultural products produced on the premises or on parcels under
common ownership. The amount of space dedicated to such use shall not exceed
three hundred (300) square feet of building area.
   Utility services.
   B.   Accessory uses: The following uses are allowed after one or more of the
primary uses listed in subsection A of this section have been established:
   Accessory buildings.
   Automotive hobby activities, subject to the standards set forth in section
8.4.503 of this title.
   Cargo containers, subject to the standards set forth in section
8.4.304 of this title.
   Cottage industries, subject to the standards set forth in section
8.4.504 of this title.
   Home occupations, subject to the standards set forth in section
8.4.501 of this title.
   Non-commercial kennels, subject to the standards set forth in section
8.4.505 of this title.
   One accessory living unit, subject to the standards set forth in section
8.4.301 of this title.
   Temporary hardship use, subject to the standards set forth in section
8.4.302 of this title.
   C.   One personal storage building may be built prior to the establishment
of one or more of the primary uses listed in subsection A of this section,
subject to the standards in section
8.4.303 of this title.
   D.   Temporary or intermittent recreational use of up to two (2)
recreational vehicles, subject to the standards set forth in section
8.4.401 of this title.
   E.   Continued operation of airports or airstrips that were in existence on
June 9, 2016. (Ord. 517, 1-25-2018; amd. Ord. 611, 5-8-2025)
8.2.206: USES PROHIBITED:
Except as permitted of right or with a conditional use permit or special notice
permit as set forth in this article, the following uses are prohibited:
Commercial uses.
Industrial uses.
Manufacturing uses. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.2.207: SETBACKS:
The following setbacks shall apply to all structures in the Rural Zone:
 
Setback Type    Distance
Front yard      25 feet
Side yard       10 feet
Rear yard       15 feet
Flanking street 15 feet
 
(Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.2.208: USES REQUIRING A CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT:
Agricultural products sales stores.
Airports or airstrips.
Asphalt or concrete batch plants.
Automobile wrecking yards or junkyards.
Child care centers, preschools, or Head Start facilities.
Commercial fur farms.
Commercial kennels.
Commercial resorts.
Commercial riding arenas, boarding stables, or equine training facilities.
Explosive manufacturing or storage facilities.
Golf courses or driving ranges.
Gun clubs, rifle ranges, or archery ranges.
Hospitals.
Mini-storage facilities or rental warehouses.
Nonprofit trade or business associations.
Outdoor theaters.
Places of worship or assembly.
Privately owned recreational facilities which are open to public use.
Public safety facilities or public service facilities.
Public utility complex facilities.
Racetracks.
Residential care facilities.
Resort lodges, retreat centers, or guest ranches.
Restricted surface mining operations.
Sawmills, shingle or planing mills, or woodworking plants.
Schools.
Special event locations.
Veterinary hospitals or clinics.
Wholesale greenhouses.
Wireless communication facilities; provided, however, that public safety
wireless communication facilities shall be permitted of right.
Zoos. (Ord. 517, 1-25-2018)
8.2.209: USES REQUIRING A SPECIAL NOTICE PERMIT:
Annual special event locations, subject to the standards set forth in section
8.5.204 of this title.
Lighting for any outdoor recreational facility permitted of right.
Private resorts.
Utility complexes. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016; amd. Ord. 546, 10-17-2019; Ord. 611, 5-
8-2025)
ARTICLE 2.3. AGRICULTURAL SUBURBAN ZONE
SECTION:
8.2.301: General Description
8.2.302: Restrictions
8.2.303: Parcel Size And Density
8.2.304: Uses Of Right On Existing Parcels Of Less Than Eight Thousand Two
Hundred Fifty Square Feet
8.2.305: Uses Of Right On Parcels Of Eight Thousand Two Hundred Fifty Square
Feet Or More But Less Than Two Acres
8.2.306: Uses Of Right On Parcels Of Two Acres Or More
8.2.307: Uses Prohibited
8.2.308: Setbacks And Off-Street Parking
8.2.309: Uses Requiring A Conditional Use Permit
8.2.310: Uses Requiring A Special Notice Permit
8.2.301: GENERAL DESCRIPTION:
The Agricultural Suburban Zone is a zoning district in which the land has been
found to be suitable for residential and small scale agricultural uses. (Ord.
493, 6-9-2016)
8.2.302: RESTRICTIONS:
In the Agricultural Suburban Zone, no building or premises shall be used, nor
shall any building or structure hereafter be erected or altered (unless
provided in this title), except for the following uses in accordance with the
standards set forth in this article. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.2.303: PARCEL SIZE AND DENSITY:
The minimum parcel size in the Agricultural Suburban Zone shall be two (2.00)
acres, with the following exceptions:
   A.   Conservation subdivisions, which shall be subject to the standards set
forth in section
8.6.602 of this title.
   B.   The minimum parcel size for parcels located over the Rathdrum Prairie
Aquifer and are subject to the provisions of section
8.7.302 of this title shall be five (5.00) acres. (Ord. 518, 2-15-2018; amd.
Ord. 574, 3-22-2022; Ord. 578, 9-8-2022)
8.2.304: USES OF RIGHT ON EXISTING PARCELS OF LESS THAN EIGHT THOUSAND TWO
HUNDRED FIFTY SQUARE FEET:
   A.   Parcels created prior to January 3, 1973 which are less than eight
thousand two hundred fifty (8,250) square feet in size shall be regarded as
conforming parcels for purposes of this title.
   B.   Uses Permitted Of Right:
      1.   Primary Uses:
         a.   One (1) single-family dwelling, which may be a Class A
manufactured home.
         b.   Public safety facilities.
         c.   Utility services.
      2.   Accessory Uses: The following uses are allowed after one or more of
the primary uses listed in subsection (A) of this section have been
established:
         a.   Accessory buildings.
         b.   One cargo container, subject to the standards listed in section
8.4.304 of this title
         c.   Home occupations, subject to the standards set forth in section
8.4.501  of this title.
         d.   Temporary or intermittent recreational use of up to two (2)
recreational vehicles, subject to the standards set forth in section
8.4.401  of this title.
      3.   One (1) personal storage building may be built prior to the
establishment of one or more of the uses listed in paragraph 1 of this
subsection, subject to the standards in section
8.4.303 of this title. (Ord. 517, 1-25-2018; amd. Ord. 546, 10-17-2019; Ord.
611, 5-8-2025)
8.2.305: USES OF RIGHT ON PARCELS OF EIGHT THOUSAND TWO HUNDRED FIFTY SQUARE
FEET OR MORE BUT LESS THAN TWO ACRES:
Parcels created prior to February 8, 2005 that are a minimum of eight thousand
two hundred fifty (8,250) square feet but less than two (2.00) acres in size
shall be regarded as conforming parcels for purposes of this title. On such
parcels, the following uses are permitted of right, provided that all uses
shall leave sixty five percent (65%) of the parcel as open space free from
structures:
   A.   Primary uses:
Bed and breakfast inns, subject to the standards set forth in section
8.4.502 of this title.
General farming and forestry, provided that the minimum area for the keeping of
livestock shall be three-fourths (3/4) acre. Domestic fowl must be kept in a
secure yard or other enclosure at all times.
One single-family dwelling, which may be a Class A manufactured home, or one
(1) two-family dwelling.
Publicly-owned parks, playgrounds, or recreational facilities.
Temporary office for the sale of real estate, for a period not to exceed two
(2) years.
Utility services.
   B.   Accessory uses: The following uses are allowed after one or more of the
primary uses listed in subsection A of this section have been established:
Accessory buildings.
Automotive hobby activities, subject to the standards set forth in section
8.4.503 of this title.
One cargo container, subject to the standards set forth in section
8.4.304 of this title.
Home occupations, subject to the standards set forth in section
8.4.501 of this title.
One accessory living unit, subject to the standards set forth in section
8.4.301 of this title.
Temporary hardship use, subject to the standards set forth in section
8.4.302 of this title.
   C.   Temporary or intermittent recreational use of up to two (2)
recreational vehicles, subject to the standards set forth in section
8.4.401 of this title. (Ord. 517, 1-25-2018)
   D.   One (1) personal storage building not to exceed two thousand (2,000)
square feet may be built prior to the establishment of one or more of the uses
listed in subsection A of this section; provided, however, that a special
notice permit shall be required for such personal storage buildings where the
building will be two hundred (200) square feet or greater and the lot or parcel
is less than one (1.00) acre in size. No special notice permit shall be
required for a personal storage building if the building will be four hundred
(400) square feet or less and the setback areas from the structure to the
property lines are two (2) times the normally applicable setback distances. See
section
8.2.310 of this article. (Ord. 517, 1-25-2018; amd. Ord. 546, 10-17-2019)
8.2.306: USES OF RIGHT ON PARCELS OF TWO ACRES OR MORE:
On parcels that are a minimum of two (2.00) acres in size, the following uses
are permitted of right, provided that all uses shall leave sixty five percent
(65%) of the parcel as open space free from structures:
   A.   Primary uses:
Bed and breakfast inns, subject to the standards set forth in section
8.4.502 of this title.
General farming and forestry, provided that the minimum area for the keeping of
livestock shall be three-fourths (3/4) acre. Domestic fowl must be kept in a
secure yard or other enclosure at all times on parcels smaller than five (5.00)
acres.
One single-family dwelling, which may be a Class A manufactured home, or one
(1) two-family dwelling.
Public safety wireless communications facilities.
Publicly-owned parks, playgrounds, or recreational facilities.
Temporary office for the sale of real estate, for a period not to exceed two
(2) years.
Utility services.
   B.   Accessory uses: The following uses are allowed after one or more of the
primary uses listed in subsection A of this section have been established:
Accessory buildings.
Automotive hobby activities, subject to the standards set forth in section
8.4.503 of this title.
Cargo containers, subject to the standards listed in section
8.4.304 of this title.
Cottage industries, subject to the standards set forth in section
8.4.504 of this title.
Home occupations, subject to the standards set forth in section
8.4.501 of this title.
Non-commercial kennels, subject to the standards set forth in section
8.4.505 of this title.
One accessory living unit, subject to the standards set forth in section
8.4.301 of this title.
Temporary hardship use, subject to the standards set forth in section
8.4.302 of this title.
   C.   One personal storage building may be built prior to the establishment
of one or more of the primary uses listed in subsection A of this section,
subject to the standards listed in section
8.4.303 of this title.
   D.   Continued operation of airports or airstrips that were in existence as
of June 9, 2016.
   E.   Temporary or intermittent recreational use of up to two (2)
recreational vehicles, subject to the standards set forth in section
8.4.401 of this title. (Ord. 517, 1-25-2018; amd. Ord. 546, 10-17-2019; Ord.
611, 5-8-2025)
8.2.307: USES PROHIBITED:
Except as permitted of right or with a conditional use permit or special notice
permit as set forth in this article, the following uses are prohibited:
Commercial uses.
Industrial uses.
Manufacturing uses.
The keeping of livestock on parcels of less than three-fourths (3/4) acre in
size.
The keeping of domestic fowl on parcels of less than eight thousand two hundred
fifty (8,250) square feet in size. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016; amd. Ord. 546, 10-17-
2019)
8.2.308: SETBACKS AND OFF-STREET PARKING:
   A.   Setbacks: The following setbacks shall apply to all structures in the
Agricultural Suburban Zone:
Structure Type Setback Type Distance
Structure Type                           Setback Type             Distance
                                         Front yard               25 feet
                                         Side yard                10 feet
Residential structures                   Side yard, with an alley 6 feet
                                         Rear yard                25 feet
                                         Flanking street          15 feet
                                         Front yard               25 feet
Accessory buildings and personal storage Side yard                10 feet
buildings                                Side yard, with an alley 6 feet
                                         Rear yard                15 feet
                                         Flanking street          15 feet
                                         Front yard               30 feet
All other allowed structures             Side yard                30 feet
                                         Rear yard                30 feet
                                         Flanking street          25 feet
 
   B.   Off-Street Parking: Standards for off-street parking are set forth in
section
8.4.1301 of this title. (Ord. 514, 9-28-2017)
8.2.309: USES REQUIRING A CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT:
Cemeteries.
Child care centers, preschools, or Head Start facilities.
Commercial kennels.
Commercial resorts.
Commercial riding arenas, boarding stables, or equine training facilities.
Golf courses or driving ranges.
Hospitals.
Medical or dental clinics.
Mini-storage facilities or rental warehouses.
Places of worship or assembly.
Privately-owned recreational facilities which are open to public use.
Public safety facilities or public service facilities.
Public utility complex facilities.
Residential care facilities.
Resort lodges, retreat centers, or guest ranches.
Schools.
Veterinary hospitals or clinics.
Wholesale greenhouses.
Wireless communication facilities; provided, however, that public safety
wireless communication facilities shall be permitted of right. The minimum lot
size for wireless communication facilities in the Agricultural Suburban Zone,
including public safety wireless communication facilities, shall be two (2)
acres. (Ord. 517, 1-25-2018)
8.2.310: USES REQUIRING A SPECIAL NOTICE PERMIT:
Annual special event locations, subject to the standards set forth in section
8.5.204 of this title.
Lighting for any outdoor recreational facility permitted of right.
Multiple-family dwellings.
One Class B manufactured home.
Private resorts.
Utility complexes. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016; amd. Ord. 546, 10-17-2019; Ord. 611, 5-
8-2025)
ARTICLE 2.4. RESTRICTED RESIDENTIAL ZONE
SECTION:
8.2.401: General Description
8.2.402: Restrictions
8.2.403: Parcel Size And Density
8.2.404: Uses Of Right On Existing Parcels Of Less Than Eight Thousand Two
Hundred Fifty Square Feet
8.2.405: Uses Of Right On Parcels Of Eight Thousand Two Hundred Fifty Square
Feet Or More But Less Than Nine Thousand Nine Hundred Square Feet
8.2.406: Uses Of Right On Parcels Of Nine Thousand Nine Hundred Square Feet Or
More But Less Than Five Acres
8.2.407: Uses Of Right On Parcels Of Five Acres Or More
8.2.408: Uses Prohibited
8.2.409: Setbacks And Off Street Parking
8.2.410: Uses Requiring A Conditional Use Permit
8.2.411: Uses Requiring A Special Notice Permit
8.2.401: GENERAL DESCRIPTION:
The Restricted Residential Zone is a zoning district in which the land has been
found to be suitable for residential use which is, or is expected to become, a
one- or two-family unit living area. Uses are generally limited to residential
uses. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.2.402: RESTRICTIONS:
In the Restricted Residential Zone, no building or premises shall be used nor
shall any building or structure hereafter be erected or altered (unless
provided in this title) except for the following uses in accordance with the
standards set forth in this article. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.2.403: PARCEL SIZE AND DENSITY:
The minimum parcel size in the Restricted Residential Zone shall be eight
thousand two hundred fifty (8,250) square feet, with the following exceptions:
   A.   The maximum density within the boundaries of area of city impact of the
City of Hayden Lake shall be one single-family dwelling per acre.
   B.   The minimum parcel size for parcels which are located over the Rathdrum
Prairie Aquifer and are subject to the provisions of section
8.7.302 of this title shall be five (5.00) acres. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016; amd.
Ord. 574, 3-22-2022; Ord. 578, 9-8-2022)
8.2.404: USES OF RIGHT ON EXISTING PARCELS OF LESS THAN EIGHT THOUSAND TWO
HUNDRED FIFTY SQUARE FEET:
   A.   Parcels created prior to January 3, 1973 which are less than eight
thousand two hundred fifty (8,250) square feet in size shall be regarded as
conforming parcels for purposes of this title.
   B.   Uses Permitted Of Right:
      1.   Primary Uses:
         a.   One (1) single-family dwelling, which may be a Class A
manufactured home.
         b.   Public safety facilities.
         c.   Utility services.
      2.   Accessory Uses:
         a.   Accessory buildings.
         b.   Home occupations, subject to the standards set forth in section
8.4.501  of this title.
         c.   Temporary or intermittent recreational use of up to two (2)
recreational vehicles, subject to the standards set forth in section
8.4.401  of this title.
      3.   One (1) personal storage building may be built prior to the
establishment of one or more of the uses listed in paragraph (1) of this
subsection, subject to the standards in section
8.4.303 of this title. (Ord. 517, 1-25-2018; amd. Ord. 546, 10-17-2019; Ord.
611, 5-8-2025)
8.2.405: USES OF RIGHT ON PARCELS OF EIGHT THOUSAND TWO HUNDRED FIFTY SQUARE
FEET OR MORE BUT LESS THAN NINE THOUSAND NINE HUNDRED SQUARE FEET:
On parcels that are a minimum of eight thousand two hundred fifty (8,250)
square feet but less than nine thousand nine hundred (9,900) square feet in
size, the following uses are permitted, provided that all uses shall leave
sixty five percent (65%) of the parcel as open space free from structures:
   A.   Primary uses:
Bed and breakfast inns, subject to the standards set forth in section
8.4.502 of this title.
One single-family dwelling, which may be a Class A manufactured home.
Publicly-owned parks, playgrounds, or recreational facilities.
Temporary office for the sale of real estate for a period not to exceed two (2)
years.
Utility services.
   B.   Accessory uses: The following uses are allowed after one or more of the
primary uses listed in subsection A of this section have been established:
Accessory buildings.
Automotive hobby activities, subject to the standards set forth in section
8.4.503 of this title.
Home occupations, subject to the standards set forth in section
8.4.501 of this title.
One accessory living unit, subject to the standards set forth in section
8.4.301 of this title.
Temporary hardship use, subject to the standards set forth in section
8.4.302 of this title.
The keeping of domestic fowl, subject to the following limitations:
   Male chickens (roosters) shall not be kept.
   Domestic fowl must be kept in a secure yard or other enclosure at all times.
   C.   Temporary or intermittent recreational use of up to two (2)
recreational vehicles, subject to the standards set forth in section
8.4.401 of this title.
   D.   One (1) personal storage building may be built prior to the
establishment of one or more of the uses listed in subsection A of this
section, subject to the standards listed in section
8.4.303 of this title. (Ord. 517, 1-25-2018; amd. Ord. 546, 10-17-2019; Ord.
611, 5-8-2025)
8.2.406: USES OF RIGHT ON PARCELS OF NINE THOUSAND NINE HUNDRED SQUARE FEET OR
MORE BUT LESS THAN FIVE ACRES:
On parcels that are a minimum of nine thousand nine hundred (9,900) square feet
but less than five (5.00) acres in size, the following uses are permitted,
provided that all uses shall leave sixty five percent (65%) of the parcel as
open space free from structures:
   A.   Primary Uses:
Any of the other primary uses listed in section
8.2.405 of this article.
One single-family dwelling, which may be a Class A manufactured home, or one
(1) two-family dwelling.
   B.   Accessory Uses:
      1.   Any of the accessory uses listed in section
8.2.405 of this article, subject to the applicable standards or limitations set
forth in that section, are allowed after one or more of the primary uses of
right permitted under this section have been established.
      2.   The keeping of livestock, subject to the following limitations:
         a.   The keeping of livestock shall be allowed only after one or more
of the primary uses of right permitted under this section have been
established.
         b.   The minimum area for the keeping of livestock shall be three-
fourths (¾) acre.
         c.   Livestock care and animal waste management must meet all
applicable regulations of agencies with jurisdiction.
   C.   Recreational Use: Temporary or intermittent recreational use of up to
two (2) recreational vehicles, subject to the standards set forth in section
8.4.401 of this title.
   D.   Storage: One (1) personal storage building may be built prior to the
establishment of one or more of the uses listed in subsection A of this
section, subject to the standards listed in section
8.4.303 of this title. (Ord. 517, 1-25-2018; amd. Ord. 546, 10-17-2019; Ord.
611, 5-8-2025)
8.2.407: USES OF RIGHT ON PARCELS OF FIVE ACRES OR MORE:
On parcels that are a minimum of five (5.00) acres in size, the following uses
are permitted of right, provided that all uses shall leave sixty five percent
(65%) of the parcel as open space free from structures:
   A.   Primary Uses: Any of the primary uses listed in sections
8.2.405 and
8.2.406 of this article.
   B.   Accessory Uses:
      1.   Any of the accessory uses listed in section
8.2.405 and
8.2.406 of this article are allowed after one or more of the primary uses of
right permitted under this section have been established.
      2.   Accessory uses shall be subject to the applicable standards or
limitations set forth in section
8.2.405  or
8.2.406  of this article, except that the keeping of domestic fowl may include
male chickens (roosters), and domestic fowl need not be kept in a secure yard
or other enclosure.
   C.   Recreational Use: Temporary or intermittent recreational use of up to
two (2) recreational vehicles, subject to the standards set forth in section
8.4.401 of this title.
   D.   Storage: One personal storage building not to exceed five thousand
(5,000) square feet may be built prior to the establishment of one or more of
the primary uses listed in subsection A of this section. (Ord. 517, 1-25-2018;
amd. Ord. 546, 10-17-2019; Ord. 611, 5-8-2025)
8.2.408: USES PROHIBITED:
Except as permitted of right or with a conditional use permit or special notice
permit as set forth in this article, the following uses are prohibited:
Commercial uses.
Industrial uses.
Manufacturing uses.
The keeping of domestic fowl on parcels of less than eight thousand two hundred
fifty (8,250) square feet in size.
The keeping of livestock on parcels of less than three-fourths (3/4) acre in
size. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016; amd. Ord. 546, 10-17-2019)
8.2.409: SETBACKS AND OFF STREET PARKING:
   A.   Setbacks: The following setbacks shall apply to all structures in the
Restricted Residential Zone:
 
Setback Type             Distance
Front yard               25 feet
Side yard                10 feet
Side yard, with an alley 6 feet
Rear yard                25 feet
Flanking street          15 feet
 
   B.   Off Street Parking: Standards for off street parking are set forth in
section
8.4.1301 of this title. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.2.410: USES REQUIRING A CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT:
Child care centers, preschools, or Head Start facilities.
Commercial resorts.
Golf courses or driving ranges.
Places of worship or assembly.
Privately owned recreational facilities which are open to public use.
Public safety facilities or public service facilities.
Public utility complex facilities.
Residential care facilities.
Resort lodges, retreat centers, or guest ranches.
Schools. (Ord. 517, 1-25-2018)
8.2.411: USES REQUIRING A SPECIAL NOTICE PERMIT:
Annual special event locations, subject to the standards set forth in section
8.5.204 of this title.
Lighting for any outdoor recreational facility permitted of right.
One Class B manufactured home.
Private resorts.
Utility complexes. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016; amd. Ord. 546, 10-17-2019; Ord. 611, 5-
8-2025)
ARTICLE 2.5. HIGH DENSITY RESIDENTIAL ZONE
SECTION:
8.2.501: General Description
8.2.502: Restrictions
8.2.503: Parcel Size And Density
8.2.504: Uses Permitted
8.2.505: Uses Prohibited
8.2.506: Setbacks And Off Street Parking
8.2.507: Uses Requiring A Conditional Use Permit
8.2.508: Uses Requiring A Special Notice Permit
8.2.501: GENERAL DESCRIPTION:
The High Density Residential Zone is a zoning district in which the land has
been found to be suitable for high density residential uses, including
multiple-family dwellings, manufactured home units used as single-family
residences on individual lots, or manufactured home parks permitted through the
issuance of a conditional use permit. The predominant housing type in this zone
will be manufactured homes and apartments. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.2.502: RESTRICTIONS:
In the High Density Residential Zone, no building or premises shall be used,
nor shall any building or structure hereafter be erected or altered (unless
provided in this title), except for the following uses in accordance with the
standards set forth in this article. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.2.503: PARCEL SIZE AND DENSITY:
   A.   Except as otherwise provided in this article, the maximum density in
the High Density Residential Zone shall be one dwelling unit per three thousand
(3,000) square feet.
   B.   The minimum parcel size for parcels which are located over the Rathdrum
Prairie Aquifer and are subject to the provisions of section
8.7.302 of this title shall be five (5.00) acres. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016; amd.
Ord. 574, 3-22-2022; Ord. 578, 9-8-2022)
8.2.504: USES PERMITTED:
The following uses are permitted of right, provided that all uses shall leave
sixty five percent (65%) of the parcel as open space free from structures:
   A.   Primary uses:
Bed and breakfast inns, subject to the standards set forth in section
8.4.502 of this title.
Multiple-family dwellings are permitted of right on parcels of not less than
twelve thousand (12,000) square feet in size with frontage on a public road.
There shall be a ratio of not less than three thousand (3,000) square feet of
land per dwelling unit.
One single-family dwelling or one (1) two-family dwelling. On parcels of not
less than six thousand (6,000) square feet with frontage on a public road, one
Class A or Class B manufactured home may be used as a single-family dwelling.
Publicly-owned parks, playgrounds, or recreational facilities.
Temporary office for the sale of real estate for a period not to exceed two (2)
years.
Utility services.
   B.   Accessory uses: The following uses are allowed after one or more of the
primary uses listed in subsection A of this section have been established:
Accessory buildings.
Automotive hobby activities, subject to the standards set forth in section
8.4.503 of this title.
Home occupations, subject to the standards set forth in section
8.4.501 of this title.
One accessory living unit, subject to the standards set forth in section
8.4.301 of this title.
Temporary hardship use, subject to the standards set forth in section
8.4.302 of this title.
   C.   Temporary or intermittent recreational use of one recreational vehicle,
subject to the standards set forth in section
8.4.401 of this title. (Ord. 517, 1-25-2018)
8.2.505: USES PROHIBITED:
Except as permitted of right or with a conditional use permit or special notice
permit as set forth in this article, the following uses are prohibited:
General commercial uses, except as specifically permitted in manufactured home
parks under section
8.5.116 of this title.
Industrial uses.
Manufacturing uses.
The keeping of livestock or domestic fowl. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016; amd. Ord. 546,
10-17-2019)
8.2.506: SETBACKS AND OFF STREET PARKING:
   A.   Setbacks: The following setbacks shall apply to all structures in the
High Density Residential Zone, except within manufactured home parks:
 
Setback Type             Distance
Front yard               25 feet
Side yard                10 feet
Side yard, with an alley 6 feet
Rear yard                25 feet
Flanking street          15 feet
 
   B.   Off Street Parking: Standards for off street parking are set forth in
section
8.4.1301 of this title. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.2.507: USES REQUIRING A CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT:
Any accessory building, structure, or use not located on the same parcel as the
primary use, provided that it is located on a parcel within two hundred feet
(200') of the parcel on which one or more primary uses listed in section
8.2.504 of this article have been established.
Any building, structure, or use to be built prior to the establishment of one
or more of the primary uses listed in section
8.2.504 of this article.
Child care centers, preschools, or Head Start facilities.
Golf courses or driving ranges.
Manufactured home parks.
Public safety facilities.
Public utility complex facilities.
Residential care facilities.
Transitional group housing facilities. (Ord. 517, 1-25-2018)
8.2.508: USE REQUIRING A SPECIAL NOTICE PERMIT:
Annual special event locations, subject to the standards set forth in section
8.5.204 of this title.
Lighting for any outdoor recreational facility permitted of right.
Private resorts.
Utility complexes. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
ARTICLE 2.6. COMMERCIAL ZONE
SECTION:
8.2.601: General Description
8.2.602: Restrictions
8.2.603: Uses Permitted
8.2.604: Uses Prohibited
8.2.605: Setbacks
8.2.606: Uses Requiring A Conditional Use Permit
8.2.607: Uses Requiring A Special Notice Permit
8.2.601: GENERAL DESCRIPTION:
The Commercial Zone is a zoning district in which the land has been found to be
suitable for wholesale and retail sales and services. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.2.602: RESTRICTIONS:
In the Commercial Zone, no building or premises shall be used, nor any building
or structure be hereafter erected or altered (unless provided in this title),
except for the following uses in accordance with the standards set forth in
this article. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.2.603: USES PERMITTED:
Unless a conditional use permit or special notice permit is required pursuant
to section
8.2.606  or
8.2.607  of this article, respectively, the following uses are permitted of
right:
   A.   Primary Uses:
Any eating or drinking establishment, or other entertainment facility.
Any wholesale, retail or service business.
General farming and forestry, provided that the minimum lot area for the
keeping of livestock shall be three-fourths (3/4) acre.
Helipads, helicopter operation, and helicopter storage.
Hospitality businesses such as hotels, motels, condominium or vacation rental
facilities, private resorts, commercial resorts, and meeting and convention
facilities.
Marine service businesses, subject to the standards set forth in section
8.4.1502 of this title.
Mobile commercial vehicles and temporary commercial structures, subject to the
standards set forth in section
8.4.1410 of this title.
Nonprofit trade or business associations.
Parks, playgrounds, golf courses, and other recreational facilities, whether
publicly or privately owned.
Places of worship or assembly.
Public or private office buildings.
Public safety facilities.
Public safety wireless communication facilities.
Public service facilities.
Recreational buildings.
Recreational vehicle parks, subject to the standards set forth in chapter 4,
article 4.4 of this title.
Residential uses, including single-family, two-family and multiple-family
dwellings. Maximum density for residential uses shall be as set forth in
section
8.2.503 of this chapter.
Resort lodges, retreat centers, or guest ranches.
Transfer, storage, and warehouse facilities, and contractor storage. Storage
shall comply with the requirements of section
8.4.605 of this title unless an alternative method of compliance is approved
pursuant to section
8.4.606 of this title.
Universities, colleges, and vocational, trade, or private instructional
schools, providing a specialized or single- item curriculum.
Utility complexes and utility services.
   B.   Accessory Uses: The following uses are allowed after one or more of the
primary uses listed in subsection A of this section have been established:
Accessory buildings.
Cargo containers, subject to the standards set forth in section
8.4.304 of this title.
Processing and manufacturing operations which are part of, and ancillary to,
the operation of a permitted use.
   C.   Performance Standards:
      1.   Performance standards generally applicable within the Commercial
Zone are set forth in section
8.4.1302 of this title.
      2.   Landscaping, screening and fencing shall comply with the standards
set forth in chapter 4, article 4.6 of this title unless the parcel is located
within the Airport Overlay zone or is expressly modified via approval of an
alternative method of compliance pursuant to section
8.4.606 of this title.
      3.   Parking shall comply with the standards set forth in chapter 4,
article 4.7 of this title unless the parcel is located within the Airport
Overlay zone or is expressly modified via approval of an alternative method of
compliance pursuant to section
8.4.705 of this title.
   D.   Public Safety Facilities And Public Service Facilities: Public safety
facilities and public service facilities may be located on a lot that is
otherwise ineligible for building permits, and shall be exempt from the
requirements of section
8.4.1302 of this title.
   E.   Person Storage Buildings: One (1) personal storage building may be
built prior to the establishment of one or more of the primary uses set forth
in subsection (A) of this section, subject to the standards listed in section
8.4.303 of this title. (Ord. 514, 9-28-2017; amd. Ord. 546, 10-17-2019; Ord.
614, 4-4-2025; Ord. 611, 5-8-2025)
8.2.604: USES PROHIBITED:
Except as permitted of right or with a conditional use permit or special notice
permit as set forth in this article, the following uses are prohibited:
Automobile wrecking yards and junkyards.
Processing and manufacturing operations are prohibited unless they are part of,
and accessory to, the operation of a use permitted pursuant to this article.
Sexually oriented businesses. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.2.605: SETBACKS:
The following setbacks shall apply to all structures in the Commercial Zone:
 
Setback Type    Distance
Front yard      35 feet
Side yard       None
Rear yard       20 feet
Flanking street 15 feet
 
(Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.2.606: USES REQUIRING A CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT:
Outdoor theaters.
Re-entry facilities.
Solid waste transfer stations that are not public utility complex facilities.
Special event locations.
Transitional group housing facilities.
Wireless communication facilities; provided, however, that public safety
wireless communication facilities shall be permitted of right.
Zoos. (Ord. 517, 1-25-2018; amd. Ord. 546, 10-17-2019; Ord. 552, 10-15-2020)
8.2.607: USES REQUIRING A SPECIAL NOTICE PERMIT:
Annual special event locations, subject to the standards set forth in section
8.5.204 of this title.
One or more railroad cars or truck cargo containers or trailers used for
storage or any other purpose not associated with the active operation of a
railroad or trucking business.
Outdoor lighting associated with permitted recreational uses.
Public utility complex facilities.
Uses otherwise permitted of right which are anticipated to generate traffic
impacts in excess of the following thresholds according to calculations based
on the most current edition of the "Trip Generation Manual" issued by the
Institute of Transportation Engineers:
   A.   For sites which access directly onto a State or Federal highway: Twenty
five (25) vehicles per hour, or two hundred fifty (250) vehicles per day.
   B.   For sites which access onto other public roads: Fifty (50) vehicles per
day.
Uses otherwise permitted of right which are located on a parcel which fronts a
State or Federal highway. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
ARTICLE 2.7. MINING ZONE
SECTION:
8.2.701: General Description
8.2.702: Restrictions
8.2.703: Uses Permitted
8.2.704: Uses Prohibited
8.2.705: Uses Requiring A Conditional Use Permit
8.2.706: Uses Requiring A Special Notice Permit
8.2.701: GENERAL DESCRIPTION:
The Mining Zone is a zoning district in which the land has been found to be
suitable for excavation and processing materials secured from the earth. (Ord.
493, 6-9-2016)
8.2.702: RESTRICTIONS:
In the Mining Zone, no building or premises shall be used, nor shall any
building or structure hereafter be erected or altered (unless provided in this
title), except for the following uses in accordance with the standards set
forth in this article. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.2.703: USES PERMITTED:
   A.   Permitted: The following uses are permitted of right:
All surface and subsurface mining operations, including the processing of
materials, necessary plants and offices, equipment, storage space and other
facilities directly related to the mining operation.
Cargo containers, subject to the standards listed in section
8.4.304 of this title.
General farming and forestry, provided that the minimum lot area for the
keeping of livestock shall be three-fourths (3/4) acre.
Helipads, helicopter operation, and helicopter storage.
Mobile commercial vehicles and temporary commercial structures, subject to the
standards set forth in section
8.4.1409 of this title.
One residential structure for use as a caretaker's quarters.
Public safety facilities.
Public service facilities.
Utility complexes and utility services.
   B.   Performance Standards:
      1.   Performance standards generally applicable within the Mining Zone
are set forth in section
8.4.1303 of this title.
      2.   Landscaping, screening and fencing shall comply with the standards
set forth in chapter 4, article 4.6 of this title unless the parcel is located
within the Airport Overlay zone or is expressly modified via approval of an
alternative method of compliance pursuant to section
8.4.606 of this title.
      3.   Parking shall comply with the standards set forth in chapter 4,
article 4.7 of this title unless the parcel is located within the Airport
Overlay zone or is expressly modified via approval of an alternative method of
compliance pursuant to section
8.4.705 of this title.
   C.   Public Safety Facilities And Public Service Facilities: Public safety
facilities and public service facilities may be located on a lot that is
otherwise ineligible for building permits, and shall be exempt from the
requirements of section
8.4.1303 of this title. (Ord. 514, 9-28-2017; amd. Ord. 546, 10-17-2019; Ord.
611, 5-8-2025)
8.2.704: USES PROHIBITED:
Except as permitted of right or with a conditional use permit or special notice
permit as set forth in this article, the following uses are prohibited:
All types of commercial uses.
All types of dwelling units.
Schools, hospitals, childcare centers, preschools, Head Start facilities,
places of assembly, places of worship, and cemeteries. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.2.705: USES REQUIRING A CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT:
Re-entry facilities.
Solid waste transfer stations that are not public utility complex facilities.
Special event locations.
Transitional group housing facilities. (Ord. 519, 2-15-2018; amd. Ord. 546, 10-
17-2019; Ord. 552, 10-15-2020)
8.2.706: USES REQUIRING A SPECIAL NOTICE PERMIT:
Annual special event locations, subject to the standards set forth in section
8.5.204 of this title.
Asphalt or concrete batch plants.
Public utility complex facilities. (Ord. 514, 9-28-2017)
ARTICLE 2.8. LIGHT INDUSTRIAL ZONE
SECTION:
8.2.801: General Description
8.2.802: Restrictions
8.2.803: Uses Permitted
8.2.804: Uses Prohibited
8.2.805: Setbacks
8.2.806: Building Height
8.2.807: Uses Requiring A Conditional Use Permit
8.2.808: Uses Requiring A Special Notice Permit
8.2.801: GENERAL DESCRIPTION:
The Light Industrial Zone is a zoning district in which the land has been found
to be suitable for manufacturing and processing of a nonnuisance character. The
purpose of the Light Industrial Zone is to encourage the development of
manufacturing and wholesale businesses that are clean, quiet, and free of
noise, odor, dust, and smoke. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.2.802: RESTRICTIONS:
In the Light Industrial Zone, no building or premises shall be used, nor shall
any building or structure hereafter be erected or altered (unless provided in
this title), except for the following uses in accordance with the standards set
forth in this article. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.2.803: USES PERMITTED:
   A.   Permitted: The following uses are permitted of right:
Any commercial, manufacturing, or industrial use that complies with the
performance standards set forth in sections
8.4.1304 and
8.4.1305 of this title and are not prohibited under section
8.2.804 of this article.
Cargo containers, subject to the standards listed in section
8.4.304 of this title.
General farming and forestry, provided that the minimum lot area for the
keeping of livestock shall be three-fourths (3/4) acre.
Golf courses and driving ranges.
Helipads, helicopter operation, and helicopter storage.
Mini-storage facilities or rental warehouses.
Mobile commercial vehicles and temporary commercial structures, subject to the
standards set forth in section
8.4.1409 of this title.
Public safety facilities.
Public safety wireless communications facilities.
Public service facilities.
Publicly-owned parks, playgrounds, or recreational facilities.
Racetracks, subject to the standards set forth in section
8.5.122 of this title.
Transfer, storage, and warehouse facilities, and contractor storage. Storage
shall comply with the requirements of section
8.4.605 of this title unless an alternative method of compliance is approved
pursuant to section
8.4.606 of this title.
Utility complexes and utility services.
Wholesale, retail or service businesses.
   B.   Performance Standards:
      1.   Performance standards generally applicable within the Light
Industrial Zone are set forth in sections
8.4.1304 and
8.4.1305 of this title.
      2.   Landscaping, screening and fencing shall comply with the standards
set forth in chapter 4, article 4.6 of this title unless the parcel is located
within the Airport Overlay zone or is expressly modified via approval of an
alternative method of compliance pursuant to section
8.4.606 of this title.
      3.   Parking shall comply with the standards set forth in chapter 4,
article 4.7 of this title unless the parcel is located within the Airport
Overlay zone or is expressly modified via approval of an alternative method of
compliance pursuant to section
8.4.705 of this title.
   C.   Public Safety Facilities And Public Service Facilities: Public safety
facilities and public service facilities may be located on a lot that is
otherwise ineligible for building permits, and shall be exempt from the
requirements of sections
8.4.1304 and
8.4.1305 of this title. (Ord. 514, 9-28-2017; amd. Ord. 546, 10-17-2019; Ord.
611, 5-8-2025)
8.2.804: USES PROHIBITED:
Except as permitted of right or with a conditional use permit or special notice
permit as set forth in this article, the following uses are prohibited:
Mining, extraction, filling, and soil stripping operations.
Residential uses.
Schools, hospitals, childcare centers, preschools, Head Start facilities,
places of assembly, places of worship, and cemeteries.
Sexually oriented businesses.
Stockyards, tanneries, wool scouring and cleaning, cotton textile sizing,
scouring, leaching, dyeing, and similar uses.
The manufacture and storage of explosive products, including, without
limitation, dynamite, commercial explosives, TNT, military explosives, and
fireworks.
The preparation and processing of dust producing mineral products including,
without limitation, abrasives, cement, lime, fertilizer, plaster, crushed
stone, sand, gravel, and topsoil.
The production and process of coal and coal tar, the processing of petroleum
and petroleum products, and petroleum refining.
The production of corrosive and noxious chemicals, including, without
limitation, acids, acetylene gas, ammonia, chlorine, and bleaching compounds.
The production of soap, glue, paper, varnish, or creosote.
The smelting and reduction of metallic ores, including, without limitation,
blast furnaces, open hearth, and electric furnaces, bessemer converters, and
nonferrous metal smelters. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.2.805: SETBACKS:
   A.   Setback Table And Exceptions:
Structure Type Setback Type Distance
Structure Type                                       Setback Type    Distance
                                                     Front yard      35 feet
Publicly owned uses and privately owned uses open to Side yard       None1
the public                                           Rear yard       35 feet
                                                     Flanking street 20 feet
                                                     Front yard      35 feet
Commercial and industrial buildings                  Side yard       None2
                                                     Rear yard       15 feet
                                                     Flanking street 20 feet
 
   Notes:
      1.    When the use abuts any parcel located in the Agricultural, Rural,
Agricultural Suburban, Restricted Residential, or High Density Residential
Zone, the side yard setback shall be 5 feet for each story or 10 foot height
increment, whichever is lower.
      2.    When a commercial or industrial building abuts any parcel located
in the Agricultural, Rural, Agricultural Suburban, Restricted Residential, or
High Density Residential Zone, the side yard setback shall be 5 feet for each
story or 10 foot height increment, whichever is lower.
Example: If the building is 4 stories, the side yard setback would be 20 feet.
   B.   Building Line Variations: Where there is an established building line
in a Light Industrial Zone, a commercial or industrial building may be built on
the established building line. The established building line shall be
determined by sixty five percent (65%) of the existing buildings within two
hundred feet (200') from each side of the lot. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.2.806: BUILDING HEIGHT:
No building hereafter created or structurally altered in a Light Industrial
Zone shall exceed three (3) stories or a maximum height of thirty five feet
(35'). (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.2.807: USES REQUIRING A CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT:
Above-ground storage of over five thousand (5,000) gallons (per site) of
petroleum products.
Automobile wrecking yards or junkyards.
Gun clubs, rifle ranges, or archery ranges.
Re-entry facilities.
Slaughterhouses or rendering plants.
Solid waste transfer stations that are not public utility complex facilities.
Special event locations.
Transitional group housing facilities.
Wireless communication facilities; provided, however, that public safety
wireless communication facilities shall be permitted of right. (Ord. 519, 2-15-
2018; amd. Ord. 546, 10-17-2019; Ord. 552, 10-15-2020)
8.2.808: USES REQUIRING A SPECIAL NOTICE PERMIT:
Annual special event locations, subject to the standards set forth in section
8.5.204 of this title.
Lighting for any outdoor recreational facility permitted of right.
Public utility complex facilities. (Ord. 514, 9-28-2017)
ARTICLE 2.9. INDUSTRIAL ZONE
SECTION:
8.2.901: General Description
8.2.902: Restrictions
8.2.903: Uses Permitted
8.2.904: Uses Prohibited
8.2.905: Setbacks
8.2.906: Uses Requiring A Conditional Use Permit
8.2.907: Uses Requiring A Special Notice Permit
8.2.901: GENERAL DESCRIPTION:
The Industrial Zone is a zoning district in which the land has been found to be
suitable for manufacturing and processing of all types. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.2.902: RESTRICTIONS:
In the Industrial Zone, no building or premises shall be used, nor shall any
building or structure hereafter be erected or altered (unless provided in this
title), except for the following uses in accordance with the standards set
forth in this article. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.2.903: USES PERMITTED:
   A.   Permitted: The following uses are permitted of right:
Any trade, industry, or processing facility of any type that complies with the
performance standards set forth in sections
8.4.1304 and
8.4.1306 of this title and are not prohibited in section
8.2.904 of this article.
Cargo containers, subject to the standards set forth in section
8.4.304 of this title.
Golf courses and driving ranges.
Helipads, helicopter operation, and helicopter storage.
Mobile commercial vehicles and temporary commercial structures, subject to the
standards set forth in section
8.4.1409 of this title.
Oil and gas drilling and extraction operations, and exploration operations
involving ground disturbances, except as prohibited in section
8.2.904 of this article.
Public safety facilities.
Public safety wireless communications facilities.
Public service facilities.
Publicly-owned parks, playgrounds, or recreational facilities.
Racetracks, subject to the standards set forth in section
8.5.122 of this title.
Recreational buildings.
Sexually oriented businesses, subject to the standards set forth in section
8.4.1202 of this title.
Transfer, storage, and warehouse facilities, and contractor storage. Storage
shall comply with the requirements of section
8.4.605 of this title unless an alternative method of compliance is approved
pursuant to section
8.4.606 of this title.
Utility complexes and utility services.
   B.   Performance Standards:
      1.   Performance standards generally applicable within the Industrial
Zone are set forth in sections
8.4.1304 and
8.4.1306 of this title.
      2.   Landscaping, screening and fencing shall comply with the standards
set forth in chapter 4, article 4.6 of this title unless the parcel is located
within the Airport Overlay zone or is expressly modified via approval of an
alternative method of compliance pursuant to section
8.4.606 of this title.
      3.   Parking shall comply with the standards set forth in chapter 4,
article 4.7 of this title unless the parcel is located within the Airport
Overlay zone or is expressly modified via approval of an alternative method of
compliance pursuant to section
8.4.705 of this title.
   C.   Public Safety Facilities And Public Service Facilities: Public safety
facilities and public service facilities may be located on a lot that is
otherwise ineligible for building permits, and shall be exempt from the
requirements of sections
8.4.1304 and
8.4.1306 of this title. (Ord. 514, 9-28-2017; amd. Ord. 546, 10-17-2019; Ord.
611, 5-8-2025)
8.2.904: USES PROHIBITED:
Except as permitted of right or with a conditional use permit or special notice
permit as set forth in this article, the following uses are prohibited:
Oil and gas exploration, drilling and extraction operations shall be prohibited
on all parcels located over the Rathdrum Prairie Aquifer, Chilco Channel
Aquifer, or any aquifer recharge area, as determined by Panhandle Health
District or the Idaho Department of Environmental Quality.
Residential and commercial uses.
Schools, hospitals, childcare centers, preschools, Head Start facilities,
places of assembly, places of worship, and cemeteries. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.2.905: SETBACKS:
   A.   Fixed and permanent structures shall have a minimum setback of fifty
feet (50') from any property line.
   B.   If the setback set forth in subsection A of this section would result
in a clear area greater than twenty percent (20%) of the total plant site area,
the setback distance shall be reduced to not less than the following minimum
distances, providing that the resulting clear area is not less than twenty
percent (20%) of the total plant site area:
 
Location Of Property Line                                    Distance
Adjoining a public or private road, easement or right-of-way 50 feet
Adjoining another plant site                                 25 feet
 
(Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.2.906: USES REQUIRING A CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT:
Aboveground storage of over five thousand (5,000) gallons (per site) of
petroleum products.
Automobile wrecking yards or junkyards.
Cement, gypsum, or asphalt plants.
Explosives manufacturing or storage facilities.
Gun clubs, rifle ranges, or archery ranges.
Restricted surface mining operations.
Slaughterhouses or rendering plants.
Solid waste transfer stations that are not public utility complex facilities.
Special event locations.
Wireless communication facilities; provided, however, that public safety
wireless communication facilities shall be permitted of right. (Ord. 493, 6-9-
2016; amd. Ord. 546, 10-17-2019)
8.2.907: USES REQUIRING A SPECIAL NOTICE PERMIT:
Annual special event locations, subject to the standards set forth in section
8.5.204 of this title.
Lighting for any outdoor recreational facility permitted of right.
Public utility complex facilities. (Ord. 514, 9-28-2017)
ARTICLE 2.10. CLASSIFICATION OF NEW AND UNLISTED USES
SECTION:
8.2.1001: Purpose
8.2.1002: Procedure
8.2.1001: PURPOSE:
It is recognized that new types of land uses will develop and forms of land use
not anticipated may seek to locate in Kootenai County. The procedure set forth
in this article is intended to provide a mechanism for consideration of such
changes and contingencies. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.2.1002: PROCEDURE:
   A.   Authority Of Director: The director may approve the following types of
new or unlisted uses under the following circumstances:
      1.   The director may find that a new or unlisted use is an accessory use
permitted by right if it is customarily incidental to one of the listed primary
uses and otherwise complies with the regulations applicable in that zone.
      2.   The director may find that a new or unlisted use is similar to, or a
lesser form of, an existing use which is permitted of right, or an existing use
for which a conditional use permit or special notice permit is required, in one
or more particular zones. If the director determines that the use in question
is similar to, or a lesser form of, an existing use, all performance standards,
hearing requirements, and other provisions of this title which apply to that
existing use shall be met.
      3.   A determination of the director made pursuant to this subsection may
be appealed in accordance with chapter 8, article 8.5 of this title.
   B.   Approval Of Other New And Unlisted Uses: If the director determines
that the use in question is a new or unlisted use that cannot be approved
pursuant to subsection A of this section, the following procedure shall apply:
      1.   The director shall refer the matter to the planning commission,
requesting an interpretation as to the zoning most appropriate for the use in
question.
      2.   The referral of the matter shall be accompanied by a statement of
facts provided by the applicant, listing the nature and potential impacts of
the use in question, including, without limitation, whether it involves
dwelling activity, sales, processing, production of a specific product, storage
needs, employment of workers, and an accounting of the amount of noise, odor,
fumes, dust, toxic material, and vibration likely to be generated.
      3.   A public hearing on the matter shall be held before the planning
commission in accordance with the provisions of section 67-6511, Idaho Code and
chapter 8, article 8.4 of this title.
      4.   The planning commission shall consider the nature and potential
impacts of the use in question and its compatibility with the uses permitted in
each zone, and shall make the following findings in its recommendation to the
board:
         a.   Whether the use should be prohibited, or whether it should be
permitted in at least one zone;
         b.   The zones in which the use should be permitted;
         c.   Whether the use should be permitted of right, or whether a
conditional use permit or special notice permit should be required; and
         d.   The performance standards which should be associated with the
use.
      5.   The planning commission shall transmit its findings and
recommendation to the board.
      6.   A public hearing on the matter shall then be held before the board
in accordance with the provisions of section 67-6511, Idaho Code and chapter 8,
article 8.4 of this title.
      7.   The board shall consider the findings and recommendation of the
planning commission and determine whether to adopt amendments to this title in
accordance with that recommendation. If the board is inclined to make a
material change to the recommendation of the planning commission, a second
public hearing before the board must be held before final action is taken.
Alternatively, the board may remand the question to the planning commission for
further consideration. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
ARTICLE 2.11. LAND USE TABLES
SECTION:
8.2.1101: Purpose
8.2.1102: Scope
8.2.1103: Table Key
8.2.1104: Land Use Tables By Use Category
8.2.1101: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the land use tables contained in this article is to assist the
public in determining which uses are allowed in which zones, and what land use
permits are required when applicable. In the event of any conflict between any
of the tables contained in this article and the substantive language contained
in this chapter, the substantive language shall govern. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.2.1102: SCOPE:
The tables set forth in this article are not intended to capture uses allowed
on legally created lots of record which are less than the minimum lot size.
Such uses are set forth in the regulations which apply to each respective zone.
(Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.2.1103: TABLE KEY:
   A.   Zones:
A   Agricultural
R   Rural
AS  Agricultural suburban
RR  Restricted residential
HDR High density residential
C   Commercial
M   Mining
LI  Light industrial
I   Industrial
 
   B.   Classification of uses within the zoning district:
 
P Permitted of right
A Administrative approval required
S Special notice permit required
C Conditional use permit required
X Specifically prohibited
 
(Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.2.1104:    LAND USE TABLES BY USE CATEGORY:
   TABLE 2-1101
   RESIDENTIAL USES
Use A R AS RR HDR C M LI I
Use                          A  R  AS RR HDR C  M   LI I
Accessory buildings2         P  P  P  P  P9  P        
Accessory living unit2       A  A  A  A  A           
Automotive hobby use2        P  P  P  P  P           
Bed and breakfast inn        P  P  P  P  P           
Caretaker's quarters2                     P      
Class B manufactured home    P  P  S  S  P7          
Cottage industry2,8          A  A  A               
Home occupation2             P  P  P  P  P           
Manufactured home park               C           
Multiple family dwelling         S    P6  P1       
Non-commercial kennels       P  P  P8              
Personal storage building2,3 P4 P4 P4 P4 C           
Residential uses, in general              X10 X  X
Single family dwelling       P  P  P  P  P7  P1       
Temporary hardship use2      A  A  A  A  A           
Two-family dwelling (duplex) P  P  P  P5 P   P1       
 
Notes:
   1.    Permitted above the first floor of a permitted primary use or in a
separate accessory building. Maximum density is 1 dwelling unit per 3,000
square feet.
   2.    Accessory uses which are permitted after the establishment of a
primary use.
   3.    1 personal storage building is permitted prior to the establishment of
a primary use.
   4.    A special notice permit is required if the parcel is less than 2
acres; maximum building size is 2,000 square feet.
   5.    Minimum parcel size is 9,900 square feet.
   6.    Minimum parcel size is 12,000 square feet; parcel must have frontage
on a public road; maximum density is 3,000 square feet per dwelling unit.
   7.    A Class A or Class B manufactured home is permitted if the parcel size
is at least 6,000 square feet and the parcel has frontage on a public road.
   8.    Minimum parcel size is 2 acres.
   9.    A conditional use permit is required if the use is not on the same
parcel as the primary use or is being established prior to the establishment of
a primary use on that parcel.
   10.    1 residential structure for use as a caretaker's quarters is
permitted of right.
(Ord. 514, 9-28-2017)
   TABLE 2-1102
   INSTITUTIONAL USES
Use A R AS RR HDR C M LI I
Use                                                      A R AS RR HDR C M LI I
Cemeteries                                               P P C       P X X  X
Child care centers, preschools, and Head Start           C C C  C  C   P X X  X
facilities
Hospitals                                                C C C       P X X  X
Medical and dental clinics                                 C       P     
Nonprofit trade or business associations                 C C        P     
Places of assembly or worship                            C C C  C     P X X  X
Residential care facilities                              C C C  C  C   P     
Schools                                                  C C C  C     P X X  X
Transitional group housing facilities                          C   C C C   
Universities, colleges, or vocational, trade, or private          P     
instructional schools
 
(Ord. 519, 2-15-2018)
   TABLE 2-1103
   USES RELATED TO AGRICULTURE
Use A R AS RR HDR C M LI I
Use                                                A  R  AS RR   HDR C  M  LI I
Agricultural product sales stores                  C  C                  
Commercial fur farms                               C  C                  
Commercial riding arenas or equine training        C  C  C                
centers
Dairy product manufacturing                        P                    
Feedlots                                           C                    
Fish hatcheries or fish farms (aquaculture)        C                    
General farming and forestry                       P  P  P         P  P  P   
Keeping of livestock                               P2 P2 P2 P1,2    P2 P2 P2  
Processing plants, feed mills, packing plants, and
warehouses for the purpose of processing, packing, P                    
and storage of agricultural products3
Sales of agricultural products produced on the
premises or on parcels under common ownership      P  P                  
(less than 300 square feet)
Sawmills, shingle or planing mills, or woodworking C  C                  
plants
Slaughterhouses or rendering plants                C                 C  C
Wholesale greenhouses                              C  C  C                
 
Notes:
   1.    Minimum parcel size is 5 acres.
   2.    Minimum area for this use is 3/4 acre.
   3.    Excluding meat or poultry processing, slaughterhouses, and commercial
fertilizer manufacturing.
(Ord. 514, 9-28-2017)
   TABLE 2-1104
   COMMERCIAL USES
Use A R AS RR HDR C M LI I
Use                                                      A R AS RR HDR C M LI I
Annual special event locations                           S S S  S  S   S S S  S
Commercial kennels                                       C C C            
Commercial uses, in general                              X X X  X  X1   X P  X
Eating or drinking establishments, or other                       P     
entertainment facilities
Mobile commercial vehicles and temporary commercial               P P P  P
structures
Public or private office buildings                                P     
Special event locations                                  C C        C C C  C
Temporary office for the sale of real estate               P  P  P        
Uses located on a parcel which fronts a State or Federal          S     
highway
Uses which are anticipated to generate traffic impacts
in excess of the thresholds set forth in section                  S     
8.2.607 of this chapter
Veterinary clinics or hospitals                          C C C            
Wholesale, retail or service businesses                           P  P   
 
Note:
   1.    See section
8.2.505 of this chapter for exceptions.
(Ord. 493, 6-9-2016; amd. Ord. 514, 9-28-2017)
   TABLE 2-1105
   LODGING, RECREATION AND ENTERTAINMENT USES
Use A R AS RR HDR C M LI I
Use                                                    A R AS RR HDR C M LI I
Commercial resorts                                     C C C  C          
Golf courses and driving ranges                        C C C  C  C   P  P  P
Gun clubs, rifle ranges, and archery ranges            C C          C  C
Hospitality businesses                                          P     
Lighting for any outdoor recreational facility or use  S S S  S  S   S  S  S
otherwise permitted of right
Outdoor theaters                                        C        C     
Private resorts                                        S S S  S  S   P     
Privately owned recreational facilities open to public C C C  C     P     
use
Publicly owned parks, playgrounds, and recreational    P P P  P  P   P  P  P
facilities
RV parks                                                        P     
Racetracks                                             C C          P  P
Recreational buildings                                          P    P
Resort lodges, retreat centers or guest ranches        C C C  C     P     
Sexually oriented businesses                                    X  X  P
Temporary or intermittent use of no more than 2 RVs    P P P  P  P1       
Zoos                                                    C        C     
 
Note:
   1.    Temporary or intermittent use of only 1 RV is allowed in the HDR Zone.
See subsection
8.2.504C of this chapter.
(Ord. 514, 9-28-2017)
   TABLE 2-1106
   COMMUNICATIONS, UTILITY AND TRANSPORTATION USES
Use A R AS RR HDR C M LI I
Use                                      A R  AS RR HDR C M LI I
Airports or airstrips                    C C1 X1           
Public safety facilities                 C C  C  C  C   P P P  P
Public safety WCFs                       P P  P2      P  P  P
Public service facilities                C C  C  C     P P P  P
Public utility complex facilities        S C  C  C  C   S S S  S
Utility complexes                        P S  S  S  S   P P P  P
Utility services                         P P  P  P  P   P P P  P
Wireless communication facilities (WCFs) C C  C2      C  C  C
 
Notes:
   1.    Continued operation of airports or airstrips that were in existence on
June 9, 2016 are permitted on parcels of 5 acres or more in the R Zone, and on
parcels of 2 acres or more in the AS Zone.
   2.    Minimum parcel size is 2 acres.
(Ord. 517, 1-25-2018)
   TABLE 2-1107
   INDUSTRIAL, STORAGE, LOGISTICAL AND MINING USES
Use A R AS RR HDR C M LI I
Use                          A R AS RR HDR C  M LI I
Above-ground storage of over
5,000 gallons of petroleum               C  C
products
Above-ground storage of up
to 5,000 gallons of                      P  P
petroleum products
Asphalt or concrete batch     C          S    
plants
Automobile wrecking/         C C        X   C  C
junkyards
Cargo containers             P P P       P  P P  P
Cement, gypsum or asphalt                  C
plant
Industrial uses              X X X  X  X      P1 P1
Manufacturing and storage of  C           X  C
explosives
Manufacturing uses, in       X X X  X  X   X2  P1  
general
Mini-storage facilities or   C C C          P   
rental warehouses
Oil and gas exploration and              X  P3
extraction
Oil and gas processing and               X   
refining
Production of corrosive and              X   
noxious chemicals
Production of dust producing             X   
mineral products
Restricted surface mining    C C           X  C
Smelting and reduction of                X   
metallic ores
Stockyards; soap
manufacturing; glue
manufacturing; tanneries;
paper manufacturing; wool
scouring and cleaning;
cotton textile sizing,                   X   
scouring, leaching, dyeing,
and similar uses; varnish
manufacturing; and
manufacturing of creosote
and related products
Storage                      Refer to regulations for storage in the applicable
                             zone
Storage for uses other than
those permitted in the       X X X  X  X   X  X X  X
underlying zone
Surface and subsurface
mining operations, including
processing of materials,
necessary plants and                    P X  C4
offices, equipment, storage
space, and other directly
related facilities
Trade, industry, or                        P1
processing facilities
Transfer, storage, and
warehouse facilities, and             P   P  P
contractor storage1,5
 
Notes:
   1.    Uses must comply with applicable performance standards.
   2.    Uses are permitted if they are accessory to a permitted use.
   3.    Except as prohibited in section
8.2.904 of this chapter.
   4.    Surface mining only.
   5.    Contractor storage may also be allowed as part of a cottage industry
permit.
(Ord. 514, 9-28-2017; amd. Ord. 517, 1-25-2018; Ord. 611, 5-8-2025)
CHAPTER 3
SPECIAL ZONING DESIGNATIONS AND USES
ARTICLE 3.1. AIRPORT OVERLAY ZONE
SECTION:
8.3.101: General Description And Scope
8.3.102: Area Of Applicability
8.3.103: Restrictions
8.3.104: Marking And Lighting
8.3.105: Variances
8.3.106: Setback Requirements
8.3.107: Height Restrictions
8.3.108: Open Space Requirements
8.3.109: Storage Requirements
8.3.110: Landscaping Requirements
8.3.111: Airport Security
8.3.101: GENERAL DESCRIPTION AND SCOPE:
   A.   The purpose of the airport overlay zone is to protect the airspace in
the vicinity of the Coeur d'Alene Airport and its runway approaches, to protect
the lives of airport users, and to protect the property and occupants of land
in its vicinity. Accordingly, the height of structures and objects, both
natural and manmade, and the use of property within the airport overlay zone
shall be subject to the additional regulations and restrictions contained in
this article.
   B.   Except as modified by the provisions of this article, the uses
permitted, building site areas, setbacks, and all other regulations set forth
in this title shall apply within the airport overlay zone. In cases where a
provision of this article conflicts with another provision of this title, the
provision contained in this article shall take precedence. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.3.102: AREA OF APPLICABILITY:
The airport overlay zone shall consist of that portion of the unincorporated
area of Kootenai County designated as the Coeur d'Alene Airport in the then
current Coeur d'Alene Airport master plan. Specific areas with the airport
overlay zone are described as follows:
   A.   Height Limitation Area: The height limitation area shall include all
civil airport imaginary surfaces as set forth in the federal aviation
regulations, 14 CFR part 77, or any successor thereto, and as delineated in the
then current airport master plan.
   B.   Noise Compatibility Area: The noise compatibility area shall include
all land located within the 2028 sixty five (65) decibel day-night average
sound level (65 DNL) noise contour, as delineated in the then current airport
master plan. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.3.103: RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Endangering Aircraft: Notwithstanding any other provisions of this
title, no use shall be established within any area within the airport overlay
zone in such a manner as would create electrical interference with navigational
signals or radio communications between the airport and aircraft, make it
difficult for pilots to distinguish between airport lights and others, result
in glare in the eyes of pilots using the airport, attract birds in a manner
that creates a bird strike hazard, create foreign object damage hazards, or
otherwise in any way endanger or interfere with the landing, takeoff, or
maneuvering of aircraft intending to use the airport.
   B.   Compliance With Rules And Regulations: Uses established within the
airport overlay zone shall comply with all applicable federal aviation
regulations and administrative rules of the division of aeronautics of the
Idaho transportation department, and shall not be inconsistent with the grant
assurances made by the county to the federal aviation administration and/or the
division of aeronautics of the Idaho transportation department.
   C.   Construction: No residential development, place of assembly or place of
worship shall hereafter be constructed or otherwise established within any
runway protection zone, as defined in FAA advisory circular 150/5300-13A,
"Airport Design", and as depicted in the then current airport master plan.
   D.   Restrictions Within The Noise Compatibility Area: The noise
compatibility area is considered to be hazardous because of noise or the
potential of endangering the lives and property of the users. Therefore, the
following restrictions shall apply:
      1.   Establishment of uses within the noise compatibility area shall be
limited to those within each respective day-night average sound level (DNL or
Ldn) noise contour, as set forth in 14 CFR part 150, appendix A, table 1, and
as delineated in the then current airport master plan.
      2.   No place of assembly or place of worship shall hereafter be
constructed or otherwise established within the noise compatibility area.
      3.   All new subdivisions within the noise compatibility area will be
subject to recordation of avigation easements.
      4.   Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to permit any use
otherwise prohibited in the underlying zone. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.3.104: MARKING AND LIGHTING:
Notwithstanding the provisions of this article governing height limitation
areas, the owner, and all future owners, of any existing nonconforming
structure or tree within a height limitation area hereby waives the right to
object to the installation, operation, and maintenance thereon of such markers
and lights as may be deemed necessary by the federal aviation administration to
indicate to operators of aircraft, airport obstructions located within a height
limitation area. Such markers and lights shall be installed at the expense of
the Coeur d'Alene Airport. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.3.105: VARIANCES:
Any person desiring to erect or increase the height of any structure or the
growth of any tree not in accordance with the regulations prescribed herein
must apply for a variance in accordance with the provisions of section
8.8.203 of this title. The application must include determinations from the
airport advisory board and the federal aviation administration that the
proposal will not adversely affect the operation of the airport. (Ord. 493, 6-
9-2016)
8.3.106: SETBACK REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Separation requirements for abutting structures shall be as set forth
in the international building code.
   B.   Apron, runway, taxiway, and tie down clearance specifications shall be
as set forth in FAA advisory circular 150/5300-13A, "Airport Design".
   C.   When a structure abuts a road, the front yard setback shall be thirty
five feet (35'). (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.3.107: HEIGHT RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   No structure or tree shall be constructed, altered, maintained, or
allowed to grow so as to exceed four (4) stories or a maximum height of fifty
feet (50') above airport elevation.
   B.   Except as otherwise permitted in this article, and except as necessary
and incidental to airport operations, no structure or tree shall be
constructed, altered, maintained, or allowed to grow in the height limitation
area so as to project above any of the civil airport imaginary surfaces
referenced in section
8.3.102 of this article.
   C.   Site and structural plans for any proposed structure which will exceed
thirty five feet (35') above airport elevation shall be submitted to the
airport advisory board for design and safety review. The airport advisory board
must provide a recommendation to approve the proposed structure to the director
before a building permit may be issued. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.3.108: OPEN SPACE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Maximum building coverage of eighty percent (80%) of the site is
allowed within the airport overlay zone, subject to applicable setback and
clearance requirements.
   B.   At grade parking lots and parking areas shall not be included in
building area calculations. Parking structures with levels above grade shall be
included in the calculation of maximum building coverage. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.3.109: STORAGE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Outdoor Storage:
      1.   The outdoor display of aircraft for the purpose of sale is
permitted.
      2.   The outdoor display of automobiles and machinery other than aircraft
for purposes of sale is prohibited.
      3.   In areas where outdoor storage is authorized by the airport
director, storage of materials and machinery shall be within a six foot (6')
high sight obscuring fence, or screened with vegetative materials, so that the
storage area cannot be seen from adjacent properties or by the traveling
public. Storage areas must conform to the setback regulations set forth in
section
8.3.106 of this article, with the exception of aircraft being displayed for the
purpose of sale.
   B.   Petroleum Products And Critical Materials:
      1.   The use, handling, and storage of petroleum products and critical
materials shall be in accordance with all applicable state and federal laws and
regulations, and with all applicable Panhandle health district regulations.
      2.   Storage of petroleum products below ground in these areas shall be
limited to a total quantity of twenty thousand (20,000) gallons or less per
site except in areas where a larger quantity is authorized by the airport
director. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.3.110: LANDSCAPING REQUIREMENTS:
The landscaping requirements set forth in chapter 4, article 4.6 of this title
shall not apply within the airport overlay zone. The landscaping requirements
which apply within the airport overlay zone shall be as follows:
   A.   The front, rear, and side setback areas shall be landscaped with an
effective combination of ground cover, shrubbery, and trees. All other unpaved
areas shall be landscaped in similar fashion, except those areas designated for
parking or storage on site plans approved by the director.
   B.   The entire area between the curb and a point fifteen feet (15') back
from the front lot line shall be landscaped for the purpose of forming a
vegetative frontage, except for driveway access in the immediate area.
Notwithstanding the aforementioned vegetative frontage, the entire area between
the curb and the building line of any lot, except for concrete or paved
walkways, shall be landscaped.
   C.   All undeveloped areas shall be maintained in a weed free condition by
the lessee.
   D.   All areas under lease shall submit a landscaping plan to the airport
advisory board for design review. The airport advisory board shall provide
recommendations to the board for all landscaping in the airport overlay zone.
   E.   Areas used for parking shall be landscaped in such a manner as to
provide a vegetative frontage, or a visual vegetative barrier along areas in
view of access streets, freeways, and adjacent properties.
   F.   All stormwater runoff from parking areas shall receive primary
treatment and disposal through grassy swales. Engineered site plans shall allow
acreage sufficient to provide primary treatment for the first one-half inch (1/
2") of stormwater runoff generated from paved or impervious parking surfaces.
(Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.3.111: AIRPORT SECURITY:
Security within the airport overlay zone shall be maintained in conformance
with the federal aviation regulations, 14 CFR part 107, as set forth by the
federal aviation administration. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
ARTICLE 3.2. HIGHWAY 41 ACCESS OVERLAY ZONE
SECTION:
8.3.201: Purpose
8.3.202: Applicability
8.3.203: New Approaches
8.3.204: Existing Approaches
8.3.205: Setbacks
8.3.206: Changes Of Use
8.3.207: Circulation Plans
8.3.208: Variances
8.3.201: PURPOSE:
The goals and intent of this article are to improve safety conditions along
State Highway 41, reduce congestion and delays, provide property owners with
safe access, promote desirable land use development patterns which are
compatible with the future growth of the cities of Post Falls and Rathdrum,
facilitate the future widening of Highway 41, and make pedestrian and bicycle
travel safer. The provisions of this article shall be used to manage and
control access to Highway 41, and may require that properties adjacent to this
highway utilize or obtain access from other public roads. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.3.202: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   The provisions of this article shall apply within that portion of the
unincorporated area of Kootenai County which lies within one thousand three
hundred twenty feet (1,320') east and west of the centerline of State Highway
41, south of Lancaster Road and north of Poleline Avenue. If a parcel lies
partially or entirely within the overlay area described in this section, the
rules of this chapter shall apply to the entire parcel.
   B.   All applicable provisions of this title shall apply within the Highway
41 access overlay zone. In cases where a provision of this article conflicts
with another provision of this title, the provision contained in this article
shall take precedence. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.3.203: NEW APPROACHES:
   A.   New approaches directly accessing onto Highway 41 from parcels located
within the Highway 41 access overlay zone shall be permitted only in the
following circumstances:
      1.   Access to and from an individual residence on an existing parcel. No
new common driveways or private roads shall be allowed. All new subdivisions
shall obtain access via a new or existing public road other than Highway 41.
      2.   Agricultural field access.
      3.   When a fire protection district requires a secondary access for
emergency services, such access shall not be open for nonemergency uses, and
shall be maintained by the owner of the parcel as a closed access except during
emergencies.
   B.   The new approach shall not be used until the Idaho transportation
department or highway district with jurisdiction has issued an approach permit.
Traffic counts, studies and improvements may be required by the Idaho
transportation department or the highway district with jurisdiction.
8.3.204: EXISTING APPROACHES:
The use of existing approaches onto Highway 41 from parcels located within the
Highway 41 access overlay zone shall be allowed to continue in accordance with
the following standards:
   A.   The existing use is lawful and has been properly permitted.
   B.   There is no significant change in the use of the parcel or approach
(for example, a residential use to a commercial use).
   C.   The intensity of an existing commercial or industrial use does not
increase. For purposes of this article, an "increase of intensity" is defined
as the establishment of additional businesses or an increase in lot coverage
greater than twenty five percent (25%) per year.
   D.   The number of parcels served by the approach does not change. (Ord.
493, 6-9-2016)
8.3.205: SETBACKS:
All structures within the Highway 41 access overlay zone shall be set back at
least one hundred fifty feet (150') from the centerline of Highway 41. All
other setback standards which apply in the underlying zone shall also be met.
(Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.3.206: CHANGES OF USE:
   A.   If there is a significant change in the use of a parcel within the
Highway 41 access overlay zone, a change of use permit must be issued before
any new building permits may be issued.
   B.   Before a change of use permit may be issued, the property owner must
acquire lawful access to an existing public road other than Highway 41. The
access must meet the applicable standards of the highway district with
jurisdiction, which may require dedication of a new access road based on the
specific project or specific use. The Idaho transportation department or the
applicable highway district with jurisdiction may require submittal of traffic
counts, studies or proposed improvements to aid in making this determination.
   C.   After the change of use permit and the new access are approved, the use
of the existing approach shall cease and the approach shall be abandoned and
removed. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.3.207: CIRCULATION PLANS:
Before a building permit may be issued for a parcel located within the Highway
41 access overlay zone, the applicant shall provide a circulation plan which
complies with the following standards:
   A.   The plan must be designed to create a safe flow of vehicular and
pedestrian circulation through the parcel.
   B.   The plan must be drawn to scale, and must include:
      1.   Identification of easements, new or existing roads; and
      2.   Identification and overall design of parking lots, stormwater
treatment, and sidewalks. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.3.208: VARIANCES:
Requests for variances from the requirements or standards set forth in this
article shall be in accordance with the provisions of section
8.8.203 of this title. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
ARTICLE 3.3. PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS
SECTION:
8.3.301: General Description
8.3.302: Purpose And Intent
8.3.303: Coordination With Other Regulations
8.3.304: Ownership, Control And Maintenance
8.3.305: Permitted Uses
8.3.306: Density
8.3.307: Design Requirements
8.3.308: Application Requirements For Preliminary Approval
8.3.309: Preliminary Approval Procedure
8.3.310: Application Requirements For Final Plan Approval
8.3.311: Final Approval Procedure
8.3.312: Phasing Requirements
8.3.313: Extensions And Amendments
8.3.314: Condominiums
8.3.301: GENERAL DESCRIPTION:
A planned unit development (PUD) is an integrated design for development of
residential, commercial or industrial uses, including mixed use developments,
which allow for flexibility and creativity in site and building design and
location in a manner which is in accordance with the goals and policies of the
comprehensive plan. Subdivisions may be developed as a PUD if they include at
least twenty five (25) lots. Approval of a PUD does not have the effect of
changing the underlying zoning district, but does provide a mechanism by which
the normally applicable standards of this title may be varied. (Ord. 493, 6-9-
2016)
8.3.302: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The purpose of a planned unit development is to allow diversification in the
relationship of various uses and structures to their sites, and to permit more
flexibility in the use of such sites. The application of planned unit
development concepts is intended to:
   A.   Allow for and encourage a variety of housing types and environments;
   B.   Allow for greater flexibility and a more creative and imaginative
approach to the design of residential and commercial developments and open
space, while ensuring substantial conformance with the intent of this title and
the comprehensive plan;
   C.   Encourage more functional, efficient and economical use of land,
resulting in smaller networks of utilities, streets and other infrastructure
features, and maximizing the allocation of fiscal and natural resources;
   D.   Ensure that development occurs at proper locations, away from
environmentally sensitive areas, and on land best physically suited to
construction;
   E.   Encourage land development that, to the greatest extent possible,
preserves valuable natural areas, respects natural topographic and geologic
features, scenic vistas, vegetation and natural drainage patterns, and that
creates more usable open space and recreational amenities; and
   F.   Encourage more convenience in the location of commercial and industrial
uses and services. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.3.303: COORDINATION WITH OTHER REGULATIONS:
   A.   Approval of a PUD allows the normally applicable standards of this
title to be replaced with alternative standards unique to the PUD. For example,
a mix of residential and commercial uses, with different property line
setbacks, lot sizes, or building heights may be approved as a PUD. The PUD
must, however, meet the requirements of this title not expressly varied through
the PUD approval, and must also meet the requirements of other agencies with
jurisdiction.
   B.   If land is being divided in conjunction with a PUD, the development
must also meet the requirements of chapter 6 of this title. A subdivision
application associated with a PUD must be submitted, and will be processed,
concurrently with the underlying PUD application. Both applications must comply
with their respective application requirements.
   C.   A PUD may provide for phased development of subdivisions. For such
PUDs, the subdivision application submitted concurrently with the PUD
application may be for the first phase of subdivision development within the
PUD. Phasing shall comply with the requirements of section
8.3.312 of this article.
   D.   If there is a conflict or inconsistency between the provisions of this
article and another section of this title, the provisions of this article shall
take precedence. Subjects not covered in this article shall be governed by the
applicable provisions of this title. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.3.304: OWNERSHIP, CONTROL AND MAINTENANCE:
   A.   All parcels to be developed under a PUD permit must be under single
ownership or control, and must remain under single ownership or control until
final approval of the PUD and any associated subdivisions are issued.
   B.   If components of the project will be under separate ownership, a
cooperative corporation or similar organization must be established to provide
oversight and control of the entire property included within the PUD in
perpetuity. The documents establishing this organization must be approved by
the director, and must include procedures allowing corporation officers to
submit applications for amendment of the PUD or any associated subdivisions,
and to take other action on behalf of the owners in the development as
necessary.
   C.   All improvements and land within a PUD, including common areas, shall
be operated and maintained by the owner in accordance with applicable best
management practices (BMPs) and approved plans, and in a manner that is
visually appealing. If the development will not remain under single ownership
or control, an organization must be established to operate and maintain shared
land, improvements and infrastructure in perpetuity. Organizational options
include taxing districts (such as water or sewer districts), for profit or
nonprofit entities such as utility corporations, or cooperative entities such
as homeowners' associations. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.3.305: PERMITTED USES:
   A.   The primary uses in a PUD shall be those permitted of right, with a
conditional use permit, or with a special notice permit in the underlying zone.
Approval of a PUD shall constitute approval of any use within the area subject
to the PUD which would otherwise require approval of a conditional use permit
or special notice permit in that zone. In addition, other uses may be approved
if they are found to have been harmoniously incorporated into the design of the
PUD, are compatible with the surrounding area, and meet the requirements of
this article.
   B.   Residential uses within PUDs may include both single-family and multi-
family dwelling units such as townhouses, garden apartments, and common wall,
single-family and multi-family dwellings. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.3.306: DENSITY:
The overall density of a PUD shall conform to the requirements of the zone in
which the PUD is located, however lot sizes may be varied from the minimum lot
size otherwise required in that zone. If a PUD is located in more than one
zone, the allowable density for the land in each zone shall be calculated
separately and then added together to yield the allowable density for the
development. The distribution of dwellings within the PUD shall not be affected
by zone boundaries. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.3.307: DESIGN REQUIREMENTS:
This section delineates the minimum on site design requirements for PUDs. Any
off site improvements which may also be required to mitigate negative effects
of the development will be considered on a project by project basis.
   A.   General Design Requirements:
      1.   The proposed uses and design of a PUD must be compatible with
existing homes, businesses, neighborhoods, and the natural characteristics of
the area. PUDs shall minimize grading, road construction and disturbance of the
terrain, vegetation, soils, and drainageways, and shall prevent soil erosion.
To achieve this, the board may condition approval on the inclusion of design
features such as building envelopes, no-disturbance zones, height restrictions
or planting or retention of vegetation.
      2.   The development must be planned as a cohesive, integrated whole,
consistent with the intent and purpose of this title.
      3.   The PUD plan must be compatible with the goals, policies and future
land use map of the Kootenai County comprehensive plan.
      4.   Within the airport overlay zone, the proposal must be in conformance
with the then current Kootenai County airport master plan, and an avigation
easement, approved by the airport director, must be recorded.
      5.   The inclusion of open spaces within PUDs is to be encouraged to the
greatest extent practicable. Open space shall be distinguished as common (for
use by all property owners) or public (open to all members of the general
public).
   B.   Utilities And Services: The development of a PUD must occur in
conjunction with services and facilities that are appropriate and adequate for
the proposed uses. Services and facilities necessary to serve the development
must be feasible, available and adequate, and the proposal must mitigate the
negative effects of the development so that the existing quality of services is
not compromised, and so there is no substantial increase in the cost of
services to existing residents. At a minimum, the following utilities and
services shall be required:
      1.   Sewage disposal. A sewage disposal system or systems meeting the
requirements of Panhandle health district or the Idaho department of
environmental quality (DEQ), whichever has jurisdiction. Commercial and
industrial areas must be served by a wastewater treatment plant approved by
DEQ. No subsurface discharge of treated or untreated, nondomestic wastewater is
permitted.
      2.   Water. A water system approved by DEQ that can provide fire flows or
water storage as required by the fire protection district with jurisdiction.
The new components of a water system, and any necessary improvements to an
existing system, must be designed and constructed in conformance with the
requirements of DEQ, the "Idaho Standards For Public Works Construction"
promulgated by the Idaho division of public works, the fire protection district
with jurisdiction, and if applicable, the water district, utility or
corporation.
      3.   Electrical service.
      4.   Fire protection.
         a.   PUDs must be served by a fire protection district.
         b.   PUDs shall meet the requirements of the fire protection district
with jurisdiction, including those pertaining to roads, driveways, fire flows,
hydrants, water storage and defensible space.
         c.   PUDs shall also minimize the hazards associated with wildfire.
PUDs that are located in timbered areas shall provide a fire mitigation plan,
developed by a professional forester, that is approved by the director, the
fire district, or the Idaho department of lands. The plan must be implemented
throughout the development of the PUD.
      5.   Roads and trails. Roads, trails and sidewalks within a PUD shall
comply with the applicable provisions of section
8.6.707 of this title.
      6.   Garbage collection. Department staff shall seek comment regarding
garbage collection service from the Kootenai County solid waste department. The
property owner shall arrange for garbage collection service as required by the
board.
      7.   Underground installation. Underground installation of utilities
shall be required unless utility providers determine that site conditions would
preclude or would render such installation impracticable or cost prohibitive,
taking into consideration such factors as terrain, available easements, safety,
maintenance, repair, replacement and the like. The board may, however, allow
appurtenances to these systems to be installed above ground if they can be
effectively screened in a manner that is visually appealing and compatible with
the PUD and are approved by the utility provider.
      8.   Other services. Other services and facilities may be required on a
project by project basis.
   C.   Sensitive Area Requirements:
      1.   Viewsheds: Mountain and water views and vistas are an important part
of the character of Kootenai County, contributing to the visual quality of the
area, increasing property values, attracting visitors, and enhancing the
desirability and livability of the community. Therefore, PUDs should be
designed so that development can be accomplished in a manner that is visually
unobtrusive, environmentally responsible, and compatible with the character of
the area.
      2.   Minimization Of Disturbance: PUDs must be designed to fit houses,
structures and roads into and around hillsides in a manner that minimizes
disturbance of the terrain, vegetation and drainageways, that will not result
in soil erosion, and that is compatible with the natural characteristics of the
area. If the vertical height of any cut or fill slope, or any combination
thereof, will exceed thirty feet (30'), effective measures must be taken to
mitigate the visibility of the slope.
      3.   Stream And Wetland Protection Buffers: When a PUD abuts a stream or
wetland, a stream or wetland protection buffer must be reserved and shown on
the plan.
         a.   Purpose: The purpose of stream and wetland protection buffers is
to protect downstream property owners and water resources from increased or
decreased flows, to prevent sedimentation, to promote good water quality, and
to protect fish and wildlife habitat.
         b.   Dimensions: Stream and wetland protection buffers shall be as set
forth in table 3-301 of this section.
      TABLE 3-301
      STREAM AND WETLAND PROTECTION BUFFER WIDTHS
 
Waterway Type   Required Width
Class 1 streams 75 feet from the ordinary high water mark
Class 2 streams 30 feet from the ordinary high water mark
Wetlands        Determined by the board based on a wetland analysis
 
         c.   Designation: Each stream or wetland protection buffer shall be
labeled as such on the plan. The board may require that such areas be
designated as an easement or conservation easement.
         d.   Development Restrictions: Proposed road and utility crossings
within designated stream and wetland protection buffers must be shown on the
plan, must be kept to a minimum, and must take the shortest possible route
across the area. Roads and utilities shall not be constructed within such areas
except at approved crossings. Fences, walkways which do not exceed four feet
(4') in width, stairway landings which do not exceed six feet (6') in length or
width, and trams may be constructed in stream and wetland protection buffers,
provided that disturbance of the ground and vegetation is minimized.
         e.   Maintenance: In stream and wetland protection buffers, native
vegetation and large organic debris must be protected or replanted to leave the
area in the most natural condition possible. Any necessary maintenance must be
in conformance with chapter 7, article 7.1 of this title and with applicable
best management practices.
      4.   Shoreline Management Areas: When a PUD abuts a shoreline, the
shoreline management area must be reserved and shown on the plan. Activities
within the shoreline management area shall be limited to those set forth in
chapter 7, article 7.1 of this title, and shall also be in conformance with
applicable best management practices.
   D.   Zero Lot Line Development: PUD designs may include zero lot line
development for single-family and multi-family dwellings, with each dwelling
and lot independently owned, and lot lines along common walls providing:
      1.   The construction complies with all applicable provisions of building
codes adopted pursuant to title 7, chapter 1 of this code which pertain to
common wall and/or zero lot line construction;
      2.   Common walls are adequately soundproofed in accordance with the
requirements of applicable provisions of adopted building codes;
      3.   Electrical, water, sewer, heating and air conditioning systems, and
all other incorporated utility systems are separately metered or designated for
each dwelling unit.
      4.   Deeds and covenants pertaining to buildings must contain appropriate
provisions to ensure harmonious maintenance of shared indoor or outdoor walls,
and outdoor yard areas. Easements shall be recorded as necessary to assure
access to shared outdoor walls and yards.
   E.   Common Open Space: Common open space in PUDs shall meet the following
requirements:
      1.   The amount and design of common open space in a PUD must be
appropriate to the scale and character of the project, considering its size,
density, expected population, topography, and the number and type of dwellings
to be provided. A minimum of fifteen percent (15%) of the land within the PUD
shall be developed into usable public or common open space, or recreational
facilities for the residents or users of the development. If possible, the open
space should be designed to connect with existing or planned open space on
neighboring properties. Areas designated as open space shall be accessible to
all residents of the development from a road or right of way. Utility, drainage
and similar easements and rights of way are not acceptable for common open
space unless such land is usable for a trail or similar purpose and is approved
by the board.
      2.   Common open space in a PUD shall be:
         a.   Retained by the owner of the development;
         b.   Dedicated to the public; or
         c.   Conveyed to a cooperative corporation such as a homeowners'
association.
      3.   Responsibility for maintenance of open space areas shall be
specified by the developer in the application for final plan approval, and must
be approved by the board.
   F.   Commercial And Industrial Uses: PUDs that include commercial or
industrial uses and structures must meet the following additional requirements:
      1.   Commercial and industrial areas must be developed with parklike
surroundings utilizing landscaping and/or existing woodlands around structures,
parking areas, roads, loading areas, and areas used for outdoor storage of raw
materials or products.
      2.   If the PUD includes, or is adjacent to residential zones or
residential uses, commercial or industrial uses must be of a nonnuisance
character, and must be clean, quiet and free of bright lighting, odor, dust or
smoke.
      3.   Loading areas must be provided for delivery trucks.
      4.   All areas designed for future expansion or not intended for
immediate improvement or development shall be landscaped or otherwise
maintained in a neat and orderly manner.
      5.   Lighting may not exceed 0.2 foot-candle at the property line of any
lots used for commercial or industrial purposes. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.3.308: APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS FOR PRELIMINARY APPROVAL:
   A.   The PUD permit application must contain the information necessary for
the hearing body and the board to make a decision on the proposal. To gain
approval, the information provided in the application must sufficiently
demonstrate that the project can meet the requirements of the county and of
other agencies with jurisdiction.
   B.   The applicant shall submit one complete application packet to the
county, including all required copies, plus additional packets for each agency
or organization reviewing the proposal. The director will determine which
agencies will receive application packets, and the county will forward the
application packets to those agencies. An applicant may request that an
incomplete application be accepted by submitting a letter stating which items
are missing, and giving a detailed explanation and rationale for the incomplete
submission. If the director determines that the information is not necessary to
establish conformance with the required findings, he may approve the request,
in which case the application will be deemed to be complete, will be vested
under then current ordinances, and will be processed. If the director denies
the request, the application will not be processed or scheduled for public
hearing until it is complete. This determination may be appealed in accordance
with chapter 8, article 8.5 of this title.
   C.   The following items constitute a complete application for preliminary
PUD plan approval:
      1.   An application form which is completed and signed by the applicant
or property owner. The signature of an applicant other than the property owner
must be accompanied by a signed, notarized letter from the property owner
authorizing the applicant to sign and file the application.
      2.   A completed checklist of application requirements.
      3.   Fees, as adopted by resolution of the board.
      4.   A legal description of the property.
      5.   A title report or similar document containing the legal description,
ownership and easements for the property.
      6.   A large preliminary plan which meets the requirements outlined in
table 3-302 of this section. The original and two (2) copies must be submitted
for county review, along with two (2) copies for the highway district and one
for other agencies.
      TABLE 3-302
      FORM AND CONTENT OF PUD PLANS
Plan Component Preliminary Plan Final Plan
Plan Component                                      Preliminary Plan Final Plan
    Size and format. Size 18" x 27". Plan must
    encompass all land included in the PUD,
1.  including open space that will not be used for                  X
    building sites. Must also include north arrow,
    date, legend, vicinity map and scale. Scale
    must be suitable to ensure clarity.
    PUD name. If a previously approved PUD is being
2.  amended, the name must include the word         X                X
    "amended".
3.  Location. Section, quarter section, township,   X                X
    range, meridian, county and state.
    The proposed layout, showing the location, type
    and acreage of proposed uses; landscaping;
    signs; the approximate location, use, height,
4.  dimensions and proposed setbacks of structures; X                 
    proposed number of dwelling units for each
    area; and adjacent parcels shown with dashed
    lines.
    The final, approved layout showing dimensions,
    lot lines and the exterior boundary of the PUD
    by distance and bearing; area of each lot in
    acres; the location and type of approved land
5.  uses, including landscaping, parks,                             X
    residential, commercial and public uses; the
    approved location, use, height, dimensions and
    setbacks of structures and signs; and approved
    density and number of dwelling units for each
    area.
6.  Roads, trails, parking and loading areas within X                X
    and adjacent to the PUD.
    Easements. The location, dimensions, and
7.  purpose of existing or proposed easements, with X                X
    instrument numbers noted.
    Hydrography. Drainages, watercourses, water
8.  bodies and wetlands and associated protection   X                 
    areas.
    Topographic elevations. Contours shown at
    vertical intervals of not more than 5 feet, at
    a scale between 1" = 40' and 1" = 100', and
    identifying the following slope zones:
     
    0% and <15%
    15% and <35%
9.  35%                                             X                 
     
    Contours shall be generated from field survey
    or aerial photography, and may not be
    interpolated from USGS maps. Contours are not
    required for lots designated as open space that
    will not be used for roads, driveways or
    structures.
     
    Physical features. The location of significant
10. physical features such as ridges, rock outcrops X                 
    or wooded areas.
    Special flood hazard areas. The location of any
11. special flood hazard areas and the language     X                X
    required in chapter 7, article 7.2 of this
    title.
12. Existing built features, including structures,  X                 
    wells, sewage systems and roads.
13. Building envelopes, if required by the director                 X
    or hearing body.
    "Sensitive areas", as defined in this title, if
14. their location is known and can be shown on the X                 
    plan.
 
      7.   A small preliminary plan, which shall be an eleven inch by seventeen
inch (11" x 17") copy of the large preliminary plan.
      8.   A map of adjoining subdivisions and the surrounding area showing the
site of the proposed PUD and adjoining lots, parcels and subdivisions. The map
shall show the layout of streets and parcels in a manner which is sufficiently
distant from the project to illustrate the relationship to proposed streets and
lots, any neighboring land owned by the same applicant, and surrounding
properties within one-fourth (1/4) mile or two (2) parcels (whichever is
greater) in every direction. The map must be to scale, which shall not be less
than one inch per four hundred feet (1" = 400'). The original plus three (3)
copies of this map must be provided to the department.
      9.   At least six (6) photographs of the site, taken at various angles so
as to depict the general character of the site, and a map showing the location
and orientation of the photographs.
      10.   A narrative which provides a detailed description of the following:
         a.   The general character of the proposed development, including the
design principles for buildings and streetscapes;
         b.   The acreage, number of lots, and number and type of housing units
in each area;
         c.   Nonresidential structures or uses that are proposed;
         d.   Existing zones and uses, and the existing characteristics of the
site, including vegetation, soils and wildlife;
         e.   Proposed variances to the standards set forth in this title;
         f.   Proposed water, sewer, electrical, natural gas and other
utilities, and roads, trails, parking, landscaping and other improvements;
         g.   Plans for recreation facilities and common open space;
         h.   Proposed methods of ownership and/or control of the project,
including proposed maintenance arrangements for common areas and shared
infrastructure and improvements;
         i.   A statement explaining the reasons the PUD will be in the public
interest;
         j.   The proposed completion schedule, including any phasing; and
         k.   A written analysis of the presence or absence of wetlands on the
property that identifies all "sensitive areas", as described in section
8.9.403 of this title, which are located on the property.
      11.   Adequate information must be provided to ensure that new or
existing wells will provide sufficient water for the development, without
negatively affecting nearby property owners. To satisfy this requirement, the
application must, at a minimum, include an engineering report prepared by an
Idaho licensed professional engineer or professional geologist, and approved by
DEQ, which demonstrates that an adequate water supply is available to meet the
estimated demand. Unless a subdivision is to be served by connection to an
existing public water system, available well logs which cover a minimum of one-
half (1/2) mile of the boundary of the site shall be included in the report.
For developments proposed to be served via a connection to an existing public
water system, a letter from the owner of the system which indicates that it has
sufficient reserve production capacity to supply water to the PUD may be
submitted in lieu of an engineering report. The original plus one copy of this
documentation must be provided to the department.
      12.   A conceptual stormwater plan, developed by a design professional,
which proposes suitable methods and locations for stormwater treatment systems.
Proposed systems must comply with the provisions of chapter 7, article 7.1 of
this title, associated resolutions, and approved best management practices
(BMPs). If it is likely that slopes, soils, groundwater or other conditions
will not meet the design parameters of proposed BMPs, the director may require
that test holes be evaluated to determine soil types in the vicinity of
stormwater systems. The original plus three (3) copies of this plan must be
provided to the department.
      13.   When land disturbing activity is proposed in areas where the
natural slope equals or exceeds fifteen percent (15%), the director may require
a conceptual engineering plan as part of a PUD application. The plan shall be
developed by an Idaho licensed civil engineer, and shall depict proposed
building sites, road and driveway grades, profiles and cross sections, and the
slope and location of cuts and fills. The purpose of this plan is to
demonstrate the feasibility of the proposed PUD plan and to illustrate the
nature and extent of earthwork required for site preparation and construction.
The original plus three (3) copies of this plan must be provided to the
department.
      14.   A traffic impact study shall be submitted when requested by the
director or by a highway agency with jurisdiction. This study must include:
         a.   Existing traffic counts and level of service on adjacent and
nearby streets;
         b.   Vehicle trips that will be generated by the development;
         c.   The effect the development will have on the level of service on
affected streets;
         d.   The effect added traffic will have on signals, turn lanes, or
other transportation infrastructure;
         e.   Improvements needed to maintain adequate levels of service; and
         f.   Any other information required to evaluate impacts to the
transportation system.
The original plus three (3) copies of this study must be provided to the
department.
      15.   A geotechnical analysis is required whenever building sites, roads,
driveways or other development are proposed in areas where the natural slope
equals or exceeds fifteen percent (15%), where there is a high water table
(within 6 feet of ground surface at any time of year), where soils are highly
erodible, or where there are scarps, slumps, seeps or other geologic features
that may be unstable, as determined by the director. The geotechnical analysis
shall be stamped and signed by an Idaho licensed civil or geological engineer
having sufficient education and experience to prove competency in the field of
geotechnical engineering. The geotechnical analysis shall explain the geologic
and hydrologic features of the area, shall evaluate the suitability of the site
for intended uses, shall identify potential problems relating to the geology
and hydrology, shall summarize the data upon which conclusions are based, and
shall propose mitigation measures. The original plus three (3) copies of this
analysis must be provided to the department.
      16.   If national wetlands inventory maps show wetlands on the site, or
if soil survey maps indicate the presence of hydric soils, or if the director
or a qualified design professional determines that there may be wetlands on the
site, a detailed wetlands analysis and delineation shall be provided and shown
on a supplemental page of the plan. The wetlands delineation must be provided
by a professional recognized as qualified by the U.S. army corps of engineers
or the U.S. fish and wildlife service, including, without limitation, a
professional engineer, landscape architect or wetlands specialist. In addition
to classifying wetlands and delineating their boundaries, the report must
explain the likely impacts of the project on wetlands, and must recommend
actions to mitigate those impacts and preserve wetland plants and animals. The
original plus two (2) copies of this analysis must be provided to the
department.
      17.   The director, hearing body or board may require additional studies
of the social, economic, fiscal or environmental effects of the proposed PUD.
   D.   The application documents set forth in subsection C of this section
which are required elements of agency packets are the application form, large
preliminary plan, narrative, and photographs. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.3.309: PRELIMINARY APPROVAL PROCEDURE:
   A.   Procedure: An application for preliminary PUD approval shall be brought
before the hearing body for a recommendation, and before the board for a
decision, in accordance with the notice and hearing procedures set forth in
chapter 8, article 8.4 of this title.
   B.   Required Findings: For the hearing body to recommend preliminary
approval of a PUD plan, and for the board to grant preliminary approval of a
PUD plan, each of the following findings must be made:
      1.   The proposal is compatible with the goals, policies and future land
use map of the Kootenai County comprehensive plan.
      2.   The proposal is consistent with the intent and purpose of this
title, and the amenities, design, and benefits of the PUD justify any approved
deviations from the normal requirements of this title.
      3.   The PUD will be held in one ownership, or there is an effective
means of control and oversight of the development in perpetuity.
      4.   The application and design meet the requirements of this article,
other applicable sections of this title, other applicable provisions of this
code, and the requirements of other agencies.
      5.   The proposed development is compatible with surrounding homes,
businesses and neighborhoods, and with the natural characteristics of the area.
      6.   The proposed structures and uses within the PUD are compatible with
one another.
      7.   Provisions for maintaining land, infrastructure and shared
improvements are adequate.
      8.   Services, utilities and facilities necessary to serve the
development are feasible, available and adequate, and any adverse effects on
delivery of service by political subdivisions will be adequately mitigated.
      9.   Proposed roads, sidewalks, trails and parking facilities within the
development establish or adequately contribute to a transportation system for
vehicles, bicycles and pedestrians that is safe, convenient, efficient and that
minimizes traffic congestion.
      10.   Areas not suited for development are designated as open space.
      11.   Road construction and disturbance of the terrain, vegetation and
drainageways will be minimized and will not result in soil erosion.
      12.   Any site constraints, hazards or negative environmental, social or
economic impacts will be adequately mitigated.
      13.   The proposal is not anticipated to result in significant
degradation of surface or ground water quality, as determined by the agency
with jurisdiction.
      14.   Development of the PUD is in the best interest of the public.
      15.   Public notice and the processing of the application met the
requirements set forth in chapter 8, article 8.4 of this title and applicable
provisions of Idaho Code.
   C.   Conditions Of Approval: Preliminary PUD approvals may contain
conditions which address potential impacts of the development contemplated in
the PUD, including, without limitation, the following:
      1.   Minimizing or mitigating adverse effects on delivery of services by
political subdivisions, including school districts;
      2.   Minimizing or mitigating adverse effects on other developments;
      3.   Controlling the sequence, timing and duration of development;
      4.   Assuring that the development is maintained properly;
      5.   Designating the exact location and nature of development;
      6.   Requiring the provision of on site or off site public facilities or
services;
      7.   Requiring more restrictive standards than those generally required
in this title; or
      8.   Varying from standards generally required in this title.
   D.   Order Of Decision: The order of decision granting or denying the
application shall comply with the requirements of section 67-6535, Idaho Code,
and at a minimum, shall specify the following:
      1.   The ordinances, laws and standards used in evaluating the
application;
      2.   The reasons for the approval or denial; and
      3.   If an approval, the specific conditions, restrictions, and
limitations on such approval; or
      4.   If a denial, the actions which the applicant could take to obtain
approval.
   E.   Duration Of Approval:
      1.   Approval of a preliminary PUD plan shall expire if a complete
application for approval of the final PUD plan is not submitted within one year
from the date of preliminary approval.
      2.   If the approved plan calls for phasing, an application for final
plan approval for the first phase must be submitted within one year from the
date of preliminary approval, and the plans for subsequent phases must be
submitted in accordance with the schedule approved by the board.
      3.   The director may approve an extension of the duration of approval
for good cause shown in accordance with section
8.3.313 of this article. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.3.310: APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS FOR FINAL PLAN APPROVAL:
Upon application for final approval of a PUD, the applicant shall submit an
application packet containing the items set forth in this section. An
application that is incomplete will not be processed.
   A.   An application form which is completed and signed by the applicant or
property owner. The signature of an applicant other than the property owner
must be accompanied by a signed, notarized letter from the property owner
authorizing the applicant to sign and file the application.
   B.   A completed checklist of application requirements.
   C.   Fees, as adopted by resolution of the board.
   D.   A large final plan which meets the requirements outlined in section
8.3.308, table 3-302 of this article.
   E.   A small final plan, which shall be an eleven inch by seventeen inch
(11" x 17") copy of the large final plan.
   F.   A narrative explaining how each of the conditions of approval of the
preliminary plan have been or are being met, any modifications from the
original proposal, the completion schedule for the project, and, if applicable,
the completion schedule for each phase of the project.
   G.   Documentation demonstrating that the entire project is under single
ownership or control, as required in section
8.3.304 of this article.
   H.   Conceptual building plans, including floor plans and exterior
elevations.
   I.   Conceptual landscaping plans for common areas which implement sound
water conservation principles.
   J.   Conceptual plans for signs, including the height, dimensions and
proposed lighting.
   K.   For PUDs in timbered areas, a wildfire mitigation plan which has been
prepared by a professional forester and has been approved by the director and
by the fire protection district with jurisdiction or the Idaho department of
lands.
   L.   Any documentation needed to show compliance with the conditions of
approval of the preliminary plan, including, without limitation, approval
letters from other agencies or departments, and documentation of financial
security for improvements not yet completed.
   M.   Copies of any documents, such as deed restrictions, restrictive
covenants, or homeowners' association articles of incorporation or bylaws, that
are associated with the PUD or that will be used to control the use,
development, operation or maintenance of the property and improvements. If
components of the project will be under separate ownership, a cooperative
corporation or other organization must have been established in accordance with
section
8.3.304 of this article. The documents establishing the organization must be
approved by the director, and must include procedures for submitting PUD
amendment applications on behalf of the owners in the development. (Ord. 493,
6-9-2016)
8.3.311: FINAL APPROVAL PROCEDURE:
   A.   Procedure: An application for final PUD approval shall be brought
before the board for a decision in accordance with the notice requirements set
forth in section 74-204, Idaho Code. The director shall make a recommendation,
and the board shall make the final decision on the application.
   B.   Required Findings: For the board to grant final approval of a PUD plan,
each of the following findings must be made:
      1.   The final PUD plan continues to meet the approval requirements set
forth in section
8.3.310 of this article.
      2.   All applicable conditions of preliminary PUD approval have been, or
are being, met.
   C.   Order Of Decision: The order of decision granting or denying the
application shall comply with the requirements of section 67-6535, Idaho Code,
and at a minimum, shall specify the following:
      1.   The ordinances, laws and standards used in evaluating the
application;
      2.   The reasons for the approval or denial; and
      3.   If an approval, the specific conditions, restrictions, and
limitations on such approval; or
      4.   If a denial, the actions which the applicant could take to obtain
approval.
   D.   Final PUD Permit: The order of decision approving the final PUD plan
shall be the PUD permit. The Order of Decision and final PUD plan shall be
recorded at the applicant’s expense.
   E.   Procedure For Development Of A PUD: Upon approval of the final PUD
plan, the PUD shall be developed in accordance with the following procedure:
      1.   The permit holder must obtain approval of infrastructure plans from
agencies with jurisdiction, and must obtain approval of necessary construction
permits, including building and site disturbance permits, from the department.
      2.   If additional lots are being created within the PUD, infrastructure
must be completed, or financial guarantees provided, in accordance with the
requirements of chapter 6 of this title. If additional lots are not being
created, the board may require an acceptable financial guarantee to assure
completion of improvements within two (2) years from the date of final PUD plan
approval. Upon written request by the property owner, the director may approve
an extension for good cause shown in accordance with section 
8.3.313 of this article. Noninfrastructure building permits will not be issued
until the essential infrastructure and improvements (e.g., roads, water, sewer,
fire suppression systems, wildfire mitigation) have been completed and approved
by the agencies with jurisdiction.
      3.   Construction of nonessential improvements, such as landscaping and
recreational facilities, shall be completed in proportion to the overall
progress on the project, and shall be totally completed and approved by the
time building permits are issued for fifty percent (50%) of the units. If this
requirement is not met, the director may suspend the issuance of building
permits until the nonessential improvements are completed.
      4.   Approval of individual building permits must be in accordance with
the approved final PUD plan and associated conditions.
   F.   Duration Of Approval:
      1.   The final PUD permit shall expire if construction on the project has
not begun within two (2) years from the date of the final plan approval, unless
an alternative completion schedule was approved by the board in the order of
decision granting final PUD approval.
      2.   The director may approve an extension of the duration of approval
for good cause shown in accordance with section
8.3.313 of this article.
   G.   Effect Of Noncompliance: Failure to comply with conditions or
restrictions contained in a PUD approval shall constitute a violation pursuant
to chapter 8, article 8.6 of this title. Upon such a finding, the director may
take action to suspend or revoke a PUD, which may be appealed in accordance
with chapter 8, article 8.5 of this title. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016; amd. Ord. 546,
10-17-2019)
8.3.312: PHASING REQUIREMENTS:
The board may approve alternative PUD construction schedules or phasing of PUD
projects. Each phase shall be configured to create a serviceable project,
capable of standing alone or with other completed phases, if the project were
to be terminated at the conclusion of that phase. Project phasing shall not
produce an imbalance of common space to private space, or of land use density,
when compared to overall project ratios. Lands designated for development in
subsequent phases shall be encumbered by the density limitations of the project
as a whole, even if the project fails to develop as planned. (Ord. 493, 6-9-
2016)
8.3.313: EXTENSIONS AND AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Extensions Of Approval: At any time prior to expiration of approval,
the applicant may request one extension of up to one additional year for final
approval from the date of preliminary approval, or up to two (2) additional
years for development to begin from the date of final approval, according to
the procedure set forth in this section.
   B.   Amendments:
      1.   Minor amendments to a PUD, its structures or uses, may be approved
by the director. Minor amendments include, without limitation, adjustments to
platted lot lines, or a combination of the boundary lines of platted and
legally created, unplatted parcels. The determination of whether a proposed
amendment to a PUD constitutes a minor amendment shall be within the sound
discretion of the director.
      2.   Significant changes in use, structures, lot or boundary lines,
conditions of approval, and all other aspects of a final PUD plan must be
approved by the board in accordance with the application, hearing and approval
procedures for a new PUD. If components of the PUD are under separate
ownership, the cooperative corporation or other organization established to
provide oversight and control of the project may be authorized to submit the
application on behalf of the property owners in the development. If an
organization with such authority has not been established, then all affected
persons within the PUD must be coapplicants for the request.
   C.   Application Requirements: The following items constitute a complete
application:
      1.   An application form which is completed and signed by the applicant
or property owner. The signature of an applicant other than the property owner
must be accompanied by a signed, notarized letter from the property owner
authorizing the applicant to sign and file the application. Applications for a
minor amendment to a PUD may also be submitted by a cooperative corporation or
other organization vested with authority to act on behalf of the property
owners within the PUD. Proof of such authority shall be submitted with the
application, and all signatures shall be notarized in a manner indicating the
capacity of the persons signing the application.
      2.   Fees, as adopted by resolution of the board.
      3.   A narrative explaining the reasons the final PUD plan, or if the
application is for extension of final PUD plan approval, construction was not
completed within the original time line, the status of compliance with the
original conditions of approval, and the anticipated schedule for completing
the plan and/or beginning construction.
      4.   As part of a complete application, the director may require
additional information to determine compliance with conditions of approval, the
provisions of this title or other provisions of this code, or the requirements
of other agencies.
   D.   Approval Requirements And Procedure:
      1.   Extensions: The director may grant an extension for the requested
time period, or such other time period as may be deemed appropriate, upon
making the following findings:
         a.   A complete application was submitted;
         b.   The project is in compliance with the requirements of the county
and other agencies at the time the complete preliminary PUD application was
received by the department; and
         c.   The project is in compliance with its conditions of approval.
      2.   Minor Changes: Minor changes to a PUD shall be approved only upon
the following findings:
         a.   No additional lots or parcels are created;
         b.   The resulting lots are in conformance with the size and design
approved for the PUD and are in conformance with all applicable provisions of
this title and any other applicable provisions of this code;
         c.   The adjustment does not result in lots separated by a right of
way or road; and
         d.   A statement is included on the deed of conveyance indicating that
the instrument is being recorded for lot line adjustment purposes, and that the
property being transferred is not a separate, buildable lot.
      3.   Time Frame: Unless otherwise approved by the applicant, the director
shall make a decision within thirty five (35) days of receipt of a completed
application.
      4.   Appeal: The decision of the director may be appealed in accordance
with chapter 8, article 8.5 of this title. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016; amd. Ord. 546,
10-17-2019)
8.3.314: CONDOMINIUMS:
   A.   Condominiums may be allowed within a PUD as a means of cluster
development, provided that the total number of dwelling units permitted shall
not exceed the maximum density allowed in the underlying zoning district or
districts in which the PUD is to be located.
   B.   Condominiums containing twenty five (25) or more dwelling units shall
require PUD approval in addition to approval of a condominium plat pursuant to
chapter 6, article 6.5 of this title. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
ARTICLE 3.4. AGRICULTURAL PROTECTION AREAS
SECTION:
8.3.401: Purpose
8.3.402: Applicability
8.3.403: Creation and Designation Of APA
8.3.404: Application Requirements
8.3.405: Review And Approval Procedure
8.3.406: Addition Or Removal Of Land In An APA
8.3.407: Termination Of An APA
8.3.408: Duration Of Designation
8.3.409: Prohibition Of Uses And Enforcement
8.3.401: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article is to provide for a voluntary process through which
agricultural and timber producers located within Kootenai County may make
application to commit lands actively devoted to agriculture for long-term
future agricultural use. The Agricultural Protection Area (APA) designation
process aims to protect productive farmland, rangeland, and forest land;
promote farm viability; support the local agricultural economy; and provide for
long-term planning stability. This article sets out the process for creation of
Agricultural Protection Areas. (Ord. 607, 12-12-2024)
8.3.402: APPLICABILITY:
The provisions of this article shall apply to any person or legal entity that
owns five (5) contiguous acres or more of land which has been in active
agricultural or forest production for the previous three (3) consecutive years,
consistent with the provisions of section 63-604 or section 63-1701, Idaho
Code, as applicable, and who voluntarily applies for that land to be designated
as an agricultural protection area. (Ord. 607, 12-12-2024)
8.3.403: CREATION AND DESIGNATION OF APA:
   A.   An Agriculture Protection Area shall be designated as an “APA.” An APA
designation is a voluntary land use designation available to landowners who
wish to protect their agricultural land from future nonagricultural
development. To qualify for an APA designation, the land must be:
      1.   At least five (5) contiguous acres,
      2.   Actively devoted to an agricultural or forest purpose,
      3.   Assessed as agriculture or forest land, and
      4.   Located within a zone that allows for agricultural or forest use.
   B.   Nothing shall restrict an applicant from being able to apply for an APA
inside or outside of an area of impact. (Ord. 607, 12-12-2024; amd. Ord. 616,
6-26-2025)
8.3.404: APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS:
Landowners wishing to establish an APA must submit an application to the
Department. At a minimum, the application shall include the following:
   A.   Application Form: A completed application form must be submitted with
the property owner’s signature, or with the applicant’s signature together with
a notarized letter from the property owner authorizing the applicant to file
the permit application.
   B.   Fees: Fees as adopted by resolution of the board.
   C.   Site Plan: A site plan must be submitted which is drawn to scale
showing a north arrow, lot boundaries, location of all structures and
utilities, the location, dimension and purpose of existing easements, the
location of future structures, and other relevant information regarding the
site and the request.
   D.   Proof of property ownership.
   E.   A legal description of the property proposed to be included in the APA.
   F.   A narrative which describes in detail the existing conditions of the
property and the nature of the proposal, including the following:
      1.   A statement outlining the current contiguous acreages of land, land
use, agricultural productivity, and other relevant characteristics of the land
to be included in the APA;
      2.   The number of years the land has been in agricultural or forest
production, the types of agricultural or forest commodities produced, and the
applicant’s plan to continue using the land for agricultural or forest
purposes.
      3.   The reasons for seeking an APA designation.
      4.   Any other information that may be relevant to the application.
   G.   Relevant soil surveys, documentation of water rights, and any other
environmental assessments which have been completed with respect to that
property. (Ord. 607, 12-12-2024)
8.3.405: REVIEW AND APPROVAL PROCEDURE: 
   A.   Upon receipt of a complete and sufficient application, the APA
commission shall review the proposal and make a recommendation within sixty
(60) days after the application has been determined to be complete and
sufficient.
   B.   Evaluation of the application shall be based on the following criteria:
      1.   The total contiguous acreage of the property is at least five (5)
acres in size and is actively devoted to agricultural or forest production.
      2.   Whether the property that is the subject of the application is
within or adjacent to an existing area of city impact.
      3.   Possible conflicts with existing city annexation or development
plans or agreements.
      4.   Proximity to existing public rights of way.
      5.   Proximity to planned transportation corridors or future public
rights of way.
      6.   Proximity to planned airport expansion or development.
      7.   Proximity to planned development with existing entitlements.
      8.   Agricultural production capability of the land within the proposed
APA.
      9.   Other local impacts relevant to the proposed APA.
   C.   The Director shall issue a written decision approving or denying the
application within sixty (60) days after the APA commission issues its
recommendation.
   D.   Failure to make a decision shall render the APA commission’s
recommendation final.
   E.   The Director’s order of decision shall specify, at minimum:
      1.   The provisions of this title and the standards used in evaluating
the application;
      2.   The APA commission’s recommendation;
      3.   A reasoned explanation for the decision reached; and
      4.   If the decision is a denial, the actions, if any, that the applicant
could take to obtain approval.
   F.   The APA commission may recommend, and the Director may place conditions
of approval of an APA designation, including, but not limited to, setbacks from
existing public rights of way, setbacks from existing public structures, or a
review of the land’s APA designation after twenty (20) years. Decisions of
approval shall include any conditions of approval.
   G.   An aggrieved applicant may appeal the Director’s decision to the Board
within thirty (30) days from the date of receipt of the written decision or
from the date on which the recommendation of the APA commission has become
final, as applicable.
      1.   The hearing on an appeal shall be held within sixty (60) days of
receiving the notice of appeal. Notice of the hearing shall be provided in
accordance with section
8.8.402  of this title.
      2.   The hearing shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 8, Article 8.5 of this title pertaining to appeals, except that all
interested persons shall be afforded the opportunity to provide testimony and
submit evidence.
      3.   In reviewing an appeal, the Board shall consider the recommendation
of the APA commission, the written decision of the Director, all written and
oral public comment received at the appeal hearing, and any other information
the Board determines to be relevant.
      4.   Within sixty (60) days of the close of the appeal hearing, the Board
shall issue a final decision approving or denying the APA application. If the
Board fails to act within the sixty (60) day period, the decision of the
Director or the APA commission recommendation that has become final, as
applicable, shall become the final decision of the Board.
      5.   The Board’s final decision shall be subject to judicial review.
   H.   Upon a final decision of approval, the Director shall:
      1.   Record the order of decision approving the APA designation,
including a legal description of the area within the designated APA, with the
office of the Kootenai County Recorder, at the property owner’s expense, within
ten (10) days after issuance of the order of decision;
      2.   Direct the amendment of the future land use map in the County
Comprehensive Plan to reflect the boundaries of the APA; and
      3.   Notify relevant public officials and agencies of the designation.
(Ord. 607, 12-12-2024; amd. Ord. 616, 6-26-2025)
8.3.406: ADDITION OR REMOVAL OF LAND IN AN APA:
   A.   A landowner may add land to an existing APA by filing an application
with the department. The Board, or its designee, shall review the application
in accordance with section 67-9706, Idaho Code.
   B.   An owner of land within an agricultural protection area may remove land
from the agricultural protection area by filing a petition for removal with the
department.
      1.   The Board, or its designee, shall acknowledge receipt of the
petition for removal in writing; and
      2.   The Board, or its designee, shall confirm the removal date as ten
(10) years from the date of petition for removal, or upon expiration of the
designation, whichever is sooner.
   C.   For purposes of subsections (A) and (B) of this section, the Director
shall be deemed to be a designee of the Board.
   D.   Any land added to an APA shall be contiguous to an existing APA.
   E.   An APA shall not be changed to another land use designation unless:
      1.   The APA expires and the landowner chooses not to renew the APA
designation; or
      2.   The landowner chooses to remove land from an APA pursuant to this
section or to terminate an APA for reasons of hardship pursuant to section
8.3.407  of this article. (Ord. 607, 12-12-2024; amd. Ord. 616, 6-26-2025)
8.3.407: TERMINATION OF AN APA:
A landowner wishing to terminate an APA earlier than ten (10) years from the
date of petition for termination, or prior to expiration of the designation if
such expiration would occur within ten (10) years from the date of the
petition, must request in writing a public hearing before the Board. Notice and
hearing on the request for termination of the APA shall be conducted in
accordance with subsection
8.3.405 (c) of this article. Early termination of the APA shall only be
approved upon proof of a hardship, as defined in section
8.9.204  of this title, by clear and convincing evidence. The owner seeking to
terminate an APA shall bear the burden of proof, including the burden of going
forward with evidence and the burden of persuasion. (Ord. 607, 12-12-2024; amd.
Ord. 616, 6-26-2025)
8.3.408: DURATION OF DESIGNATION:
Lands designated as an APA shall remain so designated for a period of twenty
(20) years unless terminated pursuant to section
8.3.407 of this article. A property owner who intends to end an approved APA
designation after twenty (20) years must notify the Department in writing prior
to the end of the then-current period. Failure of the owner to so notify the
Department will result in the continuation of the APA designation for another
period of twenty (20) years. (Ord. 607, 12-12-2024)
8.3.409: PROHIBITION OF USES AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Unless otherwise approved by the Board, the siting of large confined
animal feeding operations (CAFOs) shall be prohibited within an APA.
   B.   The siting of residential, commercial, manufacturing, industrial, solar
or wind energy structures, or any other non-agricultural land use on lands
included within an APA shall be prohibited unless such uses are also
contributing to agricultural production. Such non-agricultural uses shall be
subject to all applicable provisions of this title and of Title 7, Chapter 1 of
this code.
   C.   Enforcement of the provisions of this article shall be as set forth in
article 8.6 of this title. (Ord. 607, 12-12-2024; amd. Ord. 616, 6-26-2025)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
ARTICLE 4.1. GENERAL
SECTION:
8.4.101: Purpose
8.4.102: Applicability
8.4.103: Site Plans
8.4.101: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide standards and minimum regulations
applicable to uses allowed in multiple zones in order to promote public health,
safety, and general welfare. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.4.102: APPLICABILITY:
Except as specifically provided in this chapter, the standards contained in
this chapter shall apply to the uses enumerated herein regardless of the zone
in which the use is to be established. These standards shall be construed as
being the minimum standards required. Whenever the provisions of any other duly
adopted statute, ordinance, or regulation require more restrictive standards
than those contained in this chapter, the provisions of such standards shall
govern and, in any event, the applicant or proponent may voluntarily elect to
incorporate more restrictive standards than might otherwise apply. These
standards may also be incorporated as conditions of approval of an
administrative permit, conditional use permit or special notice permit if they
would not otherwise apply but have a rational nexus to the impacts of the use.
(Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.4.103: SITE PLANS:
A combined site plan addressing landscaping, parking, and lighting will be
acceptable if it can be easily reviewed and implemented. If the site plan
becomes too cluttered or difficult to review for compliance with the applicable
requirements of this title, separate site plans may be required by the
director. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
ARTICLE 4.2. ACCESS
SECTION:
8.4.201: Access Road And Driveway Standards For Residential Properties
8.4.201: ACCESS ROAD AND DRIVEWAY STANDARDS FOR RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES:
With the exception of parcels which were legally created with access solely
from the shoreline of a lake or river, every residential lot shall have access
from a public or private road which complies with the following standards:
   A.   Private Roads:
      1.   All newly constructed private roads within a major subdivision,
minor subdivision, or condominium, or which connect a subdivision or
condominium with the nearest public road, shall comply with the applicable
requirements of section
8.6.707 of this title.
      2.   All newly constructed private roads not associated with a major
subdivision, minor subdivision, or condominium shall comply with the standards
set forth in the then current international fire code as adopted pursuant to
title 7, chapter 1 of this code.
      3.   The director may seek a recommendation from the highway district or
fire protection district in which the road is located as to whether a newly
constructed private road complies with the applicable standards.
      4.   If the director finds that the road complies with the applicable
standards and, if applicable, that it complies with the requirements of section
8.6.707 of this title, the director shall approve the road and shall give final
approval to any associated permits.
      5.   If the director, upon recommendation of the highway district or fire
protection district, determines that a private road should be approved with a
variance, exception or deviation from the applicable standards, the road will
be deemed to comply with the applicable standards for purposes of this article
and section
8.6.707 of this title.
   B.   Driveways And Common Driveways:
      1.   All driveways and common driveways shall be constructed in
accordance with the standards set forth in the then current international fire
code as adopted pursuant to title 7, chapter 1 of this code.
      2.   The fire protection district with jurisdiction shall determine
whether a driveway or common driveway complies with the standards set forth in
the then current international fire code.
      3.   For parcels located outside of a fire protection district, the
director shall make this determination. The director may seek a recommendation
from any fire protection district entirely or partially located within Kootenai
County as to whether a newly constructed private road complies with the
standards set forth in the then current international fire code. (Ord. 493, 6-
9-2016)
ARTICLE 4.3. ACCESSORY DWELLINGS, PERSONAL STORAGE BUILDINGS, AND CARGO
CONTAINERS
SECTION:
8.4.301: Accessory Living Units
8.4.302: Temporary Hardship Uses
8.4.303: Personal Storage Buildings
8.4.304: Cargo Containers
8.4.301: ACCESSORY LIVING UNITS:
   A.   Description: An accessory living unit is a secondary dwelling unit
located on the same parcel as the principal dwelling unit. An accessory living
unit provides a complete, independent dwelling with facilities for living,
cooking, eating, sanitation, and sleeping. An accessory living unit cannot
share a common wall with the principal dwelling unit.
   B.   Standards: Accessory living units shall comply with the following
standards:
      1.   The square footage of the accessory living unit shall not exceed one
thousand (1,000) square feet of habitable space or fifty percent (50%) of the
habitable space of the primary structure, whichever is greater. New structures
that will be used solely for accessory living units shall be measured from the
exterior walls. Existing structures that will add habitable space will be
measured from interior dimensions of the habitable space.
      2.   For purposes of this section, habitable space shall include all
enclosed areas used for living, cooking, eating, sanitation, and sleeping.
Garage areas will not be included as habitable space if the garage has a door
which is at least eight feet (8') wide.
      3.   The footprint of the accessory living unit shall count toward the
calculation of lot coverage.
      4.   No parcel shall contain more than one accessory living unit.
      5.   Accessory living units shall comply with the setback requirements
for accessory buildings which apply within the underlying zone.
   C.   Permit Procedure: Accessory living units may be established only upon
the issuance of an accessory living unit permit by the Director.
      1.   The permit application shall be on a form provided by the department
and shall include a site plan, a narrative and an affidavit attesting to the
validity of the information provided.
      2.   The procedure for approval of an accessory living unit permit shall
be as set forth in section
8.8.204 of this title.
      3.   Upon review of the information provided, the Director shall
determine if the minimum requirements have been met and either approve or deny
the permit application.
      4.   The decision of the Director to grant or deny an accessory living
unit permit may be appealed to the Board in accordance with chapter 8, article
8.5 of this title. (Ord. 514, 9-28-2017)
8.4.302: TEMPORARY HARDSHIP USES:
   A.   Purpose: Temporary hardship uses allow for the placement and use of a
temporary dwelling for a dependent person's use on a single lot that has an
existing, primary single-family dwelling.
   B.   Permit Required: Temporary hardship uses may be established only upon
the issuance of a temporary hardship use permit by the Director. The dependent
person noted in the permit shall be the primary occupant of the temporary
dwelling authorized by the permit.
   C.   Restrictions:
      1.   The applicant must be a holder of an interest in the property on
which the temporary dwelling is to be located. The applicant shall also be a
relative of the dependent person that will be occupying the temporary dwelling.
      2.   The parcel on which the primary single-family residence exists and
on which the temporary dwelling is to be permitted shall be a minimum of one
acre. No more than one temporary dwelling shall be permitted per parcel.
      3.   The dependent person named in the application shall be the occupant
of the temporary dwelling. When a dependent person no longer occupies the
permitted dwelling, the permit shall become null and void and the temporary
dwelling shall be removed from the site.
      4.   A Class A or Class B manufactured home may be used as the temporary
dwelling. A manufactured home setting permit shall also be obtained from the
department prior to placing the housing unit on the site, and an occupancy
permit shall be received from the department before the manufactured home may
be occupied by the dependent person named in the permit.
      5.   Structures which are to be used as the temporary dwelling, other
than manufactured homes, shall meet the applicable standards set forth in the
International Residential Code for a single-family dwelling. A building permit
and occupancy permit shall be received from the department before the structure
may be occupied by the dependent person named in the permit.
      6.   The temporary dwelling shall be connected to an approved sewage
disposal system. Utility and service connections of any type shall be in
accordance with the applicable utility or service provider's requirements.
      7.   A temporary hardship use permit shall not be issued if covenants or
plat dedications of the site restrict such use.
      8.   A temporary hardship use permit shall be renewed every two (2) years
unless otherwise released. It shall be the responsibility of the permit holder
to seek renewal of the permit.
      9.   A temporary hardship use permit is not transferable and shall
terminate upon the sale or lease of the property on which the use is located.
   D.   Application Requirements: An application for a temporary hardship use
permit shall include the following information:
      1.   Name, address, and telephone number of the applicant.
      2.   Name of the dependent person and his relationship to the applicant.
      3.   A written certification of dependency from a licensed physician
which states that the dependent person lacks the capacity to live
independently.
      4.   A copy of the deed, or contract for sale, of the property on which
the temporary dwelling will be located.
      5.   A statement signed by the applicant that the temporary hardship use
is not in conflict with restrictive covenants or plat dedications of the
property.
      6.   A letter from Panhandle Health District that the sewage disposal
system for the temporary dwelling meets with their approval.
      7.   Fees, as adopted by resolution of the Board.
   E.   Approval Procedures:
      1.   The procedure for approval of a temporary hardship use permit shall
be as set forth in section
8.8.204 of this title.
      2.   If the Director approves the permit, a temporary hardship use permit
shall be issued to the applicant and shall note the dependent person who will
occupy the permitted temporary dwelling. The permit shall also provide the
following information:
         a.   The date the permit must be renewed, if the dependent person's
status remains the same as it did at the time of issuance of the permit.
         b.   A statement that the temporary dwelling unit shall be removed
from the lot when the dependent person ceases to occupy it.
         c.   A statement that failure to renew the permit by the stated date,
or failure to notify the Director when the dependent person ceases to occupy
the temporary dwelling, will be considered a violation of the permit subject to
enforcement action as set forth in chapter 8, article 8.6 of this title.
         d.   A statement that the applicant must obtain the applicable
building and occupancy permits before the dependent person can occupy the
dwelling.
   F.   Recordation Of Notice Of Use: It shall be the responsibility of the
Director to ensure that notice of an approved temporary hardship use is
recorded with the Office of the County Recorder. The notice shall include:
      1.   The applicant's name and address;
      2.   A legal description of the property on which the temporary use will
be located;
      3.   A statement that a temporary dwelling has been permitted under the
terms of a temporary hardship use permit and that the temporary dwelling is for
the occupancy of a dependent person; and
      4.   A statement that the temporary use shall be discontinued upon the
sale or lease of the property, or when the dependent person ceases to occupy
the temporary dwelling.
   G.   Recordation Of Release: It shall be the responsibility of the Director
to record a release of a previously recorded notice of temporary hardship use
with the Office of the County Recorder upon termination of a temporary hardship
use permit. A copy of the recorded release shall be sent to the property owner.
   H.   Appeals: The decision of the Director to grant or deny a temporary
hardship use permit may be appealed to the Board in accordance with chapter 8,
article 8.5 of this title. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.4.303: PERSONAL STORAGE BUILDINGS:
   A.   Zones Permitted: Agricultural, Rural, Agricultural Suburban, Restricted
Residential, Commercial.
   B.   Standards:
      1.   The personal storage building shall comply with the setback
requirements in the underlying zone.
      2.   The personal storage building shall comply with the lot coverage
requirements which are applicable in the in the underlying zone.
      3.   The personal storage building shall not be used for any commercial
purpose.
      4.   The personal storage building shall solely be used for the storage
of personal property and shall not be used as a dwelling, unless otherwise
permitted.
      5.   No outdoor storage shall be permitted except pursuant to section
8.4.1402  of this chapter.
      6.   On lots or parcels of one (1.00) acre in area or less, personal
storage buildings shall be constructed in accordance with the following
standards:
         a.   The personal storage building shall not exceed two thousand
(2,000) square feet.
         b.   The personal storage building shall be screened pursuant to the
following:
            (1)   Road frontage (public or private): one (1) tree per fifty
feet (50') of road frontage (rounded up to the next whole number).
            (2)   Side and rear property lines: one (1) tree per one hundred
feet (100') of linear distance (rounded up to the next whole number).
      7.   On lots or parcels of greater than one (1.00) acre but less than
five (5.00) acres in size, personal storage buildings shall not exceed two
thousand (2,000) square feet.
      8.   On lots or parcels of five (5.00) acres in area or more, personal
storage buildings shall not exceed five thousand (5,000) square feet. (Ord.
611, 5-8-2025)
8.4.304: CARGO CONTAINERS:
   A.   Zones Permitted: Agricultural, Rural, Agricultural Suburban,
Commercial, Mining, Light Industrial, Industrial.
   B.   Standards: Cargo containers are permitted of right, subject to the
following standards:
      1.   Cargo containers shall only be used for the following purposes:
         a.   Temporary storage structure in conjunction with active permitted
construction activities;
         b.   In association with the active operation of an allowed railroad
or trucking business; or
         c.   Storage:
            (1)   Accessory to a primary use within the underlying zone;
            (2)   Personal storage building, as may be allowed in the
underlying zone; or
            (3)   In the Mining, Light Industrial, and Industrial zones.
      2.   Not more than one (1) cargo container is present for every five (5)
acres of land area or portion thereof.
      3.   Cargo containers shall comply with the lot coverage requirements
which apply within the underlying zone.
      4.   Cargo containers shall comply with the setback requirements for
accessory buildings which apply within the underlying zone.
      5.   No outdoor storage shall be permitted except pursuant to section
8.4.1402  of this chapter.
      6.   A stock cargo container used for the purpose of personal storage
does not require a building permit. However, any change of use or alteration to
the cargo container, including, but not limited to: non-residential uses or the
addition of windows, doors, roof, or siding may require a building permit.
      7.   Design Standards:
         a.   Agricultural, Rural, and Agricultural Suburban zones:
            (1)   For properties that are five (5.00) acres or more in size,
the cargo container shall be:
               (a)   Located at least one hundred fifty feet (150') from all
property lines; or
               (b)   Located behind the principal building eighty percent (80%)
screened from view (e.g. by fences, walls, buildings, topography, and/or
landscaping) from surrounding properties and public rights-of-way.
            (2)   For properties that are less than five (5.00) acres in area,
the cargo container shall be located behind the principal building. At a
minimum, eighty percent (80%) of the container shall be screened from view
(e.g. by fences, walls, buildings, topography, and/or landscaping) from
surrounding properties and public rights-of-way.
         b.   In the Commercial, Mining, Light Industrial, and Industrial
zones, cargo containers shall be subject to the standards set forth in article
4.6 of this chapter. (Ord. 611, 5-8-2025)
ARTICLE 4.4. RECREATIONAL VEHICLES AND RV PARKS
SECTION:
8.4.401: Temporary Or Intermittent Use Of Recreational Vehicles
8.4.402: Recreational Vehicle Parks
8.4.403: Park Model Recreational Vehicles
8.4.401: TEMPORARY OR INTERMITTENT USE OF RECREATIONAL VEHICLES:
Temporary or intermittent use of recreational vehicles (RVs) shall comply with
the following standards:
   A.   The RV shall have current registration and shall be in serviceable
condition so it can be operated in a safe and lawful manner upon the roads and
highways in the State of Idaho as set forth in the motor vehicle laws of the
State of Idaho, title 49, Idaho Code. An RV shall not be set on blocks with the
tires or running gear removed.
   B.   No decks or additions shall be attached to an RV, nor shall an RV be
skirted.
   C.   An RV shall not be used as a dwelling except as provided in this
section. The owner of an RV must have a primary residence other than the RV. If
the parcel on which the RV is located is otherwise undeveloped, there shall be
no mail service to that parcel.
   D.   The RV must be hooked into a sewage disposal system which meets the
requirements of the Panhandle Health District, or shall be totally self-
contained and removed from the site to empty holding tanks at an approved
location.
   E.   An RV may be used as a dwelling for the owners of the parcel on which
the RV is located during construction of a dwelling on that parcel. In such
cases, the provisions of this section regarding the owner's primary residence
and mail service shall not apply. Upon completion of the residence or
expiration of the building permit for the residence, the use of the RV shall
revert to temporary or intermittent use as provided in this section.
   F.   An RV shall not be used as a rental. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.4.402: RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKS:
Recreational vehicle parks shall provide temporary living quarters, but shall
not provide permanent or year round housing. Recreational vehicle parks shall
comply with the following standards:
   A.   Recreational vehicles shall be separated from each other and from other
structures by at least ten feet (10'). Accessory structures such as attached
awnings or carports, shall be considered to be part of the recreational vehicle
for the purpose of this requirement.
   B.   Each recreational vehicle lot or space shall contain a stabilized
vehicular parking pad composed of paving, compacted crushed gravel, or other
all weather material.
   C.   Each recreational vehicle lot shall have at least one off street
vehicle parking space.
   D.   Internal roads and parking service areas shall provide safe and
convenient access for service and emergency vehicles and to amenities within
the park. Internal roads shall not be designed to encourage use by outside
traffic to traverse the park to adjoining developed areas.
   E.   Approaches for interior driveways in recreational vehicle parks which
enter and exit onto a public road must be approved by the applicable highway
district or the Idaho Transportation Department, whichever agency has
jurisdiction.
   F.   If it is determined by the highway agency with jurisdiction that
traffic control devices or other traffic regulation improvements will be
required in conjunction with the development of a recreational vehicle park,
the applicant shall be responsible for the cost of installation or construction
of those improvements.
   G.   Yards, fences, walls, or vegetative screening shall be provided at the
property lines of the park where it adjoins parcels that are zoned or used for
residential purposes. In particular, extensive off street parking areas,
service areas for loading and unloading purposes other than for passenger uses,
and areas for storage and collection of refuse, shall be screened.
   H.   Uses that are clearly incidental to the operation of the park, such as
management headquarters, recreational facilities, toilets, dumping stations,
laundry facilities, a convenience store, and other facilities established
within the park, are permitted as accessory uses.
   I.   Occupancy of a recreational vehicle park space by a particular
recreational vehicle shall be limited each year to those days between May 1 and
the first Sunday in October, and, in addition, a maximum of one period of no
more than thirty (30) consecutive days during the remainder of the calendar
year.
   J.   Any action toward removal of wheels of a recreational vehicle, except
for temporary purposes of repair or to attach the recreational vehicle to the
ground for stabilizing purposes, is prohibited.
   K.   A site plan shall be submitted upon application for a building or site
disturbance permit for the development of a recreational vehicle park. The site
plan must include a north arrow and date of drawing, and must clearly depict
the following:
      1.   Existing structures which will remain on the parcel, and their uses,
and any existing structures proposed to be modified or removed;
      2.   All proposed structures and their uses;
      3.   Existing and proposed roads, easements, and points of access;
      4.   Recreational vehicle lot dimensions;
      5.   Size of the site in acres;
      6.   Dimensions of property lines and property line setbacks;
      7.   Reserved or dedicated open space;
      8.   Major landscape features, both natural and manmade;
      9.   Locations of existing and proposed utility lines;
      10.   Accessory off street parking and loading facilities, and parking
space areas;
      11.   Wastewater drainfield areas;
      12.   Traffic circulation patterns;
      13.   Refuse and service areas;
      14.   Signs;
      15.   Outdoor storage; and
      16.   Proposed screening and buffering, including fences, yards, walls or
vegetation. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.4.403: PARK MODEL RECREATIONAL VEHICLES:
Park model recreational vehicles (also known as park models or park trailers)
shall be subject to the regulations pertaining to recreational vehicles as set
forth in this title. (Ord. 514, 9-28-2017)
ARTICLE 4.5. HOME BASED ACTIVITIES
SECTION:
8.4.501: Home Occupations
8.4.502: Bed And Breakfast Inns
8.4.503: Automotive Hobby Activities
8.4.504: Cottage Industries
8.4.505: Noncommercial Kennels
8.4.501: HOME OCCUPATIONS:
A home occupation is an occupation, profession, or craft which is clearly
incidental to the residential use of a site. Home occupations shall be subject
to the following standards:
   A.   The home occupation shall be conducted by an immediate member of the
family residing within the dwelling on the site.
   B.   There shall be no more than one individual employed at the site who
does not live in the dwelling on the site.
   C.   The home occupation may be conducted in any accessory building on the
site and in no more than one-half (1/2) of the floor area of the building
housing the primary use. No home occupation shall be allowed on a site where
the primary use has not been established.
   D.   The home occupation shall be of a nature that does not generate retail
business or have customer traffic on a regular basis. An equipment storage
facility where more than one employee arrives at the site to pick up equipment,
then leaves to work off site, shall not be permitted as a home occupation, but
instead must be permitted as a cottage industry pursuant to section
8.4.504 of this article.
   E.   Storage of equipment, inventory, or work related items other than
vehicles, shall be within the residence or a permitted accessory building.
Outdoor storage is prohibited. A special notice permit is required for storage
within a cargo container or trailer in zones where such storage is permitted;
otherwise, such storage is prohibited. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.4.502: BED AND BREAKFAST INNS:
Bed and breakfast inns shall be subject to the following standards:
   A.   Maximum of five (5) rooms for lodging of paying guests.
   B.   Must provide off street automobile parking space for each guestroom, as
well as all vehicles owned by permanent residents.
   C.   Wedding ceremonies and receptions are allowed, provided that a total of
no more than twenty five (25) persons will be on the premises at any given
time.
   D.   No commercial uses are permitted except as provided in this section.
(Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.4.503: AUTOMOTIVE HOBBY ACTIVITIES:
Automotive hobby activities involve the restoration, maintenance, repair, or
preservation of motor vehicles, and similar activities. Automotive hobby
activities shall be subject to the following standards:
   A.   No commercial retail or wholesale sales of automotive parts or supplies
shall be conducted.
   B.   A property owner or person who resides on the property may sell
vehicles that he or she owns which have been restored, maintained, repaired, or
preserved in conjunction with lawful automotive hobby activities. No other
commercial restoration, repair, preservation or maintenance of motor vehicles
shall be conducted.
   C.   The site shall be maintained in an orderly manner so as to prevent the
creation of a public nuisance or a health hazard.
   D.   Not more than two (2) inoperable, dismantled, or unregistered motor
vehicles may be visible from ground level on any adjacent property. All other
inoperable, dismantled, or unregistered motor vehicles shall be covered, stored
behind a one hundred percent (100%) sight obscuring fence or hedge which is not
less than six feet (6') in height, or stored within a completely enclosed
building.
   E.   All inoperable, dismantled, or unregistered motor vehicles, and parts
thereof, which are being kept on the site in conjunction with automotive hobby
activities shall be necessary and wanted. Once inoperable, dismantled, or
unregistered automobiles, or parts thereof, are no longer necessary or wanted,
the automobile or parts shall be removed from the site for proper disposal.
(Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.4.504: COTTAGE INDUSTRIES:
A cottage industry is a commercial use of a residential parcel which is more
intensive than a home occupation but is still incidental to the residential use
of the site. Cottage industries shall be subject to the following standards:
   A.   Staff: The cottage industry may be operated by immediate members of the
family residing within the dwelling on the site, plus no more than five (5)
employees.
   B.   Where Conducted: The cottage industry may be conducted in any accessory
building on the site and in no more than one-half (1/2) of the floor area of
the building housing the primary use. No cottage industry shall be permitted on
a site where the primary use has not been established.
   C.   Sales: On site retail and wholesale sales shall be limited to products
produced or assembled on site, plus other sales which are clearly incidental to
the operation of the cottage industry.
   D.   Deliveries: Deliveries may be made by any means; however, delivery by
semitrailer is permitted only if the parcel has direct access to a paved public
road.
   E.   Storage:
      1.   Except as otherwise permitted in this subsection, storage of
equipment, inventory, or work related items other than vehicles shall be within
the residence or an accessory building, and outdoor storage is prohibited.
      2.   The director may approve contractor storage as part of a cottage
industry permit. In such cases, storage shall comply with the requirements of
section
8.4.605 of this chapter unless an alternative method of compliance is approved
pursuant to section
8.4.606 of this chapter.
      3.   A special notice permit is required for storage within a cargo
container or trailer in zones where such storage is permitted; otherwise, such
storage is prohibited.
   F.   Permit Procedure: Cottage industries may be established only upon the
issuance of a cottage industry permit by the director.
      1.   The permit application shall be on a form provided by the department
and shall include a site plan, a narrative describing the proposed use in
detail, and an affidavit attesting to the validity of the information provided.
      2.   The procedure for approval of a cottage industry permit shall be as
set forth in section
8.8.204 of this title.
      3.   Upon review of the information provided, the director shall
determine if the minimum requirements have been met and either approve or deny
the permit application.
      4.   The decision of the director to grant or deny a cottage industry
permit may be appealed to the board in accordance with chapter 8, article 8.5
of this title. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.4.505: NONCOMMERCIAL KENNELS:
   A.   Zones permitted: Agricultural, rural, agricultural suburban.
   B.   All noncommercial kennels shall adhere to the applicable provisions of
this title and to the applicable provisions of title 5, chapter 1 of this code.
   C.   All noncommercial kennels shall have passed all necessary inspections
performed by the animal control division of the Kootenai County sheriff's
office, and must possess a valid kennel license issued by the board.
   D.   Adequate fencing shall be provided to restrain animals from running at
large. At a minimum, the animals shall be enclosed within a six foot (6') fence
or wall. Electronic fences shall not be used as the sole method of restraining
animals.
   E.   Noncommercial kennels located in the rural or agricultural suburban
zones shall provide visual screening to buffer adjacent land uses if existing
visual screening is insufficient to accomplish that purpose.
   F.   No commercial activities shall be permitted. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
ARTICLE 4.6. LANDSCAPING, SCREENING AND FENCING
SECTION:
8.4.601: Applicability
8.4.602: Landscape Plan Requirements
8.4.603: Landscape Standards
8.4.604: Planting Implementation
8.4.605: Screening And Fencing
8.4.606: Alternative Methods Of Compliance
8.4.601: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   The provisions of this article shall apply to all development in the
Commercial, Light Industrial and Industrial Zones unless the parcel is located
within the Airport Overlay Zone or is expressly modified via approval of an
alternative method of compliance pursuant to section
8.4.606 of this article.
   B.   The provisions of this article, or any applicable portion thereof, may
also be included as conditions of approval of any administrative approval,
conditional use permit or special notice permit. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.4.602: LANDSCAPE PLAN REQUIREMENTS:
Prior to the issuance of a building or site disturbance permit for uses to
which this article applies, a landscape plan shall be submitted to the
department for review and approval. The landscaping standards in place at the
time an applicant applies for a building permit or site disturbance permit will
govern that application. The landscape plan shall be a drawing to scale,
prepared by a landscape designer, including the following information:
   A.   Boundaries and dimensions of the site.
   B.   Identification of all species and locations of existing trees that are
to be retained.
   C.   Location and identification of species of all proposed plantings.
   D.   Location and design of areas to be landscaped, buffered, and
maintained.
   E.   Type, location and design of proposed irrigation.
   F.   Plant lists or schedules with common name, quantity, spacing and size
of all proposed landscape material at the time of planting.
   G.   Location and description of other landscape improvements, such as earth
berms, walls, fences, screens, sculptures, fountains, street furniture, lights,
and paved areas.
   H.   Methods and details for protecting existing vegetation during
construction.
   I.   A determination as to whether the site contains noxious weeds. If the
site contains noxious weeds, no certificate of occupancy shall be issued until
a weed mitigation plan is reviewed and approved by the Kootenai County Noxious
Weed Control Department. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.4.603: LANDSCAPE STANDARDS:
   A.   General Requirements:
      1.   Existing on-site trees and shrubs may be included in the application
of these standards, provided they are depicted on the plan and retained.
      2.   All landscaped areas, including trees, shrubs, and ground cover,
shall be permanently maintained in a healthy growing condition. Irrigation
shall be available to maintain a healthy growing condition. To maintain the
integrity of the original design, any dead tree or shrub shall be replaced with
the same or similar species originally planted unless a substitute is approved
by the Director.
      3.   No landscape area shall include artificial trees, plants, or any
carpeting designed as a vegetative substitute.
      4.   Unless otherwise specified, landscaping shall consist of, but not be
limited to, a mix of deciduous and evergreen trees, shrubs, and planted ground
cover. The use of native vegetation is encouraged. There shall be at least one
tree and three (3) shrubs for every three hundred (300) square feet of
landscaped area. At the time of planting, deciduous trees shall be a minimum of
two inch (2") caliper (as measured 6 inches above grade), and evergreen trees
shall be at least five feet (5') tall. At the time of maturity, all trees shall
be at least twenty feet (20') tall. Where shrubs are required, they shall be a
minimum of a three (3) gallon tub.
      5.   All required landscape areas shall be planted so as to achieve one
hundred percent (100%) ground coverage by under story plant materials within
five (5) years. If this amount of ground coverage is not achieved, the area
shall be planted with mature plant material immediately or as soon as the
planting season permits.
      6.   Around primary structures, a strip of landscaped area at least
twenty five feet (25') wide shall be provided in front, and a strip at least
fifteen feet (15') wide shall be provided along the sides of the structures.
Walkways up to six feet (6') in width may be installed within these landscaped
areas.
      7.   No landscaping shall be placed so as to obstruct a motorist's clear
view of a street, highway, or public right-of-way within a fifty foot (50')
vision obstruction triangle. Trunks of deciduous trees are acceptable within
the fifty foot (50') vision obstruction triangle.
   B.   Parking Lots: Landscaping shall be required for all parking lots based
on a percentage of the gross parking area used for parking spaces. Traffic
aisles and driveways are excluded from this calculation. The area calculations
are as follows:
      1.   1 to 50 spaces = 10 percent of the area
      2.   51 to 99 spaces = 12 percent of the area
      3.   100 or more spaces = 15 percent of the area
Example: 8 parking spaces, each space is 10 feet wide and 20 feet long (200
square feet per space).
8 spaces x 200 sq. ft. = 1,600 sq. ft.
1,600 x 10% = 160 square feet of landscaped area
In addition, parking lots and the accompanying landscaping shall be configured
so that no parking space is more than seventy five feet (75') from a landscaped
area.
   C.   Areas Adjacent To Residential Zones:
      1.   A fifteen foot (15') wide minimum planting strip buffer in
conjunction with a fifty percent (50%) sight obscuring fence, on the street
side or fence exterior, as applicable, not less than six feet (6') in height
shall also be required where the development abuts an existing residential zone
or existing residential use.
      2.   Planting strip buffers shall consist of sight-obscuring vegetative
screening on the street side or fence exterior, as applicable, and shall attain
fifty percent (50%) sight obscurity along the entire strip within three (3)
years. (Only 50 percent of the site is visible from the street or from an
adjacent residential property after 3 years of plant growth.)
      3.   Buffering shall provide a year-round visual screen in order to
minimize adverse impacts on adjacent property. No buildings, structures,
accessory structures, parking, driveways, loading areas or storage of materials
shall be permitted in the buffer area.
   D.   Pedestrian Walkways: Pedestrian walkways shall be landscaped on the
street side or fence exterior, as applicable, for their entire length. Trees
shall be sized large enough so that, at maturity, a minimum vertical clearance
of seven feet (7') between the sidewalk and the lowest branch is attained.
Trees shall be at least two feet (2') from sidewalks and curbs at the time of
planting. Root control barriers between the proposed tree planting location and
the curb and sidewalks may be required to maintain the health of the tree.
   E.   Public Road Frontage: Frontage buffer areas shall be provided for all
nonresidential uses adjacent to all public roads. The minimum depth of said
buffer shall be fifteen feet (15'). Frontage buffers shall be planted on the
street side or fence exterior, as applicable, with grasses or approved
groundcovers, deciduous or evergreen trees, and may include berms, boulder
accents, mounds or combinations thereof. Frontage buffers shall require a
minimum of one tree for every thirty feet (30') of street frontage. If a
landscaped berm is provided, the berm shall be at least two and one-half feet
(2.5') higher than the finished elevation of the parking lot and planting
requirements may be reduced to one tree for every forty feet (40') of public
road frontage. If planted berms are used, the minimum top width shall be four
feet (4'), and the maximum side slope shall be 2:1. No buildings, structures,
accessory structures, parking, driveways, loading areas or storage of materials
shall be permitted in the buffer area.
   F.   Vehicle Display: Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, a
facility for the display, service and retail sale, lease or rental of new or
used automobiles, boats, trucks, motorcycles, motor scooters, recreational
vehicles, or trailers may display and store any of these items outdoors without
visual screening, and such display and storage may occur within the required
front yard setback. (Ord. 514, 9-28-2017; amd. Ord. 546, 10-17-2019)
8.4.604: PLANTING IMPLEMENTATION:
   A.   All existing trees that are to be saved shall be unmistakably
delineated in the field so that it is obvious to construction personnel and
equipment operators.
   B.   All field construction personnel and equipment operators shall use
appropriate construction practices to prevent damage to existing and new
landscaping.
   C.   Prior to issuance of the certificate of occupancy, the designer shall
submit a completion report attesting to the correct installation of healthy
trees, shrubs, ground cover and other landscape treatments as shown on the
landscape site plan, and that the installation is a correct representation of
the plan.
   D.   The Director may authorize a delay in the completion of planting during
the months of November, December, January, February, and up to March 15 (or
adverse weather conditions which threaten survivability of plants). Should a
delay occur, a guarantee of financial surety equal to one hundred fifty percent
(150%) of the costs of landscaping will be provided by the owner or developer
and held by the County until the landscaping is complete. No certificate of
occupancy shall be issued until the required landscape development is complete,
or a financial guarantee has been approved. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.4.605: SCREENING AND FENCING:
   A.   Refuse Containers: Refuse containers shall be screened from view by a
one hundred percent (100%) sight obscuring fence that is a minimum of six feet
(6') in height.
   B.   Storage Of Equipment, Materials And Goods: Equipment, materials or
goods not housed within the primary building shall be stored within an
accessory building or within a one hundred percent (100%) sight obscuring fence
that is a minimum of six feet (6') in height. Materials and goods shall not be
stored in any manner where they are visible from adjacent property or a public
right-of-way.
   C.   Fencing Material: Fencing material shall not consist of tires,
manufactured home parts, salvaged building materials, automobile parts, junk,
or garbage.
   D.   Height: Fencing shall be limited to a maximum of eight feet (8') in
height. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.4.606: ALTERNATIVE METHODS OF COMPLIANCE:
   A.   Requests: It is recognized that with certain site conditions, strict
compliance with the requirements of this article may be physically impossible,
impractical, or not meaningful (as, for example, where the development is to
occur in a remote location on the subject property, unmanned facilities, etc.).
In such cases, an approved alternative method of compliance may allow
modifications to the requirements of this article. Requests for use of
alternative landscaping, screening or fencing standards may be approved only if
it is demonstrated that compliance with the requirements of this article would
cause an undue hardship or one or more of the following apply:
      1.   The site has space limitations or the parcel is unusually shaped.
      2.   Topography, soil, vegetation or other physical hardship site
conditions are such that full compliance is impossible or impractical.
      3.   Due to a change of use of an existing site, the required buffer is
larger than can be provided.
      4.   Legitimate safety considerations from other public agencies are
raised.
      5.   The landscaping, screening, and/or fencing called for by this
article are not necessary or effective to mitigate the impacts of the proposed
development on the surrounding property owners or the general public.
      6.   The landscaping, screening, fencing or other measures called for by
this article would be in violation of other applicable law.
   B.   Approval Procedure: The Director may approve a proposed alternative
method of compliance in accordance with the procedure set forth in this
subsection.
      1.   The application shall be on a form provided by the department, and,
in addition to the information required in the landscape plan, must include a
written narrative prepared by a landscape designer explaining the proposed
alternative method of compliance, and the applicable fees.
      2.   The procedure for approval of a proposed alternative method of
compliance shall be as set forth in section
8.8.204 of this title.
      3.   Upon review of the information provided, the Director shall
determine if the minimum requirements have been met and either approve or deny
the application.
      4.   The decision of the Director to approve or deny a proposed
alternative method of compliance may be appealed to the Board in accordance
with chapter 8, article 8.5 of this title.
   C.   Land Use Application: In addition to the approval procedure contained
in subsection B of this section, the Board may approve a proposed alternative
method of compliance as part of a land use application requiring Board
approval. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
ARTICLE 4.7. PARKING
SECTION:
8.4.701: Applicability
8.4.702: General Requirements
8.4.703: Parking Lot Design Standards
8.4.704: Loading Area Requirements
8.4.705: Alternative Methods Of Compliance
8.4.701: APPLICABILITY:
The provisions of this article shall apply to all development in the
Commercial, Light Industrial and Industrial Zones, unless expressly modified
via approval of an alternative method of compliance pursuant to section
8.4.705 of this article. The provisions of this article, or any applicable
portion thereof, may also be included as conditions of approval of any
administrative permit, conditional use permit or special notice permit. (Ord.
493, 6-9-2016)
8.4.702: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Parking And Circulation Plan Required: Off street parking and loading
facilities shall be shown on a site plan for review. The plan submitted shall
show a detailed functional parking arrangement and on site circulation and
shall be prepared at a scale of not less than one inch per one hundred feet (1"
= 100').
   B.   Parking Area Limitations: A required parking area shall be used
exclusively for parking of vehicles in operating condition and shall be used in
conjunction with a permitted land use. No inoperable or unlicensed vehicle
shall be parked or stored within a space which is necessary for compliance with
the minimum number of spaces required under the provisions of this article.
Following approval, off street parking facilities shall not be reduced or
encroached upon in any manner unless provisions of this article have been met
and approval for the change has been received.
   C.   Changes In Parking Facility: Whenever a use or building is enlarged in
floor area, number of employees, number of dwelling units, seating capacity,
intensity of use, or any other change that creates an increase in the need for
additional parking spaces, a site plan shall be prepared and submitted to the
Director for approval.
   D.   Access: All parking facilities shall be provided with safe and
convenient access to a public or private road. Ingress and egress to roads
shall be provided only through approved driveways. Approaches onto a public
road shall comply with the requirements of the highway agency with
jurisdiction. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.4.703: PARKING LOT DESIGN STANDARDS:
   A.   Number Of Parking Spaces Required: The minimum number of off- street
parking spaces required for each type of use, or similar use, shall be in
accordance with the following list. Gross floor space shall be used where the
number of spaces is based on a square footage type requirement. In determining
the number of parking spaces required, fractions shall be rounded to the
nearest whole number. If a specific use is not listed, the Director or Board
may include parking and circulation requirements as conditions of approval of
an administrative permit, a conditional use permit, or a special notice permit
for that use.
1. Manufactured home parks                2 per dwelling unit
2. Community uses:                         
   Auditoriums, stadiums, places of
  worship, places of assembly, or         
   theaters:
   Fixed seating                        1 per 4 seats
   No fixed seating                     1 per 150 square feet
  Child care centers, preschools, and    1 per 350 square feet
   Head Start facilities
  Hospitals                              1 per each bed
  Libraries                              1 per 250 square feet
  Nursing homes                          1 per 5 beds
  Parks or athletic fields               30 spaces, and 50 per each playing
                                          field
   Public safety facilities, public
  service facilities, and public utility 1 for every 2 employees on the
   complex facilities with regular on-    largest shift
   site employees
   Schools or higher educational          1 per classroom, 1 per office, and 1
  facilities                             per each 4 seats in the largest
                                          gathering room
3. Commercial:                             
  Furniture or motor vehicle showrooms   1 per 800 square feet
  Hotels or motels                       1 per rental unit, and 1 per each
                                          regular employee of the largest shift
  Indoor recreation, such as bowling     1 per 100 square feet
   alleys or skating rinks
  Medical or dental clinics              1 per 250 square feet
  Offices                                3 per 1,000 square feet
                                          1 per every cabin; or
                                          1 per every equestrian stall; or
   Outdoor recreation activities          1 per every 100 square feet of floor
   (depending upon the activity)          space in the primary lodge or club;
                                          or
                                          1 per every 4 tickets sold
  Research parks                         1 per 600 square feet
  Restaurants, nightclubs or bars        1 per 250 square feet
  Retail sales or personal services      1 per 250 square feet
  Utility complexes, utility services    None
   and wireless communication facilities
4. Industrial:                             
  Manufacturing                          1 for every 2 employees on the
                                          largest shift
  Mining                                 1 for every 2 employees on the
                                          largest shift
  Warehouse or wholesale facility        1 per 800 square feet
   Utilities: For utility installations (including utility complexes and public
5. utility complex facilities) without regular on-site employees, a circulation
   plan shall be included with an application for a permit, but no permanent
   parking facilities shall be required
   Commercial marinas: Commercial marinas, as defined by the Idaho Department
   of Lands in IDAPA 20.03.04, must provide a minimum of upland vehicle parking
6. equivalent to 1 parking space per 2 public watercraft or float home
   moorages. If private moorage is tied to specific parking spaces or
   designated parking areas, then 1 parking space per 1 private watercraft or
   float home moorage shall be provided
 
   B.   Location Of Parking Facilities: Required off-street parking shall be
either on the same parcel as the principal building or within three hundred
feet (300') of the building. The three hundred foot (300') requirement shall be
measured from the nearest point of the principal building to the nearest point
of the parking facility. Off-street parking facilities for separate uses may be
provided jointly when operating hours of users do not conflict and provided the
total number of spaces is not less than the required spaces for each individual
use.
   C.   Dimensions:
      1.   Parking Lot Space Dimensions: Eight feet (8') in width by eighteen
feet (18') in length. At the developer's option, twenty five percent (25%) of
the lot may be marked "compact only" with individual parking space dimensions
of seven and one-half feet (71/2') in width by fifteen feet (15') in length.
      2.   Aisle Width: Parking area aisle widths shall conform to the
following table, which varies the width requirement according to the angle of
parking:
 
Aisle Width     Parking Angle
                0° 30°45°60°90°
One-way traffic 13' 12' 15' 18' 24'
Two-way traffic 19' 20' 21' 23' 24'
 
      3.   Driveway Entrances And Exits: One-way traffic entrance and exit
driveways for all uses except residential: Fourteen feet (14'). Two-way traffic
entrance and exit driveways used for all uses except residential: Twenty six
feet (26').
   D.   Bicycle Parking: One bicycle parking space shall be provided for every
ten (10) required auto parking spaces. Bicycle parking shall not obstruct
vehicular or pedestrian circulation.
   E.   Parking For Persons With Disabilities: Where off-street parking is
required for non-residential uses, parking spaces for persons with disabilities
shall be provided on the ratio of one handicapped parking space per twenty five
(25) required automobile parking spaces, and shall meet the following
standards:
      1.   Parking spaces shall comply with the requirements of the applicable
adopted Building Codes and the Americans With Disabilities Act Accessibility
Guidelines (ADAAG), 36 CFR part 1191, appendices B and D.
      2.   Spaces shall be signed in accordance with section 49-213, Idaho
Code.
      3.   Spaces shall be located on the shortest possible accessible
circulation route to an accessible entrance to a building.
      4.   If there is any conflict or inconsistency between the standards set
forth or referenced in this subsection, the most stringent standard shall be
met.
   F.   Construction Requirements:
      1.   Required off-street parking areas and access driveways shall be
paved with asphalt, concrete, traffic rated concrete unit pavers, crushed
stone, gravel, or an equivalent surfacing material approved by the Director.
      2.   There shall be continuous curbing between parking areas and
buildings and along both sides of the approach(es) across the road right-of-
way. Curb cuts shall be allowed for driveways, access ways, walkways, and
stormwater conveyance.
      3.   Where four (4) or more parking spaces are required, each parking
space shall be designated by a three inch (3") painted line defining the side
of each space for its entire length.
      4.   When off-street parking lots abut residential property, the site
plan shall include a fifty percent (50%) sight obscuring fence not less than
six feet (6') in height and a fifty percent (50%) sight obscuring vegetative
screen along the entire boundary that is common to both the residential and
parking lot areas.
   G.   Circulation Requirements:
      1.   All on-site traffic patterns shall be designated and clearly marked.
      2.   Circulation within an off-street parking lot shall be such that a
vehicle shall not have to exit and re-enter the lot in order to reach another
parking aisle, and a vehicle shall not have to exit the parking lot by backing
into the street.
      3.   Turnarounds shall be a minimum of twenty four feet (24') in width.
   H.   Parking Lot Lighting: Lighting used to illuminate a parking lot shall
be shown on the site plan, and shall be downward directed and shielded to
prevent illumination at the property line greater than 0.2 foot-candle. (Ord.
514, 9-28-2017)
8.4.704: LOADING AREA REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   All required loading areas shall be off street and shall be located on
the same lot as the building to be served.
   B.   A loading area shall be served by vehicular access to a street or
alley.
   C.   All open loading areas shall be paved with asphalt or concrete.
   D.   One loading area shall be required for each ten thousand (10,000)
square feet of building area. The loading area shall be a minimum of twelve
feet (12') wide, thirty five feet (35') in length. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.4.705: ALTERNATIVE METHODS OF COMPLIANCE:
   A.   Requests: It is recognized that with certain site conditions, strict
compliance with the requirements of this article may be physically impossible,
impractical, or not meaningful (as, for example, where the development is to
occur in a remote location on the subject property, unmanned facilities, etc.).
In such cases, an approved alternative method of compliance may allow
modifications to the requirements of this article. Requests for use of
alternative parking and circulation standards may be approved only if it is
demonstrated that compliance with the requirements of this article would cause
an undue hardship or one or more of the following also apply:
      1.   The site has space limitations or the parcel is unusually shaped.
      2.   Physical site conditions are such that full compliance is impossible
or impractical.
      3.   The nature of the use is such that the applicable parking
requirements set forth in this article are greater than are actually needed in
conjunction with the use.
      4.   Legitimate safety considerations from other public agencies are
raised.
      5.   The parking and/or circulation called for by this article are not
necessary or effective for the proposed use, or are not necessary or effective
to mitigate the impacts of the proposed development on the surrounding property
owners or the general public.
      6.   The parking, circulation or other measures called for by this
article would be in violation of other applicable law.
   B.   Alternative Method Requirements: The proposed alternative method of
compliance shall:
      1.   Have the effect of equaling or exceeding the normally applicable
requirements of this article, or provide the number of parking spaces actually
needed to adequately serve the contemplated use; and
      2.   Comply with applicable requirements for parking and accessibility
for persons with disabilities.
   C.   Approval Procedure: The Director may approve a proposed alternative
method of compliance in accordance with the procedure set forth in this
subsection.
      1.   The application shall be on a form provided by the department, and,
in addition to the information required in the parking and circulation plan,
must include a written narrative explaining the proposed alternative method of
compliance, and the applicable fees.
      2.   The procedure for approval of a proposed alternative method of
compliance shall be as set forth in section
8.8.204 of this title.
      3.   Upon review of the information provided, the Director shall
determine if the minimum requirements have been met and either approve or deny
the application.
      4.   The decision of the Director to approve or deny a proposed
alternative method of compliance may be appealed to the Board in accordance
with chapter 8, article 8.5 of this title.
   D.   Land Use Application: In addition to the approval procedure contained
in subsection C of this section, the Board may approve a proposed alternative
method of compliance as part of a land use application requiring Board
approval. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
ARTICLE 4.8. SIGNS
SECTION:
8.4.801: Purpose, Findings And Objectives
8.4.802: General Requirements
8.4.803: Signs Permitted In All Zones
8.4.804: Signs And Displays Prohibited In All Zones
8.4.805: Signs Permitted In Specific Zones
8.4.806: Variances
8.4.807: Appeals
8.4.801: PURPOSE, FINDINGS AND OBJECTIVES:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this article is to set out regulations for the
erection and maintenance of signs while preserving the right of free speech and
expression.
   B.   Findings: Because signs contain messages which may be protected by the
first amendment to the United States constitution and article I, section 9 of
the Idaho constitution, the board makes the following findings:
      1.   The adoption and enforcement of this article advances important,
substantial, and compelling governmental interests.
      2.   The regulation of signs in Kootenai County is directed at the
impacts of the structures and not the contents of their messages. The
regulations set out in this article are "content neutral", as they are
unrelated to the suppression of constitutionally protected speech, do not
relate to the content of protected messages which may be displayed on signs,
and do not relate to the viewpoints of individual speakers.
      3.   Any incidental restriction on constitutionally protected speech is
no greater than is essential to the furtherance of the legitimate governmental
interests advanced by this article.
      4.   The ability to display signs of reasonable size and dimensions is
vital to the health and sustainability of many businesses, and the display of
signs with noncommercial messages is a traditional component of the freedom of
speech. On the other hand, the constitutional guarantee of free speech may be
affected by reasonable and constrained regulation that is unrelated to the
expression itself.
      5.   The county has an important and substantial interest in preventing
"sign clutter" (defined as the proliferation of signs of increasing size and
dimensions as a result of competition among property owners for the attention
of passing motorists), because sign clutter degrades the character of the
community, makes the community a less attractive place for commerce and private
investment, and dilutes or obscures messages displayed along the county's roads
by creating visual confusion and aesthetic blight.
      6.   Sign clutter can be prevented by reasonable regulations that balance
the legitimate needs of individual property owners to convey their commercial
and noncommercial messages against the comparable needs of adjacent and nearby
property owners and the interest of the community as a whole in providing for a
high quality community character.
      7.   The uncontrolled use of outdoor advertising signs and their
location, density, size, shape, motion, illumination and demand for attention
can significantly degrade community character, property rights and property
values, and therefore, reasonable restrictions on the display of commercial
messages are necessary and desirable.
      8.   Temporary signs are frequently damaged or destroyed by wind, rain,
and sun, and after such damage or destruction, degrade the aesthetics and
resource values in and along road rights of way if they are not removed. The
county has an important, substantial, and in some cases compelling, interest in
keeping road rights of way clear of obstructions and litter.
   C.   Objectives: The objective of this article is to provide a balanced and
fair legal framework for design, construction, and placement of signs that:
      1.   Promotes the safety of persons and property by ensuring that signs
do not create a hazard by:
         a.   Collapsing, catching fire, or otherwise decaying;
         b.   Confusing or distracting motorists; or
         c.   Impairing drivers' ability to see pedestrians, obstacles or other
vehicles, or to read traffic signs.
      2.   Promotes the efficient communication of messages, and ensures that
persons exposed to signs:
         a.   Are not overwhelmed by the number of signs or messages presented;
and
         b.   Are able to exercise freedom of choice to observe or ignore signs
or messages according to the observer's purpose.
      3.   Protects the public welfare and enhances the appearance and economic
value of the landscape by protecting scenic views and avoiding sign clutter,
which tends to compromise the character, quality, and vitality of the area in
which it occurs.
      4.   Ensures that signs are compatible with their surroundings, and
prevents the construction of signs that are a nuisance to occupants of adjacent
and contiguous property due to brightness, bulk, or height.
      5.   Assists in wayfinding. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.4.802: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Property Line Setbacks: Signs may be installed up to, but not over,
property lines. Signs may not be installed in easements.
   B.   Sign Area: The size of a sign face, in square feet, shall be measured
so as to include the entire area within a continuous perimeter enclosing the
extreme limits of the sign, including the background on which the lettering is
placed. Such perimeter shall not include any structural elements which lie
outside the limits of the sign and which do not form an integral part of the
display. When a sign is painted on a building, the size of the sign shall be
determined by the perimeter within which the lettering and/or artwork of the
sign is inscribed. See also illustration 4-801, "Sign Areas", of this section.
   ILLUSTRATION 4-801
   SIGN AREAS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f76d2e4e8722669ad139ef438e24f88560956436/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1481.jpg]
 
   C.   Sign Height: The height of a sign shall be measured from the finished
ground level adjacent to the sign, to the top of the sign, or to the highest
point of the sign structure or frame, whichever is greater. On slopes, the
height of the sign is measured at the midpoint of the sign.
   D.   Corner Visibility:
      1.   No sign or display shall be permitted at the intersection of a road,
alley or driveway, in a manner that obstructs the clear vision of any part of
the road. If a sign is placed at the intersection of two (2) roads, the sign
must not interfere with the fifty foot (50') corner visibility triangle
described in section
8.4.1403 of this chapter.
      2.   For signs located near a driveway entrance onto a road, a sight
triangle based on the speed of traffic is used. At a point fifteen feet (15')
back from the edge of the road surface or curb, no sign may block the line of
vision to a point equal to the speed limit times ten (10). For example, if the
speed limit is thirty five (35) miles per hour, the exiting driver must be able
to see the road and vehicles up to three hundred fifty feet (350') away. See
also illustration 4-802, "Corner Visibility", of this section.
   ILLUSTRATION 4-802
   CORNER VISIBILITY
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f76d2e4e8722669ad139ef438e24f88560956436/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1483.jpg]
 
   E.   Sign Maintenance: All sign supports, braces, guys, anchors and other
components shall be kept in good repair, and the faces of signs shall be neatly
painted or posted at all times.
   F.   International Building Code: Sign construction shall comply with the
currently adopted edition of the international building code. If a building
permit is not required, no other permit is necessary; however, the sign or
display must meet the requirements of this title. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.4.803: SIGNS PERMITTED IN ALL ZONES:
The following signs are permitted in all zoning districts:
   A.   Official notices required by a court or other governmental authority.
   B.   Directional, warning, location, information, or traffic signs, located
on public property and authorized by a governmental authority.
   C.   Signs that are oriented internally to a site and that are not directed
toward other properties or roads. Examples include sponsorship signs at
racetracks and sporting facilities.
   D.   Other signs authorized or required by law (for example, no trespassing
or handicap parking signs).
   E.   Signs that include only the name of a location, owner or occupant (for
example, signs depicting the name of a subdivision, ranch or property owner).
The name of a business or other information may not be included on this sign.
(Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.4.804: SIGNS AND DISPLAYS PROHIBITED IN ALL ZONES:
The following signs and displays are prohibited in all zoning districts:
   A.   Signs that create a hazard or dangerous distraction to vehicular
traffic; that may be confused with or interfere with authorized railroad or
traffic signs, signals or devices; that impair the vision of drivers or
pedestrians; or that otherwise interfere with traffic visibility.
   B.   Signs that are not structurally sound, that may pose a hazard to people
or property.
   C.   Roof signs.
   D.   Revolving signs or signs with moving parts.
   E.   Animated signs (both mechanically and electronically animated).
   F.   Signs with audible devices.
   G.   Flashing signs, lights or displays.
   H.   Signs advertising activities that are illegal.
   I.   Signs that are obscene or indecent.
   J.   Signs not specifically permitted by this title.
   K.   Off premises signs.
      1.   With the following exception of temporary event signs, off premises
signs are not permitted in any zoning district.
      2.   Off premises, temporary event signs or banners are permitted in all
zones for up to fourteen (14) days during a calendar year, in connection with a
single event which is not repeated during the calendar year, with the
permission of the property owner.
      3.   Off premises signs near state, U.S. and interstate highways shall
also comply with the applicable requirements of title 40, chapter 19, Idaho
Code. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.4.805: SIGNS PERMITTED IN SPECIFIC ZONES:
   A.   In the commercial, light industrial, and industrial zones, each legally
created parcel of land may have the following on premises signs and displays:
      1.   One pole sign, projecting sign, or banner sign, with the size and
height of the sign not to exceed the dimensions shown in table 4-803 of this
section. This sign may be illuminated in conformance with the requirements of
this section, and may include an electronic message center, providing the sign
and message center together do not exceed the dimensions shown in table 4-803
of this section.
      TABLE 4-803
      MAXIMUM SIGN SIZE AND HEIGHT IN THE
      COMMERCIAL, LIGHT INDUSTRIAL, AND INDUSTRIAL ZONES
Speed Limit Number Of Traffic Lanes Maximum Area Of Sign Maximum Sign Height2
                                    Face1
Speed Limit      Number Of Traffic Maximum Area Of Sign Maximum Sign Height2
                 Lanes             Face1
25 mph or lower     2 - 3       25 sq. ft.           12 feet
                    4 or more   32 sq. ft.
30 - 35 mph         2 - 3       32 sq. ft.           20 feet
                    4 or more   42 sq. ft.
40 - 50 mph         2 - 3       75 sq. ft.           35 feet
                    4 or more   90 sq. ft.
55 mph or higher    2 - 3       150 sq. ft.          40 feet
                    4 or more   200 sq. ft.
 
   Notes:
      1.    Area is determined by the dimensions of 1 side of a 2 faced sign
(e.g., a 25 square foot sign may have 25 square feet of sign face on 1 side,
and 25 square feet of sign face on the opposite side).
      2.    Sign height is measured to the top of the sign, or the top of the
sign structure, whichever is greater. The maximum height for monument signs is
6 feet.
      2.   One monument sign for each side of the parcel adjoining a public or
private road, with the size of the sign not to exceed the dimensions shown in
table 4-803 of this section, and the height of the sign not to exceed six feet
(6'). Monument signs may be illuminated in conformance with the requirements of
this section, and may include an electronic message center, providing the sign
and message center together do not exceed the dimensions shown in table 4-803
of this section.
      3.   Wall, awning, canopy or window signs, providing the signs do not
cover more than thirty percent (30%) of the wall to which they are attached or
inscribed. Wall, awning and canopy signs may be illuminated in conformance with
the requirements of this section and may include an electronic message center.
As an alternative, the size of these signs may be increased to fifty percent
(50%) of the wall if a pole sign is not constructed on the parcel, and the
signs are not internally lit (though indirect lighting is permitted).
      4.   One searchlight as part of an advertising display.
      5.   The following on premises, unlighted, temporary signs and displays
providing they are in place for no more than twenty eight (28) days during one
calendar year:
         a.   Banner signs.
         b.   Pennants or similar displays, individually or strung together.
         c.   Floating or blowup signs providing their height from the ground
to the top of the sign does not exceed fifty feet (50').
         d.   Other portable or temporary signs, not to exceed thirty two (32)
square feet in size and a height of twelve feet (12').
      6.   Real property for sale or under construction. On premises, unlighted
signs may be installed as necessary to advertise the sale of, or construction
on real property. These signs shall not exceed thirty two (32) square feet in
size, and a height of twelve feet (12').
      7.   Illuminated signs. If allowed, illuminated signs in the commercial,
industrial and light industrial zones must meet the following requirements:
         a.   Indirect, external lighting (e.g., lights shining on a sign): The
lights themselves must be concealed from view and directed or shielded so the
light shines only on the sign, with minimal projection beyond the sign.
         b.   Internal lighting: The sign must have a dark background with
lighter lettering.
   B.   In the agricultural, rural, agricultural suburban, restricted
residential, mining, and high density residential zones, each legally created
parcel of land may have the following on premises signs:
      1.   One pole or monument sign, with the size and height of the sign not
to exceed the dimensions shown in table 4-804 of this section. These signs may
be indirectly illuminated (e.g., by lights shining on the sign), providing the
lights are concealed from view and are directed and shielded so the light
shines only on the sign, with minimal projection beyond the sign.
      TABLE 4-804
      MAXIMUM SIGN SIZE AND HEIGHT IN THE AGRICULTURAL,
      RURAL, AGRICULTURAL SUBURBAN, RESTRICTED RESIDENTIAL,
      HIGH DENSITY RESIDENTIAL, AND MINING ZONES
 
Speed Limit      Type Of Sign Maximum Area Of Sign Face1 Maximum Sign Height2
45 mph or lower  Monument     16 sq. ft.                 6 feet
                 Pole         10 sq. ft.
50 mph or higher Monument     32 sq. ft.                 6 feet
50 - 55 mph      Pole         16 sq. ft.                 8 feet
60 mph or higher Pole         32 sq. ft.                 12 feet
 
   Notes:
      1.    Area is determined by the dimensions of 1 side of a 2 faced sign
(e.g., a 25 square foot sign may have 25 square feet of sign face on 1 side,
and 25 square feet of sign face on the opposite side).
      2.    Sign height is measured to the top of the sign, or the top of the
sign structure, whichever is greater.
      2.   One wall, awning, canopy, projecting or window sign providing it
does not exceed eight (8) square feet in size. This sign may not be
illuminated.
      3.   Unlighted, on premises, portable or temporary signs providing they
are displayed for no more than twenty eight (28) days during one calendar year.
These signs may not exceed twelve (12) square feet in size and a height of
eight feet (8').
      4.   Real property for sale or under construction. On premises, unlighted
signs may be installed as necessary to advertise the sale of, or construction
on real property. These signs shall not exceed twelve (12) square feet in size,
and a height of eight feet (8').
   C.   Schools, places of worship and places of assembly may have on-premises
signs as allowed in, and which comply with the applicable provisions of,
subsection (A) of this section regardless of the zone in which they are
located.
   D.   With the exception of schools, places of worship and places of
assembly, the following are prohibited in the agricultural, rural, agricultural
suburban, restricted residential, mining, and high density residential zones in
addition to the general prohibitions set forth in this section:
      1.   Internal lighting of signs.
      2.   Electronic message centers.
      3.   Banner signs.
      4.   Pennants and similar displays, individually or strung together.
      5.   Floating or blowup signs.
      6.   Searchlights. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016; amd. Ord. 546, 10-17-2019)
8.4.806: VARIANCES:
Variances from the standards set forth in this article shall be heard and
decided in accordance with the provisions of section
8.8.203 of this title. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.4.807: APPEALS:
Appeals from any decision or interpretation of the director pertaining to the
standards set forth in this article may be appealed in accordance with the
procedure set forth in chapter 8, article 8.5 of this title. (Ord. 493, 6-9-
2016)
ARTICLE 4.9. CONDITIONAL ZONING DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS
SECTION:
8.4.901: Purpose
8.4.902: Initiation Of Agreements
8.4.903: Jurisdiction
8.4.904: Time Limits
8.4.905: Form Of Agreements
8.4.906: Approval Of Agreements
8.4.907: Recordation Of Agreements
8.4.908: Duty To Comply With Terms Of Agreement
8.4.909: Modification Of Agreements
8.4.910: Termination Of Agreements
8.4.911: Enforcement Of Agreements
8.4.912: Ratification Of Prior Actions
8.4.901: PURPOSE:
Conditional zoning development agreements are a discretionary tool that may be
used by the board as a condition of rezoning. Conditional zoning development
agreements allow a specific project with a specific use to be developed on one
or more parcels located in an area that is not currently zoned for the proposed
uses. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.4.902: INITIATION OF AGREEMENTS:
An agreement may be initiated with the consent of the applicant for the
rezoning of a particular parcel of land or collection of parcels of land
through the following methods:
   A.   On application by the applicant;
   B.   By recommendation of the director;
   C.   By recommendation of the planning commission or a hearing examiner; or
   D.   As required by the board. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.4.903: JURISDICTION:
In the event that a hearing body finds that a conditional zoning development
agreement should be entered into, the hearing body shall retain jurisdiction of
the matter, defer consideration of the rezone applied for and set a time limit
for submittal of a proposed agreement. The hearing body shall then proceed as
specified herein.
In the event of a determination by the board that an agreement should be
entered into, the board may remand the matter to the hearing body to set a time
limit for submittal of a proposed agreement. The hearing body shall then
proceed as specified in this article. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.4.904: TIME LIMITS:
In the event of findings by the hearing body, or by requirement of the board to
submit an agreement, all time limits required by the provisions of Idaho Code
or this title may be stayed, modified, or extended upon affirmative decision of
the hearing body or vote of the board. The hearing body or the board may
establish time limits for submittal of a proposed agreement. Failure by the
applicant to comply with such time limits may be deemed to constitute just
cause for termination of conditional zoning development agreement proceedings
and denial of the zone change application. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.4.905: FORM OF AGREEMENTS:
An agreement shall be in the form required by the director. No agreement shall
be accepted by the department which does not include the following:
   A.   The legal name, title and addresses of the applicant, property owner
and/or others with a direct vested interest in the conditional zoning
development agreement and rezone request.
   B.   A legal description of the property that is subject of the rezone
request. Such legal description must be acceptable to the county.
   C.   An affidavit by the owner of the parcel agreeing to submission of the
use and property for an agreement upon the adoption of an order by the board
approving the requested rezone of the subject parcel.
   D.   The current use of the property for which the conditional zoning
development agreement is sought.
   E.   The proposed specific use of the property for which the conditional
zoning development agreement is sought and an explanation of how the proposed
use is permitted or conditionally permitted in the zone for which application
has been made.
   F.   A project summary report, which shall include:
      1.   A narrative description of the proposed density, amenities,
improvements or other uses sought, including, but not limited to: height,
setbacks, size, and location of all proposed structures or activities on the
property.
      2.   The estimated time of start and completion of all proposed
development activities. This may be simplified by devising a time line that
splits development activities into phases.
      3.   Plans for use and reuse of property after proposed project
completion.
      4.   A narrative description of physical and environmental effects,
constraints, or limitations of the proposed development, including
infrastructure demands, and proposals for mitigation of identified physical and
environmental effects, constraints or limitations.
      5.   Economic benefits gained or lost from proposed development.
      6.   Conceptual site plans, with some representation of scale showing the
approximate location of any proposed structures, perimeter buffer treatment (as
required), road improvements, conceptual drainage strategy, and other proposed
usage information. Exhibits on general soil types, topography, slope,
vegetation, drainages, and other pertinent land characteristics may also be
required.
   G.   Signed letters of application, approval, or preapproval from any
applicable federal, state, or local agencies involved in the permitting process
for the specific use proposed. Letters shall include any written agreements
made with agencies to perform specific action. If letters of application,
approval, or preapproval are not provided, acknowledgment and consent to comply
with all applicable federal, state and local laws, rules, regulations, and
standards shall be substituted.
   H.   A statement by the owner of the property that failure to comply with
the commitments in the agreement shall be deemed consent to rezone the property
to the preexisting zone. Rezoning of the subject parcel will occur at the time
of termination of the agreement and shall comply with the notice and hearing
procedures set forth in section 67-6509, Idaho Code. The costs of such rezone
shall be paid by the applicant, owner and/or developer.
   I.   Signatures of all applicants, owners, developers, or lawfully
authorized agents, shall be notarized, and in the case of lawfully authorized
agents, properly executed powers of attorney in a form acceptable to the
county's legal counsel shall be presented to the director and shall be made
part of the agreement.
   J.   A clause that the commitment shall run with the land and be binding on
the heirs, assigns, and successors in interest of the owner and/or developer.
   K.   Any other matter mutually agreeable to the parties. This may include,
but is not limited to, performance bonding or other fiscal guarantees. (Ord.
493, 6-9-2016)
8.4.906: APPROVAL OF AGREEMENTS:
The board may require an agreement to be executed to allow a rezone in order to
ensure implementation of the project as represented by the applicant and to
promote the general health, safety, comfort, convenience, and welfare of the
citizens of Kootenai County. A conditional zoning development agreement shall
not allow a use of the property that is not a permitted use (whether of right
or with the appropriate permit) in the zone requested.
   A.   Conditional zoning development agreements may be recommended for
approval by the hearing body, and may be approved by the board, only after
public hearings complying with the notice and hearing procedures set forth in
section 67-6509, Idaho Code and chapter 8, article 8.4 of this title.
   B.   The hearing body may recommend, and the board may add, conditions,
terms, duties or obligations to the development agreement. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.4.907: RECORDATION OF AGREEMENTS:
Following approval of a conditional zoning development agreement and adoption
of a companion ordinance rezoning the subject property by the board, the
agreement shall be recorded in the office of the county recorder at the expense
of the property owner or applicant. The recorded agreement shall take effect
and be in force upon adoption of the approval order or publication of the
ordinance rezoning the subject property, whichever occurs later. The agreement,
and all conditions, terms, duties or obligations included therein, shall run
with the land and shall be considered to be continuing obligations of the
owner, all subsequent owners and any other person acquiring an interest in the
property. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.4.908: DUTY TO COMPLY WITH TERMS OF AGREEMENT:
Any owner, subsequent owner, and any other person acquiring an interest in
property that is restricted by an agreement adopted pursuant to this chapter,
shall comply with all terms, conditions, obligations and duties contained in
the agreement. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.4.909: MODIFICATION OF AGREEMENTS:
   A.   No substantial modification of an agreement may be made without
approval of the board unless the modification is required by changes in state
or federal laws, rules, or regulations. An agreement may be modified by the
board without a public hearing only upon an affirmative recommendation from the
hearing body that the proposed modification is not a substantial change to the
terms and conditions of the agreement, or that the modification is required by
changes in state or federal laws, rules, or regulations.
   B.   After recordation of a conditional zoning development agreement, any
party bound by the agreement may seek to modify the agreement. Requests for
modification of a conditional zoning development agreement shall comply with
the procedures set forth in this article, and may also follow any procedures
contained in the original agreement which are consistent with those set forth
in this article. The hearing body may recommend to the board, and the board may
approve, a substantial modification of a previously adopted agreement based
upon the following criteria:
      1.   A public hearing is held which complies with the notice and hearing
procedures set forth in section 67-6509, Idaho Code and chapter 8, article 8.4
of this title.
      2.   A finding that the circumstances surrounding the agreement currently
in effect have changed and that the proposed modification will:
         a.   Preserve the enjoyment of a substantial property right of the
owner;
         b.   Not be detrimental to the public welfare; and
         c.   Not be injurious to other property in the surrounding
neighborhood. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.4.910: TERMINATION OF AGREEMENTS:
   A.   A conditional zoning development agreement may be terminated by the
board without the consent of the breaching party for failure to comply with any
term, condition, obligation or duty contained in the agreement. Such
termination shall take place after a public hearing on the termination, at
which time testimony shall be taken to establish noncompliance with the
agreement. The public hearing shall comply with the notice and hearing
procedures set forth in section 67-6509, Idaho Code and chapter 8, article 8.4
of this title.
   B.   A conditional zoning development agreement may contain termination
procedures, including, without limitation, notification of the persons bound by
the agreement of the alleged violation and establishing a reasonable time to
remedy the violation prior to the initiation of termination proceedings.
   C.   Upon termination of the agreement, the property which was the subject
of the agreement shall revert to the zone applicable as of the date of
submittal of the rezone request which resulted in the adoption of the
agreement. If no such zone then exists, the zone then in effect which most
closely conforms to the characteristics and requirements of the prior existing
zone, as determined by the director, shall apply. At that time, all uses of the
property which are not permitted within the subsequently applied zone following
termination of the agreement shall immediately cease. The property owner may
apply for the appropriate permit for any use that is permitted within the
subsequently applied zone upon approval of such permit.
   D.   A conditional zoning development agreement shall stipulate that the
costs incurred to rezone the property upon termination of the agreement be paid
by the applicant, owner and/or developer of the property. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.4.911: ENFORCEMENT OF AGREEMENTS:
Conditional zoning development agreements may be enforced by the county through
any means deemed to be appropriate, including, but not limited to, specific
enforcement, injunctive relief, or damages for violation of any provision of
this article or of any agreement approved pursuant to the provisions of this
article. The foregoing enforcement options available to the county shall not be
deemed exclusive. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.4.912: RATIFICATION OF PRIOR ACTIONS:
All actions of the board, the Kootenai County planning and zoning commission,
hearing examiners, directors, and/or their designees, concerning any
conditional zoning development agreements approved on or after July 7, 1993,
are hereby ratified. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
ARTICLE 4.10. ROAD NAMING AND ADDRESSING
SECTION:
8.4.1001: Purpose
8.4.1002: Implementation And Responsibilities
8.4.1003: Address Grid
8.4.1004: Address Numbering Procedures
8.4.1005: Posting Of Address Numbers
8.4.1006: Road Designations
8.4.1007: Road Naming Standards
8.4.1008: New Roads Or Existing Unnamed Roads
8.4.1009: Official Designation Of Existing Road Names
8.4.1010: Renaming Roads
8.4.1011: Road Sign Standards
8.4.1012: Marine Addressing System
8.4.1013: Administrative Procedures
8.4.1014: Violations And Enforcement
8.4.1001: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article is to provide the residents of the county with a
uniform and standardized system of road naming and addressing to:
   A.   Minimize future road name and addressing conflicts;
   B.   Provide a database for county records and enhanced 911 service;
   C.   Expedite property identification by emergency services; and
   D.   Comply with addressing guidelines issued by the National Emergency
Number Association (NENA), the U.S. postal service (USPS), and emergency
communications providers. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.4.1002: IMPLEMENTATION AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
   A.   The department shall have the responsibility of implementing, enforcing
and maintaining the addressing and road naming standards set forth in this
article.
   B.   In the event that violations of this chapter are not corrected by the
date required herein, the county may perform the work and bill the property
owner for work completed.
   C.   Property owners shall be responsible for posting address numbers in
accordance with sections
8.4.1005 and 8.4.1012 of this article, and for erecting private road signs in
accordance with section
8.4.1011 of this article. Addresses and road names shall be posted within four
(4) months of issuance of the address or road name.
   D.   Each highway district will be responsible for erecting and maintaining
public road signs at district road intersections within their respective
boundaries. Each highway district will also supervise the erection of private
road signs.
   E.   Property owners shall be responsible for the designation of access
points on the public or private road and installation and maintenance of all
required road signs. The access points designated by the owner shall be
utilized to determine the address of the parcel. Access points shall be subject
to county review and approval to ensure that they are accessible to emergency
service providers.
   F.   All addresses shall comply with the addressing guidelines outlined in
section
8.4.1001 of this article. The order of precedence will be NENA, emergency
communications providers, and USPS.
   G.   The county geographic information systems (GIS) department will hold
and maintain all official addressing data. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.4.1003: ADDRESS GRID:
Kootenai County shall be divided into four (4) quadrants with the address
origination point located at the southwest corner of section 13, township 50
north, range 4 West Boise meridian, as follows:
   A.   To the north, from the origination point as defined above, to Kootenai
County's north boundary.
   B.   To the east, from the origination point as defined above, to Kootenai
County's east boundary.
   C.   To the south, from the origination point as defined above, along the
centerline of Coeur d'Alene Lake to Kootenai County's south boundary.
   D.   To the west, from the origination point as defined above, to the
centerline of the Spokane River, then westerly down the centerline of the
Spokane River to Kootenai County's west boundary. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.4.1004: ADDRESS NUMBERING PROCEDURES:
   A.   Addressing: Address numbering along Kootenai County's roads shall be
based on the quadrant grid as defined in section
8.4.1003 of this article. The county will coordinate with each city within the
county in order to ensure addressing compatibility.
      1.   Address numbers will run consecutively to the north, south, east and
west from the point of beginning.
      2.   From the point of beginning of the road or common driveway, one
thousand six hundred (1,600) address numbers will be designated per mile along
the road or common driveway. The point of beginning will be assigned a starting
number based on its position on the address grid.
         a.   All addresses along a road common to a city address protection
area shall be addressed on both sides of the road as if it were a city address,
excluding the city address protection area for Post Falls.
         b.   All area within the city address protection area for Post Falls,
bounded on the east by Huetter Road, on the north by Prairie Avenue, on the
west by State Highway 53 and the Idaho/Washington state line and on the south
by the Spokane River, shall be city designated addresses. All structures on
both sides of Huetter Road, Prairie Avenue and Highway 53 shall be county
designated addresses.
      3.   All addresses shall be defined with a direction (North, South, East
or West), which may be abbreviated using a directional letter (N, S, E, or W),
following the address number pursuant to the grid defined in section
8.4.1003 of this article. (Example: 6400 North Greensferry Road or 6400 N.
Greensferry Road.)
      4.   Even numbers shall appear on the south and east side of roads, and
odd numbers on the north and west sides.
   B.   Assignment Of Address Numbers:
      1.   If a non-residential building has a number of entrances each serving
a separate occupant, then the building shall be assigned an address, and each
individual unit shall be assigned a unit number.
      2.   A multiple family dwelling structure with one main entrance shall be
assigned one address number. Parcels with more than one (1) multiple family
dwelling structure may designate a named driveway providing access to all
structures, with each structure assigned its own address number. The owner of
the parcel shall be responsible for providing designated individual numbering
of each unit before an address number will be issued to any structure.
      3.   Roads within a manufactured home park shall be named and signed, and
each manufactured home space assigned an address number, according to the
provisions of this article.
      4.   A diagonal or meandering road shall be assigned numbers depending
upon the quadrant and the address baseline that it most favors.
      5.   Circle and loop road direction designations shall be determined by
the road's predominate direction.
         a.   For circle roads, the numbering shall start at the intersection
point of the road closest to the county address origination point and shall
proceed in a clockwise direction using a consecutive numerical order with the
odd/even numbers based on the starting point of the circle road as if the road
were straight.
         b.   For loop roads, the beginning of the road is designated by the
closest intersection to the origination point and increased numerically to that
point that is farthest from the origination point.
      6.   Parcels with structure(s), or bare land parcels, which are accessed
by a driveway shall be assigned an address at the point where the driveway
intersects a named road or named common driveway.
      7.   For parcels that are accessed by multiple driveways, the owner shall
designate a primary access point that will be used for address assignment. Such
access points are subject to review and approval of the county to ensure that
they are accessible to emergency service providers. If this primary access
point is not designated by the property owner, the planning director shall make
the official determination to allow the proper addressing of the property.
      8.   Each public and private road shall be assigned a road name, and all
parcels which directly access the road shall be addressed in accordance with
the provisions of this article. Common driveways may be named at the request of
all property owners served by the common driveway. All named common driveways
shall be addressed in accordance with the provisions of this article.
      9.   Each parcel served by an unnamed common driveway shall be assigned
its own address based on the point at which the common driveway intersects a
public road, private road, or named common driveway.
      10.   Parcels with multiple structures will be addressed on a case by
case basis. If the Department assigns multiple addresses to a parcel pursuant
to this paragraph, the director may also require naming of the driveway
providing access to those structures. Decisions on such matters will depend on
the number of separate addresses assigned along the driveway.
      11.   In no case will addresses be issued to illegal structures or uses
not properly permitted under the provisions of this title. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016;
amd. Ord. 546, 10-17-2019)
8.4.1005: POSTING OF ADDRESS NUMBERS:
Physical address numbers shall be clearly readable from the roadway, and shall
contrast with background color in accordance with the fire code adopted by the
county or the fire protection district with jurisdiction, as applicable. If a
structure is more than seventy five feet (75') from the road, or is otherwise
not clearly visible from the road, its address shall be posted at the
intersection of its access road and public or private road. The address sign
shall be no less than four feet (4') nor more than six feet (6') above the
ground on a substantial, maintained support structure. The view of the address
from the road must be unobstructed and maintained. All primary letters, numbers
and symbols shall be a minimum of three and one-half inches (31/2") in height,
with a one-half inch (1/2") stroke, and shall contrast with the background
color. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.4.1006: ROAD DESIGNATIONS:
Designation of roads within the unincorporated areas of Kootenai County shall
be in accordance with the following guidelines:
   A.   All named roads that extend from incorporated areas into unincorporated
areas shall retain the same name except as may be specifically approved by the
director or the board.
   B.   Roads which have a definite north-south directional course shall be
designated as a street. Roads which have a definite east-west directional
course shall be designated an avenue.
   C.   Roads which do not have a definite directional course shall be
designated as a road, drive, trail, way or lane.
   D.   A dead end road or cul-de-sac less than one thousand feet (1,000') in
length, when not an extension of an existing road or a continuation of a
proposed road, shall be called a court.
   E.   A road that has its ingress and egress on the same road shall be
designated a loop.
   F.   A road that circles back upon itself shall be designated as a circle.
   G.   Special scenic routes or park drives may be designated parkways upon
review and approval by the director.
   H.   A road which has less than a one hundred twenty five foot (125')
centerline alignment offset from an existing road intersection shall continue
the same road name, provided that this would not conflict with the standards
contained in section
8.4.1004 of this article. A road, which has more than a one hundred twenty five
foot (125') centerline alignment offset from an existing road intersection,
shall adopt a new name.
   I.   Duplicate road names are prohibited. Existing duplicated names shall be
corrected in accordance with this article. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.4.1007: ROAD NAMING STANDARDS:
In selecting road names, consideration shall be given to the following:
   A.   The centerline alignment road name standards of subsection
8.4.1006H of this article shall be observed for noncontinuous roads, unless
there is no possibility for extension of the road to make it a continuous
through road.
   B.   There shall be no duplication of existing names. The county shall
assemble, update and maintain an official list of all road names throughout the
county for use by all jurisdictions.
   C.   Names of similar pronunciation and/or spelling shall be prohibited
(example: Briar Lane, Brier Lane).
   D.   Variations of the same name with a different road designation shall be
prohibited within the first word of the two (2) word title or in the road
extension (example: Pine Road, Pine Drive, White Pine Rd., White Lilly Ln.).
   E.   No road name shall consist of more than three (3) words or contain more
than sixteen (16) letters, excluding the road direction (N, S, E, W) and
extension (street, lane, court, etc.).
   F.   No road shall have more than one name.
   G.   No road name shall contain the words north, south, east or west or any
combination thereof within the road name. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.4.1008: NEW ROADS OR EXISTING UNNAMED ROADS:
Any new road to be established within the county, public or private, or any
existing unnamed road, public or private, shall require a road name approved by
the director.
   A.   In the case of plats, approved road names shall be specified on the
final plat map.
   B.   In the case of other new roads or naming of unnamed roads, the owner
of, or any person with a bona fide interest in, a parcel abutting the road may
file a request to officially name the road.
      1.   The request shall be made on a form provided by the department.
      2.   The procedure for approval of a request to name a road shall be as
set forth in section
8.8.204 of this title.
      3.   If the owners present a petition bearing the signatures of at least
fifty one percent (51%) of the property owners (excluding federal, state,
public utilities and municipal lands) whose properties abut the road, the road
shall be officially named. Property owners who own more than one property
abutting a road shall only have one vote. The director shall notify by first
class mail all property owners along the road. Tax assessment records shall be
used for owner address information.
      4.   If the petition bears the signatures of less than fifty one percent
(51%) of the owners whose property abuts the road, the name shall be temporary.
Property owners shall have thirty (30) days to respond. A property owner's
failure to respond during the thirty (30) day period shall be deemed as an
approval of the name by that property owner. The director shall only consider a
request to name a road if all road naming requirements of this article are met.
The director shall officially designate the road name having the greatest
percentage of approval in the event a fifty one percent (51%) approval is not
obtained.
   C.   In cases where the property owners have not petitioned, as outlined in
subsection B of this section, the department shall choose an unduplicated road
name. Notice shall be given to the property owners by first class mail. Tax
assessment records shall be used for owner address information. Property owners
shall have thirty (30) days to respond with their appeal if they dispute the
chosen name. If no adverse response from more than fifty one percent (51%) of
the ownership is received within the thirty (30) day period, the planning
director shall officially name the road. Roads named pursuant to section
8.4.1010 of this article shall be exempt from this requirement. (Ord. 493, 6-9-
2016)
8.4.1009: OFFICIAL DESIGNATION OF EXISTING ROAD NAMES:
The names of all roads named as a result of the county mapping and rural
addressing project for enhanced 911 contract dated October 14, 1997, shall be
designated as the official road names unless any such roads are subsequently
renamed in accordance with section
8.4.1010 of this article. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.4.1010: RENAMING ROADS:
   A.   Renaming Of Existing Duplicated Road Names: Where duplicate names
exist, roads shall be renamed by the director to eliminate the duplication.
      1.   The director shall decide which roads shall be renamed using the
following criteria:
         a.   When the road was originally named.
         b.   The number of improved properties served by the road.
         c.   Other relevant factors.
      2.   When a road name within the unincorporated area of the county is
duplicated by a road name within a city, the county shall work with the city to
decide which road shall be renamed. Roads shall be renamed in accordance with
the procedures outlined in subsection
8.4.1008C of this article.
   B.   Renaming Other Roads: In cases where property owners request to change
the name of a road which has an existing county approved name, the property
owners may petition the county in the same manner as outlined in subsection
8.4.1008B of this article. Property owner initiated requests under this section
shall require seventy five percent (75%) approval of property owners abutting
the road and the payment of an applicable fee. Road names shall not be changed
more frequently than once every five (5) years. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.4.1011: ROAD SIGN STANDARDS:
   A.   General: Road signs shall be placed in accordance with subsection B of
this section to be clearly visible at intersections. All primary letters,
numbers, and symbols shall be a minimum of four inches (4") in height, with a
one-half inch (1/2") stroke, and shall be reflectorized and contrasting with
the background color of the sign in accordance with the "Manual Of Uniform
Traffic Control Devices" (MUTCD). Specifically, public road signs shall be
green with white lettering. Private road signs shall be blue with white
letters. All public and private road signs shall be constructed and installed
to the standards of the highway district with jurisdiction. Private road signs
shall be erected under the supervision of the highway districts.
   B.   Installation Standards: Proper positioning of signs is essential to
obtain maximum safety, efficiency and observance. While the MUTCD establishes
minimum standards, positioning of signs must also comply with the following
additional standards:
      1.   Sign visibility requirements as noted in the MUTCD are set at a
height of five feet (5') minimum in rural areas and seven feet (7') in urban
areas above the road surface.
      2.   Road signs placed for public roads shall be set by the appropriate
highway district, and shall meet the MUTCD standards.
      3.   Road signs shall be installed on either a treated four inch by four
inch (4" x 4") post, eight feet (8') in length, with three and one-half feet
(3.5') buried in the ground, or a metal pipe of the same length and burial
depth. The road signs shall be bolted directly to the post, utilizing a bracket
that will allow the sign to be seen from two (2) sides.
      4.   Road signs may be mounted on the stop or yield signposts with an
approved bracket, and after receiving approval from the highway agency with
jurisdiction. Road signs shall be set a minimum of six feet (6') from the road
edge, and a maximum of thirty feet (30') from the road edge, depending on the
line of sight or topography. If a curb is present, the signpost shall be set a
minimum distance of two feet (2') from the curb edge. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.4.1012: MARINE ADDRESSING SYSTEM:
   A.   A shoreline distance based system may be used by emergency service
agencies to assign numerical points to facilitate emergency responses. These
marine response identification numbers shall not be used as addresses except
for those parcels that do not have any access other than by water.
   B.   Marine response identification numbers shall be based on a shoreline
distance measurement from a uniform starting point as follows:
      1.   For Coeur d'Alene Lake, the west shoreline numbers shall start at
that point where the west side of the U.S. Highway 95 Bridge intersects the
Spokane River. The east shoreline numbers shall start at that point where the
east side of the Highway 95 Bridge intersects the Spokane River. Odd and even
numbers may occur on the same side of the lake.
      2.   For Spirit Lake, the north and south shores shall be consecutively
numbered starting at the Spirit Lake Road Bridge over the outlet at the north
end of the lake and continuing to the mouth of Brickel Creek on the west end of
the lake. Odd and even numbers may occur on the same side of the lake. The
directional letter shall refer to the shore where the parcel is located.
      3.   For both Upper and Lower Twin Lakes, the north and south shores
shall be consecutively numbered, starting at the bridge between the two (2)
lakes. For Lower Twin Lake, Rathdrum Creek shall serve as the dividing point on
the east end. For Upper Twin Lake, Fish Creek shall serve as the dividing point
on the west end. Odd and even numbers may occur on the same side of the lake.
The directional letter shall refer to the shore where the parcel is located.
      4.   For other navigable lakes and water bodies within Kootenai County,
marine response identification numbers shall be established starting at a
readily identified point on the water body and numbered consecutively.
   C.   Where a marine response identification number is used as an address for
a parcel, the number shall be posted on a pier, dock or other waterfront
appurtenance, no less than four feet (4') nor more than six feet (6') above the
ground or high water line. The sign must be clearly readable to emergency
providers arriving by boat. In cases where the marine response identification
number is not used as an address (where road access is available and a road
address has been issued), the marine response identification number shall be
posted in accordance with the policies of those emergency service providers
with jurisdiction. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.4.1013: ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES:
   A.   Controversial Or Disputed Road Names: The director shall have the
discretion to refer any disputed road name, addressing issues or controversial
road name changes to the board for approval or resolution.
   B.   Appeals: Any decision of the director made pursuant to this article may
be appealed to the board in accordance with chapter 8, article 8.5 of this
title. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.4.1014: VIOLATIONS AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Violations: It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      1.   Erect or install a street name sign not in accordance with this
chapter;
      2.   Remove, alter, change or deface a street name sign or address
identification erected or installed as provided herein;
      3.   Place or post addresses not approved by this chapter; or
      4.   Fail to place an address visible from the road and/or waterway.
   B.   Enforcement: Enforcement of the provisions of this article shall be in
accordance with the provisions of chapter 8, article 8.6 of this title. (Ord.
493, 6-9-2016)
ARTICLE 4.11. LOTS AND PARCELS
SECTION:
8.4.1101: Eligibility For Permits
8.4.1102: Lot Types
8.4.1103: Measurements
8.4.1104: Size
8.4.1105: Frontage
8.4.1106: Setbacks
8.4.1107: Interpretation Of Deeds
8.4.1101: ELIGIBILITY FOR PERMITS:
   A.   In order to be eligible for issuance of permits, a parcel shall meet at
least one of the following criteria:
      1.   The parcel was created by a deed describing the property by metes
and bounds, or aliquot parts, which was recorded in the office of the Kootenai
County recorder on or before January 3, 1973; or
      2.   The parcel was created by a deed describing the property by metes
and bounds, or aliquot parts, which was recorded in the office of the Kootenai
County recorder after January 3, 1973, and on or before November 17, 1995, by
means other than the county's subdivision process in effect at the time of
creation, and has duly recorded legal access to a public road or from water; or
      3.   The parcel was created by a deed describing the property by metes
and bounds, or aliquot parts, which was recorded in the office of the Kootenai
County recorder after November 17, 1995, pursuant to an exemption to the
county's subdivision approval requirements in effect at the time of creation,
and has duly recorded legal access to a public road; or
      4.   The parcel is a railroad or road right of way which was lawfully
abandoned and subsequently conveyed by the former owner of the right of way.
      5.   The lot was created pursuant to subdivision approval in accordance
with the subdivision regulations in effect at the time of application; and
         a.   The subdivision plat was recorded in the office of the Kootenai
County recorder; and
         b.   Either:
            (1)   The lot has legal access from a public or private road, as
approved at the time of platting, and driveways meet the standards set forth in
article 4.2 of this chapter; or
            (2)   The lot has legal access from water only, if such access was
approved at the time of platting.
   B.   Lots are created as of the date of recordation of the plat creating the
lot. All lots contained within a plat which modifies one or more previously
created lots shall be deemed to be newly created lots as of the date of
recordation of the plat.
   C.   A parcel which is not a lot is created upon the occurrence of the
following:
      1.   Parcel Created On Or Before November 17, 1995: A parcel created by a
deed describing the property by metes and bounds, or aliquot parts, which was
executed on or before November 17, 1995, and subsequently recorded in the
office of the Kootenai County recorder shall be deemed to have been created as
of the date of execution of the deed.
      2.   Parcel Created After November 17, 1995: A parcel created by a deed
describing the property by metes and bounds, or aliquot parts, which was
executed after November 17, 1995, and subsequently recorded in the office of
the Kootenai County recorder shall be deemed to have been created as of the
date of recordation.
      3.   Unrecorded Deed: Parcels cannot be created via unrecorded deed or
via execution of a contract for the sale of the property, even if such contract
has been recorded.
      4.   Remainder Parcels: If a portion of a then existing parcel has been
conveyed via execution and recordation of a deed describing the property by
metes and bounds, or aliquot parts, the remaining portion of the parcel shall
be deemed to have been created as of the date of creation of the parcel formed
as a result of the conveyance.
   D.   Access to residential lots via driveways, common driveways, and private
roads shall comply with the requirements of article 4.2 of this chapter. (Ord.
493, 6-9-2016)
8.4.1102: LOT TYPES:
   A.   A corner lot is a parcel located at the corner of an intersection of
two (2) or more streets. A parcel abutting on a curved street or streets shall
be considered a corner lot if straight lines drawn from the foremost point of
the parcel meet at an interior angle of less than one hundred thirty five
degrees (135°).
   B.   A double frontage lot is a parcel other than a corner lot which abuts
two (2) or more streets.
   C.   An interior lot is a parcel other than a corner lot with only one
frontage on a street.
   D.   A reversed frontage lot is a parcel on which the frontage is at right
angles or approximately right angles (interior angles less than 135 degrees) to
the general pattern in the area. A reversed frontage lot may also be a corner
lot, a double frontage lot, an interior lot, or a through lot.
   E.   A through lot is a parcel in which a road runs through.
   F.   A waterfront lot is a parcel that adjoins or abuts the high water mark
of a lake, river, or stream. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.4.1103: MEASUREMENTS:
   A.   Depth of a parcel shall be considered to be the distance between the
midpoints of straight lines connecting the foremost points of the side boundary
lines in front and the rearmost points of the side boundary lines in the rear.
   B.   Width of a parcel shall be considered to be the distance between
straight lines connecting front and rear boundary lines at each side of the
parcel, measured across the rear of the required front yard; provided, however,
that width between side boundary lines in the foremost points (where they
intersect with the street line) shall not be less than eighty percent (80%) of
the required parcel width, except in the case of parcels on the turning circle
of cul-de-sacs, where the eighty percent (80%) requirement shall not apply.
(Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.4.1104: SIZE:
   A.   Compliance With Minimum Size Requirements: Except as otherwise
permitted in this title, yards and parcels shall meet at least the minimum
parcel size, yard coverage and setback requirements which apply to the zone in
which the parcel is located, and no existing yard, parcel size or setback area
shall be reduced in dimension or area below these minimum requirements.
   B.   Calculation Of Parcel Size:
      1.   The size of a parcel may be figured using gross acreage (including
1/2 of the adjacent right of way) if the gross acreage of the parcel is five
(5.00) acres or larger, and the net acreage (excluding right of way) is no more
than ten percent (10%) smaller than the minimum lot size which applies to the
underlying zone (for example, 4.50 net acres or larger for a parcel with a
gross acreage of 5.00 acres).
      2.   The size of a parcel which is smaller than 5.00 gross acres shall be
figured using net acreage. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.4.1105: FRONTAGE:
   A.   In General: Except as otherwise provided in this section, the front of
a parcel shall be the portion of the parcel closest to the nearest public or
private road.
   B.   Corner Lots: The front of a corner lot shall be the portion of the
parcel where the primary access to the parcel intersects with a road. The other
road abutting the parcel shall be considered a flanking street for purposes of
yard and setback requirements.
   C.   Double Frontage Lots: The front of a double frontage lot shall be the
portion of the parcel where the primary access to the parcel intersects with a
road. The other road abutting the parcel shall be considered the rear of the
parcel for purposes of yard and setback requirements.
   D.   Through Lots: The portions of the parcel abutting both sides of the
road shall be considered the front of the parcel for purposes of yard and
setback requirements.
   E.   Waterfront Lots: The shoreline shall be considered the rear of a
waterfront lot unless there is no road access to the parcel, in which case the
shoreline shall be considered the front of the parcel.
   F.   Effect Of Prior Interpretations: Notwithstanding the provisions of
subsections A through E of this section, prior interpretations and
determinations pertaining to frontage of an existing parcel shall remain
effective as to that parcel, and shall not cause the parcel to be regarded as
nonconforming. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.4.1106: SETBACKS:
   A.   Measurement Of Setbacks:
      1.   Setbacks from public roads which have a definite right-of-way
location and width set forth in a plat, deed, record of survey, or other
instrument recorded in the official records of Kootenai County shall be
measured from the edge of the right-of-way regardless of the presence or
absence of improvements within the right-of-way.
      2.   Setbacks from public roads which do not have a definite right- of-
way location or width set forth in a plat, deed, record of survey, or other
instrument recorded in the official records of Kootenai County shall be
measured from a line twenty five feet (25') from, and parallel to, the
centerline of the roadway.
      3.   Setbacks from private roads which have a definite right-of-way
location and width set forth in a plat, deed, record of survey, or other
instrument recorded in the official records of Kootenai County shall be
measured from the edge of the right-of-way if the roadway is actually located
entirely within such right-of-way.
      4.   Setbacks from private roads shall be measured from the edge of the
roadway when either:
         a.   There is not a definite right-of-way location or width set forth
in a plat, deed, record of survey, or other instrument recorded in the official
records of Kootenai County; or
         b.   The roadway is actually located entirely or partially outside of
the right-of-way set forth in a plat, deed, record of survey, or other
instrument recorded in the official records of Kootenai County.
   B.   Effect Of Prior Interpretations: Notwithstanding the provisions of
subsection A of this section, prior interpretations and determinations
pertaining to the setbacks that apply to an existing parcel shall remain
effective as to that parcel, and shall not cause the parcel to be regarded as
nonconforming.
   C.   Exceptions To Setback Requirements: The setback requirements set forth
in this title shall not apply to:
      1.   Fences which are less than eight feet (8') in height.
      2.   Poured concrete structures on grade, such as patios and sidewalks.
      3.   Platforms necessary for access from roadways to garages or for
parking purposes and which are not enclosed.
      4.   Stairways, walkways, and stairway landings which comply with the
following standards:
         a.   Stairways and walkways shall not exceed four feet (4') in width.
         b.   Stairway landings shall not exceed six feet (6') in width or
length.
         c.   The following setback requirements shall apply:
            (1)   Front and rear yard: None.
            (2)   Side yard: Five feet (5').
      5.   Eave projections which:
         a.   Do not exceed two feet (2'); or
         b.   Are for the purpose of covering a stairway or walkway permitted
pursuant to this subsection. The setback requirements contained in subsection
C4 of this section shall also apply to such eave projections.
      6.   Driveways and common driveways.
      7.   Unimproved private road rights-of-way.
      8.   Retaining walls.
      9.   Decks that are no higher than one foot (1') above grade.
      10.   Trams: The following setback requirements shall apply:
         a.   Front and rear yard: none.
         b.   Side yard: five feet (5').
      11.   Water intake lines, pump houses, power lines, and similar linear
infrastructure, provided that pump houses shall not exceed one hundred square
feet (100 sq. ft.) in area.
   D.   No portion of any structure shall encroach over an adjacent property
line except pursuant to an easement granted by the owner of the adjacent
property. (Ord. 517, 1-25-2018; amd. Ord. 614, 4-4-2025)
8.4.1107: INTERPRETATION OF DEEDS:
   A.   General Rule: Deeds shall be interpreted in a manner which best
effectuates the intent of the grantor.
   B.   Specific Rules Of Interpretation:
      1.   The intent of the grantor shall be determined by the deed language
alone if the language is clear and unambiguous.
      2.   If deed language is ambiguous, evidence extrinsic to the deed may be
considered, and well recognized rules of statutory interpretation may be
applied, to determine the intent of the grantor.
      3.   Ambiguity exists whenever language is subject to two (2) or more
reasonable interpretations.
   C.   Special Considerations:
      1.   Deeds shall not be interpreted solely on the basis of punctuation or
changes in punctuation between deeds conveying the same property.
      2.   Changes in the wording of legal descriptions between deeds conveying
the same property shall not be deemed controlling as to the number of parcels
created by any given deed, nor as to whether parcels were divided or
consolidated through the recordation of a given deed. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
ARTICLE 4.12. SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
SECTION:
8.4.1201: Findings And Intent
8.4.1202: Standards
8.4.1201: FINDINGS AND INTENT:
   A.   Findings: Based on evidence concerning the adverse impacts of sexually
oriented businesses on the community, the board hereby makes the following
findings:
      1.   Sexually oriented businesses are frequently used for unlawful and
unhealthful sexual activities, including prostitution and sexual liaisons of a
casual nature, and for other unlawful or unhealthy activities that are not well
controlled by the operators of the establishments;
      2.   The concern over sexually transmitted diseases, including HIV, is a
legitimate health concern of the county which demands reasonable regulation of
sexually oriented businesses in order to protect the health and well being of
the citizens;
      3.   Sexually oriented businesses have a deleterious effect on both
neighboring businesses and surrounding residential areas, generally causing an
increase in crime and a decrease in property values, contribute to blight, and
downgrade the quality of life in these areas, particularly when two (2) or more
such businesses are located in close proximity to one another;
      4.   Children are particularly susceptible to the harmful impact of
exposure to the effects of sexually oriented businesses, including those
encountered when they walk through or visit in the immediate area around such
businesses;
      5.   Sexually oriented businesses require special supervision from public
safety agencies and local government regulation in order to protect the health,
safety and welfare of the patrons of such businesses as well as the citizenry
at large;
      6.   Regulation of sexually oriented businesses furthers substantial
governmental interests and is necessary because, in the absence of such
regulation, significant criminal activity, including prostitution, narcotics
and liquor law violations, has historically and regularly occurred;
      7.   The board wishes to minimize and control adverse effects and thereby
protect the health, safety and welfare of the citizens, preserve the quality of
life, property values and character of surrounding neighborhoods, and deter the
spread of blight and protect the citizens from increased crime; and
      8.   It is not the intent of the regulations set forth in this article to
suppress any speech protected by the first amendment, but rather, to enact
content neutral regulations that address the particular adverse impacts of
sexually oriented businesses.
   B.   Intent: The intent of this article and other pertinent provisions of
this title is to set reasonable and uniform regulations to prevent the
deleterious location and siting of sexually oriented businesses. These
regulations impose restrictions no greater than necessary to further the
county's interest in preventing or mitigating the negative effects of sexually
oriented businesses. The provisions of this article and other pertinent
provisions of this title are to be construed as a regulation of time, place,
and manner of the location of these businesses, consistent with the United
States and Idaho constitutions. The provisions of this article have neither the
purpose nor the effect of imposing a limitation or restriction on the content
of any communicative materials, including sexually oriented materials.
Similarly, it is not the intent nor effect of this article to restrict or deny
access by adults to sexually oriented materials protected by the first
amendment. It is also not the intent of this article to condone or legitimize
the distribution of obscene material or material not protected by the first
amendment.
   C.   Relationship To State Law: The provisions of this article are not
intended to abrogate the standards or enforcement of the standards pertaining
to indecency and obscenity set forth in title 18, chapter 41, Idaho Code,
although such standards may in some circumstances be more restrictive than this
article. It is the intent of the board, however, that the standards contained
in this article are to survive any repeal, amendment, or adverse judicial
holding with respect to title 18, chapter 41, Idaho Code. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.4.1202: STANDARDS:
In recognition of the findings and intent set out in section
8.4.1201 of this article, sexually oriented businesses shall be subject to the
following standards:
   A.   Sexually oriented businesses shall be permitted of right in the
industrial zone only. Sexually oriented businesses are prohibited in all other
zones.
   B.   Sexually oriented businesses shall comply with the location
requirements set forth in section 67-6533, Idaho Code.
   C.   No sexually oriented business shall be located within one thousand feet
(1,000'), measured from property line to property line, of any of the
following:
      1.   Any public or private school, college, university, or trade or
vocational school;
      2.   A boundary of any residential district;
      3.   Any single-family, single-family attached, two-family, or multi-
family dwelling unit;
      4.   Any publicly or privately owned park that is available for use by
the general public;
      5.   Any childcare center, preschool, head start or similar facility;
      6.   Any place of worship or place of assembly;
      7.   Any business licensed to distribute, sell, or serve alcoholic
beverages; and
      8.   Another sexually oriented business.
   D.   It is unlawful to cause or permit the operation or maintenance of more
than one sexually oriented business in the same building, structure, lot,
parcel, or portion thereof regardless of whether such businesses would be owned
or operated by the same owner or lessee.
   E.   No sexually oriented business will be permitted to operate as an
accessory to an otherwise permitted use.
   F.   Sexually oriented businesses shall not be conducted in any manner that
permits the observation of any material depicting, describing, or relating to
specified anatomical areas and/or specified sexual activities by display,
decorations, signage, show window, or other opening from any public right of
way.
   G.   Signage for sexually oriented businesses shall not display any
pictures, photographs, silhouettes, drawing, or other pictorial representations
of a sexually oriented nature.
   H.   No alcoholic beverages shall be possessed, sold, distributed, served,
or consumed on any parcel on which a sexually oriented business is located.
(Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
ARTICLE 4.13. STANDARDS APPLICABLE IN PARTICULAR ZONES
SECTION:
8.4.1301: Off Street Parking In Residential Zones
8.4.1302: Commercial Zone Standards
8.4.1303: Mining Zone Standards
8.4.1304: Standards Common To Light Industrial And Industrial Zones
8.4.1305: Light Industrial Zone Standards
8.4.1306: Industrial Zone Standards
8.4.1301: OFF STREET PARKING IN RESIDENTIAL ZONES:
In the agricultural suburban, restricted residential, and high density
residential zones, off street parking for vehicles shall be required as
follows:
   A.   One off street parking space shall be required for a single- family
dwelling.
   B.   Two (2) off street parking spaces shall be required for a two- family
dwelling.
   C.   Two (2) off street parking spaces per dwelling unit shall be required
for multiple-family dwellings and manufactured home parks.
   D.   One additional off street parking space shall be required for an
accessory living unit or temporary hardship unit.
   E.   The requirements of this section may be increased or reduced as a
condition of an administrative approval, conditional use permit, or special
notice permit to the extent necessary to reasonably address the impacts of the
uses approved in the permit. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.4.1302: COMMERCIAL ZONE STANDARDS:
All uses in the commercial zone shall meet the following standards:
   A.   Parcels shall have direct access from a public road.
   B.   Uses shall comply with all applicable requirements of this chapter.
   C.   Anticipated traffic impacts shall be calculated using the most current
edition of the "Trip Generation Manual" published by the Institute Of
Transportation Engineers, to determine whether a special notice permit is
required pursuant to section
8.2.607 of this title.
   D.   Uses shall comply with the applicable requirements of the applicable
highway district and Idaho transportation department, or if the site is within
an area of city impact, the associated city's standards for access, approaches,
and street design, whichever is the higher standard.
   E.   If an existing community water system within one thousand feet (1,000')
of the site is willing and able to provide water service to the use, connection
to that system shall be required.
   F.   Uses shall comply with the applicable requirements of the Panhandle
health district for sanitary sewage disposal.
   G.   Uses shall comply with the applicable requirements of the Panhandle
health district's critical materials regulation, IDAPA 41.01.01.100.
   H.   Fire protection.
      1.   Uses on parcels located within the boundaries of a fire protection
district shall meet all applicable regulations of that district.
      2.   Uses on parcels which are not within the boundaries of any fire
protection district shall incorporate such fire protection measures as may be
recommended by the state fire marshal or by the fire protection district
contracted to provide fire code compliance inspections for the area in which
the parcel is located.
   I.   No use shall generate sound pressure levels greater than eighty (80)
dBA as measured at the property line.
   J.   Fifty percent (50%) of the area of all sites must be left in open
spaces free from structures.
   K.   Units in condominium/vacation rental facilities must be available for
rental at least one hundred eighty two (182) days per calendar year.
   L.   Outdoor storage of materials and machinery must comply with the setback
areas set forth in section
8.2.605 of this title, except that automobiles and other machinery normally
displayed for sales purposes on an open lot may be displayed within setback
areas. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.4.1303: MINING ZONE STANDARDS:
   A.   No use of land in the Mining Zone shall be conducted on a parcel of
land less than five (5) acres except for general farming and forestry.
   B.   Mining operations shall comply with the applicable provisions of Idaho
law and the administrative rules and permitting requirements of the Idaho
Department of Lands.
   C.   All mining operations shall be set back at least one thousand feet
(1,000') from any parcel within the Agricultural, Rural, Agricultural Suburban,
Restricted Residential, or High Density Residential Zone, except that a setback
of at least two hundred feet (200') may be allowed in conjunction with a
structural or vegetative buffer designed to provide adequate visual, noise and
dust screening of mining operations required as part of a conditional zoning
development agreement executed in accordance with the provisions of chapter 4,
article 4.9 of this title.
   D.   Excavations shall be at least fifty feet (50') from any property line
and seventy five feet (75') from any public highway right-of-way unless a
greater setback is required by the Idaho Department of Lands or by the highway
agency with jurisdiction.
   E.   Whenever use of a site has been terminated, the owner shall engage in
reclamation of the site in accordance with the reclamation plan approved by the
Idaho Department of Lands.
   F.   Topsoil removed during mining operations shall be retained and stored
so that it may be used for reclamation. Topsoil may be retained and stored off-
site until needed for reclamation operations.
   G.   Fencing shall be sufficient to exclude people and animals.
   H.   Road approaches to a site shall meet the requirements of the
appropriate agency with jurisdiction.
   I.   Outdoor storage of materials and machinery must comply with the setback
areas set forth in this section. (Ord. 517, 1-25-2018)
8.4.1304: STANDARDS COMMON TO LIGHT INDUSTRIAL AND INDUSTRIAL ZONES:
All commercial, manufacturing, and industrial uses in the Light Industrial and
Industrial Zones shall comply with the following performance standards:
   A.   Fire And Explosion Hazards: Uses shall be carried on in such a manner
and with such precautions against fire and explosion hazards as provided in the
applicable Building Codes adopted pursuant to title 7, chapter 1 of this Code.
   B.   Access: Parcels shall have direct access from a public road, or from a
frontage road or interior road with direct access from a public road.
   C.   Illumination: Unless otherwise required by law, direct and indirect
illumination shall not exceed 0.2 foot-candle at the edge of the parcel or
parcels on which the use is located.
   D.   Good Housekeeping: Sites shall be maintained in accordance with good
housekeeping principles and sound operating practices.
   E.   Compliance With Laws: Uses must comply with all applicable laws and
regulations promulgated by public agencies with jurisdiction.
   F.   Storage:
      1.   All raw materials, finished products, machinery, and equipment,
including company owned or operated trucks, shall be screened or stored within
a building, a fence, or vegetative barrier.
      2.   Outdoor storage must comply with the setback areas applicable in the
respective zone.
      3.   Storage of petroleum products shall not exceed five thousand (5,000)
gallons except as may be authorized via approval of a conditional use permit.
Storage of petroleum products shall conform to the requirements set forth in
subsection G of this section and those contained in the publication entitled
"Best Management Practices For Containing Critical Materials During Above
Ground Storage And Handling", published by Kootenai County.
   G.   Flammable Materials:
      1.   The manufacture, transportation, utilization, and storage of
flammable materials shall be conducted in accordance with accepted standards
for safety and fire prevention. Such standards shall include the international
fire code, and the applicable standards of the American Petroleum Institute,
the Manufacturing Chemists' Association, and other organizations that
promulgate standards of good practice.
      2.   The storage, utilization, or manufacture of flammable gases or
liquids having a flashpoint below one hundred ten degrees Fahrenheit (110°F)
shall not be permitted within two hundred feet (200') of the boundary line
separating a site from any area within Kootenai County except when stored
underground or in containers of five thousand (5,000) gallons or less above
ground. When flammable gases are stored in the gaseous phase, the above limit
in gallons shall be multiplied by thirty (30) to obtain the limit in cubic feet
at 14.7 pounds per square inch absolute and sixty degrees Fahrenheit (60°F).
      3.   Flammable liquids which may drain to a waste collection and
treatment system shall be trapped and contained at a point within the plant
boundaries. No flammable liquids shall be permitted in the central waste
collection and treatment system.
      4.   Storage of flammable materials shall comply with the requirements of
Panhandle health district or other agency with jurisdiction.
   H.   Noise:
      1.   Noise emissions from any site shall not cause sound pressure levels
greater than those listed in column 3 below, measured at any point beyond the
plant property line, either at ground level or at a habitable elevation,
whichever is more restrictive.
SOUND PRESSURE LEVEL
(Decibels, Re: 0.0002 Microbar)
Octave Band
Center Frequency    Column 1 Column 2 Column 3
(Cycles Per Second)
Octave Band
Center Frequency       Column 1 Column 2 Column 3
(Cycles Per Second)
31.5                   97       90       83
63                     87       77       68
125                    78       68       58
250                    73       63       52
500                    69       58       47
1,000                  65       55       44
2,000                  63       50       39
4,000                  60       48       37
8,000                  57       46       35
Impact noise (overall) 97       90       83
 
For the convenience of those who may wish to use sound level meters calibrated
in accordance with the American standard Z24.10-1953, the following table shall
be considered equivalent to the table listed above:
SOUND PRESSURE LEVEL
(Decibels, Re: 0.0002 Microbar)
Octave Band
Center Frequency    Column 1 Column 2 Column 3
(Cycles Per Second)
Octave Band
Center Frequency    Column 1 Column 2 Column 3
(Cycles Per Second)
   37.5 - 75     89       82       75
   75 - 150      81       71       62
   150 - 300     74       64       54
   300 - 600     69       59       48
   600 - 1,200   66       55       44
   1,200 - 2,400 63       53       42
   2,400 - 4,800 62       49       38
   4,800 - 9,600 59       47       36
 
      2.   Sound levels shall be measured with a sound level meter and an
associated octave band analyzer, both manufactured in accordance with standards
prescribed by the American Standards Association. Measurements shall be made
using the flat network of the sound level meter. Impact noises shall be
measured with an impact noise analyzer. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.4.1305: LIGHT INDUSTRIAL ZONE STANDARDS:
In addition to the standards set forth in section
8.4.1304 of this article, all commercial, manufacturing, and industrial uses in
the light industrial zone shall comply with the following performance
standards:
   A.   No obnoxious odors of any kind shall be emitted.
   B.   No waste or dust created by business operations shall be exhausted into
the air.
   C.   No treated or untreated sewage or waste shall be discharged into any
reservoir or lake. Discharge and disposal of untreated sewage or industrial
waste shall comply with the standards approved by the appropriate agency with
jurisdiction.
   D.   No mining, extraction, filling, or soil stripping operations shall be
conducted.
   E.   Industrial fuel shall be limited to wood, oil, natural gas, gasoline,
diesel fuel, and electricity. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.4.1306: INDUSTRIAL ZONE STANDARDS:
In addition to the standards set forth in section
8.4.1304 of this article, all uses in the industrial zone shall comply with the
following performance standards:
   A.   Open Space: Twenty percent (20%) of the area of the site must be left
in open space free from structures.
   B.   Emissions: Emissions of dustfall, smoke, and suspended matter shall
meet the requirements of the state of Idaho air pollution control commission.
   C.   Odors: The release of odorous material from any plant shall be
controlled so as not to become a nuisance or source of unreasonable discomfort
at any point beyond the plant property line.
   D.   Toxic Materials: The discharge of toxic materials shall meet the
requirements of the state of Idaho air pollution control commission.
   E.   Radioactive Materials: The manufacture, utilization, and storage of
radioactive materials shall comply with the regulations established by the
nuclear regulatory commission, the Idaho department of health, and other
authorities having jurisdiction.
   F.   Explosive Materials: The manufacture, transportation, storage, and use
of materials or products which decompose by detonation shall be conducted in
accordance with the National Fire Protection Association standard no. 495,
"Code For Manufacture, Transportation, Storage And Use Of Explosives And
Blasting Agents", and the rules and regulations governing explosives
promulgated by the state of Idaho and other authorities having jurisdiction.
Explosive materials not covered by these standards and regulations shall be
manufactured, stored, or utilized no closer than one hundred feet (100') from a
plant property line or two hundred feet (200') from the boundary line
separating it from a residential or commercial area.
   G.   Vibration: The amplitude, in inches, of earthborne vibrations caused by
the plant shall not exceed:
 
.0001K
F
 
Where:
F = The vibration frequency in cycles per second, and
K = 15 for measurements made within the industrial zone at any point on or
    beyond the plant property line, or
K = 3 for measurements made in any residential area outside an industrial zone.
Impact vibrations with less than one hundred (100) impulses per minute shall be
permitted amplitudes of twice those computed above.
   H.   Wastes And Surface Drainage:
      1.   Liquid Wastes: The volume, quality and point of discharge of
industrial and domestic liquid wastes shall not exceed standards approved by
Panhandle health district (IDAPA 41.01.01) or other agency with jurisdiction.
      2.   Surface Drainage: Storm drainage and surface runoff shall be
segregated from industrial and domestic waste. To avoid contaminating surface
drainage, all apparent sources of contamination, such as operating areas,
loading or unloading areas, product transfer pump areas, and equipment cleaning
and maintenance areas shall be curbed and drained to the waste system. Drainage
from tankage area impoundments may be combined with storm drainage and surface
runoff if approved by Panhandle health district.
      3.   Solid Waste: Off test and rejected products, byproducts, spent
catalysts, waste sludges, garbage, trash, scrap, rubble, refuse, and other such
waste materials shall be temporarily stored or permanently disposed of in such
a way as not to pollute the air or surface runoff nor cause odors or an
unsightly appearance. If disposal is by incineration, care shall be taken to
ensure compliance with other parts of these standards covering air pollution.
If disposal is by landfill, disposal procedures shall comply with the solid
waste management rules promulgated by the Idaho department of environmental
quality (IDAPA 58.01.06). (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
ARTICLE 4.14. SUPPLEMENTARY STANDARDS
SECTION:
8.4.1401: Applicability
8.4.1402: Outdoor Storage
8.4.1403: Visibility At Intersections
8.4.1404: Erection And Alteration Of Buildings
8.4.1405: Accessory Buildings
8.4.1406: Inclusion Of Open Space
8.4.1407: Erection Of More Than One Principal Structure On A Parcel
8.4.1408: Exceptions To Height Requirements
8.4.1409: Mobile Commercial Vehicles And Temporary Commercial Structures
8.4.1410: Dock Lots
8.4.1401: APPLICABILITY:
The supplementary standards set forth in this article are applicable in all
zones established by this title. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.4.1402: OUTDOOR STORAGE:
   A.   Prohibited: No property shall be used for outdoor storage of items
which are not customarily used or stored outdoors in connection with the normal
operation of one or more permitted uses in the underlying zone.
   B.   Items Customarily Stored Outdoors: Items customarily used or stored
outdoors include, without limitation, the following:
      1.   Clotheslines.
      2.   Agricultural equipment and materials.
      3.   Storage of firewood for the purpose of consumption, but only by the
persons residing on the premises.
      4.   Parking of licensed and operable motor vehicles on a designated
driveway or parking area. This shall not include racing cars or trucks of any
type that cannot be lawfully driven on a public highway.
      5.   No more than two (2) unlicensed or inoperable motor vehicles.
      6.   Items that are made of a material that is resistant to damage or
deterioration from exposure to the outside environment.
      7.   Items which may be stored outdoors as provided in article 4.6 or
4.13 of this chapter.
   C.   Indoor Storage: Except as provided in subsection B of this section or
in article 4.6 or 4.13 of this chapter, all materials, equipment and personal
property shall be stored within a building or be fully screened so as not to be
visible from adjacent properties or rights of way. For purposes of this
subsection, an item located on a porch of a building is considered to be stored
outdoors if the porch is not enclosed.
   D.   Construction Materials Storage: Property may be used for the storage of
materials used in the construction of structures on the property so long as
there is an active building permit for the structures or the structures are
exempt from building permit requirements.
   E.   Major Recreational Equipment And Utility Trailers:
      1.   Major recreational equipment and utility trailers which are licensed
and operable may be parked on designated driveways or parking areas.
      2.   Except as permitted in section
8.4.401, Kootenai County Code, major recreational equipment and utility
trailers brought by a visitor may be parked or occupied for a period not to
exceed thirty (30) days per calendar year while visiting the resident of the
property. This shall be in addition to any major recreational equipment
otherwise permitted to be parked or stored on the property pursuant to this
title.
      3.   Major recreational equipment and utility trailers shall not be
parked or stored on any public or private road for longer than twenty four (24)
hours. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016; amd. Ord. 546, 10-17-2019)
8.4.1403: VISIBILITY AT INTERSECTIONS:
On a corner lot, nothing shall be erected, placed, planted, or allowed to grow
in such a manner as to materially impede vision between a height of two feet
six inches (2'6") and ten feet (10') above the centerline grades of the
intersecting streets of such corner lots and a line joining points along said
street lines fifty feet (50') from the point of intersection. (Ord. 493, 6-9-
2016)
8.4.1404: ERECTION AND ALTERATION OF BUILDINGS:
No building or other structure shall hereafter be erected or altered in any
manner contrary to the provisions of this title or title 7, chapter 1 of this
code, including, without limitation, the following:
   A.   Exceeding applicable height regulations;
   B.   Accommodating or housing a greater number of families; provided,
however, that this provision shall not be interpreted in a manner that
discriminates against race, ethnicity, national origin, age, family status or
disability;
   C.   Occupying a greater percentage of lot area; or
   D.   Having narrower or smaller rear yards, front yards, side yards, or
other open space. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.4.1405: ACCESSORY BUILDINGS:
Accessory buildings shall not be erected in open space required under the
provisions of this title. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.4.1406: INCLUSION OF OPEN SPACE:
No part of a yard, or other open space, or off street parking or loading space
required in connection with any building for the purpose of complying with this
title shall be included as part of a yard, open space, or off street parking,
or loading space similarly required for any other building. (Ord. 493, 6-9-
2016)
8.4.1407: ERECTION OF MORE THAN ONE PRINCIPAL STRUCTURE ON A PARCEL:
   A.   In the commercial, light industrial, industrial, mining, and high
density residential zones, more than one structure housing a permitted primary
use may be erected on a single parcel, provided that the open space and other
requirements of this title shall be met for each structure as though it were on
an individual parcel.
   B.   In the agricultural, agricultural suburban, restricted residential and
rural zones, no more than one structure housing any single permitted primary
use may be erected on a single parcel, except as specifically permitted in the
individual zone.
   C.   When a properly permitted manufactured home is replaced with another
properly permitted manufactured home or residential structure, the manufactured
home may be temporarily stored on site for up to ninety (90) days if it
complies with the following requirements:
      1.   It is disconnected from all utilities; and
      2.   It is placed on wheels and axles, and the running gear, including
the tongue, are in place.
   D.   A manufactured home may not be converted to, or used as, a storage
unit. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.4.1408: EXCEPTIONS TO HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS:
Height limitations contained in this title, except those which apply within the
airport overlay zone as set forth in section
8.3.107 of this title, shall not apply to spires, belfries, cupolas, antennas,
water tanks, ventilators, chimneys, or other appurtenances usually required to
be placed above the roof level and not intended for human occupancy. (Ord. 493,
6-9-2016)
8.4.1409: MOBILE COMMERCIAL VEHICLES AND TEMPORARY COMMERCIAL STRUCTURES:
   A.   Mobile commercial vehicles and temporary commercial structures are uses
permitted of right in the commercial, mining, light industrial and industrial
zones, and may be permitted in conjunction with any commercial use permitted
via conditional use permit, special notice permit or administrative approval.
   B.   The design standards set forth in articles 4.6 and 4.7 of this chapter
shall not be applied upon the establishment of a use located within a mobile
commercial vehicle or temporary commercial structure if an existing commercial,
industrial or mining use has previously been established.
   C.   Mobile commercial vehicles and temporary commercial structures may be
located on public property or right of way only upon written consent of the
agency with jurisdiction.
   D.   Mobile commercial vehicles and temporary commercial structures selling
prepared food shall at all times have the appropriate valid permits from
Panhandle health district.
   E.   Mobile commercial vehicles may operate continuously as long as they are
capable of being driven or towed on public roads.
   F.   Temporary commercial structures may be used for no longer than thirty
(30) days in any given ninety (90) day period. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.4.1410: DOCK LOTS:
   A.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this title to the contrary, the
uses permitted on dock lots shall be limited to the following:
      1.   One (1) personal storage building of two thousand (2,000) square
feet or less in size shall be permitted of right regardless of parcel size.
Such buildings may include a toilet and sink, but shall not otherwise include
habitable space. Disposal of wastewater and sewage shall comply with the
applicable requirements of Panhandle Health District.
      2.   Decks, walkways, stairways, stairway landings and trams, as
permitted in section
8.4.1106 of this chapter and section
8.7.109 of this title.
   B.   Access to a dock lot may be from the water only, or may also be from a
road, driveway or common driveway.
   C.   Outdoor storage shall be consistent with the recreational use of the
parcel, or with ongoing construction of a structure on the parcel. (Ord. 546,
10-17-2019)
ARTICLE 4.15.  MARINE SERVICES
SECTION:
8.4.1501: Applicability
8.4.1502: Marine Service Business Performance Standards
8.4.1501: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   The standards for marine service businesses set forth in section
8.4.1502  of this article shall apply to all structures and operations landward
of the ordinary high water mark of the body of water adjacent to the parcel.
   B.   All structures and operations waterward of the ordinary high water mark
of the body of water adjacent to the parcel shall comply with the requirements
of the Idaho Department of Lands and other agencies with jurisdiction. (Ord.
614, 4-4-2025)
8.4.1502: MARINE SERVICE BUSINESS PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
   A.   Description: Marine service business operations include services
necessary to meet the needs of waterfront property owners, generally related to
dock construction and the shipping and transportation of goods and services,
such as shoreline stabilization and similar development. A marine service
business is permitted of right in the Commercial Zone under section
8.2.603 of this title.
   B.   Marine service businesses shall comply with the following standards:
      1.   All operations, whether conducted onsite or offsite, shall comply
with all applicable federal, state, and County regulations.
      2.   Storage of equipment, materials, and goods shall be located a
minimum of twenty-five feet (25'), measured by horizontal distance, from the
ordinary high water mark of the body of water adjacent to the parcel.
      3.   Development necessary for or related to loading and unloading marine
vessels, including, but not limited to; seawalls, retaining walls, bulkheads,
boat ramps, and other similar development is permissible.
      4.   Impervious areas shall be minimized to the greatest extent possible.
Furthermore, BMPs shall be utilized to mitigate stormwater and sediment and
erosion control.
      5.   Maritime sewage disposal shall follow federal and state regulations,
including those of the Clean Water Act (CWA), which is enforced by the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA).
      6.   Restroom facilities shall be provided for employees. For development
that includes one or more habitable structures, restroom facilities shall
comply with the then-current International Building Code, as amended.
Development that does not include a habitable structure, a portable toilet is
permissible.
      7.   Prior to storage of chemicals (liquid or granular) or petroleum
products on the premises, secondary containment and a spill prevention plan
shall be in place which has been reviewed and approved by Panhandle Health
District. Furthermore, storage of petroleum products shall not exceed five
hundred (500) gallons.
      8.   Onsite operations shall be conducted in a manner that results in
responsible waste management. Construction debris, including, but not limited
to: sawdust, Styrofoam, and other similar materials shall be properly contained
and disposed of.
      9.   Boat launch ramps shall be constructed of concrete to provide a safe
and stable surface to support the weight of heavy vehicles, emergency and
commercial marine equipment.
      10.   The Shoreline Management Area shall be preserved to the greatest
extent possible. Development shall be limited to an area of eighty (800 linear
feet or seventy percent (70%) of the parcel width, whichever is the lesser of
the two.
      11.   Storage of fertilizers and pesticides is prohibited. (Ord. 614, 4-
4-2025)
CHAPTER 5
PERFORMANCE STANDARDS FOR SPECIAL USES
ARTICLE 5.1. STANDARDS FOR USES REQUIRING A CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT
SECTION:
8.5.100: Zones Permitted
8.5.101: Aboveground Storage Of Over Five Thousand Gallons (Per Site) Of
Petroleum Products
8.5.102: Agricultural Products Sales Store
8.5.103: Airport Or Airstrip
8.5.104: Asphalt Or Concrete Batch Plant
8.5.105: Automobile Wrecking Yard Or Junkyard
8.5.106: Cement, Gypsum, Or Asphalt Plant, And Associated Storage And
Manufacturing
8.5.107: Childcare Center, Preschool, Or Head Start Facility
8.5.108: Commercial Fur Farm
8.5.109: Commercial Kennel
8.5.110: Commercial Resort
8.5.111: Commercial Riding Arenas, Boarding Stables, Or Equine Training
Facilities
8.5.112: Explosive Manufacturing And Storage
8.5.113: Feedlots
8.5.114: Golf Courses Or Driving Ranges
8.5.115: Gun Clubs, Rifle Ranges, Or Archery Ranges
8.5.116: Manufactured Home Parks
8.5.117: Ministorage Facilities Or Rental Warehouses
8.5.118: Nonprofit Trade Or Business Associations
8.5.119: Places Of Assembly Or Worship
8.5.120: Privately Owned Recreational Facilities Which Are Open To Public Use
8.5.121: Public Utility Complex Facilities
8.5.122: Racetracks
8.5.123: Residential Care Facilities
8.5.124: Resort Lodges, Retreat Centers, Or Guest Ranches
8.5.125: Restricted Surface Mining Operations
8.5.126: Sawmills, Shingle Or Planing Mills, Or Woodworking Plants
8.5.127: Schools
8.5.128: Slaughterhouses Or Rendering Plants
8.5.129: Special Event Locations
8.5.130: Veterinary Hospitals Or Clinics
8.5.131: Wholesale Greenhouses
8.5.132: Wireless Communication Facilities (WCF)
8.5.133: Zoos
8.5.134: Public Safety Facilities And Public Service Facilities
8.5.135: Transitional Group Housing Facilities
8.5.136: Solid Waste Transfer Stations That Are Not Public Utility Complex
Facilities
8.5.137: Re-Entry Facilities
8.5.100: ZONES PERMITTED:
The "zones permitted" set forth in each section of this chapter do not include
zones in which the use is permitted of right. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.5.101: ABOVEGROUND STORAGE OF OVER FIVE THOUSAND GALLONS (PER SITE) OF
PETROLEUM PRODUCTS:
   A.   Zones permitted: Light Industrial, Industrial.
   B.   Minimum area: Five (5) acres.
   C.   Setbacks for all petroleum storage facilities shall be in accordance
with current Fire and Safety Codes and shall not be less than fifty feet (50')
from any property line.
   D.   All such facilities shall be contained within a sight obscuring fence
not less than six feet (6') in height or sight obscuring evergreen trees or
compact hedge not less than six feet (6') in height. All landscaping will
require adequate sprinkling systems and proper maintenance.
   E.   All such uses shall be located and/or designed with full consideration
to their proximity to adjacent uses, their effect upon adjacent property, and
to the reduction of inherent dangerous factors.
   F.   All such facilities, including structures and storage tanks, within
three hundred feet (300') of the property line of any parcel located within any
residential zone shall have a maximum vertical height of forty feet (40').
   G.   All such facilities shall conform to the standards prescribed by the
National Fire Protection Association, the American Petroleum Institute,
Panhandle Health District, and other agencies with jurisdiction, whichever
regulations are most restrictive. All such facilities shall also conform to the
Kootenai County "Best Management Practices For Containing Critical Materials
During Above Ground Storage And Handling".
   H.   The board may require the posting of a performance bond to guarantee
performance of conditions of approval and to ensure that the use will not
constitute a nuisance or be detrimental to the health, safety, comfort or
welfare of persons in the vicinity of such use. If required, the bond will be
renewable every two (2) years upon confirmation of compliance with all
applicable provisions of this title and conditions of approval. (Ord. 493, 6-9-
2016)
8.5.102: AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS SALES STORE:
   A.   Zones permitted: Agricultural, rural.
   B.   Minimum area: Five (5) acres.
   C.   The processing and sale of agricultural products such as grains,
fertilizers, feeds, vegetables and fruits, and the sale of items such as hand
tools and gardening products, are permitted.
   D.   Processing activities shall not employ more than five (5) persons.
   E.   No commercial activity is permitted except as set forth in this section
or as otherwise permitted of right in the underlying zone.
   F.   All buildings must be six hundred feet (600') from any dwelling other
than the dwelling of the owner.
   G.   All storage areas shall have sight obscuring fencing. (Ord. 493, 6-9-
2016)
8.5.103: AIRPORT OR AIRSTRIP:
   A.   Zones permitted: Agricultural, rural.
   B.   Facilities shall be designed and located with full consideration given
to the proximity of residential zones and to safety considerations.
   C.   Facilities must be located at least two thousand feet (2,000') from any
adjoining residence not directly associated with the airstrip.
   D.   Facilities must meet all ITD and FAA aviation requirements. (Ord. 493,
6-9-2016)
8.5.104: ASPHALT OR CONCRETE BATCH PLANT:
   A.   Zones permitted: Rural (requires CUP), mining (requires SNP).
   B.   Minimum area: Five (5) acres.
   C.   The plant must be on property located within the mining zone or at a
site with a valid conditional use permit for a restricted surface mine.
Nonconforming sites must be brought into compliance with the provisions of this
title before a conditional use permit for an asphalt or concrete batch plant
may be issued.
   D.   The plant shall not be operated in a manner which constitutes a
nuisance or hazard to other property owners.
   E.   The plant must be located at least five hundred feet (500') from the
closest residence other than the residence of the owner.
   F.   The plant must be set back at least seventy five feet (75') from any
road right of way and fifty feet (50') from any other property line.
   G.   The Board may approve a conditional use permit for an asphalt or
concrete batch plant for a period not to exceed five (5) years. The Director
may approve the renewal of a previously approved permit for successive periods
of up to five (5) years each. Extension requests shall comply with the
procedure for administrative approvals set forth in section
8.8.204 of this title.
   H.   The board may require the posting of a performance bond to guarantee
performance of conditions of approval and to ensure that the use will not
constitute a nuisance or be detrimental to the health, safety, comfort or
welfare of persons in the vicinity of such use. If required, the bond will be
renewable every two (2) years upon confirmation of compliance with all
applicable provisions of this title and conditions of approval.
   I.   Conditions of approval may include, without limitation, duration of the
permit, restrictions on hours of operation, limitations on machinery or methods
of operations, and approval of access requirements by the highway agency with
jurisdiction. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016; amd. Ord. 546, 10-17-2019)
8.5.105: AUTOMOBILE WRECKING YARD OR JUNKYARD:
   A.   Zones permitted: Agricultural, rural, light industrial, industrial.
   B.   A one hundred percent (100%) sight obscuring fence or equivalent
vegetative screening must be constructed around the entire storage area a
minimum of six feet (6') high, to ensure obscured visibility from neighboring
properties and for the traveling public.
   C.   No materials, parts, automobiles, or junk shall be visible from any
public right of way.
   D.   The board may require the posting of a performance bond to guarantee
performance of conditions of approval and to ensure that the use will not
constitute a nuisance or be detrimental to the health, safety, comfort or
welfare of persons in the vicinity of such use. If required, the bond will be
renewable every two (2) years upon confirmation of compliance with all
applicable provisions of this title and conditions of approval. (Ord. 493, 6-9-
2016)
8.5.106: CEMENT, GYPSUM, OR ASPHALT PLANT, AND ASSOCIATED STORAGE AND
MANUFACTURING:
   A.   Zone permitted: Industrial.
   B.   Minimum area: Five (5) acres.
   C.   The board may require the posting of a performance bond to guarantee
performance of conditions of approval and to ensure that the use will not
constitute a nuisance or be detrimental to the health, safety, comfort or
welfare of persons in the vicinity of such use. If required, the bond will be
renewable every two (2) years upon confirmation of compliance with all
applicable provisions of this title and conditions of approval. (Ord. 493, 6-9-
2016)
8.5.107: CHILDCARE CENTER, PRESCHOOL, OR HEAD START FACILITY:
   A.   Zones permitted: Agricultural, rural, agricultural suburban, restricted
residential, high density residential.
   B.   No facility shall be located adjacent to any property located within
the light industrial or industrial zone.
   C.   No facility shall be located in a floodplain or floodway, or adjacent
to any hazardous land use.
   D.   A site plan shall be submitted which includes the location of existing
and proposed structures, fencing, playground area, and other existing or
proposed improvements. A parking and traffic circulation plan shall also be
submitted. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.5.108: COMMERCIAL FUR FARM:
   A.   Zones permitted: Agricultural, rural.
   B.   Minimum area: Twenty (20) acres.
   C.   All animals and runs will be housed in permanent buildings located not
less than one hundred feet (100') from any dwelling other than the dwelling of
the owner.
   D.   The operator of such a use will maintain adequate housekeeping
practices to prevent the creation of a nuisance. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.5.109: COMMERCIAL KENNEL:
   A.   Zones permitted: Agricultural, rural, agricultural suburban.
   B.   All commercial kennels shall adhere to the applicable provisions of
this title and to the applicable provisions of title 5, chapter 1 of this code.
   C.   All commercial kennels shall have passed all necessary inspections
performed by the animal control division of the Kootenai County sheriff's
office, and must possess a valid kennel license issued by the board.
   D.   Adequate fencing shall be provided to restrain animals from running at
large. At a minimum, the animals shall be enclosed within a six foot (6') fence
or wall. Electronic fences shall not be used as the sole method of restraining
animals.
   E.   Commercial kennels located in the rural or agricultural suburban zones
shall provide visual screening to buffer adjacent land uses if existing visual
screening is insufficient to accomplish that purpose.
   F.   A grooming facility is allowed as part of a commercial kennel facility,
but shall not occupy more than thirty five percent (35%) of the building floor
area, excluding the kennel area.
   G.   Five percent (5%) of the building floor area of a commercial kennel
facility, excluding the kennel area, may be used for related retail sales.
(Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.5.110: COMMERCIAL RESORT:
   A.   Zones Permitted: Agricultural, rural, agricultural suburban, restricted
residential.
   B.   Minimum Area: Ten (10) acres.
   C.   Recreational Activities: The primary purpose of a commercial resort
shall be to provide recreational activities for its customers. Such activities
may include indoor or outdoor facilities for swimming, boat launching, boat
sales and rentals, waterskiing, hiking, fishing, hunting, camping, picnicking,
snow skiing and snowboarding, snowmobiling, tennis, volleyball, soccer,
badminton, golf, horseback riding or other athletic activities. Recreational
and educational activities ordinarily associated with an agritourism or
ecotourism operation are also permitted.
   D.   Other Uses Which May Be Permitted:
      1.   The following uses may also be permitted, so long as they are
incidental and accessory to the commercial resort's recreational activities:
         a.   Convention or entertainment facilities.
         b.   Retail sales shops for items such as agricultural products,
groceries, camping and sporting equipment, souvenirs, and art and handicraft
items.
         c.   Restaurants and bars.
         d.   Retail fuel services.
         e.   Hotels, motels, cabins, condominiums, and similar accommodations.
         f.   Camping facilities, including tent camping sites, yurts, and
recreational vehicle parks.
         g.   Bath and laundry facilities.
         h.   Spa facilities.
         i.   Facilities for weddings, wedding receptions, and other associated
activities.
         j.   Other commercial uses as specifically authorized in the permit.
      2.   All commercial uses permitted within a commercial resort must be
scaled to the size of the parcel and must meet the required setbacks and
standards applicable to such uses in the underlying zone.
   E.   Prohibited Uses: Any uses other than those permitted in this section,
or those which are otherwise permitted of right in the underlying zone, are
prohibited.
   F.   Plans: A site plan shall be submitted which includes the location of
existing and proposed structures, fencing, activity areas, and other existing
or proposed improvements. A parking and traffic circulation plan shall also be
submitted.
   G.   Additional Conditions: The board may attach such reasonable conditions
as may be necessary for visual screening, control of dust, management of
parking and traffic, buffering of adjoining uses, or mitigation of effects on
water and air quality. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.5.111: COMMERCIAL RIDING ARENAS, BOARDING STABLES, OR EQUINE TRAINING
FACILITIES:
   A.   Zones permitted: Agricultural, rural, agricultural suburban.
   B.   The minimum property size for commercial riding arenas shall be five
(5) acres.
   C.   Riding arenas may be located indoors or outdoors. Indoor riding arenas
shall be enclosed within a structure that is at least twenty four feet (24') in
height, and that is at least two thousand (2,000) square feet.
   D.   Facilities shall be for private use, but may be rented to individuals
or groups. Individual or group lessons may be provided to the general public
for a fee.
   E.   Riding arenas shall provide spectator seating for at least fifty (50)
people.
   F.   Retail sales accessory to the use of the facility may be conducted on
site.
   G.   Facilities shall provide sufficient parking and turnaround areas for
horse trailers. Such areas shall be designed to preclude vehicles from backing
out into a roadway.
   H.   A site plan shall be submitted which includes the location of existing
and proposed structures, fencing, areas for riding, boarding, feeding,
training, and other associated activities, and other existing or proposed
improvements. A parking and traffic circulation plan shall also be submitted.
   I.   Boarding stables which are not associated with a commercial riding
arena or equine training facility shall not be required to obtain a conditional
use permit for such use and shall be subject only to the requirements of
subsection G of this section, and to a minimum lot area for the keeping of
livestock of three-fourths (3/4) acre. Such use shall be permitted as a home
occupation subject to the standards set forth in section
8.4.501 of this title unless a cottage industry permit is required under
section
8.4.504 of this title. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.5.112: EXPLOSIVE MANUFACTURING AND STORAGE:
   A.   Zones permitted: Rural, industrial.
   B.   Minimum area: Ten (10) acres.
   C.   The use shall comply with all applicable federal and state laws,
regulations, and permitting requirements.
   D.   The board may require the posting of a performance bond to guarantee
performance of conditions of approval and to ensure that the use will not
constitute a nuisance or be detrimental to the health, safety, comfort or
welfare of persons in the vicinity of such use. If required, the bond will be
renewable every two (2) years upon confirmation of compliance with all
applicable provisions of this title and conditions of approval. (Ord. 493, 6-9-
2016)
8.5.113: FEEDLOTS:
   A.   Zone permitted: Agricultural.
   B.   Minimum area: Fifteen (15) acres.
   C.   The entire perimeter of the parcel shall be fenced. All perimeter
fencing shall be at least five feet (5') in height and must effectively
restrain all livestock.
   D.   All feedlot operations shall be located at least one thousand feet
(1,000') from the property line of any parcel located within any residential
zone and five hundred feet (500') from any then existing dwelling other than
that of the owner.
   E.   All lots shall provide a minimum of two hundred (200) square feet of
lot area per animal. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.5.114: GOLF COURSES OR DRIVING RANGES:
   A.   Zones permitted: Agricultural, rural, agricultural suburban, restricted
residential, high density residential.
   B.   Minimum area: Fifteen (15) acres.
   C.   No commercial uses shall be permitted except as permitted in this
section or as may be permitted of right in the underlying zone.
   D.   The collection of greens or range fees, the sale or rental of golf
equipment and clothing, and associated food and beverage sales are permitted
commercial uses.
   E.   With the exception of signs, lighting shall be downward directed and
screened so that it produces no glare upon public rights of way or adjacent
properties.
   F.   A site plan shall be submitted which includes the location of existing
and proposed structures, fencing, areas for golfing and associated activities,
and other existing or proposed improvements. A parking and traffic circulation
plan shall also be submitted. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.5.115: GUN CLUBS, RIFLE RANGES, OR ARCHERY RANGES:
   A.   Zones permitted: Agricultural, rural, light industrial, industrial.
   B.   Minimum area: Ten (10) acres.
   C.   Target areas shall be six hundred feet (600') from any existing
dwelling and three hundred feet (300') from any property line.
   D.   All facilities shall be designed and located in accordance with safety
standards or guidelines promulgated by the National Rifle Association (NRA),
National Skeet Shooting Association (NSSA), National Field Archery Association
(NFAA), or other similar body.
   E.   A site plan shall be submitted which includes the location of existing
and proposed structures, fencing, areas for shooting or archery and associated
safety buffers, other associated activities, and other existing or proposed
improvements. A parking and traffic circulation plan shall also be submitted.
(Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.5.116: MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS:
   A.   Zone permitted: High density residential.
   B.   Minimum area: Not less than twelve thousand (12,000) square feet.
   C.   A site plan shall be submitted which includes the location of existing
and proposed structures, fencing, access points, park streets, manufactured
home sites, parks, common areas or playgrounds, other associated uses, and
other existing or proposed improvements, and incorporates the following:
      1.   A manufactured home park shall provide stalls or spaces for each
manufactured home unit of not less than two thousand five hundred (2,500)
square feet.
      2.   Laundry and convenience related services may be provided for the use
of the tenants of the park only.
      3.   A parking and traffic circulation plan shall also be submitted.
   D.   Manufactured home parks shall comply with the following standards:
      1.   Seventy percent (70%) of each manufactured home stall or site shall
be left in open space.
      2.   Each manufactured home shall be located at least twenty five feet
(25') from any park property line.
      3.   A manufactured home may not be located closer than twenty feet (20')
from any other manufactured home or permanent building within the manufactured
home park. A manufactured home accessory building shall not be closer than ten
feet (10') from a manufactured home or building on an adjacent lot.
      4.   Each manufactured home lot within a manufactured home park shall
have direct access to a park street. Each park street shall consist of a twenty
foot (20') wide unobstructed area, and shall be well marked to provide for
continuous traffic flow. The park street system shall have direct connection to
a public road.
      5.   Streets and walkways designed for the use of manufactured home park
residents and guests shall be lighted during the hours of darkness.
      6.   Each manufactured home site shall be provided with utility
connections, ground anchors, piers or pads, and stabilizing connections of
sufficient size to properly accommodate the manufactured home placed on the
site.
      7.   Water supplies for fire flow shall be as required by the fire
protection district with jurisdiction. Where there are no such requirements,
water supplies shall be adequate to permit the effective operation of minimum
fire hose stream flows and duration of flows, as required by NFPA standard no.
501A for manufactured home parks, on any fire in a manufactured home or
elsewhere in the manufactured home park. Hydrants shall be located within five
hundred feet (500') of all manufactured home sites unless otherwise specified
in the permit. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.5.117: MINISTORAGE FACILITIES OR RENTAL WAREHOUSES:
   A.   Zones permitted: Agricultural, rural, agricultural suburban.
   B.   Minimum area: Five (5) acres.
   C.   Individual units in ministorage facilities shall be no larger than
fourteen feet (14') in width or forty feet (40') in length, and total building
height shall not exceed twenty two feet (22').
   D.   Security fencing shall be placed around the entire storage area, and
shall be six feet (6') in height at a minimum.
   E.   No outdoor storage of any kind shall be permitted, with the exception
of major recreational equipment.
   F.   No commercial sales of any kind shall be permitted, with the exception
of rental or sales of storage units.
   G.   With the exception of signs, lighting shall be downward directed and
screened so that it produces no glare upon public rights of way or adjacent
properties. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.5.118: NONPROFIT TRADE OR BUSINESS ASSOCIATIONS:
   A.   Zones permitted: Agricultural, rural.
   B.   Buildings shall meet the following standards:
      1.   One primary building shall be allowed on a parcel.
      2.   Maximum building height shall not exceed thirty five feet (35').
      3.   Open space and lot area requirements of the underlying zone shall be
met.
   C.   A site plan shall be submitted which includes the location of existing
and proposed structures, landscaped areas, lighting for site and signs, and
other existing or proposed improvements. A parking and traffic circulation plan
which includes proposed on and off site parking areas shall also be submitted.
   D.   With the exception of signs, lighting shall be downward directed and
screened so that it produces no glare upon public rights of way or adjacent
properties. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.5.119: PLACES OF ASSEMBLY OR WORSHIP:
   A.   Zones Permitted: Agricultural, rural, agricultural suburban, restricted
residential.
   B.   Incidental Uses: Use of a place of assembly or worship for meetings,
recreational activities, educational activities, weddings, and wedding
receptions shall be regarded as being customarily incidental to the primary use
of the facility.
   C.   Building Standards: Buildings shall meet the following standards:
      1.   One primary building shall be allowed on a parcel.
      2.   Maximum building height shall not exceed thirty five feet (35').
      3.   Open space and lot area requirements of the underlying zone shall be
met.
   D.   Parking: At least one parking space per one hundred fifty (150) square
feet of floor area shall be required.
   E.   Plans: A site plan shall be submitted which includes the location of
existing and proposed structures, landscaped areas, lighting for site and
signs, and other existing or proposed improvements. A parking and traffic
circulation plan which includes proposed on and off site parking areas shall
also be submitted.
   F.   Lighting: With the exception of signs, lighting shall be downward
directed and screened so that it produces no glare upon public rights of way or
adjacent properties.
   G.   Additional Provisions For Conditional Use Review: The board may attach
such reasonable conditions as the record indicates may be necessary to visually
screen, control dust, manage traffic, buffer adjoining uses, reduce noise
impacts, prevent glare and undue lighting impacts on adjacent properties, or to
mitigate effects on water and air quality. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.5.120: PRIVATELY OWNED RECREATIONAL FACILITIES WHICH ARE OPEN TO PUBLIC USE:
   A.   Zones permitted: Agricultural, rural, agricultural suburban, restricted
residential.
   B.   Minimum area: Two (2) acres.
   C.   No commercial uses shall be permitted except as permitted in this
section or as may be permitted of right in the underlying zone.
   D.   The collection of membership or use fees, the sale or rental of
equipment and clothing associated with the activities to be conducted within
the facility, and associated food and beverage sales, are permitted commercial
uses.
   E.   A site plan shall be submitted which includes the location of existing
and proposed structures, fencing, types of recreational activities and
locations for each activity, other associated activities, and other existing or
proposed improvements. A parking and traffic circulation plan shall also be
submitted.
   F.   With the exception of signs, lighting shall be downward directed and
screened so that it produces no glare upon public rights of way or adjacent
properties.
   G.   The provisions of this section shall apply only to those recreational
facilities which are not otherwise enumerated in this article. (Ord. 493, 6-9-
2016)
8.5.121: PUBLIC UTILITY COMPLEX FACILITIES:
   A.   Zones permitted: CUP required in rural, agricultural suburban,
restricted residential and high density residential; SNP required in
agricultural, commercial, mining, light industrial and industrial.
   B.   Lot coverage by buildings shall not exceed thirty five percent (35%) of
the total lot area.
   C.   In determining whether a permit application should be approved, the
hearing body shall consider the following factors:
      1.   The public convenience and the necessity of the facility;
      2.   Any adverse effects that the facility may have upon properties in
the vicinity; and
      3.   Whether reasonable restrictions, conditions of development, or
protective improvements may be necessary to mitigate or eliminate any potential
adverse effects of the facility.
   D.   Specific conditions with respect to emissions of noise, particulate
matter, or vibrations, may deviate from the standards which would otherwise
apply in the underlying zone in order to ensure consistency with applicable
state and federal standards.
   E.   Public utility complex facilities in existence as of January 3, 1973,
shall not be subject to conditional use permitting requirements, and shall be
exempt from the standards set forth in this section. However, depending on the
underlying zoning, a conditional use permit may be required in conjunction with
the creation of a new facility or the expansion of an existing facility
involving a material increase in the facility's boundaries.
   F.   The provisions of this title pertaining to public utility complex
facilities shall be interpreted and applied in a manner consistent with
applicable federal and state law. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.5.122: RACETRACKS:
   A.   Zones permitted: Agricultural, rural.
   B.   Minimum area: Twenty (20) acres.
   C.   All new racetracks shall be designed in accordance with then current
industry standards applicable to racetracks of comparable configuration and
length for driver, crew and spectator safety, including, without limitation,
walls, barriers, catch fences, and recovery areas.
   D.   All uses shall be a minimum of one thousand feet (1,000') from any
parcel located in the agricultural suburban, restricted residential, or high
density residential zone, measured from property line to property line.
   E.   All uses and facilities will be designed and located with full
consideration to their proximity to adjacent uses, especially to the reduction
of nuisance factors, such as noise, smoke, fumes, and dust.
   F.   One parking space will be provided for each three (3) seating spaces.
The perimeter of the parking area shall be fenced with security fencing.
Parking areas for spectators need not be paved, except as may be necessary to
comply with parking requirements for persons with disabilities.
   G.   All racing surfaces, including pit areas, on racetracks located within
the light industrial zone shall be paved.
   H.   A site plan shall be submitted which includes the location of existing
and proposed structures, fencing, racing areas, pit areas, garage areas (if
any), spectator seating, ticket and concession areas, other associated
activities, and other existing or proposed improvements. A parking and traffic
circulation plan shall also be submitted. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.5.123: RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES:
   A.   Zones Permitted: Agricultural, rural, agricultural suburban, restricted
residential, high density residential.
   B.   Scope: The requirement to obtain a conditional use permit, and the
standards set forth in this section, shall apply only to residential care
facilities designed to house nine (9) or more residents.
   C.   Minimum Area: Three (3) acres.
   D.   Parking: A minimum of six (6) off street parking spaces shall be
provided.
   E.   Fencing: Adequate fencing shall be provided around the entire facility.
   F.   IDHW Compliance: Facilities shall comply with the applicable
requirements of the Idaho department of health and welfare (IDHW).
   G.   Site Plan: A site plan shall be submitted which includes the location
of existing and proposed structures, fencing, parking areas, other associated
activities, and other existing or proposed improvements. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.5.124: RESORT LODGES, RETREAT CENTERS, OR GUEST RANCHES:
   A.   Zones Permitted: Agricultural, agricultural suburban, rural, restricted
residential.
   B.   Roadway Access: This use must have direct access to a collector or
arterial roadway, as defined in the then current edition of the "Highway
Standards For The Associated Highway Districts Of Kootenai County, Idaho".
   C.   Minimum Area: Twenty (20) acres in the agricultural, agricultural
suburban, rural, and restricted residential zones (no minimum area required in
the commercial zone).
   D.   Parking Requirements: One and one-half (11/2) spaces per room or cabin.
Parking requirements for any use of a resort lodge, retreat center, or guest
ranch that is not covered under the parking lot design standards set forth in
chapter 4, article 4.7 of this title shall be determined through the
conditional use review process.
   E.   Loading Requirements: One loading space for ten thousand (10,000) or
more square feet of floor area.
   F.   Caretaker Residence: Accessory on site housing may be allowed for
caretakers or staff members.
   G.   Additional Provisions For Conditional Use Review: The board may attach
such reasonable conditions as the record indicates may be necessary to visually
screen, control dust, manage traffic, buffer adjoining uses, reduce noise
impacts, prevent glare and undue lighting impacts on adjacent properties, or to
mitigate effects on water and air quality.
   H.   Prohibited Uses: Any uses other than those permitted in this section,
or those which are otherwise permitted of right in the underlying zone, are
prohibited.
   I.   Required Findings: The board shall only approve a resort lodge, retreat
center or guest ranch upon a finding that the use meets all applicable
regulations, and the following standards:
      1.   The use will be in harmony with the character of the neighborhood
and compatible with the surrounding area;
      2.   The use will not result in undue traffic congestion or traffic
hazards;
      3.   The use will not otherwise be detrimental to the health, safety, or
welfare of the present or future inhabitants of Kootenai County; and
      4.   Except as may be approved through the conditional use review
process, the proposed use and all incidental uses shall be entirely contained
on the site of the proposed conditional use. The location, duration, and extent
of any proposed off site incidental uses, whether on public or private land or
water, must be expressly documented and approved by the board.
   J.   Existing Establishments:
      1.   Existing nonpermitted resort lodges, retreat centers or guest
ranches established prior to March 17, 2016, will be regarded as conforming
with respect to such uses as would be permitted as part of a resort lodge,
retreat center or guest ranch.
      2.   Uses set forth in this section which were permitted under a
previously approved conditional use permit may continue operating as authorized
in the permit, so long as they continue to meet all of the requirements for
that use as set forth in the permit.
      3.   Existing nonpermitted resort lodges, retreat centers or guest
ranches established prior to January 4, 1973, will be regarded as nonconforming
uses.
      4.   A new or modified conditional use permit shall be required for any
expansion or change of use, or any increase in the floor area of an existing
use; provided, however, that all uses which were permitted under a then
existing conditional use permit will continue to be allowed under a new or
modified conditional use permit. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.5.125: RESTRICTED SURFACE MINING OPERATIONS:
   A.   Zones permitted: Agricultural, rural, industrial.
   B.   A site plan(s) shall be submitted which shows the following, as
applicable:
      1.   Boundaries of the proposed site;
      2.   Location of proposed mining operations on the site;
      3.   All proposed and existing structures;
      4.   All watercourses, streams, ponds, or lakes on the proposed site or
within one thousand feet (1,000') of the boundaries of the site;
      5.   All proposed and existing roads proposed to provide access to the
proposed site;
      6.   A topographic vicinity map showing the proposed site and its
relationship to the surrounding area; and
      7.   Approximate locations of all existing residential uses within one
thousand feet (1,000') of the site's boundaries.
   C.   Surface mining operations shall comply with the requirements of all
applicable federal and state laws and regulations.
   D.   The Board may approve a conditional use permit for a surface mining
operation for a period not to exceed five (5) years. The Director may approve
the renewal of a previously approved permit for successive periods of up to
five (5) years each. The quantity of excavated materials may also be limited as
necessary to protect adjoining lands and natural resources. Extension requests
shall comply with the procedure for administrative approvals set forth in
section
8.8.204 of this title.
   E.   The approach for the access road to the mining site shall meet the
requirements of the highway agency with jurisdiction, and such additional
conditions as the board may specify.
   F.   A rehabilitation plan shall be submitted to the state of Idaho and to
the county. In addition to the requirements for rehabilitation plans set forth
by the state, the plan shall contain the following additional information:
      1.   A topographic map of the affected area:
         a.   Prior to excavation; and
         b.   After excavation is complete.
      2.   How placement of overburden will be managed for the entire duration
of the permit.
   G.   The board may attach such reasonable conditions as may be necessary for
visual screening, control of dust, management of traffic, buffering of
adjoining uses, or mitigation of effects on water and air quality.
   H.   The board may require the posting of a performance bond to guarantee
performance of conditions of approval and to ensure that the use will not
constitute a nuisance or be detrimental to the health, safety, comfort or
welfare of persons in the vicinity of such use. If required, the bond will be
renewable every two (2) years upon confirmation of compliance with all
applicable provisions of this title and conditions of approval.
   I.   Notwithstanding the approval of a permit application, no overburden
removal shall begin until:
      1.   All required state permits have been issued; and
      2.   All necessary documentation required for the conditional use permit
has been received and approved by the director.
   J.   Mining operations permitted of right in the mining zone shall not be
subject to conditional use permitting requirements, and the standards set forth
in this section shall not apply. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016; amd. Ord. 546, 10-17-
2019)
8.5.126: SAWMILLS, SHINGLE OR PLANING MILLS, OR WOODWORKING PLANTS:
   A.   Zones permitted: Agricultural, rural.
   B.   Minimum area: Ten (10) acres.
   C.   All sawmill, shingle mill, planing mill, or woodworking plant
operations shall be located at least one thousand feet (1,000') from the
property line of any other parcel located within any residential zone and five
hundred feet (500') from any then existing dwelling other than that of the
owner.
   D.   All facilities must meet the air quality standards of the agency with
jurisdiction applicable at the time of application.
   E.   All facilities must be located within a fire protection district, and
must meet the requirements of, and be approved by, the fire protection district
with jurisdiction.
   F.   All facilities will be designed and located on the site with full
consideration given to their proximity to adjacent uses, their effect upon
adjacent property, and to the reduction of noise, odor, dust and traffic. (Ord.
493, 6-9-2016)
8.5.127: SCHOOLS:
   A.   Zones permitted: Agricultural, rural, agricultural suburban, restricted
residential.
   B.   The provisions of this section shall apply to public and private
schools which house any grades between kindergarten and twelfth grade, and to
public and private postsecondary educational institutions. This section shall
not apply to childcare facilities, preschools, or head start facilities.
   C.   The applicant shall provide written documentation that the facility
meets the minimum site area for sewage disposal.
   D.   Access to the school shall be from a public road.
   E.   No elementary, middle, or junior high school shall be located adjacent
to any parcel within the light industrial or industrial zone. No high school or
postsecondary educational institution shall be located adjacent to any parcel
within the industrial zone.
   F.   No school shall be located in a special flood hazard area or adjacent
to a hazardous land use.
   G.   Setbacks for all structures shall be forty feet (40') from any public
road and thirty feet (30') from any other property line. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016;
amd. Ord. 546, 10-17-2019)
8.5.128: SLAUGHTERHOUSES OR RENDERING PLANTS:
   A.   Zones permitted: Agricultural, light industrial, industrial.
   B.   Minimum area: Five (5) acres.
   C.   All slaughterhouse and rendering plant operations shall be located at
least one thousand feet (1,000') from the property line of any other parcel
located within any residential zone and five hundred feet (500') from any then
existing dwelling other than that of the owner.
   D.   All such facilities shall be designed and located with full
consideration to their proximity to adjacent residential zones and uses and
especially to the reduction of such nuisance factors as odors, dust, and fumes.
   E.   Commercial sales of products manufactured or processed on the site may
be permitted with such reasonable conditions as the board may determine are
appropriate. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.5.129: SPECIAL EVENT LOCATIONS:
   A.   Zones Permitted: Agricultural, rural, commercial, mining, light
industrial, industrial.
   B.   Minimum Area: The size of the site must be adequate to accommodate the
event, attendees, and parking unless provisions have been made for off site
parking. Adequacy of the site shall be as reasonably determined by the board.
   C.   Site Plan And Event Description: The application shall include a
detailed site plan and event description which addresses security, access,
crowd management, traffic management, parking, waste control and disposal,
litter control plans, and includes any other relevant information requested by
the director. Copies of the site plan and event descriptions shall be submitted
to the Kootenai County sheriff's office, Panhandle health district, Idaho
transportation department, the highway district and fire protection district
with jurisdiction, and any other agencies as requested by the director.
   D.   Parking: One parking space will be provided for each three (3) seating
spaces, and the parking area shall be restricted to a clearly designated area
which has clearly delineated boundaries. Off site parking may be permitted if
the applicant demonstrates that transportation between the parking area and the
event site will be adequate. If the owner of the property where the parking
area will be located is different than the owner of the event site, the written
consent of the owner of the parking area shall be required.
   E.   Noise: Maximum noise threshold shall be seventy five (75) dBa, as
measured at the property lines, unless a higher level is approved in the
permit.
   F.   Drainfields: Parking and construction over existing drainfields is
prohibited.
   G.   Lighting: Lighting at the special event shall be downward directed and
shielded, and shall not exceed 0.2 foot-candle at the property line unless
otherwise approved in the permit.
   H.   Additional Conditions: The board may impose such reasonable conditions
as may be necessary for visual screening, control of dust, mitigation or
elimination of nuisance factors, management of traffic, buffering of adjoining
uses, mitigation of potential effects on water or air quality, limitation of
the duration of the permit, or otherwise addressing the health, safety, or
general welfare of event participants and spectators. Conditions may also
include a requirement that agencies review and approve plans for each event to
be held at the location.
   I.   Performance Bond: The board may require the posting of a performance
bond to guarantee performance of conditions of approval and to ensure that the
event will not constitute a nuisance or be detrimental to the health, safety,
comfort or welfare of persons in the vicinity of such use. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.5.130: VETERINARY HOSPITALS OR CLINICS:
   A.   Zones permitted: Agricultural, rural, agricultural suburban.
   B.   Minimum area: Five (5) acres.
   C.   All animals will be housed in permanent structures which can be
physically enclosed during nighttime hours.
   D.   Adequate fencing shall be provided to restrain animals from running at
large. At a minimum, the animals shall be enclosed within a six foot (6') fence
or wall. Electronic fences shall not be used as the sole method of restraining
animals.
   E.   All buildings and fenced running areas will be a minimum of three
hundred feet (300') from any existing dwelling other than the dwelling of the
owner.
   F.   Animal runs, kennels and pasturing areas located in the rural or
agricultural suburban zones shall provide visual screening to buffer adjacent
land uses if existing visual screening is insufficient to accomplish that
purpose.
   G.   Adequate housekeeping practices will be maintained so as to prevent the
creation of a nuisance. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.5.131: WHOLESALE GREENHOUSES:
   A.   Zones permitted: Agricultural, rural, agricultural suburban.
   B.   Direct retail sales are allowed, but only to the extent that they are
occasional and incidental. The following factors shall be considered in
determining whether or not retail sales are occasional and incidental:
      1.   Square footage devoted to retail sales shall not exceed five hundred
(500) square feet.
      2.   Retail sales shall be limited to products grown on the premises.
      3.   Advertising for retail sales shall be ancillary to advertising for
wholesale operations.
   C.   Yard setbacks:
      1.   Front yard: Forty feet (40').
      2.   Side yard: Twenty five feet (25').
      3.   Rear yard: Twenty five feet (25').
   D.   Any outdoor storage areas shall be surrounded by sight obscuring fences
or densely planted shrubbery or trees, to a minimum height of six feet (6').
   E.   Drainage and runoff shall be controlled and contained on site. (Ord.
493, 6-9-2016)
8.5.132: WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITIES (WCF):
   A.   Zones Permitted: Agricultural, rural, agricultural suburban,
commercial, light industrial, industrial.
   B.   Standards:
      1.   Height: Maximum allowable tower height, including antennas, is one
hundred fifty feet (150'). The board may impose stricter height limitations as
a condition of approval in order to mitigate obstruction of views or
incompatibility with surrounding uses.
      2.   Setbacks:
         a.   All WCFs shall be set back at least three hundred feet (300')
from any existing residential structure.
         b.   All WCFs shall be set back at least one hundred fifty feet (150')
from the boundary of any parcel located within the agricultural suburban,
restricted residential, or high density residential zone.
      3.   Location: No new WCF tower greater than sixty feet (60') in height
shall be constructed within a two (2) mile radius of an existing WCF unless
engineering data demonstrates the existence of a significant network coverage
gap which would be impractical to remedy by other means.
      4.   Design: All WCFs shall be of a design which best blends in with the
surrounding area, as determined by the board.
      5.   Collocation:
         a.   All new transmission towers and tower sites shall be designed to
structurally allow for a minimum collocation of three (3) additional providers.
Collocation shall be a permitted use accessory to any permitted WCF.
         b.   Transmission towers sixty feet (60') high or less are exempt from
collocation requirements and may be located within a two (2) mile radius of an
existing tower.
         c.   No lot shall contain multiple WCF towers.
         d.   Antennas placed for purposes of collocation shall be placed and
colored to blend into the architectural detail and coloring of the host
structure.
         e.   The placement of an antenna on an existing tower or structure for
collocation purposes shall not require a new conditional use permit or
modification of an existing permit unless otherwise required by this title.
      6.   Landscape: A landscape design plan prepared by a landscape design
professional shall be required. The following standards shall apply:
         a.   Existing vegetation at the tower site shall be preserved to the
maximum extent possible. Landscaping shall be placed completely around the site
except as required to access the facility. Landscaping shall be compatible with
other nearby landscaping and shall be kept healthy and well maintained.
         b.   A chainlink fence no less than six feet (6') in height from the
finished grade shall be constructed around each siting area. Access shall be by
locked gate.
      7.   Outdoor Storage: Outdoor storage of any supplies or vehicles is
prohibited.
      8.   Abandonment: If any antenna or tower is not operated for a
continuous period of six (6) months it shall be considered abandoned. The owner
of an abandoned antenna or tower, or property owner, shall remove the same
within ninety (90) days. If such antenna or tower is not removed within a
ninety (90) day period, the county may, at the property owner's expense, remove
the antenna or tower and file a lien on the subject property for expenses
incurred in removal. If the county is compelled to seek judicial authority to
undertake such removal, the reasonable costs and attorney fees incurred by the
county in the course of doing so shall constitute a charge against the owner.
      9.   FCC Compliance: WCF towers shall comply with the applicable
requirements of the federal communications commission (FCC) and other agencies
with jurisdiction.
      10.   Telecommunications Act: The standards and application requirements
contained in this section shall not be interpreted or applied in a manner which
would constitute a violation of, or conflict with, the applicable provisions of
the telecommunications act of 1996, 47 USC section 251 et seq.
      11.   Public Safety WCFs: The provisions of this section shall not apply
to public safety WCFs which are permitted of right in the underlying zone.
   C.   Application Requirements: Except as may be waived by the director with
respect to modifications to existing conditional use permits, the following
shall be submitted with a permit application for a new WCF or a modification to
an existing WCF:
      1.   Written verification from a licensed engineer that a structural
analysis of the tower has been completed which demonstrates the tower's ability
to accommodate the collocation of three (3) additional providers.
      2.   Written verification that alternative sites within a radius of four
(4) miles have been considered and have been determined to be unavailable or
are not technologically feasible.
      3.   A description of the need for the proposed facility at the proposed
location and justification for site selection, including appropriate
engineering data. The applicant shall also provide a radio frequency coverage
plan.
      4.   A notarized statement from the property owner granting authorization
to proceed with the permit application.
      5.   Proof of a duly recorded legal right of access to the site for the
intended purpose. The county may restrict the location and number of access
points to the property.
      6.   A signed agreement stating that the tower owner is willing to allow
collocation on the proposed tower. This agreement shall also state that any
future owners or operators will allow collocation on the tower.
      7.   Documents demonstrating that the federal aviation administration
(FAA) has reviewed and approved the proposal.
      8.   Only such lighting as required by the FAA is permitted. The FAA
lighting requirement shall be complied with in the least obtrusive manner, as
determined by the director. Security lighting for the tower site is permitted
as long as it is downward directed and shielded to prevent illumination at the
site boundary to be no greater than 0.2 foot-candle.
      9.   A photo simulation (including elevations) of the proposed facility
from selected properties and public rights of way as requested by the director.
      10.   A detailed site plan and letters of comment from agencies with
jurisdiction, as deemed applicable by the director.
   D.   Modifications To Existing WCFs:
      1.   The Director may approve a minor modification to a previously issued
conditional use permit for a WCF.
      2.   If the Director determines that a modification to a previously
issued conditional use permit for a WCF would constitute a substantial change
to the previous approval, the modification shall require approval via the
conditional use permitting process. Substantial changes may include, but are
not limited to, the physical expansion of a siting area or the extension of a
transmission tower beyond twenty feet (20') from its original height. (Ord.
493, 6-9-2016)
8.5.133: ZOOS:
   A.   Zones permitted: Commercial, Rural.
   B.   A site plan shall be submitted which shows the proposed design and
layout of the zoo, including the location of existing and proposed structures,
fencing, interior roads and walkways, lighting, landscaping, locations of
animal exhibits, gift shops, restaurants or concession stands, other associated
activities, and other existing or proposed improvements. A parking and traffic
circulation plan and an operations and security plan (including provisions for
response to an animal escape) shall also be submitted as part of the
application.
   C.   The zoo shall meet all requirements for sanitary disposal that may be
imposed by Panhandle Health District and the Kootenai County Solid Waste
Department.
   D.   All local, State, and Federal permits or licenses pertaining to the
keeping of mammals, birds, and/or reptiles for public display shall be obtained
prior to commencing operations.
   E.   Sight obscuring fencing is required around any and all storage areas.
(Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.5.134: PUBLIC SAFETY FACILITIES AND PUBLIC SERVICE FACILITIES:
   A.   Zones permitted: Agricultural, Rural, Agricultural Suburban, Restricted
Residential, High Density Residential (public safety facilities only).
   B.   A public safety facility or public service facility may be located on a
lot that is otherwise ineligible for building permits, and need not comply with
the minimum lot size requirement for the zone in which it is located.
   C.   Parking and loading requirements shall be as set forth in section
8.4.703 of this Code unless modified in the permit.
   D.   Adequate fencing shall be provided around the entire facility.
   E.   A site plan shall be submitted which includes the location of existing
and proposed structures, fencing, parking areas, other associated activities,
and other existing or proposed improvements. (Ord. 517, 1-25-2018)
8.5.135: TRANSITIONAL GROUP HOUSING FACILITIES:
   A.   Zones permitted: High Density Residential, Commercial, Mining, Light
Industrial.
   B.   The requirement to obtain a conditional use permit, and the standards
set forth in this section, shall apply only to transitional group housing
facilities designed to house nine (9) or more residents.
   C.   Minimum area: Three (3) acres.
   D.   A minimum of six (6) off-street parking spaces shall be provided.
   E.   Adequate fencing and screening shall be provided around the entire
facility.
   F.   The facility shall not allow any person on the premises who has been
convicted of any crime of a sexual nature, any felony involving violence
against another person, any misdemeanor involving domestic violence, or any
crime involving trafficking, delivery, or possession with intent to deliver any
controlled substance, whether in Idaho or any other jurisdiction.
   G.   A narrative shall be submitted which addresses facility security,
transportation of residents, services to be provided on site, and all other
requirements set forth in this section.
   H.   A site plan shall be submitted which includes the location of existing
and proposed structures, fencing, parking areas, other associated activities,
and other existing or proposed improvements.
   I.   The applicant shall conduct a neighborhood meeting regarding the
application. Completion of this requirement shall be a prerequisite for
scheduling of the application for hearing before the hearing examiner.
   J.   A conditional use permit for a transitional group housing facility may
be granted for a period not to exceed five (5) years, and may be renewed for
successive periods of up to five (5) years each. Extension requests shall
comply with the procedure for approval of conditional use permits.
   K.   The Board may require the posting of a performance bond to guarantee
performance of conditions of approval and to ensure that the use will not
constitute a nuisance or be detrimental to the health, safety, comfort or
welfare of persons in the vicinity of such use. If required, the bond will be
renewable every two (2) years upon confirmation of compliance with all
applicable provisions of this title and conditions of approval. (Ord. 519, 2-
15-2018)
8.5.136: SOLID WASTE TRANSFER STATIONS THAT ARE NOT PUBLIC UTILITY COMPLEX
FACILITIES:
   A.   Zones Permitted: Commercial, Mining, Light Industrial, Industrial.
   B.   In determining whether a permit application should be approved, the
hearing body shall consider the following factors:
      1.   Any adverse effects that the facility may have upon properties in
the vicinity; and
      2.   Whether reasonable restrictions, conditions of development, or
protective improvements may be necessary to mitigate or eliminate any potential
adverse effects of the facility.
   C.   Building coverage shall not exceed thirty-five percent (35%) of the
total parcel area.
   D.   The facility shall not be operated in a manner which constitutes a
nuisance or hazard to other property owners.
   E.   The facility shall be set back at least seventy-five feet (75') from
any road right-of-way and fifty feet (50') from any other property line.
   F.   A conditional use permit may be granted for a period not to exceed five
(5) years, and may be renewed for successive periods of up to five (5) years
each. Extension requests shall comply with the procedure for administrative
approvals set forth in section
8.8.204 of this title.
   G.   Conditions of approval may include, without limitation, duration of the
permit, restrictions on hours of operation, limitations on machinery or methods
of operations, and approval of access requirements by the highway agency with
jurisdiction.
   H.   The Board may require the posting of a performance bond to guarantee
performance of conditions of approval and to ensure that the use will not
constitute a nuisance or be detrimental to the health, safety, comfort or
welfare of persons in the vicinity of such use. If required, the bond will be
renewable every two (2) years upon confirmation of compliance with all
applicable provisions of this title and conditions of approval. (Ord. 546, 10-
17-2019)
8.5.137: RE-ENTRY FACILITIES:
   A.   Zones Permitted: Commercial, Mining, Light Industrial.
   B.   Minimum Area: Three (3) acres.
   C.   Adequate fencing and screening shall be provided around the entire
facility.
   D.   Required off-street parking shall be as set forth in the conditions of
approval of the permit. This requirement shall include provision of adequate
off-street parking for offenders, staff, and visitors. In determining an
adequate number of off-street parking spaces, the Board shall consider the
degree to which allowing the use would create traffic hazards or congestion
given the capacity of nearby streets, the trip generation characteristics of
the use, the availability of public transit and the likelihood of its use, and
the feasibility of traffic mitigation measures.
   E.   Required off-street loading shall be as set forth in the conditions of
approval of the permit.
   F.   The requirement to obtain a conditional use permit, and the standards
set forth in this section, shall apply only to re-entry facilities designed to
house nine (9) or more offenders. Re-entry facilities shall have a capacity of
no more than one hundred (100) offenders, provided that actual capacity shall
be based on the existence of reasonable prospects of employment for each
offender housed. Re-entry facilities must be located at least one-half (½) mile
from residential zones, single family, duplex, and multifamily uses, public
parks and recreational facilities, child-care facilities, places of worship,
places of assembly, and public or private schools.
   G.   A re-entry facility may not be located within ten (10) miles of another
re-entry facility.
   H.   This use shall comply with all applicable county, state, and federal
codes and regulations.
   I.   Signs identifying a use as a re-entry facility are prohibited except as
authorized by the Idaho Department of Corrections (IDOC).
   J.   Re-entry facility premises must be properly maintained in good
condition at all times.
   K.   A narrative shall be submitted which includes a conceptual security
plan and also addresses transportation and monitoring of offenders, services to
be provided on site, and all other requirements set forth in this section. The
security plan must demonstrate compliance with the applicable security
requirements of federal and/or state law. The director shall furnish a copy of
the security plan to appropriate city, county, and state agencies for their
review before the hearing examiner's consideration of an application.
Provisions addressing security must be included in any order of decision
granting a conditional use permit for a re-entry facility. A compliance report
must be submitted to the director one (1) year after the date of signing of the
order of decision granting the permit, and every two (2) years thereafter, and
with each application for renewal of the permit.
   L.   A site plan shall be submitted which includes the location of existing
and proposed structures, fencing, parking areas, conceptual security measures,
other associated activities, and other existing or proposed improvements.
   M.   The applicant shall conduct studies of the impacts on county services
and public safety and the economic feasibility of the application. This study
shall include, without limitation, an analysis concerning available jobs,
housing, and wages for offenders housed in the facility, the willingness of
local employers to hire them, and actions which should be implemented during an
economic downturn. Completion of this requirement shall be a prerequisite for
scheduling of the application for hearing before the hearing examiner.
   N.   The applicant shall conduct a neighborhood meeting regarding the
application. Completion of this requirement shall be a prerequisite for
scheduling of the application for hearing before the hearing examiner.
   O.   A conditional use permit for a re-entry facility may be granted for a
period not to exceed five (5) years, and may be renewed for successive periods
of up to five (5) years each. Extension requests shall comply with the
procedure for approval of conditional use permits. Additional periodic review
periods may be established as a condition of approval of the permit.
   P.   Re-entry facilities shall be owned and operated by the State of Idaho.
Privately owned or operated re-entry facilities are prohibited, even if funded
by or under contract with the State of Idaho. (Ord. 552, 10-15-2020)
ARTICLE 5.2. STANDARDS FOR USES REQUIRING A
SPECIAL NOTICE PERMIT
SECTION:
8.5.201: Outdoor Lighting For Permitted Recreational Uses
8.5.202: Annual Special Event Locations
8.5.203: Private Resorts
8.5.204: Utility Complexes
8.5.201: OUTDOOR LIGHTING FOR PERMITTED RECREATIONAL USES:
Outdoor lighting for permitted recreational uses may be constructed and used
upon issuance of a special notice permit for such use. Lighting shall be
downward directed and screened so that it produces no glare upon public rights
of way or adjacent properties. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016; amd. Ord. 611, 5-8-2025)
8.5.202: ANNUAL SPECIAL EVENT LOCATIONS:
   A.   Zones Permitted: All zones.
   B.   Minimum Area: The size of the site must be adequate to accommodate the
event, attendees, and parking unless provisions have been made for off site
parking. Adequacy of the site shall be as reasonably determined by the
director.
   C.   Site Plan And Event Description: The application shall include a
detailed site plan and event description which addresses security, access,
crowd management, traffic management, parking, waste control and disposal,
litter control plans, and includes any other relevant information requested by
the director. Copies of the site plan and event descriptions shall be submitted
to the Kootenai County sheriff's office, Panhandle health district, Idaho
transportation department, the highway district and fire protection district
with jurisdiction, and any other agencies as requested by the director.
   D.   Parking: One parking space will be provided for each three (3) seating
spaces, and the parking area shall be restricted to a clearly designated area
which has clearly delineated boundaries. Off site parking may be permitted if
the applicant demonstrates that transportation between the parking area and the
event site will be adequate. If the owner of the property where the parking
area will be located is different than the owner of the event site, the written
consent of the owner of the parking area shall be required.
   E.   Noise: Maximum noise threshold shall be seventy five (75) dBa, as
measured at the property lines, unless a higher level is approved in the
permit.
   F.   Drainfields: Parking and construction over existing drainfields is
prohibited.
   G.   Lighting: Lighting at the special event shall be downward directed and
shielded, and shall not exceed 0.2 foot-candle at the property line unless
otherwise approved in the permit.
   H.   Additional Conditions: The director may impose such reasonable
conditions as may be necessary for visual screening, control of dust,
mitigation or elimination of nuisance factors, management of traffic, buffering
of adjoining uses, mitigation of potential effects on water or air quality,
limitation of the duration of the permit, or otherwise addressing the health,
safety, or general welfare of event participants and spectators. Conditions may
also include a requirement that agencies review and approve plans for each
event to be held at the location.
   I.   Performance Bond: The director may require the posting of a performance
bond to guarantee performance of conditions of approval and to ensure that the
event will not constitute a nuisance or be detrimental to the health, safety,
comfort or welfare of persons in the vicinity of such use. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016;
amd. Ord. 611, 5-8-2025)
8.5.203: PRIVATE RESORTS:
   A.   Zones permitted: Agricultural, rural, agricultural suburban, restricted
residential, high density residential.
   B.   Private resorts may include provisions for private, noncommercial,
indoor and outdoor recreational uses which may include areas for activities
such as group meetings, entertainment, boating, camping, swimming, and
picnicking. Living facilities may also be located on site.
   C.   If a parcel is to be used primarily for the activities enumerated in
this section by persons who do not own or reside on the parcel, it shall be
subject to approval of a special notice permit for such activities, and shall
be subject to the standards set forth in this section and in the permit. For
purposes of this section, an ownership or equity interest in a corporation,
partnership, limited liability company, or other business entity of any type,
whether for profit or nonprofit, which owns a parcel shall not constitute
ownership of the parcel by the individual holding such interest.
   D.   Private resorts shall provide for adequate access, parking, and
screening from adjacent residential uses.
   E.   A site plan shall be submitted which includes the location of existing
and proposed structures, fencing, types of activities and locations for each
recreational activity, other associated activities, and other existing or
proposed improvements. A parking and traffic circulation plan shall also be
submitted unless waived by the Director. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016; amd. Ord. 611, 5-
8-2025)
8.5.204: UTILITY COMPLEXES:
   A.   Zones permitted: Rural, Agricultural Suburban, Restricted Residential,
High Density Residential.
   B.   Lot coverage by buildings shall not exceed thirty five percent (35%) of
the total lot area.
   C.   In determining whether a permit application should be approved, the
Director shall consider the following factors:
      1.   The public convenience and the necessity of the facility;
      2.   Any adverse effects that the facility may have upon properties in
the vicinity; and
      3.   Whether reasonable restrictions, conditions of development, or
protective improvements may be necessary to mitigate or eliminate any potential
adverse effects of the facility.
   D.   Specific conditions with respect to emissions of noise, particulate
matter, or vibrations, may deviate from the standards which would otherwise
apply in the underlying zone in order to ensure consistency with applicable
State and Federal standards.
   E.   Utility complexes in existence as of January 3, 1973 shall not be
subject to permitting requirements, and shall be exempt from the standards set
forth in this section. However, depending upon the underlying zone, a special
notice permit may be required in conjunction with the creation of a new
facility or the expansion of an existing facility involving a material increase
in the facility's physical boundaries.
   F.   Notwithstanding anything contained in this Code which may be construed
to the contrary, an application for a utility complex justified in accordance
with applicable Federal law may not be denied, and the County's review shall be
limited to the consideration of conditions of approval to mitigate potential
adverse effects upon adjoining properties without hindering the operations of
the facility.
   G.   The following shall apply to solid waste rural collection sites,
whether permitted of right or with a special notice permit:
      1.   Parking: Solid waste rural collection sites with one or more
structures shall have one parking space plus one additional parking space for
persons with disabilities. Compliance with the standards set forth in chapter
4, article 4.7 of this title is not required.
      2.   Loading: Containers must be spaced so as to facilitate transfer of
waste from private vehicles into containers and transfer of waste from
containers into haulers. Compliance with the standards set forth in chapter 4,
article 4.7 of this title is not required.
      3.   Exemptions: Solid waste rural collection sites may be located on a
lot that is otherwise ineligible for building permits, and need not comply with
the minimum lot size requirements for the zone in which it is located. (Ord.
514, 9-28-2017; amd. Ord. 611, 5-8-2025)
CHAPTER 6
LAND DIVISION AND PLATS
ARTICLE 6.1. APPLICABILITY, EXEMPT DIVISIONS AND LOT CONSOLIDATION
SECTION:
8.6.101: Description And Applicability
8.6.102: Zones Allowed
8.6.103: Exempt Divisions Of Land
8.6.104: Lot Consolidation
8.6.101: DESCRIPTION AND APPLICABILITY:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the division of one or more
parcels of land into two (2) or more lots, and to the reconfiguration,
combination or change in status of a lot or right-of-way (e.g., conversion of a
utility lot to a building lot), within the unincorporated areas of Kootenai
County unless otherwise specified in an area of city impact ordinance adopted
pursuant to section 67-6526, Idaho Code, and as set forth in chapter 10 of this
title. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.6.102: ZONES ALLOWED:
Subdivisions are allowed in all zones with the exception of the Agricultural
Zone. Divisions of land which meet the requirements of one or more of the
exemptions set forth in section
8.6.103 of this article are permitted in all zones. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.6.103: EXEMPT DIVISIONS OF LAND:
The following divisions of land shall be exempt from the provisions of this
chapter. A parcel of land created under an exemption set forth in this section
will be recognized as a separate parcel as of the day the instrument which
created the parcel is recorded.
   A.   Burial Plots: Divisions made for cemeteries or burial plots when used
for that purpose.
   B.   Conveyances To Public Entities Or Utilities: Divisions resulting from
the conveyance of a parcel to a government agency, taxing district, or a public
utility regulated by the Idaho Public Utilities Commission. Structures used for
the purpose of housing emergency response agencies such as fire stations,
police stations or EMS services may contain habitable space. No structures
shall contain habitable space if such parcels are to be used for any other
purpose.
   C.   Conveyances To Conservation Organization: Divisions resulting from the
conveyance of land to a conservation organization, providing the land is
conveyed as one parcel, and a conservation easement which complies with the
requirements of section
8.6.904 of this chapter is recorded on the parcel.
   D.   Boundary Line Adjustments: Boundary line adjustments which comply with
the applicable requirements of this subsection shall be exempt from the
provisions of this chapter.
      1.   Boundary line adjustments to legally created parcels must comply
with the following requirements:
         a.   No additional or non-contiguous parcels are created;
         b.   The resulting parcels meet the minimum size for the zone and are
otherwise in conformance with all applicable provisions of this title; and
         c.   The adjustment does not result in parcels separated by a public
road or a public or improved private right-of-way.
      2.   A boundary line adjustment may add land from an unplatted parcel to
an existing lot or from an existing lot to an unplatted parcel.
      3.   A parcel that is not eligible for development permits because it
does not conform to the applicable provisions of this title, or was created
improperly, cannot become eligible for development permits solely as a result
of a boundary line adjustment.
      4.   In order to ensure that no additional parcels of land are
inadvertently created, boundary line adjustments should be accomplished by
recordation of a deed of conveyance for the property that is to be transferred,
and then by recordation of a second deed for the receiving parcel which
describes the new, exterior parcel boundaries. A statement should also be
included on the deeds of conveyance which indicates that those instruments are
being recorded for boundary line adjustment purposes, and that no additional
parcels are being created as a result of the adjustment.
   E.   Large Lot Divisions: Divisions of parcels which are at least forty (40)
acres in size, when each resulting parcel is at least twenty (20) acres plus or
minus three percent (±3%) in size. For purposes of this subsection, acreage may
be based on the aliquot parts of the section of land in which the parcel is
located. For example, a quarter-quarter section would be deemed to be a forty
(40) acre parcel. Boundary line adjustments of parcels divided pursuant to this
subsection, or any predecessor thereof, shall be exempt from the provisions of
this chapter so long as all such parcels remain at least twenty (20) acres plus
or minus three percent (±3%) in size.
   F.   Decedent’s Estates: Divisions made pursuant to a will, testamentary
trust, testamentary provision of an inter vivos trust, or other similar
instrument associated with a decedent's estate. The instrument must contain
language providing for the division to be made. Such divisions must comply with
the following requirements:
      1.   Each parcel has legal access to a public road;
      2.   Each parcel meets the minimum size for the zone; and
      3.   Each parcel is otherwise in conformance with all applicable
provisions of this title.
   G.   Eminent Domain: Divisions resulting from the exercise of eminent domain
by an agency of the State of Idaho or by any local agency or taxing district,
including any purchase negotiated between the agency and the property owner in
lieu of eminent domain proceedings.
   H.   Parcels Created By Court Order: Parcels of land created by court order
other than one associated with a decedent's estate or exercise of eminent
domain shall be considered a legally created parcel, but shall not be eligible
for development permits until they are validated through approval of a major
subdivision, minor subdivision, or minor amendment pursuant to this chapter.
   I.   Subdivision Exemptions:
      1.   The Director may grant an exemption from the application of this
chapter for any subdivision of an unplatted parcel which the Director
determines, pursuant to this subsection, is not within the purposes of this
chapter.
      2.   This subdivision exemption process requires approval of the
Director. Subdivision exemptions may be granted only on the basis of the
required findings enumerated in paragraph (3) of this subsection.
      3.   Required Findings. To approve an application for a subdivision
exemption, the Director must make the following findings:
         a.   The parcels will not enlarge or expand an existing nonconformity.
         b.   The parcels are not located within a floodway.
         c.   The parcels have legal access to a public road.
         d.   The parcels meet the minimum size prescribed in the underlying
zone, or can be combined with a parcel that meets the minimum size prescribed
in the underlying zone.
         e.   The proposal is not in conflict with the Comprehensive Plan.
      4.   The process for approval of a subdivision exemption shall be as set
forth in section
8.8.204  of this title, with the exception of subsection (C) thereof. The
decision of the Director may be appealed in accordance with chapter 8, article
8.5 of this title.
   J.   Family Divisions: A division of unplatted land which is made for the
purpose of a single inter vivos gift or sale to the landowner’s spouse, parent,
child, sibling, grandparent or grandchild in accordance with the provisions of
the subsection.
      1.   Familial status may be established by blood, marriage, adoption, or
court order.
      2.   Family divisions shall comply with all of the following standards:
         a.   The parcel to be divided has not previously been divided for
purposes of a gift or sale pursuant to this subsection by prior owner. More
than one parcel may be create pursuant to the limitations of this subsection.
No property owner shall create more than four (4) parcels pursuant to this
exemption in the owner’s lifetime, whether such parcels were created by the
owner as an individual, a co-owner with a spouse, or a trustee of a trust in
which the owner retains beneficial ownership.
         b.   The parcel to be divided must be owned by an individual, married
couple, or trust in which an individual or married couple retain beneficial
ownership.
         c.   Ownership of the parcel to be divided cannot have changed within
the previous three (3) years. The following shall not be considered to be a
change of ownership:
            (1)   The death of a spouse, so long as the surviving spouse
continues to own the property.
            (2)    A divorce between owners who were married prior to the
divorce, so long as at least one of the former spouses continues to own the
property.
            (3)   A transfer of the property into trust where the owners prior
to the transfer are the beneficial owners after the transfer, or a transfer of
the property out of trust where the beneficial owners prior to the transfer are
the owners after the transfer.
         d.   An individual may receive only one (1) parcel created pursuant to
this subsection by gift or sale.
         e.   The parcels created pursuant to this subsection shall:
            (1)   Be a minimum of five (5.00) gross acres (4.50 acres net)
unless the minimum parcel size in the underlying zone is larger than five
(5.00) acres, in which case the parcel shall comply with the applicable minimum
parcel size,
            (2)   Have legal access to a public road, and
            (3)   Be otherwise in conformance with the provisions of this
title.
         f.   The recipient of the parcel shall be at least eighteen (18) years
of age at the time of parcel creation and conveyance.
         g.   The parcel to be divided is not subject to any deed restriction
or Covenants, Conditions and Restrictions (CCRs) that prohibit further division
of the parcel.
      3.   A Notice of Family Division for each parcel to be created shall be
submitted to the Department for review before the division is recorded. The
Notice of Family Division shall include the following:
         a.   Proof of approval of an approach permit from the highway district
with jurisdiction for the existing or new point of access to the adjacent
public road. Where the subject property will access onto a private road or
common driveway, proof of easements to demonstrate legal access.
         b.   An acknowledgment from Panhandle Health District indicating that
a location (on the subject property, or on a nearby property by easement) has
been identified and approved that can meet the wastewater disposal requirements
for the parcel in question.
         c.   An unrecorded conveyance deed or similar instrument that will be
used to execute the proposed division shall be attached to the Notice of Family
Division. The conveyance deed or similar instrument shall contain the legal
descriptions of each parcel to be created and any other information deemed
necessary for approval of the proposed division.
         d.   A title report prepared within six (6) months of submittal of the
Notice of Family Division that contains the legal description, ownership, and
any exceptions to title, such as easements or covenants, conditions and
restrictions (CC&Rs).
      4.   The Director or designee shall review the Notice of Family Division
and supporting documents for compliance with the provisions of this subsection.
The Director or designee shall approve the Notice of Family Division upon a
determination that the request complies with the provisions of this subsection.
The Notice of Family Division, with the exception of the title report and any
originally submitted unrecorded conveyance deed or similar instrument, shall be
attached to all deeds to be recorded. The grantor shall provide a copy of the
recorded Notice of Family Division to the Department.
      5.   Parcels created pursuant to this subsection are immediately eligible
for a building or development permit as long as they are retained by the
grantee. Building and development permits issued to the grantee shall be non-
transferrable.
      6.   Parcels created pursuant to this subsection that are not retained by
the grantee for a period of five (5) years from the date of recording of the
division shall not be eligible for building or development permits until a
period of five (5) years has elapsed from the date of recording of the
division. This restriction shall not apply to building or development permits
which the Director determines are necessary for life safety or to remedy a
nuisance or hazard, as those terms are defined in section 8.8.604 of this
title. (Ord. 514, 9-28-2017; amd. Ord. 546, 10-17-2019; Ord. 592, 4-29-2024;
Ord. 597, 7-30-2024)
8.6.104: LOT CONSOLIDATION:
Consolidation of lots may be accomplished through the filing of a completed
application for lot consolidation with the department and in the Office of the
Kootenai County Assessor. The application shall be on a form approved by the
Director and the Assessor. For purposes of this title, consolidation shall be
effective upon filing and approval by the department. Upon filing and approval,
interior lot lines within the consolidated lot shall be disregarded for
purposes of determining setbacks and building envelopes. Upon consolidation, no
subsequently built structures shall materially interfere with any preexisting
easements or rights-of-way. Any subsequent redivision of any consolidated lot
must be accomplished via the major subdivision or minor subdivision process, as
appropriate. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
ARTICLE 6.2. MAJOR SUBDIVISIONS
SECTION:
8.6.201: Description
8.6.202: General Requirements
8.6.203: Application Requirements For Preliminary Subdivision Approval
8.6.204: Processing And Preliminary Approval
8.6.205: Time Extension For Preliminary Subdivision Approval
8.6.206: Application Requirements For Final Subdivision Approval
8.6.207: Final Subdivision Approval Procedure
8.6.208: Recordation Of Plat
8.6.201: DESCRIPTION:
A major subdivision is one that proposes to create five (5) or more lots, or to
redivide land that has been subdivided in the previous five (5) years when the
two (2) subdivisions together will create five (5) or more lots. The major
subdivision process has three (3) steps: preliminary subdivision approval,
construction approval (including review and approval of plans prior to
construction and as built approval when construction is complete), and final
subdivision approval followed by plat recordation. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.6.202: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Phasing of subdivisions and improvements is permitted, subject to the
requirements of this article.
   B.   Subdivisions with lots of less than five (5) acres and natural slopes
that equal or exceed thirty five percent (35%), must either be developed as a
conservation subdivision in accordance with article 6.6 of this chapter, or
must receive concurrent approval of a planned unit development (PUD) permit,
and must design the subdivision to fit the houses and roads into and around the
hillside in a manner that minimizes disturbance of the terrain, vegetation and
drainageways, will not result in soil erosion, and is compatible with the
natural characteristics of the area.
   C.   Applications for preliminary approval of a subdivision associated with
a PUD shall be submitted concurrently with the PUD application. (Ord. 493, 6-9-
2016)
8.6.203: APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS FOR PRELIMINARY SUBDIVISION APPROVAL:
Applications for preliminary subdivision approval shall comply with the
requirements set forth in this section.
   A.   The applicant shall submit one (1) application packet to the Department
in electronic format except as may be approved by the Director, in which case
the applicant shall submit one (1) complete application packet to the
Department, plus additional packets for each agency which will be requested to
review and comment on the proposal. The director will determine which agencies
are to receive applications for review and comment, and the department will
forward the application packets to those agencies. An applicant may request
that an incomplete application be accepted by submitting a letter stating which
items are missing, and giving a detailed explanation and rationale for the
incomplete submission. If the director determines that the missing information
is not necessary to establish conformance with the required findings listed in
subsection
8.6.204C2 of this article, the request may be approved, in which case, the
application will be deemed to be complete, will be vested under the then
current provisions of this chapter, and will be processed. If the director
denies the request, the application will not be processed or scheduled for
public hearing until it is complete. A denial of this request may be appealed
in accordance with the provisions of chapter 8, article 8.5 of this title.
   B.   The following items constitute a complete application for preliminary
approval of a major subdivision, with the items listed in subsections B1
through B4 of this section being the required elements of agency packets:
      1.   A completed application form signed by the property owner, or a
notarized letter from the property owner authorizing the applicant to file the
subdivision application.
      2.   A large plan, including supplemental pages, which meets the
requirements outlined in table 6-201 of this section.
      3.   At least six (6) photographs of the site, taken at various angles,
depicting the general character of the site, accompanied by a map showing the
location and orientation of the photos.
      4.   A narrative listing the following:
         a.   The acreage of the subdivision;
         b.   The number of lots proposed;
         c.   The location, approximate dimensions, and intended use of any
nonresidential lots (e.g., utilities, schools, places of worship or assembly,
parks, or open space);
         d.   The characteristics of the site, including existing vegetation,
soils and wildlife;
         e.   Proposed water, sewer service, roads, trails and other
improvements;
         f.   Plans for preserving land for timber, agriculture, recreation,
wildlife or other open space uses;
         g.   Proposed phasing, if applicable;
         h.   Proposed conveyances, including conservation easements, if
applicable;
         i.   Special design features of the subdivision, such as clustering of
lots or conservation design;
         j.   Any requested variances from, or deviations to, any otherwise
applicable requirements or standards;
         k.   The proposed completion schedule for the project as a whole, and
for any proposed phases of the project;
         l.   Proposed methods of ownership and maintenance of any open space,
shared infrastructure and improvements; and
         m.   A written statement regarding the presence or absence of wetlands
on the property and identifying any "sensitive areas", as defined in section
8.9.403 of this title.
      5.   A completed checklist of application requirements.
      6.   Fees, as adopted by resolution of the board.
      7.   A title report or similar document containing the legal description,
ownership and easements for the property.
      8.   A map of the surrounding area and adjoining subdivisions which shows
adjoining subdivisions, including a street and lot layout sufficiently distant
from the project to illustrate the relationship to proposed streets and lots,
neighboring land owned by the same applicant, and surrounding properties within
one-fourth (1/4) mile or two (2) parcels, whichever is greater, in every
direction. The scale of this map shall be not less than one inch per four
hundred feet (1" = 400').
      9.   A groundwater quantity report, which must contain information
sufficient to demonstrate the likelihood that new or existing wells will
provide sufficient water for the subdivision without negatively affecting
nearby property owners. The following information is required:
         a.   For subdivisions to be served by a well on each lot,
documentation by an Idaho licensed professional geologist (PG) that the
proposed water supply source has sufficient production capability to provide
drinking water to all of the lots in the proposed subdivision, and that a
location is available within each lot for installation of a well without
conflicting with proposed sewage systems.
         b.   For subdivisions to be served by a new water system serving
between two (2) and nine (9) lots, documentation by an Idaho licensed PG that
the sources proposed for water supply have sufficient production capability to
provide drinking water to the lots in the proposed subdivision.
         c.   For subdivisions to be served by a new public water system, an
engineering report prepared by an Idaho licensed PG that demonstrates that an
adequate water supply is available to meet the estimated demand for water from
the lots in the proposed subdivision, plus documentation of DEQ approval of the
report.
         d.   For subdivisions to be served by connection to an existing public
water system, a will serve letter from the owner of the system which indicates
that it has sufficient reserve production capacity to supply water to the lots
in the proposed subdivision.
         e.   Unless a subdivision is to be served by connection to an existing
public water system, available well logs which cover a minimum of one-half (1/
2) mile of the boundary of the site shall be included in the report. For
residential uses, one thousand five hundred (1,500) gallons per day (gpd), with
a minimum flow of five (5) gallons per minute (gpm) for four (4) hours, per
residence, will be considered adequate if no more than one-half (1/2) acre of
property will be irrigated. For low flow wells, storage may be provided to meet
this requirement. If approved by DEQ, other methods of estimating water demand
may be used, including the "Washington State Water System Design Manual". If
conformance with these requirements is questionable, the applicant shall secure
an option for a secondary water source that does meet the requirements. If
necessary to demonstrate compliance, the director may require additional
information, such as historic and current static water levels in the area. Two
(2) copies of such information shall be submitted when required.
      10.   If the proposed subdivision will not be located over the Rathdrum
Prairie Aquifer and there are wells within one-half (½) mile of the boundary of
the proposed subdivision, a detailed hydrogeological analysis prepared by an
Idaho licensed professional geologist (P.G.) with experience in hydrogeology
shall be required. The hydrogeological analysis shall address, at a minimum,
the factors set forth in paragraph 9 of this subsection. The Director may also
require this analysis for proposed subdivision located over the Rathdrum
Prairie Aquifer if the groundwater quantity report indicates that any new or
existing wells proposed to provide water for the subdivision may negatively
affect the quantity of water available to nearby property owners.
      11.   A conceptual site disturbance and stormwater plan, developed by a
design professional, which proposes suitable methods and locations for
stormwater treatment systems. Proposed systems must conform to the applicable
provisions of chapter 7, article 7.1 of this title, associated resolutions, and
approved best management practices (BMPs), such as the "State Of Idaho Catalog
Of Storm Water Best Management Practices For Idaho Cities And Counties". If the
director determines that it is likely that slopes, soils, groundwater or other
conditions will not meet the design parameters of the proposed BMPs, the
director may require that test holes be evaluated to determine soil types in
the vicinity of the stormwater systems. Test holes that have been examined by
Panhandle health district for sewage disposal suitability may be used to
fulfill this requirement if they are in the vicinity of the proposed stormwater
systems. Otherwise, test holes must be evaluated by a soils expert or by an
Idaho licensed civil or geological engineer having sufficient education and
experience to prove competency in the field of geotechnical engineering, and
four (4) copies of the evaluation report must be provided to the department.
      12.   When land disturbing activity is proposed in areas where the
natural slope equals or exceeds fifteen percent (15%), the director may require
submittal of four (4) copies of a conceptual engineering plan as part of a
subdivision application. The plan shall be developed by an Idaho licensed civil
engineer, and shall depict proposed building sites, road and driveway grades,
profiles and cross sections, and the slope and location of cuts and fills. The
purpose of this plan is to demonstrate the feasibility of the proposed
subdivision design and to illustrate the nature and extent of earthwork
required for site preparation and construction.
      13.   When requested by the director or by a public highway agency, three
(3) copies of a traffic impact study shall be submitted, which shall include
the following:
         a.   Existing traffic counts and level of service on adjacent and
nearby streets;
         b.   Vehicle trips that will be generated by the development;
         c.   The effect the subdivision will have on the level of service on
affected streets;
         d.   The effect added traffic will have on signals, turn lanes, or
other transportation infrastructure;
         e.   Improvements needed to maintain adequate levels of service; and
         f.   Any other information required to evaluate impacts to the
transportation system.
      14.   Whenever the natural slope of any proposed building sites, roads,
driveways or other development equals or exceeds fifteen percent (15%), there
is a water table within six feet (6') of ground surface at any time of year,
soils are highly erodible, or there are scarps, slumps, seeps or other geologic
features that may be unstable, the director may require submittal of two (2)
copies of a geotechnical analysis as part of a subdivision application. The
geotechnical analysis shall:
         a.   Be stamped and signed by an Idaho licensed civil or geological
engineer having sufficient education and experience to prove competency in the
field of geotechnical engineering;
         b.   Explain the geologic and hydrologic features of the area;
         c.   Evaluate the suitability of the site for intended uses;
         d.   Identify potential problems relating to the geology and
hydrology;
         e.   Summarize the data upon which its conclusions are based; and
         f.   Propose mitigation measures.
      15.   If national wetlands inventory maps show wetlands on the site, or
if soil survey maps indicate the presence of hydric soils, or if the director
or a qualified professional determines that there may be wetlands on the site,
a wetlands delineation and analysis shall be provided and shown as part of the
supplemental pages of the plan. The wetlands delineation must be provided by a
qualified professional such as a professional engineer, landscape architect,
biologist or wetlands specialist in accordance with the "Corps Of Engineers
Wetlands Delineation Manual" and the "Classification Of Wetlands And Deepwater
Habitats Of The United States". In addition to classification of wetlands and
delineation of wetland boundaries, the analysis must explain the likely impacts
of the project on wetlands and must recommend actions to mitigate those impacts
and preserve wetland dependent plants and animals.
      16.   Applications for conservation subdivisions must also include an
existing resource report and site analysis map which comply with the
requirements of section
8.6.905 of this chapter. Both the report and map must be prepared by a
landscape architect in consultation with the Idaho department of fish and game
or a professional wildlife or conservation biologist. The map shall be shown as
a supplemental page to the plan at a scale between one inch per forty feet (1"
= 40') and one inch per one hundred feet (1" = 100').
      TABLE 6-201
      FORM AND CONTENT OF MAJOR SUBDIVISION
      PLANS, PROPOSED PLATS AND SUPPLEMENTAL PAGES
The items with an * must be shown on supplemental pages. All other items must
be included on the plat/plan.
Plat/Plan Component Preliminary Plan Final Plat
Plat/Plan Component                                 Preliminary Plan Final Plat
    Size and format. Must be 18" x 27" and must
    comply with section 50-1304, Idaho Code. The
    plat must encompass all land involved in the
1.  subdivision, including open space that will not                  X
    be used for building lots, and must also
    include north arrow, date, legend, vicinity map
    and scale. Scale must be suitable to ensure
    clarity.
    Name. Subdivision names must comply with
2.  section 50-1307, Idaho Code. Conservation       X                X
    subdivisions must be identified as such.
3.  Location. Section, quarter section, township,   X                X
    range, meridian, county and state.
    Proposed lot lines, or estimated number of lots
    for each area. All lots must be numbered
4.  consecutively in each block and each block must X
    be lettered or numbered. Adjacent parcels must
    be shown with dashed lines. Approximate gross
    and net acreage of each lot must also be shown.
    Boundaries. Final lot lines and the exterior
    boundary of the plat must be shown by distance
    and bearing, and must include: a description of
    lot corner and centerline monuments, including
    material, size, and length; initial points and
5.  basis of bearings; ties to 2 public land                         X
    surveys or other monuments recognized by the
    county surveyor; curve data, including radius,
    length, delta, tangent length, chord bearings
    and distances; reference to records of survey;
    net lot sizes in square feet, or acreage to 3
    decimal places.
    Roads and trails within and adjacent to the
    subdivision. Existing and proposed rights of
    way and easements, with centerlines, widths,
    and location clearly shown and instrument
    numbers noted. Easements and rights of way not
6.  dedicated to a highway jurisdiction must be     X                X
    dedicated or conveyed to the entities
    responsible for maintenance. Road names must
    comply with the requirements set forth in
    chapter 4, article 4.10 of this title, and must
    be approved by the department. Privately
    maintained roads must be designated as such.
    Other easements. The location, dimensions, and
    purpose of other existing or proposed
    easements, with instrument numbers noted.
    Required easements must be shown for protection
7.  buffer areas along streams and wetlands, for    X                X
    components of shared infrastructure and
    improvements, and for individual sewage lines
    and drainfields that will not be located on the
    same parcel as residences.
    *Topographic elevations. Contours shown at
    vertical intervals of not more than 5 feet, at
    a scale between 1" = 40' and 1" = 100', and
    identifying slope zones of 0 and <15%, 15% and
8.  <35%, and 35%. Contours shall be generated from X
    field survey or aerial photography, and may not
    be interpolated from USGS maps. Contours are
    not required for lots designated as open space
    that will not be used for roads or structures.
    *Hydrography. Drainages, watercourses, water
9.  bodies, and wetlands, including stream and      X                X
    wetland protection buffers.
    *Physical features. The location of significant
10. physical features such as ridges, rock outcrops X
    and wooded areas.
    *Floodplain. The location of any special flood
11. hazard areas, and language required in chapter  X                X
    7, article 7.2 of this title.
12. *Existing built features, including structures, X
    wells and sewage systems.
13. *Building envelopes, if required by the                          X
    director or hearing body.
14. Purpose for which lots, other than building     X                X
    lots, are delineated or reserved.
    A line for referencing the book, page,
15. instrument number and recordation date of CC&Rs                  X
    that will be recorded simultaneously with the
    final plat.
16. Any conditions of approval intended to run with                  X
    the land in perpetuity.
17. The signature page for the plat, with the
    following unsigned certificates:
    a. A notarized owner's certification containing
    the legal description of the land, a statement
    as to the intent of the owners to include the
    property in the subdivision, a statement
    regarding the domestic water source, and, if
   applicable, statements of conveyance (e.g.,
    conveyance of easements or rights of way for
    public streets, common areas, water or
    stormwater systems, etc.). The plat must be
    signed by all owners of the property within the
    subdivision.
   b. Certification of acceptance of rights of way
    or property conveyances.
    c. Certification by an Idaho licensed surveyor
    that the plat is accurate and conforms to the
   provisions of Idaho Code and this chapter. The
    signature must be dated and must include the
    surveyor's seal.
    d. Certification by Panhandle health district
   that the plat meets the requirements for the
    lifting of sanitary restrictions under sections
    50-1326 through 50-1329, Idaho Code.                             X
    e. Certification of acceptance by the
    commissioners of the highway district with
   jurisdiction. If any roads or rights of way
    will be dedicated to the public, the
    certification must include acceptance of the
    conveyance.
    f. In areas of city impact, certification of
    approval by the city council, with signatures
   of the city clerk and city engineer, or as
    specified in the applicable provisions of
    chapter 10 of this title.
    g. Certification, within 30 days prior to
   recording, by the county treasurer that the
    taxes on the described property are current.
    h. Certification by the county surveyor that
   the plat conforms to the requirements of Idaho
    Code title 50, chapter 13.
    i. Certifications by the board of county
   commissioners that the plat has been accepted
    and approved.
    j. Certification by the county recorder that
   the plat has been accepted for recording, with
    the date of recordation.
    *Existing resource report and site analysis map
18. in compliance with the requirements of section  X
    8.6.905 of this chapter (conservation
    subdivisions only).
19. All other items required by title 50, chapter                    X
    13, Idaho Code, or by the county surveyor.
    *If requested by PHD or DEQ for areas off the
20. Rathdrum Aquifer, approved drainfield                            X
    locations.
    *"Sensitive areas", as defined in section
    8.9.403 of this title and as referenced in
21. chapter 7, article 7.1 of this title, if their  X
    location is known and they can be shown on the
    plan.
    For subdivisions recorded prior to as built
    approval of required infrastructure, a
    statement must be included on the plat that
    noninfrastructure building permits may be
22. issued upon recordation of a final plat, but no                  X
    certificates of occupancy will be issued until
    all infrastructure improvements are complete
    and approved by all agencies with jurisdiction
    and providing services.
    If required by the board for subdivisions with
    common driveways, a statement must be included
    on the plat that common driveways may not
    serve, have the potential to serve, or be used
    to access more than 4 lots or parcels of land,
23. and that further subdivision of the lots, or                     X
    additional access to the driveway, is
    prohibited until the driveway is constructed in
    accordance with this title and the "Highway
    Standards For The Associated Highway Districts,
    Kootenai County, Idaho" (with or without
    variances).
 
(Ord. 493, 6-9-2016; amd. Ord. 546, 10-17-2019; amd. Ord. 560, 12-17-2020)
8.6.204: PROCESSING AND PRELIMINARY APPROVAL:
   A.   Procedure For Processing Of Applications:
      1.   Site Inspection And Sketch Plan Review: The applicant must provide a
sketch plan, consisting of simple, conceptual drawings which show the layout of
proposed streets, lots or areas for lots, and conservation areas. A department
planner will review the approval process with the applicant and will confer
with the applicant as to the design and feasibility of the proposal. In
conservation subdivisions, the applicant must also provide an existing resource
report and site analysis map.
      2.   Existing Site Disturbances And Code Violations: If any unpermitted
site disturbance or subdivision development has previously occurred (e.g.,
construction of roads, driveways, building pads, etc.), a county site
disturbance permit must be obtained, a financial guarantee must be provided,
and stormwater and erosion control systems which comply with the applicable
standards of chapter 7, article 7.1 of this title, and associated resolutions
and BMPs, must be installed and approved before a subdivision application will
be accepted as complete for purposes of vesting and processing. The board may
require placement or replacement of trees or other vegetation needed for
screening and buffering of the subdivision as a condition of preliminary
subdivision approval. Any other violations of this title or of title 7, chapter
1 of this code must also be corrected prior to application, except to the
extent that approval of the application will remedy any such violation.
      3.   Subdivision Design: The applicant and design consultant will then
lay out the proposed subdivision, and the project surveyor will draw a proposed
preliminary plat. Surveying of lot lines shall not be necessary until after
preliminary approval is granted. Conservation subdivisions must comply with the
design procedure set forth in article 6.6 of this chapter. Applications for
phased subdivisions must include a proposed completion schedule for each phase,
and for the project as a whole. Each phase of a phased subdivision must include
at least ten (10) lots.
      4.   Neighborhood Meeting: Prior to submitting an application, the
applicant is encouraged to meet with neighbors to discuss the proposed project.
      5.   Application: The applicant must then submit a complete application
packet to the department, including a sufficient number of complete agency
review packets as determined by the director. The application and proposed plat
must meet the requirements of section
8.6.203 and section
8.6.203, table 6-201 of this article. Incomplete applications will not be
processed except as provided in this article.
      6.   Agency Review:
         a.   If the application is complete, the department will forward it to
other agencies with relevant jurisdiction or expertise with a request for
review and comment within thirty (30) days of receipt. After the packets have
been sent, the applicant should contact each agency to determine whether there
are additional requirements which will apply to the proposed subdivision.
Agency responses should explain whether the proposal appears feasible and will
meet the agency's requirements, any negative effects that may result from the
subdivision and any actions which may be needed to mitigate those effects and
ensure that the development does not compromise the quality, or increase the
cost, of public services and facilities, any additional information that may be
needed, and what is required or recommended prior to final approval.
         b.   Agencies that may be asked to comment include, but are not
limited to, the fire protection and highway districts with jurisdiction, the
Idaho transportation department, the school district serving the area,
Panhandle health district, the Idaho department of environmental quality, the
Idaho department of water resources, water and sewer service providers, utility
providers, the U.S. army corps of engineers, Kootenai County noxious weeds
department, Idaho department of lands, Idaho department of fish and game,
Kootenai-Shoshone soil conservation district, and the Coeur d'Alene Tribe.
Projects located within an area of city impact will also be forwarded to the
appropriate city or cities for review and comment. In addition to providing
general comments, the department will request that the following agencies
address these specific items:
            (1)   Panhandle health district: The requirements for the lifting
of sanitary restrictions, as may be required prior to recordation.
            (2)   Public highway agencies: Verification of whether the
surrounding road system will be adequate for the expected increase in traffic
from the subdivision at build out.
            (3)   Water purveyor: A will serve letter, any actions required to
secure water connections, and confirmation that the water system is adequate
for both domestic and fire flow, particularly if hydrants are proposed or
required.
            (4)   Sewer district: A will serve letter, and any actions required
to secure sewer connections.
            (5)   School district: Any measures which may be needed to mitigate
the effect that new students from the subdivision will have on the district, so
that there will be no substantial cost to existing residents.
            (6)   Fire protection district: The minimum required fire flows in
gallons per minute and duration.
         c.   Requests by an agency for actions to be taken, or fees to be
paid, to mitigate impacts of a subdivision should be roughly proportional, both
in nature and extent, to the impact of the proposed development.
      7.   Scheduling: After all required agency letters are received, the
department will review the application and schedule it for public hearing.
Prior to scheduling, the applicant may make minor changes, but once the
application is scheduled for hearing, the proposal cannot be significantly
modified. If additional information is provided after hearing on the
application has been scheduled, the director or hearing body may require
additional agency review or additional public notice, or both, and may
reschedule or continue the hearing to allow time for the additional information
to be reviewed.
      8.   Staff Report And Recommendation: Prior to the hearing, a department
planner will prepare a report on the proposal. The report shall include an
evaluation of the proposal's compliance with the applicable provisions of this
title, a recommendation of approval or denial, and the reasons for the
recommendation. If the recommendation is for approval, the report shall include
any recommended conditions of approval. If the recommendation is for denial,
the report shall identify any actions which the applicant may be able to take
to gain approval.
   B.   Hearing And Decision Making Process:
      1.   Notice: Notice of all public hearings on applications for
preliminary subdivision approval shall be given in accordance with section
8.8.402 of this title.
      2.   Hearing: Hearings on applications shall be conducted in accordance
with the provisions of chapter 8, article 8.4 of this title which apply to
quasi-judicial public hearings.
      3.   Recommendation: The hearing body shall make a recommendation within
thirty five (35) days of the close of the hearing unless otherwise agreed to by
the applicant.
      4.   Succession: In the event that a hearing body fails to carry out its
responsibilities in accordance with the provisions of this title, the board
shall assume or reassign the duties of that hearing body.
   C.   Hearing Body Recommendation And Required Findings:
      1.   In making a recommendation to the board on an application, the
hearing body shall only consider the application materials which have been
submitted and the relevant testimony and evidence in the record. The applicant
shall bear the burden of proof (including both the burden of going forward with
evidence and the burden of persuasion) that the application complies with the
applicable requirements of this article.
      2.   To recommend preliminary approval of an application, the hearing
body must make all of the following findings:
         a.   The applicant has provided information sufficient to determine
whether the application complies with the relevant requirements of this
chapter.
         b.   The application complies with the requirements of section
8.6.203, table 6-201 of this article.
         c.   The application complies with, or is capable of complying with,
the requirements of this article and all other relevant requirements of this
chapter.
         d.   The plan, project and lots proposed in the application are
capable of complying with all other applicable provisions of this title without
variances, or with such variances to, or deviations from, requirements or
standards as may be recommended for approval by the hearing body.
         e.   The plan, project and proposed lots are capable of complying with
the requirements of other agencies with jurisdiction or providing services.
         f.   The proposal will contribute to orderly development of the area.
Proposed uses, design and density are compatible with existing homes,
businesses, neighborhoods, and with the natural characteristics of the area.
The subdivision will create lots of reasonable utility and livability, which
are capable of being built upon without imposing an unreasonable burden on
future owners. Areas not suited for development are designated as open space.
         g.   The proposed subdivision will provide adequate open space for
recreation, wildlife, agriculture or timber production where appropriate. Road
construction and disturbance of the terrain, vegetation and drainageways will
be minimized and will not result in soil erosion upon completion. The design
adequately addresses site constraints or hazards and will adequately mitigate
any negative environmental, social or economic impacts.
         h.   Services and facilities such as schools, electricity, water,
sewer, stormwater management, garbage disposal, EMS, police and fire protection
are feasible, available and adequate. The proposal includes on and off site
improvements, or payments in lieu of such improvements, to mitigate the impacts
of the subdivision so that it does not unduly compromise the quality, or
increase the cost, of public services. Any request by an agency for actions to
be taken, or fees to be paid, to mitigate impacts of a subdivision shall not be
recommended as a condition of preliminary approval unless the proposed actions
or fees are roughly proportional, both in nature and extent, to the impact of
the proposed development.
         i.   Proposed roads, sidewalks and trails establish or adequately
contribute to a transportation system for vehicles, bicycles and pedestrians
that is safe, efficient and that minimizes traffic congestion.
         j.   The proposal is not anticipated to result in significant
degradation of surface or ground water quantity or quality.
         k.   Public notice and an opportunity for interested parties to be
heard on the application have been given in accordance with the applicable
provisions of Idaho Code and this title.
      3.   If the hearing body makes all of the findings set forth in
subsection C2 of this section, it shall recommend preliminary approval of the
application. If the proposal cannot meet one or more of these requirements, or
if insufficient information was provided to make that determination, the
hearing body shall recommend denial.
      4.   Any requested variance or deviation from standards which would
otherwise apply to the proposed subdivision shall not be recommended for
approval except upon the following findings:
         a.   An undue hardship exists because of characteristics of the site;
         b.   The granting of the variance or deviation will not be in conflict
with the public interest; and
         c.   The variance or deviation is the minimum necessary to make
possible the use associated with the request.
      5.   The recommendation of the hearing body shall comply with section 67-
6535, Idaho Code, and shall cite the applicable legal standards, state the
evidence and conclusions on which the decision was based, and explain any
relevant contested facts and its evaluation of these facts. If the
recommendation is for approval, it shall include any recommended conditions of
approval. If the recommendation is for denial, it shall identify any actions
which the applicant may be able to take to gain approval.
   D.   Board Decision:
      1.   The board shall make the final decision on applications for
preliminary subdivision approval. Upon receipt of the recommendation of the
hearing body, the department shall schedule the application for deliberations
before the board. Deliberations shall be conducted in accordance with the Idaho
open meetings law, title 74, chapter 2, Idaho Code, but the board shall not
allow additional public testimony, nor shall it admit additional evidence into
the record.
      2.   The applicant or any affected person may submit a request for a
public hearing in writing before the board at any time prior to the scheduled
time for deliberations on an application. If the request is granted, the person
requesting the public hearing shall be required to bear all costs of notice for
that hearing unless the board determines that the county should bear those
costs.
      3.   After reviewing the evidence in the record and the standards for
approval, the board shall take one of the following actions:
         a.   Approve the request, with or without conditions;
         b.   Deny the request;
         c.   Remand the application to the hearing body or to the department;
or
         d.   Schedule its own public hearing to allow additional application
materials, testimony and evidence to be entered into the record, and then make
a decision.
      4.   To grant preliminary approval of an application, the board must make
all of the findings set forth in subsection C2 of this section. If the board
makes all of those findings, it shall grant preliminary approval of the
application. If the proposal cannot meet one or more of those requirements, or
if insufficient information was provided to make that determination, the board
may either deny the application, remand the application to the hearing body or
the department, or schedule a public hearing to receive additional application
materials, testimony and evidence.
      5.   To grant approval of any requested variance or deviation from
standards which would otherwise apply to the proposed subdivision, the board
must make all of the findings set forth in subsection C4 of this section.
      6.   The order of decision of the board shall comply with section 67-
6535, Idaho Code, and shall cite the applicable legal standards, state the
evidence and conclusions on which the decision was based, and explain any
relevant contested facts and its evaluation of these facts. Decisions of
approval shall include any conditions of approval. Decisions of denial shall
identify any actions which the applicant may be able to take to gain approval.
The order of decision shall be issued within thirty five (35) days of the close
of the hearing unless otherwise agreed to by the applicant.
      7.   Conditions of approval shall be roughly proportional, both in nature
and extent, to the reasonably expected impacts of the proposed development. Any
request by an agency for actions to be taken, or fees to be paid, to mitigate
impacts of a subdivision shall not be required as a condition of preliminary
approval unless the proposed actions or fees are roughly proportional, both in
nature and extent, to the impact of the proposed development.
      8.   Preliminary subdivision approval shall be valid for two (2) years.
For subdivisions done in conjunction with a PUD, or that include three (3) or
more phases with a total of fifty (50) or more lots, an alternate completion
schedule may be requested in the preliminary application, and may be approved
by the board. At any time prior to expiration of the approval, the applicant
may make a written request to the director for a single extension of up to two
(2) years, according to the extension process provided in section
8.6.205 of this article. For phased developments, one automatic two (2) year
extension shall be granted upon recordation of the plat for the first phase.
Subsequent extensions for phased developments may be requested in accordance
with section
8.6.205 of this article.
   E.   Construction Approval:
      1.   Preconstruction Plan Approval: After preliminary subdivision
approval is granted, the applicant shall submit construction plans for review
and approval by the department and other agencies with jurisdiction. The
department will review those plans for conformance with the design standards
contained in article 6.7 of this chapter (and, in the case of conservation
subdivisions, article 6.6 of this chapter), and with any applicable conditions
of approval. Construction plans may include, without limitation, plans for
roads, water and sewer systems, trails, vegetation buffers, and stormwater,
erosion and dust control. Issuance of development permits shall be governed by
chapter 7 of this title and title 7, chapter 1 of this code, as appropriate. No
construction, site disturbance or other development activity may commence until
plans are approved and the appropriate development permits are issued by the
department.
      2.   Construction Approval: After construction plans have been approved
and development permits have been issued, the applicant may either install the
improvements, obtain written approval of the construction by the design
professionals and applicable agencies, and apply for final subdivision
approval, or, alternatively, may submit a financial guarantee and subdivision
completion agreement which complies with the requirements of sections
8.6.711 and 8.6.903 of this chapter and are approved by the director and
agencies with jurisdiction, and then apply for final subdivision approval. If
an agency is unable or unwilling to approve a financial guarantee, the director
may assume this authority. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.6.205: TIME EXTENSION FOR PRELIMINARY SUBDIVISION APPROVAL:
   A.   Applicability: At any time prior to expiration of preliminary approval
of a major subdivision, one extension of up to two (2) years may be requested
according to the procedure set forth in this section. For phased developments,
one automatic two (2) year extension will be granted when the first phase is
recorded. Subsequent extensions for phased developments may be requested in
accordance with this section.
   B.   Application Requirements: The following items shall constitute a
complete application:
      1.   The application form.
      2.   Fees as adopted by resolution of the board.
      3.   A narrative which explains the following:
         a.   The reasons why the subdivision was not developed within the
original time line;
         b.   The status of compliance with the original conditions of
approval; and
         c.   The anticipated time schedule for completion of the platting
process.
      4.   The director may require additional information to determine
compliance with conditions of approval, applicable provisions of this title or
title 7, chapter 1 of this code, or the requirements of other agencies.
   C.   Approval Requirements:
      1.   The director may grant the extension upon the following findings:
         a.   A complete application was submitted;
         b.   The project is in compliance with the requirements of the county
and other agencies in place at the time the complete preliminary application
was received by the department; and
         c.   The project is in compliance with its conditions of approval.
      2.   The director shall make a decision within thirty five (35) days of
receipt of a complete application unless otherwise agreed to by the applicant.
      3.   The decision of the director may be appealed in accordance with the
provisions of chapter 8, article 8.5 of this title. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.6.206: APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS FOR FINAL SUBDIVISION APPROVAL:
   A.   The following items constitute a complete application for final
approval of a major subdivision:
      1.   A completed application form signed by the property owner, or a
notarized letter from the property owner authorizing the applicant to file the
application.
      2.   A completed checklist of application requirements.
      3.   Fees as adopted by resolution of the board.
      4.   Three (3) copies of a large plat, including the signature page and
all supplemental pages, which has been prepared by an Idaho licensed surveyor
and complies with the requirements set forth in section
8.6.203, table 6-201 of this article and in title 50, chapter 13, Idaho Code.
      5.   A small plat, which shall consist of an eleven inch by seventeen
inch (11" x 17") copy of the large plat, plus all supplemental pages.
      6.   A narrative which contains the following information:
         a.   An explanation of how each condition of approval has been met;
         b.   The status of phasing and infrastructure improvements;
         c.   The total acres and number of lots in the final proposal;
         d.   Any modifications from the original proposal; and
         e.   Confirmation that necessary road signs and corner monuments have
been installed.
      7.   For major subdivisions in timbered areas, a wildfire mitigation
plan, prepared by a professional forester, and certification from the forester
that the plan has been implemented. The plan must meet the requirements of
section
8.6.901 of this chapter, and must be approved by the director and the fire
protection district with jurisdiction, or the Idaho department of lands, as
appropriate.
      8.   A site disturbance permit or written confirmation of exemption
issued by the department, and if stormwater management systems are completed,
as built approval from the design professional.
      9.   Any documentation needed to show compliance with requirements or
conditions of approval, including a written agreement for garbage collection
service when required.
      10.   If not previously submitted, construction plans which have been
approved by agencies with jurisdiction, including plans for roads, trails,
water, sewer systems, dust control, etc. If improvements are completed, as
built plans and written approvals prepared by appropriate design professionals
are required.
      11.   If noxious weeds have been identified, an approved weed mitigation
plan and proof that the plan has been implemented (e.g., receipts for
spraying).
      12.   For watersheds that drain to surface water, a copy of the NPDES
notice of intent that has been filed with the EPA.
      13.   Copies of associated documents such as conservation easements,
restrictive covenants, and homeowners' association bylaws and articles of
incorporation that are associated with the subdivision. These must be approved
by the director and must comply with the requirements of section
8.6.902 of this chapter.
      14.   Financial guarantees. Draft copies of financial guarantees that
will be submitted for the required warranty, or in lieu of completed, approved
infrastructure improvements. Financial guarantees must be approved by the
director and agencies with jurisdiction, must comply with the requirements of
section
8.6.711 of this chapter, and must be accompanied by a subdivision completion
and/or warranty agreement which complies with the requirements of section
8.6.903 of this chapter. If an agency is unable or unwilling to approve a
financial guarantee, the director may assume this authority.
      15.   For conservation subdivisions, a land management plan approved by
the agency with jurisdiction if necessary to bring the site into compliance
with applicable BMPs.
      16.   Letters from agencies with jurisdiction and service providers, as
determined by the director, dated within six (6) months prior to submittal. The
applicant shall be responsible for obtaining agency approval letters associated
with applications for final subdivision approval. The letters must indicate the
following:
         a.   Construction plans have been reviewed and approved;
         b.   If construction is complete, that it has been approved;
         c.   If construction is not complete, that the amount of proposed
financial guarantees is acceptable;
         d.   Proposed conveyances will be accepted;
         e.   Any other requirements have been met; and
         f.   The mylar plat will be signed and sanitary restrictions will be
lifted.
         g.   The director must verify that all private roads comply with the
"Highway Standards For The Associated Highway Districts Of Kootenai County,
Idaho", or such variances from those standards as the director or highway
district may recommend.
   B.   The applicant shall be required to submit one application packet. Any
application that is incomplete will not be processed. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016; amd.
Ord. 546, 10-17-2019)
8.6.207: FINAL SUBDIVISION APPROVAL PROCEDURE:
The procedure for final approval of a subdivision shall be as follows:
   A.   Application: The applicant shall submit one complete application
packet. The application and plat must meet the requirements of section
8.6.206 and section
8.6.203, table 6-201 of this article, title 50, chapter 13, Idaho Code, any
other applicable provisions of this title and title 7, chapter 1 of this code,
and the requirements of all agencies with jurisdiction and those providing
services. If the application is not complete, it will not be processed.
   B.   Director Recommendation And Required Findings: The director shall
review the application and the relevant facts and evidence in the record and
issue a recommendation. The applicant shall bear the burden of proof (including
both the burden of going forward with evidence and the burden of persuasion)
that the application complies with the applicable requirements of this article.
To recommend final approval of a subdivision, the director must make the
following findings:
      1.   The applicant has provided information sufficient to determine
whether the application complies with the relevant requirements of this
chapter.
      2.   The plat complies with the requirements of section
8.6.203, table 6-201 of this article and title 50, chapter 13, Idaho Code, and
is substantially the same as was presented in the preliminary application.
      3.   The project and the lots comply with the requirements of this
chapter.
      4.   The plat, the project and the lots comply with other applicable
provisions of this code, without variances, or with such variances to, or
deviations from, requirements or standards as may be approved by the board.
      5.   The plat, the project and the lots meet the requirements of all
agencies with jurisdiction and those providing services.
      6.   The subdivision creates lots of reasonable utility and livability,
capable of being built upon without imposing an unreasonable burden on future
owners.
      7.   Negative environmental, social and economic impacts have been or
will be mitigated.
      8.   On and off site improvements, or payments in lieu of such
improvements, that are roughly proportional, both in nature and extent, to the
impact of the proposed development have been made in order to mitigate the
impacts of the subdivision so that it does not compromise the quality or
increase the cost of services.
      9.   The sanitary restrictions will be lifted prior to recordation.
      10.   The applicant has demonstrated that all conditions of approval have
been met.
      11.   Improvements are either complete and approved by all agencies with
jurisdiction and those providing services, or construction plans have been
approved and a financial guarantee approved by the director and by all agencies
with jurisdiction and those providing services, has been provided. If an agency
is unable or unwilling to approve a financial guarantee, the director may
assume this authority.
      12.   If any land, shared infrastructure, or improvements will be
privately maintained, documents establishing the maintenance organization have
been approved by the director and are ready to be recorded with the plat.
      13.   Any required conservation easements or other documents have been
approved by the director and are ready to be recorded with the plat.
      14.   For phased projects, the phase for which final approval has been
applied complies with all of the requirements of this title and with those of
other agencies and service providers.
      15.   Public notice has been given in accordance with the applicable
provisions of Idaho Code and this title.
   C.   Recommendation: If the application and the subdivision comply with all
of the requirements of subsection B of this section, the director shall
recommend approval. If the application and the subdivision do not comply with
one or more of these requirements, or if insufficient information was provided
to make that determination, the director shall recommend denial. The director
shall make a recommendation within thirty five (35) days of the receipt of a
complete application unless otherwise agreed to by the applicant.
   D.   Board Decision:
      1.   The board shall make the final decision on applications for final
subdivision approval. Upon receipt of the recommendation of the director, the
department shall schedule the application for deliberations before the board.
Deliberations shall be conducted in accordance with the Idaho open meetings
law, title 74, chapter 2, Idaho Code, but the board shall not allow public
testimony, nor shall it admit additional evidence into the record.
      2.   After reviewing the evidence in the record and the standards for
approval, the board shall then take one of the following actions:
         a.   Approve the request;
         b.   Deny the request; or
         c.   Remand the application to the director.
      3.   To grant final approval of an application, the board must make all
of the findings set forth in subsection B of this section. If the board makes
all of those findings, it shall grant final approval of the application. If the
proposal cannot meet one or more of those requirements, or if insufficient
information was provided to make that determination, the board may either deny
the application, remand the application to the director, or schedule a public
hearing to receive additional application materials, testimony and evidence.
      4.   The order of decision of the board shall comply with section 67-
6535, Idaho Code, and shall cite the applicable legal standards, state the
evidence and conclusions on which the decision was based, and explain any
relevant contested facts and its evaluation of these facts. Decisions of denial
shall identify any actions which the applicant may be able to take to gain
approval. The order of decision shall be issued within thirty five (35) days of
the close of the hearing unless otherwise agreed to by the applicant. (Ord.
493, 6-9-2016)
8.6.208: RECORDATION OF PLAT:
Within one year of final subdivision approval, the applicant must submit the
mylar plat and any associated documents to the department in a form ready to
record. The applicant must obtain all signatures on the plat and associated
documents, except county signatures, before submittal to the department. All
signatures and stamps must be in reproducible, quick drying, permanent,
indelible, black ink. The department will check for compliance with the final
subdivision approval and will obtain signatures on the plat from the chairman
of the board, or chairman pro tem, before the plat and any associated documents
are recorded. No plat shall be signed unless it is accompanied by written
confirmation from the department that the plat complies with all county
requirements. An extension of the one year period for recordation may be
requested prior to the expiration of the then current period, and such requests
may be granted by the director for good cause shown. If the plat is not
submitted within one year, and a request for extension is not timely made and
granted by the director, the approval shall be null and void. (Ord. 493, 6-9-
2016)
ARTICLE 6.3. MINOR SUBDIVISIONS
SECTION:
8.6.301: Description And Applicability
8.6.302: Application Requirements
8.6.303: Approval Procedure
8.6.304: Final Approval And Recordation Of Plat
8.6.301: DESCRIPTION AND APPLICABILITY:
The minor subdivision process may be used to create four (4) or fewer lots if
the property has not been subdivided within the past five (5) years, or if the
previously divided subdivisions together will create four (4) or fewer lots.
This process results in an administrative decision by the director, and does
not require a public hearing. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.6.302: APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS:
Applications for approval of a minor subdivision shall comply with the
requirements set forth in this section.
   A.   Complete Application Required; Incomplete Submissions: The applicant
shall submit one (1) application packet to the department in electronic format
except as may be approved by the director, in which case the applicant shall
submit one (1) complete application packet to the department, plus additional
packets for each agency which will be requested to review and comment on the
proposal. The director will determine which agencies are to receive
applications for review and comment, and the department will forward the
application packets to those agencies. An applicant may request that an
incomplete application be accepted by submitting a letter stating which items
are missing, and giving a detailed explanation and rationale for the incomplete
submission. If the director determines that the missing information is not
necessary to establish conformance with the required findings listed in
subsection
8.6.303B of this article, the request may be approved, in which case, the
application will be deemed to be complete, will be vested under the then
current provisions of this chapter, and will be processed. If the director
denies the request, the application will not be processed or scheduled for
public hearing until it is complete. A denial of this request may be appealed
in accordance with the provisions of chapter 8, article 8.5 of this title.
   B.   Complete Application Contents: The following items constitute a
complete application for approval of a minor subdivision, with the items listed
in subsections B1 through B4 of this section being the required elements of
agency packets:
      1.   A completed application form signed by the property owner, or a
notarized letter from the property owner authorizing the applicant to file the
subdivision application.
      2.   At least six (6) photographs of the site, taken at various angles,
depicting the general character of the site, accompanied by a map showing the
location and orientation of the photos.
      3.   A narrative listing the following:
         a.   The acreage of the subdivision;
         b.   The number of lots proposed;
         c.   The location, approximate dimensions, and intended use of any
nonresidential lots (e.g., utilities, schools, places of worship or assembly,
parks, or open space);
         d.   The characteristics of the site, including existing vegetation,
soils and wildlife;
         e.   Proposed water, sewer service, roads, trails and other
improvements;
         f.   Plans for preserving land for timber, agriculture, recreation,
wildlife or other open space uses;
         g.   Proposed conveyances, including conservation easements, if
applicable;
         h.   Special design features of the subdivision;
         i.   Any requested variances from, or deviations to, any otherwise
applicable requirements or standards;
         j.   The proposed completion schedule for the project;
         k.   Proposed methods of ownership and maintenance of any open space,
shared infrastructure and improvements; and
         l.   A written statement regarding the presence or absence of wetlands
on the property and identifying any "sensitive areas", as defined in section
8.9.403 of this title.
      4.   A large plat, including the signature page and all supplemental
pages, which has been prepared by an Idaho licensed surveyor and complies with
the requirements set forth in Table 6-301 of this article and in title 50,
chapter 13, Idaho Code. If hard copy submittals have been authorized, three (3)
copies of the plat shall be submitted.
      5.   A completed checklist of application requirements.
      6.   Fees, as adopted by resolution of the board.
      7.   A title report or similar document containing the legal description,
ownership and easements for the property.
      8.   A groundwater quantity report, which must contain information
sufficient to demonstrate the likelihood that new or existing wells will
provide sufficient water for the subdivision without negatively affecting
nearby property owners. The following information is required:
         a.   For subdivisions to be served by a well on each lot,
documentation by an Idaho licensed professional geologist (PG) that the
proposed water supply source has sufficient production capability to provide
drinking water to all of the lots in the proposed subdivision, and that a
location is available within each lot for installation of a well without
conflicting with proposed sewage systems.
         b.   For subdivisions to be served by a new water system servingnine
(9) or fewer lots, documentation by an Idaho licensed PG that the sources
proposed for water supply have sufficient production capability to provide
drinking water to the lots in the proposed subdivision.
         c.   For subdivisions to be served by a new public water system, an
engineering report prepared by an Idaho licensed PG that demonstrates that an
adequate water supply is available to meet the estimated demand for water from
the lots in the proposed subdivision, plus documentation of DEQ approval of the
report.
         d.   For subdivisions to be served by connection to an existing public
water system, a will serve letter from the owner of the system which indicates
that it has sufficient reserve production capacity to supply water to the lots
in the proposed subdivision.
         e.   Unless the subdivision is to be served by connection to an
existing public water system, available well logs which cover a minimum of one-
half (1/2) mile of the boundary of the site shall be included in the report.
For residential uses, one thousand five hundred (1,500) gallons per day (gpd),
with a minimum flow of five (5) gallons per minute (gpm) for four (4) hours,
per residence, will be considered adequate if no more than one-half (1/2) acre
of property will be irrigated. For low flow wells, storage may be provided to
meet this requirement. If approved by DEQ, other methods of estimating water
demand may be used, including the "Washington State Water System Design
Manual". If conformance with these requirements is questionable, the applicant
shall secure an option for a secondary water source that does meet the
requirements. If necessary to demonstrate compliance, the director may require
additional information, such as historic and current static water levels in the
area. Two (2) copies of such information shall be submitted when required.
      9.   If the proposed subdivision will not be located over the Rathdrum
Prairie Aquifer and there are wells within one-half (½) mile of the boundary of
the proposed subdivision, a detailed hydrogeological analysis prepared by an
Idaho licensed professional geologist (P.G.) with experience in hydrogeology
shall be required. The hydrogeological analysis shall address, at a minimum,
the factors set forth in paragraph 8 of this subsection. The Director may also
require this analysis for proposed subdivision located over the Rathdrum
Prairie Aquifer if the groundwater quantity report indicates that any new or
existing wells proposed to provide water for the subdivision may negatively
affect the quantity of water available to nearby property owners.
      10.   When land disturbing activity is proposed in areas where the
natural slope exceeds fifteen percent (15%), a conceptual site disturbance and
stormwater plan must be submitted. The plan must be developed by a design
professional and must propose suitable methods and locations for stormwater
treatment systems. Proposed systems must conform to the applicable provisions
of chapter 7, article 7.1 of this title, associated resolutions, and approved
best management practices (BMPs), such as the "State Of Idaho Catalog Of Storm
Water Best Management Practices For Idaho Cities And Counties". If the director
determines that it is likely that slopes, soils, groundwater or other
conditions will not meet the design parameters of the proposed BMPs, the
director may require that test holes be evaluated to determine soil types in
the vicinity of the stormwater systems. Test holes that have been examined by
Panhandle health district for sewage disposal suitability may be used to
fulfill this requirement if they are in the vicinity of the proposed stormwater
systems. Otherwise, test holes must be evaluated by a soils expert or by an
Idaho licensed civil or geological engineer having sufficient education and
experience to prove competency in the field of geotechnical engineering, and
four (4) copies of the evaluation report must be provided to the department.
      11.   When land disturbing activity is proposed in areas where the
natural slope equals or exceeds fifteen percent (15%), the director may require
submittal of four (4) copies of a conceptual engineering plan as part of a
subdivision application. The plan shall be developed by an Idaho licensed civil
engineer, and shall depict proposed building sites, road and driveway grades,
profiles and cross sections, and the slope and location of cuts and fills. The
purpose of this plan is to demonstrate the feasibility of the proposed
subdivision design and to illustrate the nature and extent of earthwork
required for site preparation and construction.
      12.   Whenever the natural slope of any proposed building sites, roads,
driveways or other development equals or exceeds fifteen percent (15%), there
is a water table within six feet (6') of ground surface at any time of year,
soils are highly erodible, or there are scarps, slumps, seeps or other geologic
features that may be unstable, the director may require submittal of two (2)
copies of a geotechnical analysis as part of a subdivision application. The
geotechnical analysis shall:
         a.   Be stamped and signed by an Idaho licensed civil or geological
engineer having sufficient education and experience to prove competency in the
field of geotechnical engineering;
         b.   Explain the geologic and hydrologic features of the area;
         c.   Evaluate the suitability of the site for intended uses;
         d.   Identify potential problems relating to the geology and
hydrology;
         e.   Summarize the data upon which its conclusions are based; and
         f.   Propose mitigation measures.
      13.   If national wetlands inventory maps show wetlands on the site, or
if soil survey maps indicate the presence of hydric soils, or if the director
or a qualified professional determines that there may be wetlands on the site,
a wetlands delineation and analysis shall be provided and shown as part of the
supplemental pages of the plan. The wetlands delineation must be provided by a
qualified professional such as a professional engineer, landscape architect,
biologist or wetlands specialist. In addition to classification of wetlands and
delineation of wetland boundaries, the analysis must explain the likely impacts
of the project on wetlands and must recommend actions to mitigate those impacts
and preserve wetland dependent plants and animals.
   C.   Additional Application Submittals: The following additional application
submittals shall be required prior to plat approval and recordation:
      1.   A large final plat containing any required revisions and including
the signature page and all supplemental pages, which has been prepared by an
Idaho licensed surveyor and which complies with the requirements set forth in
Table 6-301 of this article and in title 50, chapter 13, Idaho Code.
      2.   If noxious weeds have been identified, an approved weed mitigation
plan and proof that the plan has been implemented (e.g., receipts for
spraying).
      3.   Copies of associated documents such as conservation easements,
restrictive covenants, and homeowners' association bylaws and articles of
incorporation that are associated with the subdivision. These must be approved
by the director and must comply with the requirements of section
8.6.902 of this chapter.
      4.   Letters from agencies with jurisdiction and service providers, as
determined by the director, dated within six (6) months prior to submittal. The
applicant shall be responsible for obtaining agency approval letters associated
with applications for final subdivision approval. The letters must indicate the
following:
         a.   Construction plans have been reviewed and approved;
         b.   If construction is complete, that it has been approved;
         c.   If construction is not complete, that the amount of proposed
financial guarantees is acceptable;
         d.   Proposed conveyances will be accepted;
         e.   Any other requirements have been met; and
         f.   The mylar plat will be signed and sanitary restrictions will be
lifted.
         g.   For private roads within the subdivision and new private roads
connecting the subdivision with the nearest public or private road, the
director must verify that the roads comply with the "Highway Standards For The
Associated Highway Districts Of Kootenai County, Idaho", or such variances from
those standards as the highway district may recommend.
TABLE 6-301
FORM AND CONTENT OF MINOR SUBDIVISION PLANS,
PROPOSED PLATS AND SUPPLEMENTAL PAGES
The items with an * must be shown on supplemental pages. All other items must
be included on the plat/plan.
PLAT COMPONENT INITIAL PLAT FINAL PLAT
PLAT COMPONENT                                                                      INITIAL FINAL
                                                                                    PLAT    PLAT
1.   Size and Format: Must be 18" x 27" and must comply with section 50-1304, Idaho
Code. The plat must encompass all land involved in the subdivision, including open  X       X
space that will not be used for building lots, and must also include north arrow,
date, legend, vicinity map and scale. Scale must be suitable to ensure clarity.
2.   Name: Subdivision names must comply with section 50-1307, Idaho Code.       X       X
Conservation subdivisions must be identified as such.
3.   Location: Section, quarter section, township, range, meridian, county and   X       X
state.
4.   Proposed lot lines, or estimated number of lots for each area: All lots must
be numbered consecutively in each block and each block must be lettered or          X
numbered. Adjacent parcels must be shown with dashed lines. Approximate gross and
net acreage of each lot must also be shown.
5.   Boundaries: Final lot lines and the exterior boundary of the plat must be
shown by distance and bearing, and must include: A description of lot corner and
centerline monuments, including material, size, and length. Initial points and
basis of bearings. Ties to two public land surveys or other monuments recognized by         X
the County Surveyor. Curve data, including radius, length, delta, tangent length,
chord bearings and distances. Reference to records of survey. Net lot sizes in
square feet, or acreage to three decimal places.
6.   Roads and trails within and adjacent to the subdivision: Existing and proposed
rights-of-way and easements, with centerlines, widths, and location clearly shown
and instrument numbers noted. Easements and rights-of-way not dedicated to a
highway jurisdiction must be dedicated or conveyed to the entities responsible for  X       X
maintenance. Road names must comply with the requirements set forth in chapter 4,
article 4.10 of this title, and must be approved by the Department. Privately
maintained roads must be designated as such.
7.   Other Easements: The location, dimensions, and purpose of other existing or
proposed easements, with instrument numbers noted. Required easements must be shown
for protection buffer areas along streams and wetlands, for components of shared    X       X
infrastructure and improvements, and for individual sewage lines and drainfields
that will not be located on the same parcel as residences.
8.   *Topographic Elevations: Contours shown at vertical intervals of not more than
5 ft., at a scale between 1 in.= 40 ft. and 1 in.= 100 ft., and identifying slope
zones of > 0 and < 15%, > 15% and < 35%, and > 35%. Contours shall be generated     X
from field survey or aerial photography, and may not be interpolated from USGS
maps. Contours are not required for lots designated as open space that will not be
used for roads or structures.
9.   *Hydrography: Drainages, water courses, water bodies, and wetlands, includinX       X
stream and wetland protection buffers.
10.   *Physical Features: The location of significant physical features such as  X
ridges, rock outcrops and wooded areas.
11.   *Flood Plain: The location of any special flood hazard areas, and language X       X
required in chapter 7, article 7.2 of this title.
12.   *Existing built features, including structures, wells and sewage systems.  X
13.   *Building envelopes, if required by the Director or hearing body.                  X
14.   Purpose for which lots, other than building lots, are delineated or reserveX.      X
15.   A line for referencing the Book, Page, Instrument Number and Recordation Date      X
of CC&Rs that will be recorded simultaneously with the final plat.
16.   Any conditions of approval intended to run with the land in perpetuity.            X
17.   *Existing Resource Report and Site Analysis Map in compliance with the     X
requirements of section 8.6.905 of this chapter (conservation subdivisions only).
18.   All other items required by Title 50, Chapter 13, Idaho Code, or by the            X
County Surveyor.
19.   *If requested by PHD or DEQ for areas off the Rathdrum Aquifer, approved           X
drainfield locations.
20. *Sensitive areas, as defined in section 8.9.403 of this title or as referenced
in chapter 7, article 7.1 of this title, if their location is known and they can be X
shown on the plan.
21. For subdivisions recorded prior to as-built approval of required
infrastructure, a statement must be included on the plat that non-infrastructure
building or location permits may be issued upon recordation of a final plat, but no         X
certificates of occupancy will be issued until all infrastructure improvements are
complete and approved by all agencies with jurisdiction and providing services.
22.    If required by the Board for subdivisions with common driveways, a statement
must be included on the plat that common driveways may not provide legal or
physical access to more than four lots or parcels of land, and that further
subdivision of the lots, or additional access to the driveway, is prohibited until          X
the driveway is constructed in accordance with this chapter and the Highway
Standards for the Associated Highway Districts, Kootenai County, Idaho (with or
without variances).
23.   The signature page for the plat, with the following unsigned certificates:
   a.   A notarized owner's certification containing the legal description of the
land, a statement as to the intent of the owners to include the property in the
subdivision, a statement regarding the domestic water source, and, if applicable,           X
statements of conveyance (e.g., conveyance of easements or rights-of-way for public
streets, common areas, water or stormwater systems, etc.). The plat must be signed
by all owners of the property within the subdivision.
   b.   Certification of acceptance of rights-of-way or property conveyances.
   c.   Certification by an Idaho licensed surveyor that the plat is accurate and
conforms to the provisions of Idaho Code and this chapter. The signature must be
dated and must include the surveyor's seal.
   d.   Certification by Panhandle Health District that the plat meets the
requirements for the lifting of sanitary restrictions under sections 50 1326
through 50-1329, Idaho Code.
   e.   Certification of acceptance by the commissioners of the highway district
with jurisdiction. If any roads or rights-of-way will be dedicated to the public,
the Certification must include acceptance of the conveyance.
   f.   In Areas of City Impact, certification of approval by the city council,
with signatures of the city clerk and city engineer, or as specified in the
applicable provisions of chapter 10 of this title.
   g.   Certification, within 30 days prior to recording, by the County Treasurer
that the taxes on the described property are current.
   h.   Certification by the County Surveyor that the plat conforms to the
requirements of Title 50, Chapter 13, Idaho Code.
   i.   Certifications by the chairman of the Board, or chairman pro tem, that the
plat has been accepted and approved.
   j.   Certification by the County Recorder that the plat has been accepted for
recording, with the date of recordation.
 
(Ord. 493, 6-9-2016; amd. Ord. 546, 10-17-2019; Ord. 560, 12-17-2020)
8.6.303: APPROVAL PROCEDURE:
   A.   Procedure For Processing Of Applications:
      1.   Site Inspection And Sketch Plan Review: The applicant must provide a
sketch plan, consisting of simple, conceptual drawings which show the layout of
proposed streets, lots or areas for lots, and conservation areas. A department
planner will review the approval process with the applicant and will confer
with the applicant as to the design and feasibility of the proposal.
      2.   Existing Site Disturbances And Code Violations: If any unpermitted
site disturbance or subdivision development has previously occurred (e.g.,
construction of roads, driveways, building pads, etc.), a county site
disturbance permit must be obtained, a financial guarantee must be provided,
and stormwater and erosion control systems which comply with the applicable
standards of chapter 7, article 7.1 of this title, and associated resolutions
and BMPs, must be installed and approved before a subdivision application will
be accepted as complete for purposes of vesting and processing. The director
may require placement or replacement of trees or other vegetation needed for
screening and buffering of the subdivision as a condition of preliminary
subdivision approval. Any other violations of this title or of title 7, chapter
1 of this code must also be corrected prior to application, except to the
extent that approval of the application will remedy any such violation.
      3.   Subdivision Design: The applicant and design consultant will then
lay out the proposed subdivision, and the project surveyor will draw a proposed
plat. Subdivisions which will result in the creation of lots of less than five
(5) acres, and those containing natural slopes that equal or exceed thirty five
percent (35%), must be designed to fit the houses and roads into and around the
hillside in a manner that minimizes disturbance of the terrain, vegetation and
drainageways, will not result in soil erosion, and is compatible with the
natural characteristics of the area.
      4.   Neighborhood Meeting: Prior to submitting an application, the
applicant is encouraged to meet with neighbors to discuss the proposed project.
      5.   Application: The applicant must then submit a complete application
packet to the department, including a sufficient number of complete agency
review packets as determined by the director. The application and proposed plat
must meet the requirements of section
8.6.302 of this article. Incomplete applications will not be processed except
as provided in this article.
      6.   Agency Review:
         a.   If the application is complete, the department will forward it to
other agencies with relevant jurisdiction or expertise with a request for
review and comment within thirty (30) days of receipt. After the packets have
been sent, the applicant should contact each agency to determine whether there
are additional requirements which will apply to the proposed subdivision.
Agency responses should explain whether the proposal appears feasible and will
meet the agency's requirements, any negative effects that may result from the
subdivision and any actions which may be needed to mitigate those effects and
ensure that the development does not compromise the quality, or increase the
cost, of public services and facilities, any additional information that may be
needed, and what is required or recommended prior to final approval.
         b.   Agencies that may be asked to comment include, but are not
limited to, the fire protection and highway districts with jurisdiction, the
Idaho transportation department, the school district serving the area,
Panhandle health district, the Idaho department of environmental quality, the
Idaho department of water resources, water and sewer service providers, utility
providers, the U.S. army corps of engineers, Kootenai County noxious weeds
department, Idaho department of lands, Idaho department of fish and game,
Kootenai-Shoshone soil conservation district, and the Coeur d'Alene Tribe.
Projects located within an area of city impact will also be forwarded to the
appropriate city or cities for review and comment. In addition to providing
general comments, the department will request that the following agencies
address these specific items:
            (1)   Panhandle health district: The requirements for the lifting
of sanitary restrictions, as required prior to recordation.
            (2)   Water purveyor: A will serve letter, any actions required to
secure water connections, and confirmation that the water system is adequate
for both domestic and fire flow, particularly if hydrants are proposed or
required.
            (3)   Sewer district: A will serve letter, and any actions required
to secure sewer connections.
         c.   Requests by an agency for actions to be taken, or fees to be
paid, to mitigate impacts of a subdivision should be roughly proportional, both
in nature and extent, to the impact of the proposed development.
      7.   Comment Period: The department will also schedule the application
for a thirty (30) day public comment period, which shall run concurrently with
the agency comment period. The department shall cause a notice of public
comment period to be published in the "Coeur d'Alene Press" at the applicant's
expense. The applicant shall also cause notice to be mailed to all property
owners required to be noticed under Table 8-401 of this title, including any
contiguous lots or parcels under the same ownership, at the applicant’s
expense, on or before the first day of the comment period. Information
submitted prior to the close of the comment period shall be entered into the
record on the application.
   B.   Order Of Decision And Required Findings:
      1.   After the close of the comment period, the director shall review the
relevant evidence in the record and the standards for approval, and shall issue
an order of decision. The applicant shall bear the burden of proof (including
both the burden of going forward with evidence and the burden of persuasion)
that the application complies with the applicable requirements of this article.
To approve a minor subdivision, the director must make all of the following
findings:
         a.   The applicant has provided information sufficient to determine
whether the application complies with the relevant requirements of this
chapter.
         b.   The plat meets the requirements of subsection
8.6.302D of this article and title 50, chapter 13, Idaho Code.
         c.   The project and the lots comply with the requirements of this
chapter.
         d.   The plat, the project and the lots are in compliance with other
applicable provisions of this code without variances, or with such variances
to, or deviations from, requirements or standards as may be approved by the
director.
         e.   The plat, the project and the lots meet the requirements of all
agencies with jurisdiction and those providing services.
         f.   The subdivision design and proposed uses are compatible with
existing homes, businesses and neighborhoods, and with the natural
characteristics of the area. The subdivision creates lots of reasonable utility
and livability, capable of being built upon without imposing an unreasonable
burden on future owners. Areas not suited for development have been designated
as open space.
         g.   Negative environmental, social and economic impacts have been or
will be mitigated. Driveway construction and disturbance of terrain, vegetation
and drainageways will be minimized and will not result in soil erosion. The
design has adequately addressed site constraints or hazards.
         h.   Services and facilities which will serve the subdivision are
available and adequate. On and off site improvements, or payments in lieu of
such improvements, that are roughly proportional, both in nature and extent, to
the impact of the proposed development have been made in order to mitigate the
impacts of the subdivision so that it does not compromise the quality or
increase the cost of services.
         i.   Any trails or sidewalks included on the plat have been designed
in a manner which establishes or adequately contributes to a transportation
system for bicycles and pedestrians that is safe, efficient and minimizes
traffic congestion.
         j.   The sanitary restrictions will be lifted prior to recordation.
         k.   If any land, shared infrastructure, or improvements will be
privately maintained, documents establishing the maintenance organization have
been approved by the director and are ready to be recorded with the plat.
         l.   Any required conservation easements or other documents have been
approved by the director and are ready to be recorded with the plat.
         m.   Public notice and an opportunity for interested parties to
comment on the application have been given in accordance with the applicable
provisions of Idaho Code and this title.
      2.   Any requested variance or deviation from standards which would
otherwise apply to the proposed subdivision shall not be approved except upon
the following findings:
         a.   An undue hardship exists because of characteristics of the site;
         b.   The granting of the variance or deviation will not be in conflict
with the public interest; and
         c.   The variance or deviation is the minimum necessary to make
possible the use associated with the request.
      3.   If the application and the subdivision comply with all of the
requirements of subsection B1 of this section, the director shall approve the
application. If the application and the subdivision do not comply with one or
more of these requirements, or if insufficient information was provided to make
that determination, the director shall deny the application.
      4.   To grant approval of any requested variance or deviation from
standards which would otherwise apply to the proposed subdivision, the director
must make all of the findings set forth in subsection B2 of this section.
      5.   The order of decision of the director shall comply with section 67-
6535, Idaho Code, and shall cite the applicable legal standards, state the
evidence and conclusions on which the decision was based, and explain any
relevant contested facts and its evaluation of these facts. Decisions of
approval shall include any conditions of approval. Decisions of denial shall
identify any actions which the applicant may be able to take to gain approval.
The order of decision shall be issued within thirty five (35) days of the close
of the comment period unless otherwise agreed to by the applicant.
      6.   The decision of the director may be appealed in accordance with the
provisions of chapter 8, article 8.5 of this title. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016; amd.
Ord. 546, 10-17-2019)
8.6.304: FINAL APPROVAL AND RECORDATION OF PLAT:
Within one year of approval, the applicant must meet any conditions and submit
the mylar plat and any associated documents to the department in a form ready
to record. The applicant must obtain all signatures on the plat and associated
documents, except county signatures, before submittal to the department. All
signatures and stamps must be in reproducible, quick drying, permanent,
indelible, black ink. A current title report, which may be an updated version
of the title report originally submitted with the application, must also be
submitted with the plat. The department will check for compliance with any
conditions of approval and will obtain signatures on the plat from the chairman
of the board before the plat and any associated documents are recorded. No plat
shall be signed unless it is accompanied by written confirmation from the
department that the plat complies with all county requirements. An extension of
the one year period for recordation may be requested prior to the expiration of
the then current period, and such requests may be granted by the director for
good cause shown. If the plat is not submitted within one year, and a request
for extension is not timely made and granted by the director, the approval
shall be null and void. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
ARTICLE 6.4. MINOR AMENDMENTS
SECTION:
8.6.401: Description And Applicability
8.6.402: Application Requirements
8.6.403: Approval Procedure
8.6.404: Recordation
8.6.405: Relocations
8.6.401: DESCRIPTION AND APPLICABILITY:
This article outlines the instances in which a minor amendment to a previously
recorded subdivision or condominium plat, or portion of a plat, may be made
when the amendment cannot be accomplished under any of the exemptions set forth
in section
8.6.103 of this chapter.
   A.   Minor amendments include corrections and changes in wording which do
not affect vested rights of any owners of property, or of any legal interest in
property, located within the subdivision. Boundary line adjustments that do not
create additional lots may also be approved as a minor amendment. Unplatted
land may be added to existing subdivision lots as part of a minor amendment
involving a boundary line adjustment.
   B.   Substantial changes to a plat must be approved via the major
subdivision, minor subdivision, or condominium plat approval process, as
appropriate. With the exception of parcels created by court order, substantial
changes include the following:
      1.   Changes that would affect the location of private roads, common
driveways, driveway approaches, septic systems, building sites, easements or
utilities, unless all affected property owners have consented to the changes
proposed, in which case the provisions of section
8.6.405 of this article shall apply;
      2.   Changes that would affect the location of public roads;
      3.   Changes that would create additional lots; or
      4.   Other significant changes in wording that may affect vested rights
of any owners of property, or of any legal interest in property, located within
the subdivision. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016; amd. Ord. 546, 10-17-2019)
8.6.402: APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS:
Applications for approval of a minor amendment must comply with the
requirements set forth in this section.
   A.   The applicant shall electronically submit one (1) complete application
packet to the department consisting of all of the materials set forth in
subsection B of this section, except as may be waived by the director.
Additional packets for each agency which will be requested to review and
comment on the proposal shall also be submitted if the application was not
submitted electronically. The director will determine which agencies are to
receive applications for review and comment, and the department will forward
the application packets to those agencies. Incomplete applications will not be
processed.
   B.   The following items constitute a complete application for approval of a
minor amendment:
      1.   A completed application form signed by the property owner, or a
notarized letter from the property owner authorizing the applicant to file the
application.
      2.   Fees, as adopted by resolution of the board.
      3.   A title report or similar document containing the legal description,
ownership and easements for the affected lots or parcels.
      4.   A large plat, including the signature page and any supplemental
pages, which has been prepared by an Idaho licensed surveyor and complies with
the requirements set forth in subsection
8.6.302D of this chapter and in title 50, chapter 13, Idaho Code. The title of
the plat shall state that it is a minor amendment to the subdivision, or to the
particular lots within the subdivision.
      5.   A narrative which explains the proposed changes and responds to any
questions from the department.
      6.   The large plat shall be submitted electronically unless submittal of
hard copies is approved by the Director. When hard copy submittals are
authorized, three (3) copies of the large plat shall be submitted. (Ord. 493,
6-9-2016; amd. Ord. 546, 10-17-2019)
8.6.403: APPROVAL PROCEDURE:
   A.   Determination Of Completeness: The applicant shall submit one complete
application packet to the department consisting of a completed application form
signed by the property owner, or a notarized letter from the property owner
authorizing the applicant to file the application, plus any necessary
supporting materials, as listed in subsection
8.6.402B of this article. Additional packets for each agency which will be
requested to review and comment on the proposal shall also be submitted if the
application was not submitted electronically. The director will determine
completeness of the application and the agencies which are to receive
applications for review and comment, and the department will forward the
application packets to those agencies. Incomplete applications will not be
processed.
   B.   Agency Review: If the application is complete, the department will
forward application packets to affected agencies for their review and approval.
If the number of lots will be reduced, approval letters shall be required from
any water purveyors and sewage treatment providers that serve the subdivision.
After the packets have been sent, the applicant should contact each agency to
determine whether there are additional requirements which will apply to the
proposal.
   C.   Order Of Decision: After agency letters are received, the director
shall review the relevant evidence in the record and the standards for
approval, and shall issue an order of decision.
      1.   To approve a minor amendment, the director must make the following
findings:
         a.   The proposed changes and the plat (or survey, if appropriate) are
in compliance with title 50, chapter 13, Idaho Code and with the applicable
requirements of the county and other agencies;
         b.   The proposed changes are not among the types of substantial
changes described in subsection
8.6.401B of this article; and
         c.   There will be no negative effects on public agencies or private
entities that provide services and facilities for the subdivision.
      2.   The order of decision of the director shall comply with section 67-
6535, Idaho Code, and shall cite the applicable legal standards, state the
evidence and conclusions on which the decision was based, and explain any
relevant contested facts and its evaluation of these facts. Decisions of
approval shall include any conditions of approval. Decisions of denial shall
identify any actions which the applicant may be able to take to gain approval.
The order of decision shall be issued within thirty five (35) days of the close
of the comment period unless otherwise agreed to by the applicant.
      3.   The decision of the director may be appealed in accordance with the
provisions of chapter 8, article 8.5 of this title. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016; amd.
Ord. 546, 10-17-2019)
8.6.404: RECORDATION:
   A.   Within six (6) months of approval of a minor amendment, the applicant
must submit the mylar plat and any associated documents to the department in a
form ready to record. All signatures and stamps must be in reproducible, quick
drying, permanent, indelible, black ink.
   B.   Requirements Of Plats: All plats shall comply with the requirements of
title 50, chapter 13, Idaho Code. All property owners whose land is included in
the approved plat amendment must sign the owners' certificate on the plat. The
applicant must obtain all signatures on the plat and associated documents,
except county signatures, before submittal to the department. The department
will obtain signatures on the plat from the chairman of the board, or chairman
pro tem, before the plat and any associated documents are recorded. No plat
shall be signed unless it is accompanied by written confirmation from the
department that the plat complies with all county requirements.
   C.   Requests For Extension Of Time: An extension of the six (6) month
period for recordation may be requested prior to the expiration of the then
current period, and such requests may be granted by the director for good cause
shown. If the plat is not submitted within six (6) months, and a request for
extension is not timely made and granted by the director, the approval shall be
null and void. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016; amd. Ord. 546, 10-17-2019)
8.6.405: RELOCATIONS:
   A.   Applicability: The procedure set forth in this section shall apply to
any changes to a previously recorded plat that would affect the location of
private roads, common driveways, driveway approaches, septic systems, building
sites, easements or utilities, in which all affected property owners have
consented to the changes proposed.
   B.   Submittal Requirements:
      1.   A completed application form signed by the property owner, or a
notarized letter from the property owner authorizing the applicant to file the
application.
      2.   Fees, as adopted by resolution of the Board.
      3.   A narrative which explains the proposed changes and responds to any
questions from the Department.
      4.   An unmarked copy of the recorded plat.
      5.   A record of survey which complies with the provisions of Title 55,
Chapter 19, Idaho Code and depicts all proposed changes.
      6.   A copy of any other documents which are proposed to be recorded to
effectuate the proposed changes.
   C.   If the application is complete, the Department will review the
application, and may sent a copy to affected agencies for their review.
   D.   Approval. Upon a determination that the application is complete, and
after any requested agency responses are received, the Director shall review
the application and the standards for approval, and shall make a written
determination of approval or denial.
      1.   To approve a relocation, the Director must make the following
findings:
         a.   The proposed changes are in compliance with the applicable
requirements of the County and other agencies.
         b.   The record of survey complies with the provisions of Title 55,
Chapter 19, Idaho Code.
         c.   There will be no negative effects on public agencies or private
entities that provide services and facilities for the subdivision.
      2.   Determinations of approval shall include any conditions of approval.
Determinations of denial shall identify any actions which the applicant may be
able to take to gain approval.
      3.   The determination shall be issued within seven (7) days after the
application has been determined to be complete, or after any necessary agency
responses are received, whichever is later, provided that the determination
shall be made within fourteen (14) days after the application has been
determined to be complete even if no requested agency response has been
received.
      4.   The decision of the Director may be appealed in accordance with the
provisions of chapter 8, article 8.5 of this title.
   E.   Recordation:
      1.   Within six (6) months of approval of a relocation, the applicant
must submit the record of survey and any associated documents to the Kootenai
County Recorder's Office for recordation.
      2.   An extension of the six (6) month period for recordation may be
requested prior to the expiration of the then-current period, and such requests
may be granted by the Director for good cause shown. If the plat is not
submitted within six (6) months, and a request for extension is not timely made
and granted by the Director, the approval shall be null and void. (Ord. 546,
10-17-2019)
ARTICLE 6.5. CONDOMINIUM PLATS
SECTION:
8.6.501: Description And Applicability
8.6.502: Application Requirements
8.6.503: Approval Procedure
8.6.504: Final Approval And Recordation Of Plat
8.6.501: DESCRIPTION AND APPLICABILITY:
The procedure set forth in this article shall apply to approval of condominium
plats when the proposed condominium is located on one or more existing lots and
no further division of land on which the proposed condominium is located is
proposed. If the condominium plat does not meet these criteria, it must be
approved either as a major subdivision or a minor subdivision, as appropriate.
The determination as to whether a proposed condominium constitutes a division
of one or more existing lots shall be within the discretion of the director,
subject to the appeal procedure set forth in chapter 8, article 8.5 of this
title. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.6.502: APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Complete Application Required: The application shall submit one (1)
application packet to the Department in electronic format except as may be
approved by the Director, in which case the applicant shall submit one (1)
complete application packet to the Department, plus additional packets for each
agency which will be requested to review and comment on the proposal. The
director will determine which agencies are to receive applications for review
and comment, and the department will forward the application packets to those
agencies. The application shall include the proposed declaration of
condominium, proposed condominium plat, and all materials required for approval
of a minor subdivision as set forth in section
8.6.302 and Table 6-301 of this chapter, except as may be waived by the
director.
   B.   Fee: At the time of filing a condominium plat application, the
applicant shall pay an application fee to the department as provided in the fee
schedule approved by resolution of the board.
   C.   Incomplete Applications: An applicant may request that an incomplete
application be accepted by submitting a letter stating which items are missing,
and giving a detailed explanation and rationale for the incomplete submission.
If the director determines that the missing information is not necessary to
establish conformance with the required findings listed in subsection
8.6.503B of this article, the request may be approved, in which case, the
application will be deemed to be complete, will be vested under the then
current provisions of this chapter, and will be processed. If the director
denies the request, the application will not be processed or scheduled for
public hearing until it is complete. A denial of this request may be appealed
in accordance with the provisions of chapter 8, article 8.5 of this title.
   D.   Information Required: A proposed condominium plat and declaration of
condominium shall include all information required under title 50, chapter 13,
and title 55, chapter 15, Idaho Code. The form and content of the proposed
condominium plat and supplemental pages shall also comply with the requirements
of Table 6-301 of this chapter, with the exception of final lot lines.
   E.   Compliance With Zoning Regulations:
      1.   The proposed condominium plat shall comply with all applicable
requirements of the underlying zone as set forth in chapter 2 of this title
and, if applicable, chapter 3 of this title.
      2.   If the applicant is also applying for approval of a planned unit
development in conjunction with the proposed condominium plat, the standards
for planned unit developments shall apply, as set forth in chapter 3, article
3.3 of this title, including any modifications of other zoning standards
allowed therein. Applications for approval of a condominium plat associated
with a planned unit development shall be submitted concurrently with the PUD
application.
   F.   Processing: Except as provided in subsection C of this section, no
condominium plat application shall be processed until all maps and information
required by this section have been filed, checked and accepted by the
department, and the required fees have been paid.
   G.   Additional Requirements For Phased Condominiums:
      1.   If the condominium project will contain more than one phase, the
condominium plat for the first phase and each subsequent phase must also
include the following information:
         a.   All future buildings or structures planned for the site, showing
appropriate dimensions and locations;
         b.   Identification of the order in which subsequent buildings or
structures will be constructed;
         c.   A statement that each phase will be superseded by the subsequent
phase.
      2.   If the initial condominium plat was required to be approved through
the major subdivision, minor subdivision or planned unit development approval
process, subsequent phases may be approved under the provisions of this section
so long as the plat does not further divide land and the Director determines
that the condominium plat does not significantly deviate from the plat of any
previous phase or any conditions of approval for the initial phase. (Ord. 493,
6-9-2016; amd. Ord. 546, 10-17-2019)
8.6.503: APPROVAL PROCEDURE:
   A.   Procedure For Processing Of Applications:
      1.   Site Inspection And Plan Review: The applicant must provide a draft
declaration of condominium and conceptual condominium plat drawing. The planner
and applicant will review the approval process with the applicant and will
confer with the applicant as to the design and feasibility of the proposal.
      2.   Existing Site Disturbances And Code Violations: If any unpermitted
site disturbance or development has previously occurred (e.g., construction of
roads, driveways, building pads), a County site disturbance permit must be
obtained, a financial guarantee must be provided, and stormwater and erosion
control systems which comply with the applicable standards of chapter 7,
article 7.1 of this title, and associated resolutions and BMPs, must be
installed and approved before an application for approval of a condominium plat
will be accepted as complete for purposes of vesting and processing. The
Director may require placement or replacement of trees or other vegetation
needed for screening and buffering of the condominium as a condition of
condominium plat approval. Any other violations of this title or of title 7,
chapter 1 of this Code must also be corrected prior to application, except to
the extent that approval of the application will remedy any such violation.
      3.   Condominium Design: The applicant and design consultant will then
lay out the design of the project and, if necessary, will revise the proposed
declaration of condominium, and the project surveyor will draw a proposed
condominium plat. Any parcel where a condominium plat is proposed which is less
than five (5) acres in size and has natural slopes that equal or exceed thirty
five percent (35%) must be designed to fit the houses and roads into and around
the hillside in a manner that minimizes disturbance of the terrain, vegetation
and drainageways, that will not result in soil erosion, and that is compatible
with the natural characteristics of the area. Otherwise, the requirements for
design, improvements and maintenance for condominium plats shall be as set
forth in article 6.7 of this chapter.
      4.   Neighborhood Meeting: Prior to submitting an application, the
applicant is encouraged to meet with neighbors to discuss the proposed project.
      5.   Application: The applicant must then submit a complete application
packet to the department, including a sufficient number of complete agency
review packets as determined by the Director. The application, the proposed
declaration and proposed plat must meet the requirements of section
8.6.502 of this article. Incomplete applications will not be processed except
as provided in this article.
      6.   Agency Review:
         a.   If the application is complete, the department shall review the
application and forward it to other agencies with relevant jurisdiction or
expertise with a request for review and comment within thirty (30) days of
receipt. After the packets have been sent, the applicant should contact each
agency to determine whether there are additional requirements which will apply
to the proposed condominium. Agency responses should explain whether the
proposal appears feasible and will meet the agency's requirements, any negative
effects that may result from the condominium and any actions which may be
needed to mitigate those effects and ensure that the development does not
compromise the quality, or increase the cost, of public services and
facilities, any additional information that may be needed, and what is required
or recommended prior to final approval.
         b.   Agencies that may be asked to comment include, but are not
limited to, the fire protection and highway districts with jurisdiction, the
Idaho Transportation Department, the school district serving the area,
Panhandle Health District, the Idaho Department of Environmental Quality, the
Idaho Department of Water Resources, water and sewer service providers, utility
providers, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Kootenai County Noxious Weeds
Department, Idaho Department of Lands, Idaho Department of Fish and Game,
Kootenai-Shoshone Soil Conservation District, and the Coeur d'Alene Tribe.
Projects located within an area of city impact will also be forwarded to the
appropriate city or cities for review and comment. In addition to providing
general comments, the department will request that the following agencies
address these specific items:
            (1)   Panhandle Health District: The requirements for the lifting
of sanitary restrictions, as required prior to recordation.
            (2)   Water purveyor: A will-serve letter, any actions required to
secure water connections, and confirmation that the water system is adequate
for both domestic and fire flow, particularly if hydrants are proposed or
required.
            (3)   Sewer district: A will-serve letter, and any actions required
to secure sewer connections.
         c.   Requests by an agency for actions to be taken, or fees to be
paid, to mitigate impacts of a condominium should be roughly proportional, both
in nature and extent, to the impact of the proposed development.
      7.   Comment Period: The department shall also schedule the application
for a thirty (30) day public comment period, which shall run concurrently with
the agency comment period. The department shall cause a notice of comment
period to be published in the Coeur d'Alene Press at the applicant's expense.
The Department shall also cause notice to be mailed to all property owners
required to be noticed under Table 8-401 of this title, including any
contiguous lots or parcels under the same ownership, at the applicant’s
expense, on or before the first day of the comment period. Information
submitted prior to the close of the comment period shall be entered into the
record on the application.
   B.   Order Of Decision And Required Findings:
      1.   After the close of the comment period, the Director shall review the
relevant evidence in the record and the standards for approval, and shall issue
an order of decision. The applicant shall bear the burden of proof (including
both the burden of going forward with evidence and the burden of persuasion)
that the application complies with the applicable requirements of this article.
To approve a condominium plat, the Director must make the following findings:
         a.   The applicant has provided information sufficient to determine
whether the application complies with the relevant requirements of this
chapter.
         b.   The declaration of condominium meets the relevant requirements of
title 55, chapter 15, Idaho Code.
         c.   The condominium plat meets the relevant requirements of
subsection
8.6.302C of this chapter, title 50, chapter 13, Idaho Code, and title 55,
chapter 15, Idaho Code.
         d.   The condominium plat and the project are in compliance with other
applicable provisions of this Code without variances, or with such variances
to, or deviations from, requirements or standards as may be approved by the
Director.
         e.   The condominium plat and the project meet the requirements of all
agencies with jurisdiction and those providing services.
         f.   The design and proposed uses are compatible with existing homes,
businesses and neighborhoods, and with the natural characteristics of the area.
The condominium creates individual units and common areas of reasonable utility
and livability, capable of being built upon without imposing an unreasonable
burden on future owners. Areas not suited for development are designated as
common areas of the condominium and as open space.
         g.   Negative environmental, social and economic impacts have been, or
will be mitigated. Driveway construction and disturbance of the terrain,
vegetation and drainageways will be minimized and will not result in soil
erosion. The design adequately addressed site constraints or hazards.
         h.   Services and facilities which will serve the condominium are
available and adequate. On- and off-site improvements, or payments in lieu of
such improvements, that are roughly proportional, both in nature and extent, to
the impact of the proposed development have been made in order to mitigate the
impacts of the condominium so that it does not compromise the quality or
increase the cost of services.
         i.   The sanitary restrictions will be lifted prior to recordation.
         j.   Appropriate documents which establish a condominium owners'
association which will bear responsibility for maintenance of commonly owned
land, infrastructure, or other improvements, have been approved by the Director
and are ready to be recorded with the condominium plat.
         k.   Any required conservation easements or other documents have been
approved by the Director and are ready to be recorded with the condominium
plat.
         l.   Public notice and an opportunity for interested parties to
comment on the application have been given in accordance with the applicable
provisions of Idaho Code and this title.
      2.   Any requested variance or deviation from standards which would
otherwise apply to the proposed condominium shall not be approved except upon
the following findings:
         a.   An undue hardship exists because of characteristics of the site;
         b.   The granting of the variance or deviation will not be in conflict
with the public interest; and
         c.   The variance or deviation is the minimum necessary to make
possible the use associated with the request.
      3.   If the application and the condominium comply with all of the
requirements of subsection B1 of this section, the Director shall approve the
application. If the application and the condominium do not comply with one or
more of these requirements, or if insufficient information was provided to make
that determination, the Director shall deny the application.
      4.   To grant approval of any requested variance or deviation from
standards which would otherwise apply to the proposed condominium, the Director
must make all of the findings set forth in subsection B2 of this section.
      5.   The order of decision of the Director shall comply with section 67-
6535, Idaho Code, and shall cite the applicable legal standards, state the
evidence and conclusions on which the decision was based, and explain any
relevant contested facts and its evaluation of these facts. Decisions of
approval shall include any conditions of approval. Decisions of denial shall
identify any actions which the applicant may be able to take to gain approval.
The order of decision shall be issued within thirty five (35) days of the close
of the comment period unless otherwise agreed to by the applicant.
      6.   The decision of the Director may be appealed in accordance with the
provisions of chapter 8, article 8.5 of this title. (Ord. 514, 9-28-2017; amd.
Ord. 546, 10-17-2019; Ord. 560, 12-17-2020)
8.6.504: FINAL APPROVAL AND RECORDATION OF PLAT:
Within one year of approval, the applicant must meet any conditions and submit
the mylar plat and any associated documents to the department in a form ready
to record. The applicant must obtain all signatures on the plat and associated
documents, except County signatures, before submittal to the department. All
signatures and stamps must be in reproducible, quick drying, permanent,
indelible, black ink. A current title report, which may be an updated version
of the title report originally submitted with the application, must also be
submitted with the plat. The department will check for compliance with any
conditions of approval and will obtain signatures on the plat from the Chairman
of the Board, or Chairman Pro Tem, before the plat and any associated documents
are recorded. No plat shall be signed unless it is accompanied by written
confirmation from the department that the plat complies with all County
requirements. An extension of the one year period for recordation may be
requested prior to the expiration of the then current period, and such requests
may be granted by the Director for good cause shown. If the plat is not
submitted within one year, and a request for extension is not timely made and
granted by the Director, the approval shall be null and void. (Ord. 493, 6-9-
2016)
ARTICLE 6.6. CONSERVATION SUBDIVISIONS
SECTION:
8.6.601: Purpose
8.6.602: Density
8.6.603: Conservation Of Property
8.6.604: Green Space
8.6.605: Public Access
8.6.606: Conservation Subdivision Design Procedure
8.6.607: Additional Requirements For Conservation Subdivisions
8.6.608: Ownership Options For Green Space
8.6.601: PURPOSE:
Kootenai County encourages the use of conservation designs for subdivisions.
The purpose of a conservation subdivision is to fit the development to the
land, to cluster homes on smaller lots, to minimize road construction, to
reduce stormwater and water quality impacts, to make it possible to develop
shared water and sewage systems, and to save large areas of green space for
farming, pasture, timber production, wildlife habitat, recreation and other
uses that benefit the community. This article outlines the requirements for
conservation subdivisions. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.6.602: DENSITY:
   A.   The maximum density allowed within a conservation subdivision shall be
calculated by dividing the total acreage in the proposed subdivision by the
minimum lot size permitted in the underlying zone. For example, the maximum
density allowed within a two hundred (200) acre subdivision in the Rural Zone
would be forty (40) lots (200 ÷ 5 = 40).
   B.   If a conservation subdivision is to be located in more than one zone,
the allowable density for the land in each zone shall be calculated separately
and then added together to yield the maximum density allowed within the
subdivision. In such cases, the distribution of lots within the subdivision
need not conform to existing zone boundaries.
   C.   The minimum lot size for a building lot in a conservation subdivision
shall be eight thousand two hundred fifty (8,250) square feet. (Ord. 518, 2-15-
2018)
8.6.603: CONSERVATION OF PROPERTY:
Conservation subdivisions shall be designed to conserve at least twenty percent
(20%) of the property within the subdivision. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.6.604: GREEN SPACE:
Green space is land with natural, cultural or historic resources of value to
the community. Land that is to be preserved as green space must be a part of
the land being divided, must be unencumbered by existing conservation
easements, must be in good condition (e.g., stable, in conformance with
applicable Best Management Practices), and must fall into one or more of the
following categories:
   A.   Actively managed pasture, farm or timber land, except such agricultural
uses as may be incompatible with residential uses. Appurtenant structures,
including residential structures, are permitted as set forth in the applicable
provisions of chapters 2 and 3 of this title. However, if a residential
structure is proposed to be built on a green space lot, that lot shall be
counted as a building lot. If the proposed agricultural use requires
irrigation, water rights sufficient to support the use must be retained with
the land.
   B.   Wildlife habitat or wildlife corridors as identified by the Idaho
Department of Fish and Game or Coeur d'Alene Tribe. These areas might include
stream corridors, draws, wetlands, grassland, stands of mature timber, areas
with snags, wintering areas, nesting and roosting sites, waterfront areas and
travel corridors between habitat blocks and sources of food and water. Any
fencing in these areas must allow for the safe movement of wildlife.
   C.   Areas with native vegetation, including native grassland, or unique
vegetative communities as identified by the Idaho Conservation Data Center.
   D.   Recreational areas, including trails and wildlife viewing areas, except
such areas as may be incompatible with residential uses.
   E.   Historic or culturally significant areas.
   F.   Natural landmarks and scenic areas.
   G.   Parks, playgrounds, picnic areas, community supported gardens and
similar uses. Up to ten percent (10%) of the green space area may be used for
structures appurtenant to such uses, in conformance with applicable provisions
of this title and the requirements of other agencies with jurisdiction and
those which will provide services.
   H.   "Sensitive areas", as defined in section
8.9.403 of this title.
   I.   If public use of green space is proposed, up to two percent (2%) of
such green space may be used for public parking.
   J.   Ridge tops and other prominent, natural features.
   K.   Stream and wetland protection buffers, and land adjacent to these
areas.
   L.   Land preserved to protect drinking water supplies.
   M.   Sites for shared water, wastewater or stormwater systems.
   N.   Other land with natural, cultural or historic value. (Ord. 493, 6-9-
2016)
8.6.605: PUBLIC ACCESS:
   A.   Green space lots where public access will be allowed, whether to
residents of the subdivision only or to the public in general, may include one
or more trails into, through, around or adjacent to those lots. Trails must be
convenient and accessible to lots that are not adjacent to green space lots.
Trails do not need to provide access to the entire site. Any proposed trails
must be indicated as such on the subdivision plat, and those which do not
already exist must be constructed as part of the subdivision infrastructure.
All trails and associated easements must comply with the applicable
requirements of article 6.7 of this chapter.
   B.   The board may require installation of a parking area in conjunction
with any green space lots where access by the general public will be allowed,
and may require fencing or a vegetative buffer, or both, to separate those
areas from nearby residences. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.6.606: CONSERVATION SUBDIVISION DESIGN PROCEDURE:
Conservation subdivisions shall be designed in accordance with the following
procedure:
   A.   Identify potential green space areas that comply with the requirements
of this article.
   B.   Develop an existing resources report and site analysis map in
accordance with the requirements set forth in sections
8.6.203 and 8.6.905 this chapter.
   C.   Determine the underlying zone, maximum allowed density, and proposed
numbers of building and green space lots. Building sites should be selected and
positioned to avoid slopes in excess of fifteen percent (15%) and to take
advantage of views and green space. Note: Though building sites should be
designed to avoid slopes, this is a recommendation, not a requirement.
   D.   Align streets and trails to be compatible with topography, to minimize
road length and site disturbance, to avoid drainageways, sensitive areas, green
space lands, and slopes of fifteen percent (15%) or greater, and to meet the
requirements of this chapter and of the highway district with jurisdiction.
   E.   Draw lot lines. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.6.607: ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR CONSERVATION SUBDIVISIONS:
   A.   To the extent possible, green space must be contiguous within the
subdivision, and must be contiguous with that on adjacent properties, so as to
eventually develop a network of interconnected open space.
   B.   Concurrent with recordation of the subdivision plat, a perpetual
conservation easement meeting the requirements of section
8.6.904 of this chapter, and approved by the director and the entity accepting
the easement, must be recorded on the land that is to be conserved.
Conservation easements must be tailored to each specific situation and must
limit future development of the property, but need not affect the landowner's
ability to sell the land or to use the land within the parameters of green
space uses permitted in section
8.6.604 of this article and the terms and conditions set forth in the easement,
whichever are more restrictive. Conservation easements shall be dedicated or
conveyed to a land trust, a governmental body, or a conservation organization
that meets the requirements of subsection 55-2101(2), Idaho Code, and has
expertise in managing the type of green space that is proposed. The applicant
shall provide the conceptual boundaries of the conservation easement and the
name of the entity that will receive and hold the future easement as part of
the application for preliminary approval of a conservation subdivision. The
applicant shall also provide a letter from the proposed holder of the easement
as part of the application which indicates that the organization is willing to
accept the conservation easement. Kootenai County shall not be named as a
holder of a conservation easement. If the green space is located over the
Rathdrum Aquifer, Panhandle health district must be given an opportunity to
approve and be a signatory to the easement, and must be granted third party
right of enforcement.
   C.   Prior to application for final subdivision approval, any required
payments must be made to the stewardship fund of the organization that will
hold the conservation easement. The purpose of this payment is to cover the
yearly costs for site inspections and any necessary enforcement by the easement
holder.
   D.   Green space lands must be actively managed by the landowner, in
conformance with applicable BMPs and approved land management plans.
   E.   If the green space is to be owned by a homeowners' association,
documents establishing the association must be approved by the director, must
meet the requirements of section
8.6.902 of this chapter, and must be recorded concurrently with the plat.
   F.   Conservation subdivisions shall be subject to all other provisions of
this chapter. If any provision of this article is inconsistent with any other
provision of this chapter, the provision of this article shall take precedence.
   G.   If necessary to bring the site into conformance with applicable BMPs, a
land management plan must be developed and approved by the agency with
jurisdiction. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.6.608: OWNERSHIP OPTIONS FOR GREEN SPACE:
Green space may be owned and managed by one of the following, so long as all
green space is under the same ownership:
   A.   One or more individuals.
   B.   A corporation (for profit or nonprofit).
   C.   An incorporated homeowners' or condominium owners' association
established in conformance with section
8.6.902 of this chapter. The CC&Rs must state that the common green space
cannot be encumbered, and that the association is responsible for upkeep,
taxes, insurance and other ownership responsibilities.
   D.   A nonprofit conservation organization. If green space is to be held by
a conservation organization, appropriate provisions must be made for transfer
to another conservation organization or agency in the event that the
organization becomes unwilling or unable to manage the land.
   E.   A public agency or governmental body. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
ARTICLE 6.7. DESIGN AND MAINTENANCE STANDARDS
SECTION:
8.6.701: Purpose
8.6.702: General Design Requirements
8.6.703: Levels Of Service
8.6.704: Utility And Service Standards
8.6.705: Easements And Rights Of Way
8.6.706: Subdivision And Lot Design
8.6.707: Roads And Trails
8.6.708: Sensitive Area Requirements
8.6.709: Improvement Requirements
8.6.710: Operation And Maintenance Requirements
8.6.711: Financial Guarantees
8.6.701: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this section is to delineate the minimum on site design
requirements for major subdivisions, minor subdivisions and condominium plats.
While off site improvements may also be required to mitigate the effects of the
development, these will be considered project by project. For purposes of this
article and articles 6.8 and 6.9 of this chapter only, the term "subdivision"
shall include condominiums except where condominiums are specifically
referenced therein. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016; amd. Ord. 560, 12-17-2020)
8.6.702: GENERAL DESIGN REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   No land shall be subdivided which the board finds to be unsuitable for
building sites because of potential hazards, such as flooding, inadequate
drainage, severe erosion potential, site contamination, excessive slope,
rockfall, landslides, subsidence (sinking or settling), high groundwater,
inadequate water supply or sewage disposal capabilities, high voltage power
lines, high pressure gas lines, poor air quality, vehicular traffic hazards, or
any other situation that may be detrimental to the health, safety, or welfare
of residents or the public, unless the hazards are eliminated or adequately
mitigated.
   B.   Development of land shall occur in conjunction with services and
facilities that are appropriate for the size and density of the development.
Services and facilities necessary to serve the subdivision must be feasible,
available and adequate, and the proposal must include such on and off site
improvements as will mitigate the impacts of the development, so that the
existing quality of services is not compromised and there is no substantial
increase in the cost of services to existing residents. Mitigation of impacts
may include on and off site improvements, or payments in lieu of such
improvements, so long as they are authorized by law, are directly related to
the proposed subdivision, and are roughly proportional, both in nature and
extent, to the impacts of the proposed subdivision.
   C.   Subdivisions located within the airport overlay zone must be in
conformance with the then current airport master plan, and the plat must
include an avigation easement which has been approved by the airport director.
   D.   For lots that will not be used for habitable structures, such as open
space, unmanned utility lots and dock lots, the board may waive any of the
requirements for services and facilities listed in this article so long as the
public, agencies, infrastructure, and future lot owners will not be negatively
affected. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.6.703: LEVELS OF SERVICE:
The following levels of service are minimum requirements. Other services and
facilities may be required on a project by project basis.
   A.   For lots of less than one acre in size, the following services are
required:
      1.   A sewage disposal system meeting the requirements of Panhandle
health district or DEQ, as appropriate.
      2.   A shared water system, approved by PHD or DEQ, as appropriate, that
can provide adequate domestic fire flows or water storage, if required by the
fire district. The director may waive the shared water system requirement, if
the topography warrants a modification to the requirement.
      3.   Electrical service to each lot.
      4.   Fire protection from a fire protection district.
      5.   Road access to each new lot meeting the standards of section
8.6.707 of this article.
      6.   For subdivisions with thirty (30) or more lots, garbage collection
service must be established after fifteen (15) homes have been constructed.
   B.   For lots between 1.00 and 4.99 acres, the following services are
required:
      1.   A sewage disposal system meeting the requirements of Panhandle
health district or DEQ, as appropriate.
      2.   Reasonable assurance of an adequate and reliable water source for
each lot.
      3.   Electrical service to each lot.
      4.   Fire protection from a fire protection district.
      5.   Road access to each new lot meeting the standards of section
8.6.707 of this article.
      6.   For subdivisions with thirty (30) or more lots, garbage collection
service must be established after fifteen (15) homes have been constructed.
   C.   For lots of 5.00 acres or more, the following services are required:
      1.   A sewage disposal system meeting the requirements of Panhandle
health district or DEQ, as appropriate.
      2.   Reasonable assurance of an adequate and reliable water source.
      3.   Fire protection from a fire protection district.
      4.   Road access to each new lot meeting the standards of section
8.6.707 of this article.
      5.   For subdivisions with thirty (30) or more lots, garbage collection
service must be established after fifteen (15) homes have been constructed.
   D.   The following services are required for subdivisions in the commercial,
light industrial and industrial zones:
      1.   Adequate infrastructure for the proposed use, including treatment of
nondomestic wastewater in a wastewater treatment plant approved by DEQ. No
subsurface discharge of nondomestic wastewater is permitted.
      2.   A water system that meets the state requirements for a public water
system and can provide fire flows as required by the fire protection district
with jurisdiction.
      3.   Electrical service to each lot.
      4.   Fire protection from a fire protection district.
      5.   Publicly maintained road access to each lot, as approved by the
highway district with jurisdiction.
      6.   Garbage collection service. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.6.704: UTILITY AND SERVICE STANDARDS:
   A.   Domestic Water Systems:
      1.   Annexation, connection, or both may be required upon issuance of a
"will serve" letter for a subdivision by a water district established pursuant
to title 42, chapter 32, Idaho Code, an irrigation district established
pursuant to title 43, Idaho Code, or a public utility regulated under title 61,
Idaho Code. If water service is to be provided through a shared water system
serving ten (10) or more lots and such service will not be provided by a water
district, irrigation district, or public utility, the applicant must form a
water association, corporation, limited liability company, or other lawful
business entity, which may be either for profit or nonprofit, to own, operate
and maintain the system. Water districts and utility corporations must be
established in conformance with applicable law, and cooperative corporations
such as homeowners' associations must also comply with the requirements of
section
8.6.710 of this article and section
8.6.902 of this chapter.
      2.   The new components of a water system and any necessary improvements
to an existing system must be designed and constructed in conformance with the
requirements of DEQ, the "Idaho Standards For Public Works Construction"
promulgated by the Idaho division of public works, the fire protection district
with jurisdiction, and if applicable, the water district, utility or
corporation which will be providing service. Distribution lines shall be
installed to each lot.
   B.   Fire Protection Systems:
      1.   Subdivisions shall comply with the applicable requirements of the
fire protection district with jurisdiction, including those pertaining to
roads, driveways, fire flows, hydrants, water storage and defensible space. In
addition, each lot shall have a building site capable of being accessed by a
driveway which complies with the minimum standards of section
8.4.201 of this title, or alternatively, with the standards of the fire
protection district with jurisdiction.
      2.   Subdivisions shall also minimize the hazards associated with
wildfire, and major subdivisions in timbered areas shall provide a fire
mitigation plan developed by a professional forester that complies with the
requirements of section
8.6.901 of this chapter and is approved by the director and the fire protection
district with jurisdiction, or the Idaho department of lands, as appropriate.
The fire mitigation plan must be implemented as part of the required
improvements for the subdivision.
   C.   Sewage Disposal Systems: If a public sewage system is available and
provides a "will serve" letter, connection shall be required. If a private,
shared sewage system is available and provides a "will serve" letter,
connection may be required, providing the cost of service is commensurate with
that charged to existing customers. If connection to a shared system is
required, collection lines shall be installed to each lot. All sewage disposal
systems shall meet the standards of the Panhandle health district and/or DEQ.
If required, shared sewage systems shall be installed and approved, or the
necessary improvements secured by a financial guarantee, prior to final
approval of the subdivision. Individual septic systems may be installed after
final subdivision approval, in conjunction with building permits.
   D.   Underground Utility Placement: Underground installation of utilities
shall be required unless utility providers determine that site conditions would
preclude or would render such installation impractical or cost prohibitive,
taking into consideration such factors as terrain, available easements, safety,
maintenance, repair, replacement and the like.
   E.   Stormwater Management: Lots shall be laid out to provide drainage away
from building sites. Stormwater management and erosion control shall comply
with the requirements of chapter 7, article 7.1 of this title, in accordance
with best management practices approved by the county. Infiltration of
stormwater in small quantities is preferred. The collection and concentration
of stormwater in detention and retention basins, wet ponds, constructed
wetlands or similar facilities is discouraged and shall only be allowed when
there is no feasible alternative. The installation of curbing is also
discouraged because it concentrates runoff. Discharge of untreated stormwater
into streams, lakes, natural wetlands or groundwater is prohibited.
   F.   Under Road Utilities: Whenever a utility is proposed to be installed
under a road, the utility's location and construction shall meet the
requirements of the public highway agency with jurisdiction for public roads,
or the road owner for private roads. In all instances, placement of utilities
shall be coordinated with proposed road improvements and shall be installed
before the road is completed. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.6.705: EASEMENTS AND RIGHTS OF WAY:
   A.   Utility Easements: A general utility easement of at least ten feet
(10') in width shall be provided to each lot. Any shared components of sewage,
water, stormwater or other infrastructure systems shall either be within the
general utility easement, or within an easement dedicated or conveyed to the
entity responsible for maintenance. Easements must also be provided for
individual sewage lines and drainfields that will not be located on the same
parcel as residences.
   B.   Roads: Rights of way for public roads shall meet the requirements of
the public highway agency with jurisdiction. Private road easements shall be at
least sixty feet (60') in width. Common driveway easements shall be at least
forty feet (40') in width. Cut and fill slopes and stormwater systems adjacent
to roads and driveways must either be shown as easements or rights of way in
favor of the maintenance entity. When future access may be needed to adjacent
parcels of land, road easements and rights of way shall extend to the property
line of the subdivision. Except for private roads and common driveways approved
by the board, roads and associated rights of way shall be dedicated to the
public highway agency with jurisdiction. Private roads and common driveways
shall be dedicated to the maintenance entity.
   C.   Trails And Sidewalks: Public trail easements or rights of way may be
required, depending on the location of the subdivision and the need for
pedestrian trails or sidewalks. If required, they shall be dedicated or
conveyed to Kootenai County or to the maintenance entity. The width of trail
easements and rights of way shall be adequate for the intended use, and shall
meet the requirements of the county and the maintenance entity. When future
access may be needed to adjacent parcels of land, trail easements and rights of
way shall extend to the property line of the subdivision.
   D.   Public Access, Parks And Facilities: Public access easements or the
conveyance of land for public access, parks or facilities may be required for
subdivisions that are contiguous to: 1) public lands, 2) streams, lakes, ponds,
wetlands or similar areas, or 3) for areas designated in a county facilities
acquisition plan. If so required, the property owner shall be paid fair market
value for the easement or land.
   E.   Other Requirements:
      1.   All required easements and rights of way shall be depicted on the
face of the plat.
      2.   The board or director may also require that stream and wetland
protection buffers be shown as easements or rights of way. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.6.706: SUBDIVISION AND LOT DESIGN:
   A.   Compatibility: Subdivisions shall be designed to be compatible with
existing homes, businesses and neighborhoods, and with the natural
characteristics of the area. Subdivisions shall minimize grading, road
construction and disturbance of the terrain, vegetation, soils, and
drainageways, and shall prevent soil erosion. To achieve this, the board may
require building envelopes, no disturbance zones, height restrictions and
planting or retention of vegetation.
   B.   Lot Design: Subdivisions must result in lots of reasonable utility and
livability. Subdivision designs shall not contain irregular configurations that
result in unusable land or that may cause future land use conflicts. All
building lots must have at least one building site that can meet required
setbacks and be accessed with a driveway which complies with the standards set
forth in section
8.4.201 of this title, or alternatively, those of the fire protection district
with jurisdiction.
   C.   Lot Access: All new lots shall have frontage and direct access onto a
road or common driveway meeting the standards of section
8.6.707 of this article. A previously existing lot with an existing residence
shall not be considered a new lot. For irregularly shaped subdivisions, or
sites with severe physical constraints, the board may allow access to
individual lots via an easement. Driveway approaches to public roads must be
approved by the public highway agency with jurisdiction. No new accesses to
individual lots are permitted from state highways or arterial roads as shown on
the public highway agency's then current functional classification map. In some
cases the public highway agency may require relocation, reconfiguration,
consolidation or elimination of existing approaches.
   D.   Continuity: No single lot shall be divided by a right of way, road,
municipal or county boundary line, or by another parcel of land. To the
greatest extent possible, no single lot should be divided by a common driveway.
(Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.6.707: ROADS AND TRAILS:
   A.   Public And Private Roads:
      1.   Roads Within Subdivisions:
         a.   Roads in major subdivisions shall comply with the "Highway
Standards For The Associated Highway Districts Of Kootenai County, Idaho" ("the
standards"). Such roads may be dedicated as public roads to the highway
district with jurisdiction. Otherwise, the director shall verify that all
private roads comply with the standards, and those roads shall be dedicated to
the maintenance entity.
         b.   Roads in minor subdivisions or condominiums which provide legal
and physical access to five (5) or more parcels shall comply with the
standards. Such roads may be dedicated as public roads to the highway district
with jurisdiction. Otherwise, the director shall verify that those roads comply
with the standards, and those roads shall be dedicated to the maintenance
entity.
         c.   When future access may be needed to adjacent parcels of land,
roads within a major subdivision, minor subdivision, or condominium shall
extend to the property line of the subdivision or condominium unless topography
or other factors make continuation of the road impossible or impracticable.
      2.   Roads Connecting Subdivisions To Public Roads:
         a.   If a new road is to be constructed between a major subdivision
and the nearest existing public road, the road shall comply with the standards.
If an existing private road will connect a major subdivision to the nearest
existing public road, the road must be brought into compliance with the
standards. The road may be dedicated as a public road to the highway district
with jurisdiction. Otherwise, the director shall verify that the road complies
with the standards, and the road shall be dedicated to the maintenance entity.
         b.   If a new road is to be constructed between a minor subdivision or
condominium and the nearest existing public or private road, the road shall
comply with the standards. If the road will connect to an existing public road,
it may be dedicated as a public road to the highway district with jurisdiction.
Otherwise, the director shall verify that the road complies with the standards,
and the road shall be dedicated to the maintenance entity.
         c.   If an existing private road will connect a minor subdivision or
condominium to the nearest existing public road, the road must meet, or must be
brought into compliance with, the standards set forth in the then current
international fire code as adopted pursuant to title 7, chapter 1 of this code.
      3.   Verification Of Compliance With Highway District Standards:
         a.   If the director finds that the road complies with the standards
and that it complies with the requirements of this section, the director shall
approve the road and shall give final approval to any associated permits.
         b.   The director may seek a recommendation from the highway district
in which the road is located as to whether a newly constructed private road
complies with the standards.
         c.   If the director, upon recommendation of the highway district,
determines that a road should be approved with a variance, exception or
deviation from the standards, the road will be deemed to comply with the
standards for purposes of this chapter and section
8.4.201 of this title.
      4.   Private Roads: Subdivision and condominium plats which depict
private roads shall include a notation stating that the private roads depicted
on the plat will not be maintained by any highway district, and that there are
no guarantees, warranties or promises that the highway district with
jurisdiction will ever assume maintenance of such roads.
   B.   Common Driveways:
      1.   The board, or the director in the case of a minor subdivision or
condominium, may approve a privately maintained common driveway as the means of
access to new lots upon the following findings:
         a.   The common driveway will provide legal and physical access to
four (4) or fewer parcels;
         b.   A road through the land proposed for subdivision is not
appropriate or necessary to provide access to private lands lying adjacent to
or beyond the subdivision;
         c.   Access through the land is not now necessary, nor will it be
necessary in the future, to provide continuity of public roads with functional
grades and design; and
         d.   The lots being created will not be further subdivided, and no
additional access to the driveway will be allowed, until it is constructed in
accordance with this chapter and with the standards or any variance, exception
or deviation from the standards which has been approved by the highway district
with jurisdiction. The board may require a restriction on the plat, or the
recordation of a public covenant in favor of the county and the highway
district, to ensure compliance with this requirement.
      2.   Common driveways are a required infrastructure improvement, and
shall be constructed prior to final approval of a major subdivision, or
recordation of a minor subdivision or condominium plat, unless a financial
guarantee which complies with the requirements set forth in section
8.6.711 of this article and section
8.6.903 of this chapter is provided, in which case they shall be constructed
prior to issuance of noninfrastructure building permits. Common driveways shall
be constructed in accordance with section
8.4.201 of this title.
   C.   Connectivity: Roads, trails and sidewalks in subdivisions shall be
designed to complement and enhance existing transportation systems so as to
create an integrated network that allows for the safe and efficient movement of
people within the subdivision, to adjacent subdivisions, and to nearby
commercial areas, schools, places of worship, and other community facilities.
Roads shall be designed with as many connections as possible, and with
relatively direct routes in and out of the subdivision, without running traffic
through previously established neighborhoods. Cul-de-sacs are discouraged, but
may be approved where natural or built features preclude connection to existing
or future roads. A newly developed dead end road shall not serve more than
twenty five (25) parcels. Where feasible, subdivisions shall have at least two
(2) means of emergency access which comply with the standards set forth in
section
8.4.201 of this title, or alternatively, those of the fire protection district
with jurisdiction. When future access may be needed to adjacent parcels of
land, road and trail rights of way shall extend to the property lines of the
subdivision. Roads and trails shall be designed to minimize conflict between
vehicles and pedestrians.
   D.   Stream And Wetland Protection Buffers: Roads shall not be constructed
within stream and wetland protection buffers, except for crossings which comply
with the standards set forth in section
8.6.708 of this article.
   E.   Road Names, Signing, And Addressing: All road names, identification
signs, and addressing shall comply with the provisions of chapter 4, article
4.10 of this title, and the applicable requirements of the highway district
with jurisdiction.
   F.   Pedestrian And Bicycle Access:
      1.   Off road trails, lanes or walkways may be required:
         a.   If shown on a bicycle facilities plan adopted by the public
highway agency with jurisdiction;
         b.   Along through streets in subdivisions within one and one-half
(11/2) miles of a school, park, bicycle trail, recreational area, or community
facility; or
         c.   When necessary to ensure the safety of pedestrians and
bicyclists.
      2.   The trail shall be designed to serve the intended use, and except
for bicycle lanes, shall be separated from the road by a vegetation strip at
least five feet (5') wide. If there is no direct route through a subdivision,
or if cul-de-sacs are proposed, one or more trails may be required to provide
short, direct routes for pedestrians. For safety, trails should be located in
close proximity to and visible from homes and streets. If a trail or walkway is
required, an easement or right of way must be dedicated or conveyed in
conformance with section
8.6.705 of this article. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016; amd. Ord. 546, 10-17-2019)
8.6.708: SENSITIVE AREA REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Flood Zones: If any portion of the subdivision, or any infrastructure
which will serve the subdivision, is located within a special flood hazard
area, the plat and development plans shall comply with the standards set forth
in chapter 7, article 7.2 of this title.
   B.   Subdivisions In Viewsheds: Mountain and water views and vistas are an
important part of the character of Kootenai County, contributing to the visual
quality of the area, increasing property values, attracting visitors, and
enhancing the desirability and livability of the community. As such, it is in
the public interest that land be developed in a manner that is visually
unobtrusive, environmentally responsible, and is compatible with the character
of the area.
      1.   Subdivisions with lots of less than five (5) acres and natural
slopes of thirty five percent (35%) or greater must be designed to fit the
houses, structures and roads into and around the hillside in a manner that
minimizes disturbance of the terrain, vegetation and drainageways, that will
not result in soil erosion, and that is compatible with the natural
characteristics of the area.
      2.   If the vertical height of any cut or fill slope, or any combination
thereof, will exceed thirty feet (30'), effective measures must be taken to
mitigate the visibility of the slope.
   C.   Stream And Wetland Protection Buffers: When a subdivision abuts a
stream or wetland, a stream or wetland protection buffer must be reserved and
shown on supplemental pages to the plat. The purpose of this area is to protect
downstream property owners and water resources from increased or decreased
flows, to prevent sedimentation, to promote good water quality, and to protect
fish and wildlife habitat. Stream and wetland protection buffers shall comply
with the following requirements:
      1.   Depiction Of Buffers:
         a.   The width of stream and wetland protection buffers shall be as
set forth in table 6-701 of this section.
      TABLE 6-701
      STREAM AND WETLAND PROTECTION BUFFER WIDTHS
 
Waterway Type    Required Width
Class I streams  75 feet from the ordinary high water mark
Class II streams 30 feet from the ordinary high water mark
Wetlands         Determined by the board based on a wetland analysis
 
         b.   The area shall be labeled "Stream (Or Wetland, As Applicable)
Protection Buffer", and within this area native vegetation and large organic
debris shall be protected or replanted to leave the area in the most natural
condition possible.
      2.   Road And Utility Crossings:
         a.   Proposed road and utility crossings through a stream or wetland
protection buffer must be shown on the plat, must be kept to a minimum, and
must take the shortest possible route across the area.
         b.   Roads and utilities shall not be constructed within stream and
wetland protection buffers except at approved crossings.
      3.   Maintenance: Any necessary maintenance shall comply with the
standards set forth in chapter 7, article 7.1 of this title, and with
applicable best management practices.
      4.   Fences, Walkways, Stairway Landings, And Trams: Fences, walkways
which do not exceed four feet (4') in width, stairway landings which do not
exceed six feet (6') in length or width, and trams may be constructed in such
protection buffers, providing there is minimal disturbance of the ground and
vegetation.
      5.   Easements: The board may require that this area be shown as an
easement or a conservation easement.
   D.   Shoreline Management Areas: When a subdivision abuts a shoreline, the
shoreline management area must be reserved and shown on the plan. Activities
within the shoreline management area shall be limited to those set forth in
chapter 7, article 7.1 of this title, and shall also be in conformance with
applicable best management practices. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016; amd. Ord. 546, 10-
17-2019)
8.6.709: IMPROVEMENT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Installation Of Improvements:
      1.   Before application for final approval of any plat, required
improvements shall be either:
         a.   Installed and approved by the design professional who developed
the plans and the agencies with jurisdiction or providing services; or
         b.   Secured by a financial guarantee and subdivision completion
agreement which complies with the standards set forth in section
8.6.711 of this article and section
8.6.903 of this chapter, and has been approved by the director.
      2.   If a portion of the work has been completed and approved by the
design professional and agencies with jurisdiction or providing services, only
the remaining work will need to be covered by the financial guarantee.
   B.   Plan Approval And Site Disturbance Permit:
      1.   Approvals Required: No site disturbance, terrain modification,
construction or clearing shall take place until preliminary subdivision
approval has been granted, construction plans have been approved by all
agencies with jurisdiction and those providing services, and a site disturbance
permit has been issued by the department.
      2.   Construction Plan Signature: All construction plans shall be stamped
and/or signed by an Idaho licensed professional engineer or other appropriate
design professional.
      3.   Dust Control Required: Dust control is required on all construction
sites, and a dust control plan must be submitted for review and approval by the
director prior to the start of any site work. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.6.710: OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Operation And Maintenance Required: All subdivision improvements,
common areas and green space shall be operated and maintained by the owner, in
accordance with applicable best management practices and approved plans. An
organization that will operate and maintain shared land and improvements must
be, or have been, established prior to or concurrent with final approval and
recordation of the plat. Organizational options include taxing districts (such
as water or sewer districts), for profit corporations, limited liability
companies or other lawfully created business entities, nonprofit corporations,
limited liability companies or other lawfully created business entities, or
cooperative corporations such as a homeowners' association. If private
maintenance by a cooperative corporation is proposed, the documents
establishing the organization must meet the minimum requirements outlined in
section
8.6.902 of this chapter, must be approved by the director, and must be recorded
concurrently with the plat. In addition, if land or improvements are going to
be owned and managed by a cooperative corporation, and the corporation ceases
to exist, or fails to fulfill its obligations, the individual lot owners shall
be responsible for operation and maintenance of the land and improvements.
   B.   County Authority To Maintain Private Systems: If a private maintenance
organization fails to maintain commonly owned land, shared infrastructure or
improvements in accordance with applicable BMPs and approved maintenance plans,
the department may perform, or contract for the performance of, the necessary
maintenance, and the director may bill individual property owners for the
associated costs. Any unpaid assessments may result in termination of the
service. Before any action may be taken, the department shall notify the
maintenance organization and the property owners within the subdivision of the
deficiencies and the intended action via certified mail. Any notices sent via
certified mail which are returned to the department shall be re- sent via first
class mail. The department shall give the property owners and maintenance
organization at least forty five (45) days to correct the deficiencies before
taking action. A property owner or affected person may appeal the proposed
action in accordance with chapter 8, article 8.5 of this title. Nothing in this
section shall obligate the county to provide maintenance of private systems.
(Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.6.711: FINANCIAL GUARANTEES:
   A.   Financial Guarantee In Lieu Of Improvements: Financial guarantees may
be provided in lieu of improvements upon review and approval by the director
and all affected agencies prior to application for final approval of a
subdivision. If an agency is unwilling or unable to approve a financial
guarantee, the director may assume this authority. The amount of the guarantee
shall be one hundred fifty percent (150%) of the estimated cost of construction
and the expiration date of the guarantee shall be at least sixty (60) days
after the expected agency approval date for the improvements. Cost estimates
shall be developed by the design professional who developed the construction
plans. If it is anticipated that improvements will be completed over a period
of time, separate financial guarantees should be provided (e.g., 1 for roads,
another for the water system, etc.). Partial releases are not permitted.
   B.   Warranty: A separate financial guarantee is required as a warranty to
ensure correction of any deficiencies identified within twelve (12) months of
final agency approval of improvements. The amount of this warranty shall be ten
percent (10%) of the total cost of construction. If improvements are completed
and approved by applicable agencies and design professionals prior to
application for final subdivision approval, the warranty shall be provided with
the application. If improvements are to be completed after final approval, the
warranty shall be provided prior to release of the financial guarantee for
construction. If the applicant fails to provide this warranty, the director may
withdraw a portion of the construction guarantee to meet this requirement, or
may take other enforcement action as authorized by law.
   C.   Subdivision Completion And Warranty Agreements: A subdivision
completion and warranty agreement which complies with the requirements of
section
8.6.903 of this chapter shall accompany each financial guarantee, and must be
approved by the director. These agreements shall be contractually binding on
the department and the property owner, and, if a party to the agreement, the
contractor. Financial guarantees shall provide for installation and agency
approval of improvements within two (2) years from the date of final
subdivision approval. Upon written request by the property owner, the director
may grant one extension of up to one year for good cause shown.
   D.   Financial Guarantee For Property Corners And Street Monumentation:
Interior monuments for a subdivision need not be set prior to the recording of
the subdivision plat if the following conditions are met:
      1.   The land surveyor performing the survey work in connection with the
plat certifies that the interior monuments will be set within one year of the
recordation of the plat; and
      2.   The applicant furnishes to the county a bond or cash deposit
guaranteeing the payment of one hundred percent (100%) of the estimated cost of
setting the interior monuments for the subdivision as provided in sections 50-
1332 and 50-1333, Idaho Code.
   E.   Types Of Financial Guarantees:
      1.   The county will accept the following types of financial guarantees:
         a.   An irrevocable letter of credit issued by a financial institution
chartered by the federal government or a state government.
         b.   Cash deposit (cash, cashier's check, bank draft, or money order).
         c.   Certificate of deposit or other similar bank account which
provides that the board and the director have exclusive access to the account.
      2.   In addition, the director may accept surety bonds for required
warranties, and for a portion of financial guarantees for incomplete
improvements, except those related to stormwater and erosion control. A surety
bond will not be accepted for stormwater or erosion control work. If accepted
for other incomplete improvements, at least seven thousand five hundred dollars
($7,500.00) of the required financial guarantee must be provided in the form of
a letter of credit, cash or a bank account.
   F.   Failure To Complete Improvements Or Correct Deficiencies: Any failure
to complete improvements or correct deficiencies in accordance with a
subdivision completion or warranty agreement and approved plans shall
constitute good and sufficient cause for the director to take enforcement
action in accordance with chapter 8, article 8.6 of this title or as otherwise
authorized by law, and/or to draw on the funds and contract for completion of
the work. In addition to direct costs to complete the work, the director may
also withdraw funds to cover the department's administrative costs associated
with such actions. Before any action may be taken, the department shall give
the property owner written notice via certified mail. Any notice sent via
certified mail which is returned to the department shall be re-sent via first
class mail. The property owner shall permit the contractor and department staff
to access the property to complete the necessary improvements. If the director
or board is unable to gain access to the funds, or if costs exceed the value of
the financial guarantee, the property owner will be billed for the outstanding
balance.
   G.   Release Of Financial Guarantee: No financial guarantee shall be
released until the associated improvements have been approved in writing by the
agencies with jurisdiction or providing services, the developer's design
professional and the director. No partial releases are permitted. (Ord. 493, 6-
9-2016)
ARTICLE 6.8. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
SECTION:
8.6.801: Plat, Road, Right Of Way Or Easement Vacations
8.6.802: Lot Sales And Building Permits
8.6.803: Condition Modification
8.6.804: Penalty For Sale Of Unplatted Lots
8.6.805: Effect Of Sale Of Property On Application
8.6.806: Sunsetting Of Unrecorded Plats
8.6.807: Unlawful Subdivision, Recordation Of Plats, And Site Work
8.6.808: Certificate Of Lawful Division
8.6.801: PLAT, ROAD, RIGHT OF WAY OR EASEMENT VACATIONS:
Applications for vacation of existing plats, private roads, rights of way,
easements, or other conveyances shall be submitted to, and processed by, the
department in accordance with title 50, chapter 13, Idaho Code. The procedure
for notice and hearing of such applications shall be in accordance with section
50-1306A, Idaho Code, and chapter 8, article 8.4 of this title. Vacations of
public roads and rights of way shall be administered by the public highway
agency with jurisdiction. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.6.802: LOT SALES AND BUILDING PERMITS:
   A.   Non-infrastructure building permits may be issued upon recordation of a
final plat. However, except as provided in subsection B of this section, no
certificates of occupancy will be issued until all infrastructure improvements
are complete and approved by all agencies with jurisdiction and providing
services.
   B.   A certificate of occupancy may be issued for one (1) residential
structure on one (1) lot so long as the infrastructure serving the home has
been completed and all necessary approvals have been obtained. (Ord. 493, 6-9-
2016; amd. Ord. 560, 12-17-2020)
8.6.803: CONDITION MODIFICATION:
At any time prior to expiration of preliminary subdivision approval, a
modification of a condition of approval may be requested according to the
following procedure:
   A.   Application Requirements: The following items constitute a complete
application:
      1.   A completed application form signed by the property owner, or a
notarized letter from the property owner authorizing the applicant to file the
application.
      2.   Fees, as adopted by resolution of the board.
      3.   A narrative explaining why the requested condition modification is
necessary.
      4.   The director may require additional information to determine
compliance with applicable provisions of this title, or the requirements of
agencies with jurisdiction or those providing services.
   B.   Approval Procedure:
      1.   For major subdivisions, the approval procedure and required findings
shall be the same as those for preliminary approval of the subdivision, as set
forth in section
8.6.204 of this chapter.
      2.   For minor subdivisions, the approval procedure and required findings
shall be the same as the original approval procedure, as set forth in section
8.6.303 of this chapter.
      3.   For condominiums, the approval procedure and required findings shall
be the same as the original approval procedure, as set forth in section
8.6.503 of this chapter. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.6.804: PENALTY FOR SALE OF UNPLATTED LOTS:
   A.   Penalty: In accordance with section 50-1316, Idaho Code, any person who
shall dispose of or offer for sale any lots prior to recordation of a plat, as
provided in sections 50-1301 through 50-1325, Idaho Code, shall pay one hundred
dollars ($100.00) for each lot and part of a lot sold or disposed of or offered
for sale.
   B.   Notice Of Penalty And Appeal:
      1.   A person upon whom a penalty is imposed shall receive written notice
of intent to assess the penalty provided in this section, including the factual
basis supporting the imposition of the penalty. Before any action may be taken,
the department shall give the property owner written notice via certified mail.
Any notice sent via certified mail which is returned to the department shall be
re-sent via first class mail.
      2.   The penalty may be appealed to the board in accordance with the
provisions of chapter 8, article 8.5 of this title.
      3.   If the board finds that a violation of this section occurred, or if
the alleged violator fails to appear at the appeal hearing or fails to request
a hearing, the violation shall be deemed to have been conclusively established,
and the appropriate penalty shall be applied.
      4.   In addition, if the board finds that a portion of property that is
the subject of a subdivision application was divided prior to recordation of
the plat, the underlying application shall be declared null and void in
accordance with subsection
8.6.805A of this article.
   C.   Enforcement: Enforcement of the penalty provided in this section shall
not preclude the director or board from taking additional enforcement action as
set forth in chapter 8, article 8.6 of this title or as otherwise authorized by
law. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.6.805: EFFECT OF SALE OF PROPERTY ON APPLICATION:
   A.   If a portion of the property that is the subject of a subdivision
application is divided prior to recordation of the plat, the application shall
become null and void, and the owner will be required to submit a new
application to the department. If the property is not divided, but is sold in
its entirety, a new application shall not be required, and the new owner may
proceed through the applicable subdivision approval process with the existing
application.
   B.   If any unit or interest in the property that is the subject of a
proposed condominium plat is sold prior to recordation of the plat, the
application shall become null and void, and a new application must be filed by
the owner. If the property is sold in its entirety, a new application will not
be required, and the new owner may proceed through the condominium plat
approval process under the existing application. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.6.806: SUNSETTING OF UNRECORDED PLATS:
Any plats previously approved without recordation deadlines, and which have not
been recorded as of the effective date of this title, are hereby declared to be
null and void. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.6.807: UNLAWFUL SUBDIVISION, RECORDATION OF PLATS, AND SITE WORK:
As provided for in sections 67-6518 and 67-6527, Idaho Code, it shall be
unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, or their agent, to knowingly and
wilfully cause a subdivision or condominium plat to be recorded, or to
knowingly and wilfully participate in constructing a road, installing utilities
or otherwise developing a subdivision, except in conformance with this chapter.
Any subdivision or condominium plat which is recorded in violation of the
provisions of this chapter, or of title 50, chapter 13, Idaho Code, shall be
deemed void ab initio. In addition to actions and penalties provided in title
50, chapter 13, Idaho Code, any person, firm, or corporation, or their agent,
who knowingly and wilfully commits, participates in, assists in or maintains
any violation of this chapter may be subject to civil and criminal enforcement
actions in accordance with the provisions of chapter 8, article 8.6 of this
title. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.6.808: CERTIFICATE OF LAWFUL DIVISION:
Upon request, and payment of applicable fees, the Department shall issue a
certificate of lawful division to the owner of any parcel which the Department
confirms has been lawfully divided in accordance with the provisions of this
title or any predecessor thereto. (Ord. 546, 10-17-2019)
ARTICLE 6.9. DOCUMENTATION STANDARDS
SECTION:
8.6.901: Standards For Wildfire Mitigation Plans
8.6.902: Standards For Documents Establishing Cooperative Entities To Operate
And Maintain Shared Land Or Improvements Within Subdivisions Or Condominiums
8.6.903: Standards For Subdivision Completion And Warranty Agreements
8.6.904: Standards For Conservation Easements
8.6.905: Standards For Existing Resource Reports And Site Analysis Maps
8.6.901: STANDARDS FOR WILDFIRE MITIGATION PLANS:
The standards set forth in this section are the minimum standards for wildfire
mitigation plans whenever such plans are required to be submitted to the
department. Although not intended to be a comprehensive list, as each plan will
be different and will need to be tailored to the needs of the particular
subdivision to which it will apply, the following items, at a minimum, shall be
included in all wildfire mitigation plans:
   A.   Site Plan: A site plan must be submitted which shows the following:
      1.   The location of draws, ridges, steep slopes and other potentially
hazardous physical features. Slopes shall be depicted according to the
following categories:
0% and <15%
15% and <35%
35%
      2.   Aspect (i.e., north, south, east, west facing).
      3.   The location of existing structures, and the approximate location of
proposed structures.
      4.   The location of any railroad lines.
      5.   Existing or proposed roads that could be used for emergency ingress
and egress, with the slope and width of the roads noted. Two (2) means of
access to the subdivision should be provided. Emergency access roads must
comply with the standards for access driveways set forth in section
8.4.201 of this title, or alternatively, those of the fire protection district
with jurisdiction. Turnarounds at the end of driveways must be at least fifty
feet (50') from structures, and one pullout should be provided for every four
hundred feet (400') of driveway length. Turnarounds must be located away from
structures so they are accessible if the structures are on fire.
      6.   A fuel hazard rating map, broken out into the following categories:
         a.   Low hazard: Areas in which fuels consist of grass, weeds, and
shrubs.
         b.   Medium hazard: Areas in which fuels consist of brush, large
shrubs and small trees.
         c.   High hazard: Areas containing heavy accumulation of large fuels
(timber, large brush).
      7.   The location of existing and proposed firebreaks.
      8.   The location of existing and proposed overhead power lines, propane
tanks or other features that might cause or accelerate a wildfire.
      9.   The location of hydrants and emergency sources of water.
   B.   Report: A written report must be submitted which provides the following
information:
      1.   An explanation of any features of the site that might help
firefighting efforts, such as nearby water systems or fire stations.
      2.   An outline of how perimeter and internal fuel breaks will be
designed, constructed and maintained.
      3.   Short and long term plans for eliminating dangerous vegetative and
fuel conditions in and around proposed building sites. Canopy cover in these
areas should be less than fifty percent (50%), lower branches should be pruned,
the ground should be relatively free of debris, and ladder fuels and dead and
dying trees must be removed. Snags that do not present a fire hazard should,
however, be left standing to provide habitat for birds and wildlife.
      4.   Verification that power lines have been installed underground, or
will be installed underground if required pursuant to the provisions of this
code. If lines have not been or will not be installed underground, the report
must include an explanation of why they cannot be installed underground, and it
must include plans for routine trimming of overhanging tree limbs, and for
removal of ground debris below the lines.
      5.   Confirmation that there will be safe and adequate emergency access
for residents and emergency personnel entering and exiting individual lots and
the general area.
      6.   Identification of sufficient and accessible emergency water supplies
for firefighting purposes. Water sources cannot be located within fifty feet
(50') of a structure, must be surrounded with defensible space, and should be
clearly identified with signs approved by the fire district, IDL or Kootenai
County.
      7.   A description of any modifications or appurtenances needed to allow
use of water sources (e.g., pumps or hydrants). If pumps are served by
aboveground power lines, plans for emergency power generation may be required.
(Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.6.902: STANDARDS FOR DOCUMENTS ESTABLISHING COOPERATIVE ENTITIES TO OPERATE
AND MAINTAIN SHARED LAND OR IMPROVEMENTS WITHIN SUBDIVISIONS OR CONDOMINIUMS:
   A.   General: Cooperative entities, such as homeowners' associations,
condominium owners' associations, or road maintenance associations, may need to
be established when commonly owned land, shared infrastructure, or improvements
are privately maintained. The following are the minimum standards for the
documents which establish these entities whenever such documents are required
to be submitted to the department and recorded. This is not intended to be a
comprehensive list of all the necessary elements of these documents, as each
entity established through these documents will be different and will need to
be tailored to the needs of the particular development to which it will apply.
   B.   Required Governing Documents: A cooperative entity must be created with
the following governing documents, and must be recorded concurrently with the
plat:
      1.   Articles of incorporation, organization, or equivalent, filed with
the Idaho secretary of state, which establish the organization as a
corporation, limited liability company or other lawful business entity.
Articles of incorporation, organization, or equivalent must comply with the
requirements of title 30, Idaho Code, which apply to the entity created, and
must include the following:
         a.   The purpose and responsibilities of the entity;
         b.   Provisions for the membership of lot owners in the entity;
         c.   Authorization to levy assessments upon members, enforceable by
civil action or lien upon real property to which membership rights are
appurtenant;
         d.   A statement that the entity shall have perpetual duration and
succession, and shall have the same powers as an individual to do all things
necessary or convenient to carry out its affairs; and
         e.   If specific provisions are included for managing the affairs of
the entity, collecting assessments, or defining the powers, rights, limitations
or obligations of the entity, its board or members, those provisions must be
consistent with the required elements of the CC&Rs and bylaws.
      2.   Covenants, conditions, and restrictions (CC&Rs) which create the
obligations regarding the use and improvement of real property that are legally
binding upon the cooperative entity and all lot owners, and which must run with
the land. For condominiums, a declaration of condominium which complies with
the requirements of section
8.6.502 of this chapter shall be sufficient to satisfy this requirement.
Otherwise, the following are the required elements of CC&Rs:
         a.   A statement that the owner of any lot in the development, by
acceptance of a deed or other conveyance, is deemed to consent to membership in
the entity, and to covenant and agree to the terms and requirements of the
CC&Rs, which constitute a contract between the entity and each lot owner.
         b.   A statement that use of the services provided by the entity is
required.
         c.   A statement that each lot owner shall pay assessments made by the
entity for the operation and maintenance of commonly owned land, shared
infrastructure or improvements, together with applicable interest, late
charges, attorney fees, court and other collection costs. The CC&Rs must also
state that assessments and other charges are the personal obligation of the
owner of each lot at the time the assessment is due, and that his or her
grantee shall be jointly and severally liable for such portion thereof as may
be due and payable at the time of conveyance.
         d.   Effective methods of enforcing payment of assessments, which must
include the authority to withhold service, to take civil action to recover a
money judgment for unpaid assessments, and to assess, record and foreclose a
lien against the real property of entity members. Other, optional methods of
enforcing payment include late fees and restrictions on voting. Individual lot
owners must also have the ability to enforce the CC&Rs.
         e.   A statement that commonly owned land and improvements shall be
operated and maintained in conformance with applicable best management
practices and approved land management plans.
         f.   A requirement that the governing board of the entity must
maintain a capital replacement plan for improvements managed by the entity, and
a statement that annual assessments must be adequate to cover anticipated
capital expenses. Funds collected as reserves for capital expenses must be
deposited in separate accounts and held in trust.
         g.   A statement that if the entity, or individual lot owners, fail to
operate and maintain commonly owned land, shared infrastructure or improvements
in accordance with approved plans and applicable best management practices, the
county may contract for necessary operation and maintenance and bill the
individual lot owners on a pro rata basis. If it is necessary for the county to
assume this responsibility, the county shall have the same authority as the
governing board of the entity, including the right to suspend service for
nonpayment of assessments.
         h.   Enforcement procedures, including recourse for improper use of
common property.
         i.   Notification procedures.
         j.   Procedures for amending the CC&Rs and a requirement that
amendments be recorded.
         k.   A statement that the entity shall not divest itself of
responsibility for operating and maintaining common land or shared improvements
except to the individual lot owners or a public agency or organization that
agrees to assume the responsibilities. At a minimum, the individual lot owners
must have a means of taking over the responsibilities and authorities of the
governing board of the entity if it fails to carry out its obligations, and if
that occurs each lot owner must be given an equal and undivided interest in
property previously owned by the entity.
         l.   The CC&Rs of a cooperative entity that has operation or
maintenance responsibilities must be of perpetual duration unless the
individual lot owners, a public agency or other organization agrees to assume
those duties.
         m.   A statement that until management of the entity is transferred
from the developer to the governing board of the entity, the developer shall
fulfill all of the duties and responsibilities of the entity, and shall have
the authority to exercise all of the rights and powers of the entity. At the
time that management of the entity is turned over to the entity's governing
board, all commonly owned land and all components of shared improvements must
be in good operating order and must be in compliance with applicable laws,
regulations, conditions of approval, BMPs, and, if applicable, approved
operation and maintenance (O&M) and land management plans. Before management of
the entity is turned over to the entity's governing board, the developer shall
ensure that the entity is fully funded and operational, and shall provide the
entity with sufficient funds to meet anticipated expenses for one year.
         n.   A statement of the location of the articles of incorporation,
organization, or equivalent, bylaws, CC&Rs, rules, and any amendments to any of
these documents.
         o.   A severability clause.
         p.   All required approval signatures.
         q.   A legal description of land to which the CC&Rs will apply.
      3.   Bylaws which govern the internal affairs of the cooperative entity,
including voting rights, elections, officers, meetings, and the amendment
process. Bylaws shall comply with the requirements of title 30, Idaho Code,
which apply to the entity created. The bylaws, in conjunction with the articles
of incorporation, organization, or equivalent, must establish a cooperative
entity that can effectively collect assessments and maintain commonly owned
land, shared infrastructure and improvements. The following are required
elements of the bylaws for cooperative entities:
         a.   Name, principal office and definitions.
            (1)   Name of the cooperative entity.
            (2)   Address for the office of the entity and, if different,
address of the registered agent for service of process.
            (3)   Definition of terms.
         b.   Membership, meetings, quorum, voting, and proxies.
            (1)   A statement that membership in the cooperative entity is
automatic and mandatory when property is purchased within the development. The
bylaws must include a statement that the owner of any lot within the
development, by acceptance of a deed or other conveyance, is deemed to consent
to membership in the entity, to use the services furnished by the entity, and
to abide by the terms and requirements of the entity. The bylaws should also
inform members that the members of a cooperative entity, by dealing with the
entity, acknowledge that the terms and provisions of the articles of
incorporation and bylaws, as well as policies, rules and regulations, shall
constitute and be a contract between the entity and each member, and both the
entity and the members are bound by such contract, as fully as though each
patron had individually signed a separate instrument containing such terms and
provisions.
            (2)   A statement of the place, time, and notice requirements of
all regular and special membership meetings. The entity must hold at least one
membership meeting each calendar year at a time and place stated in, or fixed
in accordance with the bylaws. Notice and conduct of meetings must comply with
the requirements of title 30, Idaho Code, which apply to the entity created.
            (3)   A process by which the members may call for a special meeting
in accordance with the requirements of title 30, Idaho Code, which apply to the
entity created.
            (4)   A statement as to who is entitled to vote, how proxies are
handled, what constitutes a quorum, and what majority is needed to enact
resolutions, rules, amendments, and other actions.
            (5)   Provisions regarding membership meetings which, at a minimum,
require the president and chief financial officer to report on the activities
and financial condition of the entity, and provide members with an opportunity
to consider and act upon other matters.
            (6)   Provisions for actions that can be taken without a membership
meeting, if any.
         c.   Governing board.
            (1)   Composition of the governing board, including the number of
directors, length of terms, and procedures for nomination, election, removal
from office, and the filling of vacancies. The board must consist of at least
three (3) individuals.
            (2)   For both regular and special meetings, what constitutes a
quorum, and what actions can be taken by the governing board with and without a
formal meeting.
            (3)   Conduct of board meetings, including when meetings are
required to be open and when they may be held in executive session.
            (4)   The duties of the governing board, which must include:
               (A)   Recording and retaining minutes of regular and special
meetings;
               (B)   Retaining a record of actions taken by members, committees
or directors without a meeting;
               (C)   Keeping accurate records of expenses and payments;
               (D)   Maintaining the names and addresses of members and
officers, along with the number of votes they are entitled to cast;
               (E)   Maintaining a capital replacement plan for improvements
managed by the entity; and
               (F)   Providing lot owners with information on the entity's
finances.
            (5)   The powers of the governing board, which must include:
               (A)   Authority and procedures for establishing budgets,
adopting fees, billing and collecting assessments, borrowing money, making
payments, and contracting for maintenance and repairs;
               (B)   The ability to adopt rules for governing common property
and improvements;
               (C)   The ability to establish special committees to assist in
management of the entity;
               (D)   Methods of enforcing the covenants, conditions,
restrictions, or rules of the entity; and
               (E)   The authority to levy and collect assessments, including
effective methods of enforcing collections, including the authority to withhold
service, to take civil action to recover a money judgment for unpaid
assessments, and to assess, record and foreclose a lien against the real
property of its members, as authorized in section 45-810, Idaho Code.
            (6)   Specific procedures must be included for regular, special and
long term capital improvement assessments. Annual assessments must be adequate
to cover anticipated capital expenses, and funds collected as reserves for
capital expenses must be deposited in a separate account held in trust for the
purposes for which they are collected.
         d.   Officers.
            (1)   The number of officers, the length of terms, and procedures
for nomination, election, removal from office, and the filling of vacancies. It
is recommended that cooperative entities have, at a minimum, a president, vice
president, secretary, and treasurer (or secretary/treasurer).
            (2)   Powers and duties of the officers.
         e.   Miscellaneous provisions.
            (1)   Procedures for the transfer of control of the entity from the
developer to the governing board. Until management of the entity is transferred
from the developer to the governing board of the entity, the developer shall
fulfill all of the duties and responsibilities of the entity, and shall have
the authority to exercise all of the rights and powers of the entity. At the
time that management of the entity is turned over to the entity's governing
board, all commonly owned land and all components of shared improvements must
be in good operating order and must be in compliance with applicable laws,
regulations, conditions of approval, BMPs, and, if applicable, approved O&M and
land management plans. Before management of the entity is turned over to the
entity's governing board, the developer shall ensure that the entity is fully
funded and operational, and shall provide the entity with sufficient funds to
meet anticipated expenses for one year.
            (2)   The process for amendment of the bylaws must be specified
including who may initiate an amendment, what majority is needed to pass an
amendment, and who may sign an approved amendment.
            (3)   A cooperative entity that has operation or maintenance
responsibilities must be of perpetual duration unless the individual lot
owners, a public agency or other organization agrees to assume those duties.
            (4)   Provisions regarding default of the entity, including a
statement of how system maintenance will be handled if the entity fails to
fulfill its responsibilities. At a minimum, the individual lot owners must have
a means of taking over the responsibilities and authorities of the governing
board if it fails to carry out its obligations, and each lot owner must be
given an equal and undivided interest in any property previously owned by the
entity.
            (5)   Provisions for the declarant to assign rights and
responsibilities related to the development to another party upon transfer of
ownership of the property.
            (6)   Fiscal year.
            (7)   How conflicts of interest are handled.
            (8)   Provisions regarding books and records, including a
requirement that a third party financial audit must be conducted at least once
every five (5) years.
            (9)   Notification procedures and requirements (to homeowners,
lenders, etc.).
            (10)   An indemnification statement for officers of the entity.
            (11)   A statement of the location of the articles of
incorporation, organization, or equivalent, bylaws, CC&Rs, rules, and any
amendments to any of these documents.
            (12)   Signatures of all appropriate officials in accordance with
law, the articles of incorporation organization, or equivalent, and the bylaws,
if previously adopted.
            (13)   A severability clause.
            (14)   A legal description of land governed by the cooperative
entity.
      4.   A summary of what will be owned by the cooperative entity, copies of
recorded deeds, rights of way and easements allowing the cooperative entity
access to property not within its ownership, and copies of easements on land
that will be owned by the cooperative entity (e.g., conservation easements).
      5.   For major subdivisions, a capital replacement plan must be developed
by the project engineer and must include an inventory, projected service life
and estimated replacement cost for all components of all improvements that will
be operated and maintained by the cooperative entity (e.g., water, sewer, and
stormwater systems). This document will enable the cooperative entity to plan
for periodic, major expenses associated with replacement of system components.
      6.   For major subdivisions, operation and maintenance (O&M) plans and
manuals for infrastructure improvements. O&M plans must be developed by the
project engineer, and must include:
         a.   A schedule of routine maintenance, performance checks and
preventive practices;
         b.   Manufacturer's literature;
         c.   A contact list for system repairs; and
         d.   Operational procedures.
      7.   A budget which summarizes anticipated expenses and revenues over the
first five (5) years of operation, including accrual of an emergency fund
adequate to replace the largest system component, a cash operating fund
adequate to operate the systems for two (2) months in case there is a revenue
shortfall, and a capital replacement fund which provides adequate funding for
the capital replacement plan. This budget must include costs associated with
any land owned by the cooperative entity such as taxes, insurance, upkeep, etc.
      8.   If property will be owned by the cooperative entity, a land
management plan must be provided. This plan must conform to applicable BMPs,
and must also ensure that any land designated as green space will be owned and
maintained in accordance with the applicable requirements of this chapter.
   C.   Recommended Documents: Optional, but recommended documents include
separate rules and regulations governing the use of commonly owned land, shared
infrastructure or improvements (e.g., a water system or recreation area). (Ord.
493, 6-9-2016)
8.6.903: STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION COMPLETION AND WARRANTY AGREEMENTS:
The following are the minimum standards for subdivision completion and warranty
agreements whenever such plans are required to be submitted to the department.
Although not intended to be a comprehensive list, as each agreement will be
different and will need to be tailored to the needs of the particular
subdivision to which it will apply, the following items, at a minimum, shall be
included in all subdivision completion and warranty agreements:
   A.   The effective date of the agreement.
   B.   The name, mailing address and phone number of the property owner, the
owner's representative, if applicable, and the department. If a person or
entity other than the property owner is providing the financial guarantee (such
as a developer or contractor), that person or entity must also be included as a
party to the agreement.
   C.   The subdivision name and case number.
   D.   A general description of the subdivision location, including section,
township, and range, and the parcel numbers of each lot within the subdivision.
   E.   The size of the subdivision in acres.
   F.   A statement that all subdivision improvements shall comply with the
standards set forth in this title, and shall conform to the approved plans on
file with the department (with the file number of those plans cited).
   G.   A cost estimate for required improvements, or for warranties, the
actual cost of construction of required improvements, provided by the design
professionals who developed the construction plans. This document shall be
attached and referenced as exhibit A to the agreement.
   H.   For financial guarantees in lieu of improvements, a statement that the
applicant has established a financial guarantee to ensure completion of
required improvements in the amount of one hundred fifty percent (150%) of the
estimated cost, with the amount listed. Any improvements that have not been
completed and approved by the applicable agencies and design professionals must
be included in the cost estimate.
   I.   For warranties, a statement that the applicant has established a
financial guarantee to ensure completion of required warranty repairs.
Warranties shall be a separate financial guarantee required for all
subdivisions and must cover ten percent (10%) of the actual cost of all
required improvements.
   J.   The type of guarantee provided, with the original attached and
referenced as exhibit B to the agreement (or a copy of the check provided, plus
a copy of the receipt).
   K.   A completion schedule for required improvements, attached and
referenced as exhibit C to the agreement.
   L.   Anticipated agency approval date for the improvements, which must be at
least sixty (60) days before expiration of the financial guarantee.
   M.   For warranties on completed, approved infrastructure, the actual date
of agency approval, and the deadline for completion of any warranty work.
Warranties must cover a period of one year after initial agency approval of
improvements, and the deadline for completion of warranty work must be at least
sixty (60) days before the expiration of the financial guarantee.
   N.   A statement that this agreement is contractually binding on the
parties.
   O.   A statement that upon completion of the improvements and written
approval by applicable agencies, design professionals, and the director, the
department shall release the guarantee.
   P.   A statement that partial releases of financial guarantees are not
permitted. If improvements are to be completed in phases, the applicant should
provide separate financial guarantees with separate agreements.
   Q.   A statement that if the required improvements are not completed and
approved by the appropriate design professionals and applicable agencies prior
to the above date, or within the time allowed by a written extension granted by
the director, the director may withdraw necessary funds from the financial
guarantee, hire a contractor, enter onto the property, and have the
improvements completed. In addition to contracting costs, the director may also
withdraw funds to cover the department's administrative costs, including
attorney fees.
   R.   For warranties, a statement that any necessary repairs shall be
completed in a timely manner, in accordance with deadlines established by the
director or other agency with jurisdiction. If repairs are not completed and
approved by applicable agencies at least sixty (60) days prior to expiration of
the warranty, the director may withdraw funds adequate to pay for the repairs,
along with the department's administrative costs, including attorney fees.
   S.   A statement that the department shall give written notice to the
property owner and other parties to the agreement, via certified mail, before
any action is taken to withdraw funds from the financial guarantee. Any funds
remaining after completion of necessary improvements shall be returned to the
party that provided the financial guarantee.
   T.   The process for renegotiation of the agreement.
   U.   The process by which the agreement may be transferred to the
applicant's successor in interest, with the approval of the director. If
transferred, the agreement must be made binding on any successors in interest.
   V.   A statement that the laws of the state of Idaho shall govern the
agreement, and that jurisdiction and venue for any dispute shall be in the 1st
judicial district court, Kootenai County, Idaho.
   W.   Notarized signatures of all owners of the property and other parties to
the agreement.
   X.   If the financial guarantee is provided by someone other than the
property owner, the notarized signature of that party shall also be required.
   Y.   Signature lines for the director and the chairman of the board, with an
attestation by the clerk for the chairman's signature. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.6.904: STANDARDS FOR CONSERVATION EASEMENTS:
The following are the minimum standards for conservation easements whenever
such plans are required to be submitted to the department. Although not
intended to be a comprehensive list, as each easement will be different and
will need to be tailored to the needs of the parties to the easement and the
particular parcel(s) to which it will apply, the following items, at a minimum,
shall be included in all conservation easements:
   A.   Identification Of Parties And Recitals:
      1.   The names of all grantors and grantees, including any governmental
bodies or conservation organizations to be vested with a third party right of
enforcement.
      2.   The effective date of the deed conveying the conservation easement.
      3.   A statement that the grantors are the sole owners, in fee simple, of
the real property that will be covered by the easement, as legally described in
an exhibit attached to the easement deed.
      4.   A description of the characteristics of the property that has been
designated for protection, and the general purposes of the easement.
      5.   A reference to an attached baseline inventory that establishes the
condition of the property at the time of conveyance.
      6.   The qualifications of the grantee which enable it to act as a lawful
holder of the easement, or which authorize it to be vested with a third party
right of enforcement. Holders of the easement and organizations with third
party right of enforcement must meet the requirements of subsection 55-2101(2),
Idaho Code.
      7.   A statement granting the easement, signed by all parties with an
interest in the property.
      8.   A statement accepting the easement, signed by all holders of the
easement and all organizations with third party right of enforcement.
      9.   A statement that the easement is being created pursuant to the
uniform conservation easement act, title 55, chapter 21, Idaho Code.
   B.   Grant Provisions:
      1.   A detailed statement of purposes, which must include a statement
that the land is to be preserved for one or more uses meeting the definition of
green space set forth in section
8.6.604 of this chapter.
      2.   A requirement that the land be managed in conformance with
applicable best management practices and approved land management plans.
      3.   A statement regarding the rights of the grantee, including the right
to protect the conservation values of the land, to inspect the property to
determine compliance with the terms of the easement, and the right to enforce
the terms of the easement. This section must also outline notification and
inspection procedures.
      4.   Procedures for enforcement of the terms of the easement, which must
outline enforcement procedures, specific remedies available to the grantee to
correct violations of the easement, and how enforcement costs will be handled.
      5.   Prohibited uses of the property, which must include further division
of the land, any industrial or mining activities, and any uses that are
inconsistent with the purposes of the easement. If a green space lot is to be
included as an allowed residential lot, it may have residential structures in
conformance with the applicable provisions of this code and the requirements of
other agencies.
      6.   Permitted uses of the property, which may include any that meet the
definition of green space set forth in section
8.6.604 of this chapter, including the construction of structures appurtenant
to those uses, such as agricultural buildings.
      7.   Any reserved rights of the grantors.
      8.   If applicable, a designation of any entity which is to be granted a
third party right of enforcement pursuant to subsection 55-2101(2), Idaho Code.
Conservation easements pertaining to land over the Rathdrum Prairie Aquifer
must grant Panhandle health district a third party right of enforcement.
      9.   A statement that the easement shall be perpetual in duration.
   C.   Miscellaneous Provisions:
      1.   A requirement that any future deed or lease conveying an interest in
the property shall refer to the conservation easement conveyed via the deed of
easement, and that the easement holder shall be provided with the name and
address of any new landowners.
      2.   A description of how costs and liabilities, such as taxes, will be
handled.
      3.   Provisions in the event all or a portion of the property is acquired
through eminent domain proceedings or a purchase agreement reached in lieu of,
or to settle such proceedings.
      4.   A provision that the grantee may assign its rights and obligations
to another conservation organization or government agency that agrees to
enforce the terms of the easement.
      5.   Procedures for notification to or between the parties and contact
information for each party, including, at a minimum, the names, addresses, and
telephone numbers of all grantors and grantees.
      6.   A provision that all mortgages, liens or similar encumbrances on
title to the property must either be discharged or subordinated to the easement
so that the easement cannot be terminated in the event of foreclosure.
      7.   A requirement that the deed of easement shall be recorded in the
office of the county recorder.
      8.   A statement that the laws of the state of Idaho shall govern the
easement.
      9.   A severability clause.
      10.   A provision that the covenants, terms, conditions and restrictions
of the easement shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of the parties
and their heirs, successors and assigns, and shall continue as a servitude
running in perpetuity with the land.
      11.   Amendment procedures.
      12.   Notarized signatures of all grantors and grantees.
   D.   Attachments:
      1.   A legal description of the property subject to the easement.
      2.   A baseline inventory of the property.
      3.   A site plan. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.6.905: STANDARDS FOR EXISTING RESOURCE REPORTS AND SITE ANALYSIS MAPS:
The following are the minimum standards for existing resource reports and site
analysis maps whenever such plans are required to be submitted to the
department. Although not intended to be a comprehensive list, as each report
and map will be different and will need to be tailored to the needs of the
particular subdivision to which they will apply, the following items, at a
minimum, shall be included in all existing resource reports and site analysis
maps:
   A.   Existing Resource Report:
      1.   A brief paragraph containing a description of the subject site
boundaries and an explanation of the proposed project.
      2.   An explanation of the different resources found on site that
includes, at a minimum, any timbered areas, cultural resources, wildlife
habitat, streams and other surface water areas that are present on the site.
      3.   A description of how the resources identified in the report will be
impacted by the proposed project.
      4.   A listing of the classification of any streams found on the project
site, and a complete delineation of stream and wetland protection buffers, as
defined in sections
8.9.403 and 8.9.503 of this title, respectively, in accordance with the
requirements set forth in subsection
8.6.708C of this chapter.
      5.   If the land lies within a timbered area, as determined by the
director, the report shall include a wildfire mitigation plan prepared in
accordance with section
8.6.901 of this article.
      6.   An explanation of the mitigation measures which will be implemented
to minimize the project's impacts on the resources identified in the report.
   B.   Site Analysis Map:
      1.   The site analysis map must encompass the resources contained in the
report, including those existing on the site and those on all parcels located
within five hundred feet (500') of the site.
      2.   The site analysis map must show the following:
         a.   Woodlands and mature timber;
         b.   Active farm and pasture land;
         c.   Adjacent public lands and lands under conservation easement;
         d.   Habitat for rare, threatened or endangered plants or animals (if
known);
         e.   Important wildlife habitat;
         f.   Historic or cultural features;
         g.   Areas with scenic views;
         h.   Hillsides and other areas visible to the public;
         i.   Disturbed areas;
         j.   Natural features such as streams, ponds, rock outcrops, unusual
geologic formations, forested areas, and wetlands; and
         k.   Existing roads.
      3.   In addition to a paper copy, at least one clear overlay copy of the
map shall be provided.
      4.   An aerial photograph of the site, with boundaries marked, shall also
be submitted if available. If an aerial photograph is not available, a
geospatial view of the site (from Google Earth or other similar service) may be
substituted. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
CHAPTER 7
SENSITIVE AREAS
ARTICLE 7.1. SITE DISTURBANCES, STORMWATER CONTROL AND SHORELINE DEVELOPMENT
SECTION:
8.7.101: Applicability
8.7.102: Application And Information Requirements
8.7.103: Grading
8.7.104: Erosion And Sedimentation Control
8.7.105: Stormwater Detention And Conveyance
8.7.106: Stormwater Treatment
8.7.107: Groundwater And Springs
8.7.108: Down-Gradient Analysis
8.7.109: Geotechnical Analysis
8.7.110: Stream Protection Buffers
8.7.111: Shoreline Management Area
8.7.112: Hazards
8.7.113: Inspection
8.7.114: Maintenance
8.7.115: Prohibited Conduct
8.7.116: Administration
8.7.117: Risk Assessments
8.7.101: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   Permit Required: Except as exempted under subsection B of this section,
a site disturbance permit shall be required for the following activities:
      1.   Construction of all new driveways, common driveways, private roads,
or infrastructure authorized through the subdivision or conditional use permit
process;
      2.   Conversion of roads from one use to another (such as a logging road
to a private road, etc.) regardless of the level of improvement required on the
road;
      3.   Excavation for the construction of structures;
      4.   Creation of a new commercial or industrial access or parking lot, or
grading and paving of an existing commercial or industrial access or parking
lot;
      5.   All other excavation and grading activity.
   B.   Exemptions: The following activities are exempt from the requirements
of this article:
      1.   Mining, quarrying, excavating, processing, stockpiling of rock,
sand, gravel, aggregate, or clay, to the extent approved for operation under
applicable federal, state, Panhandle health district, and county regulations.
      2.   Agricultural practices in common local usage.
      3.   Activities governed by and subject to the Idaho forest practices
act, title 38, chapter 13, Idaho Code (IFPA) which are solely for the purpose
of enabling or engaging in a "forest practice", as defined in subsection 38-
1303(1), Idaho Code.
      4.   Cemetery graves.
      5.   Emergency situations involving immediate danger to life or property,
substantial fire hazards, or other public safety hazards as subsequently
determined by the county, or during the period covered by an emergency
declaration by the county.
      6.   Operation of a refuse disposal or landfill site which is constructed
and operated under permits from appropriate federal, state and local agencies.
      7.   In any twelve (12) month period, excavation or placement of fill
less than fifty (50) cubic yards in volume which is outside of any stream
protection buffer or shoreline management area.
      8.   Private road or driveway maintenance where work is limited to the
travelway, no cut or fill slopes are created, and no drainage features are
created or modified.
      9.   Excavation of test holes for soil testing activities, provided that
no access road will be created for test hole excavation, and the total
excavation is less than fifty (50) cubic yards.
      10.   Grading, excavating and placement of fill on a site that has less
than ten percent (10%) slope, and is more than five hundred feet (500') from
surface water as defined by this article, and that results in disturbance of
less than one-third (1/3) of the parcel, or sites over the Rathdrum Prairie
Aquifer which are greater than five hundred feet (500') from surface water.
This exemption shall not apply to commercial or industrial developments or for
subdivision infrastructure development.
      11.   Grading, excavating, or placement of fill which is subject to the
regulations and permitting authority of the U.S. army corps of engineers, the
federal energy regulatory commission, the Idaho department of lands, the Idaho
department of environmental quality, and/or the Idaho department of water
resources. Grading activities that are related to such projects, but which are
not subject to the aforementioned agencies' regulations or permitting
authority, are not exempt.
      12.   Abatement of noxious weeds.
   C.   BMPs: Activities exempted pursuant to subsection B of this section
shall employ BMPs to prevent sediment from leaving the site.
   D.   Utility Providers: Site disturbing activities conducted by utility
providers shall be regulated as follows:
      1.   Major installation projects where utility service is regional in
nature, e.g., intending to serve more than one subdivision or intending to
upgrade existing service to multiple subdivisions, or commercial or industrial
projects, shall comply with all applicable requirements of this article, unless
otherwise exempt.
      2.   All other work conducted by utility providers shall be exempt from
the requirements of this article, but shall use BMPs to prevent sediment from
leaving the site. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016; amd. Ord. 546, 10-17-2019)
8.7.102: APPLICATION AND INFORMATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Applications: All applications for a site disturbance permit shall be
submitted to the department on a form provided by the department. At a minimum,
the following information shall be required:
      1.   Property owner's name and applicant's name if different from the
owner;
      2.   Legal description of property including parcel number;
      3.   A written description of the work to be done, including an estimate
of the amount of earth to be moved;
      4.   A site plan, drawn to scale, including property boundaries, north
arrow, adjacent roads, location of proposed work, and distances to property
lines or prominent features of the land.
   B.   Site Inspection: Upon receipt of a completed application, the
department will perform a site inspection to determine the risk categories as
outlined in section
8.7.115 of this article. Using the outcome of risk assessment and the nature,
location, and time of year of the project, the director shall determine whether
the project is high, moderate or low risk.
   C.   Site Disturbance Plans: A site disturbance plan shall be required for
all high and moderate risk sites. The required elements of site disturbance
plans shall be outlined in the plan criteria manual adopted by the director.
      1.   Plans prepared by a design professional shall be required in the
following circumstances:
         a.   Site disturbing activities governed by this article on high risk
sites.
         b.   All commercial and industrial development except development by
utility providers when not required under subsection
8.7.101(D) of this article.
         c.   Site disturbing activities conducted by utility providers, when
required under subsection
8.7.101D of this article.
         d.   Subdivision infrastructure development.
      2.   Moderate risk sites. The following provisions shall apply to site
disturbance plans in which preparation by a design professional is not required
under paragraph 1 of this subsection:
         a.   Plans may be prepared by a design professional, contractor, or
property owner.
         b.   Plans are not required to comply with the requirements of section
8.7.106 of this article.
      3.   The director may waive the submission of plans for minor
improvements if the standards set forth in this article can be met by existing
site conditions.
   D.   Interagency Coordination: The director may request comment from
affected agencies where appropriate. Where coordinated permits are necessary,
signoffs from permitting agencies or copies of other permits may be required.
Permit authorities may include, but are not limited to:
      1.   Public highway agencies for work within public rights of way,
including approach permits;
      2.   U.S. army corps of engineers;
      3.   Idaho department of lands for encroachments into navigable waters,
logging activity under the IFPA, and surface mining activity;
      4.   U.S. environmental protection agency for site disturbing activity
where an NPDES permit is required;
      5.   Coeur d'Alene Tribe for site disturbing activity within the
boundaries of the Coeur d'Alene Indian Reservation; and
      6.   Idaho department of water resources for work within stream channels.
(Ord. 493, 6-9-2016; amd. Ord. 546, 10-17-2019)
8.7.103: GRADING:
   A.   The slope of cut surfaces shall be no steeper than is safe for the
intended use and shall be no steeper than two horizontal to one vertical (2:1),
unless the design professional can demonstrate substantial evidence that
steeper slopes are feasible, taking into account safety, stability, erosion
control, revegetation, and overall water quality impacts. Subsurface drainage
shall be provided as necessary for stability. All engineering reports are
subject to review by the director.
   B.   Fill slopes shall be no steeper than is safe for the intended use and
shall be no steeper than two horizontal to one vertical (2:1), unless the
design professional can demonstrate substantial evidence that steeper slopes
are feasible, taking into account safety, stability, erosion control,
revegetation, and overall water quality impacts. Fill slopes shall not be
constructed on natural slopes of forty percent (40%) (2.5 horizontal to 1
vertical) or steeper, without special treatment or design. In addition, the toe
of fill slopes shall not be closer to the top of existing or planned downhill
cut slopes than the height of that cut (e.g., if an 8 foot cut is planned, the
toe of the uphill fill slope shall not be closer than 8 feet to the top of that
cut), unless the design professional has demonstrated that comparable stability
can be achieved with lesser setbacks.
   C.   Prior to placement of fill, the ground surface shall be prepared to
receive fill by removing vegetation, topsoil, forest duff, and any other
unsuitable material. The area to receive fill shall be scarified to provide a
bond with the new fill. Fill shall not be placed until the area is prepared by
constructing a level or slightly insloped toe bench into competent material at
the base of the new fill. The director may waive the benching requirement for
minor fills which are not intended to support a road, driveway, or structure.
In high risk areas, the position, width, and configuration of the bench shall
be determined by a design professional. Fill slopes and the transition zone
into natural terrain shall be configured to a generally smooth, planar
configuration so that runoff traverses the area as sheet flow and is not
concentrated. Fill material shall be free of organic material except as may be
determined by a design professional to be suitable. Roadway fills shall be
placed in lifts and compacted to a minimum of ninety five percent (95%) of the
maximum density as determined by the AASHTO T-99 or ASTM D-698 compaction
procedure, or as specified in the design professional's report.
   D.   Except where roads or driveways cross property lines, the tops and toes
of cut and fill slopes shall be set back from property boundaries one-half (1/
2) of the height of the slope with a minimum of five feet (5') and a maximum of
twenty feet (20'), unless the design professional has demonstrated that smaller
setbacks provide a sufficient measure of safety and stability for activities
which may occur on adjacent property.
   E.   Terracing shall be required on all cut or fill slopes which exceed
fifty feet (50') in height. Spacing, width, and drainage requirements of the
terrace(s) shall be determined by the design professional. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.7.104: EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION CONTROL:
   A.   Erosion and sedimentation control BMPs for all sites must be sufficient
to prevent sediment from leaving the site.
   B.   Stabilized construction entrances and driveways shall be required for
all construction sites to minimize sediment tracking onto roadways. Such
entrances and driveways shall be a minimum of six inches (6") thick, with a
minimum rock size of three inches (3"), and a length sufficient to minimize off
site tracking of sediment. Parking of vehicles shall be restricted to paved or
stabilized areas.
   C.   The erosion and sedimentation control BMPs must be installed or
otherwise in effect, and the boundary of the area to be disturbed must be
clearly marked, as indicated in the approved plan, prior to any site
disturbance.
   D.   All surfaces where bare soil is exposed during clearing and grading
operations, including spoil piles, shall be covered or otherwise protected from
erosion when it will not be worked for more than four (4) days.
   E.   The property owner, contractor, and design professional shall be
responsible for the design and construction of revised temporary erosion and
sedimentation control if application of the approved plan fails. The applicant
shall immediately notify the director of alterations to plans.
   F.   All cut and fill slopes shall be revegetated or otherwise protected
from erosion to the greatest extent practicable. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.7.105: STORMWATER DETENTION AND CONVEYANCE:
   A.   Stormwater conveyance mechanisms must be sized to convey runoff from a
50-year storm event without causing flooding or other damage to public or
private property, the stormwater management system, or other improvements.
   B.   Culvert size within public rights of way shall be determined by the
public highway agency with jurisdiction. All other culvert sizing shall be done
by an appropriate design professional.
   C.   Stormwater systems shall provide for sufficient storage volume and
detention time to result in no increase in the peak rate of runoff from the
site for a 25-year storm. Runoff from impervious and pervious surfaces shall be
considered in meeting this requirement.
   D.   Where treatment of stormwater runoff is required prior to infiltration
over the Rathdrum Prairie Aquifer, the runoff shall be conveyed to treatment
areas with limited infiltration prior to treatment. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.7.106: STORMWATER TREATMENT:
   A.   Treatment of the first one-half inch (1/2") of stormwater runoff from
the impervious surfaces set forth in this section shall be required prior to
discharge of the stormwater overland or to ground or surface waters. Stormwater
shall be mitigated utilizing bioinfiltration swales, as referenced in DEQ’s
catalog of best management practices, or treated on site with existing natural
vegetation if the characteristics of the parcel provide treatment.
      1.   Subdivisions: Site disturbance management plans will be required for
subdivision utilizing calculations for detention and conveyance that include
runoff from the proposed improvements.
      2.   Commercial Or Industrial Development: Site disturbance plans are
required for commercial or industrial development utilizing calculations for
detention and conveyance that includes runoff from the proposed improvements.
Stormwater treatment of the first one-half inch (1/2") of runoff from all
access and parking lot impervious surfaces shall be requested prior to
discharge of the stormwater overland or to ground or surfae waters. Stormwater
runoff from rooftops and other similar impervious surfaces is not required to
be mitigated with treatment BMPs, but shall be properly managed to infiltrate
on the property or to otherwise comply with the detention requirements of this
article.
      3.   Common Driveways And Private Roads: Whenever a site disturbance plan
is required for common driveway or private road development, calculations for
detention and conveyance must be utilized that include the runoff from the
proposed improvements.
      4.   Residential Development On Individual Parcels:
         a.   Whenever a site disturbance plan is required for residential
development on an individual parcel, calculations must be utilized for
detention and conveyance that include runoff from the proposed improvements.
Stormwater treatment of the first one-half (½") inch of runoff from all access,
parking areas, and other similar impervious surfaces shall be required prior to
discharge of the stormwater overland or to ground or surface waters. Stormwater
runoff from rooftops and other similar impervious surfaces is not required to
be mitigated with treatment BMPs, but shall be properly managed to infiltrate
on the property or to otherwise comply with the detention requirements of this
article.
         b.   For replacement, or additions or alterations to existing site
improvements where no stormwater system has previously been required,
stormwater shall be managed utilizing a combination of stormwater treatment and
erosion control BMPs to produce no net increase in the pollutant export from
the site’s previously existing conditions.
   B.   BMP Efficiency Testing Not Required: On-site post-construction testing
of BMP treatment efficiency will not be required by the County. The stormwater
management plans must show that the proposed BMPs are anticipated to meet or
exceed the treatment efficiencies listed above. Expected treatment efficiencies
shall be included in the County's Manual of Best Management Practices or the
Plan Criteria manual. The development of the BMP list and required range of
removal effectiveness is not intended to limit the use of new or innovative
treatment procedures that may be developed through the creativity of the design
professional preparing the stormwater management plan. New approaches and
procedures will be considered and approved with the submittal of the
appropriate support data that confirms the effectiveness of the proposed new
treatment method, its use related to site constraints, and the maintenance
burden it will produce if adopted and utilized. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016; amd. Ord.
546, 10-17-2019)
8.7.107: GROUNDWATER AND SPRINGS:
Springs and other groundwater sources that are encountered during grading or
excavation activity shall be returned to subsurface flow where possible or
conveyed through the site by an appropriate means of conveyance that shall be
nonerosive, avoids sediment transport, and dissipates energy, all to be
conducted in accordance with best management practices. For high risk sites,
the design professional shall ensure that the groundwater will not interfere
with the implementation or function of the planned stormwater or erosion
control improvements. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.7.108: DOWN-GRADIENT ANALYSIS:
   A.   A down-gradient analysis shall be required for all high risk sites
unless waived by the Director. The analysis is meant to identify and evaluate
down-gradient adverse impacts that could result from the proposed development.
Common adverse impacts of land development may include erosion, flooding, slope
failures, altered runoff patterns, increased presence of groundwater, or
reduced groundwater recharge (to springs, streams, wetlands, and wells, etc.)
Site disturbance plans shall be designed to mitigate adverse impacts identified
in the down-gradient analysis. Typically, the analysis should extend 500 feet
down gradient and may be limited in scope by lack of access to adjacent
properties.
   B.   If there are existing or potential off-site drainage problems down-
gradient of the development, it shall be demonstrated that the proposed
stormwater disposal system has been designed to meet all of the following
conditions:
      1.   The stormwater runoff leaves the site in the same manner as that of
the pre-developed condition;
      2.   Reduced or increased groundwater recharge has been considered with
respect to potential adverse impacts on the down-gradient features; and
      3.   The proposed design does not aggravate an existing drainage problem
or create a new drainage problem. (Ord. 546, 10-17-2019)
8.7.109: GEOTECHNICAL ANALYSIS:
   A.   When Required: A geotechnical analysis shall be required for proposed
building sites, roads, driveways or other development in locations where:
      1.   Soils classified as colluviums are present on the parcel proposed
for development in locations proposed for construction activities;
      2.   The locations proposed for construction activities include slopes of
fifteen percent (15%) or more;
      3.   The locations proposed for construction activities include high
water table soils;
      4.   There are scarps; slumps, seeps; boulder piles, fresh deposit of
rock, soil, or debris; ponds in irregular depressions above the valley floor;
cracks; bare soils; indications of earth movement based on its impact on
vegetation; or other geologic features that may be unstable, or that are
indicators of unstable conditions, as determined by the Director.
   B.   Geotechnical Analysis Requirements:
      1.   The geotechnical analysis shall be stamped and signed by an Idaho
licensed civil or geological engineer having sufficient education and
experience to prove competency in the field of geotechnical engineering.
      2.   The geotechnical analysis shall explain the geologic and hydrologic
features of the area, shall evaluate the suitability of the site for intended
building, structures, and uses, shall identify potential problems relating to
the geology and hydrology, shall summarize the data upon which conclusions are
based, and shall propose mitigation measures. (Ord. 546, 10-17-2019)
8.7.110: STREAM PROTECTION BUFFERS:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of stream protection buffers is to ensure that
prior to, during, and after construction operations, streambeds, streamside
vegetation and other existing physical characteristics are protected in order
to maintain water quality and to protect property and aquatic habitat.
   B.   Applicability: The requirements for stream protection buffers shall
apply to all class 1 streams, class 2 streams, and naturally occurring drainage
swales, but shall not apply to the shorelines of any recognized lake or the
Coeur d'Alene River or Spokane River.
   C.   Dimensions:
      1.   Class 1 stream protection buffer: The area encompassed by a slope
distance of seventy five feet (75') on each side of the ordinary high water
mark.
      2.   Class 2 stream protection buffer: The area encompassed by a minimum
slope distance of thirty feet (30') on each side of the ordinary high water
mark.
      3.   Naturally occurring drainage swale protection buffer: The area
encompassed by a minimum slope distance of five feet (5') on each side of the
top of a naturally occurring drainage swale. In no case shall this protection
buffer have a total width greater than thirty feet (30').
      4.   For parcels legally created prior to January 1, 1997, the width of
any stream protection buffer may be reduced to forty percent (40%) of the
dimension of the parcel which is intersected by the stream.
   D.   Standards:
      1.   Application of fertilizer to turf grass and storage of chemicals
which may adversely impact water quality, such as petroleum products,
pesticides, fertilizers and similar liquids or compounds, are prohibited in
stream protection buffers.
      2.   No mechanical ground disturbance shall be permitted within stream
protection buffers except at identified and permitted stream or river
crossings. Only the use of hand tools shall be allowed when necessary to
develop or establish a permitted use or activity unless they are to be
performed within an identified and permitted crossing. When disturbance is
necessary across or inside a stream protection buffer, it shall be done in such
a manner as to minimize stream bank vegetation and channel disturbance. The
extent of any such disturbance shall be clearly indicated in a site disturbance
plan.
      3.   When a stream protection buffer must be crossed, adequate structures
to carry water flow shall be installed. Crossings and their approaches shall be
at right angles to the channel or otherwise configured to minimize the
disturbance within the stream protection buffer or shoreline protection buffer.
Construction of hydraulic structures in river channels shall conform to the
requirements of the stream channel protection act, title 42, chapter 38, Idaho
Code. All temporary crossings shall be removed immediately after use.
      4.   Shading, wildlife cover, and water filtering effects of vegetation
shall be maintained along all stream protection buffers as outlined in the IFPA
and the rules pertaining to the Idaho forest practices act, IDAPA 20.02.01
(IFPA rules).
      5.   Large organic debris (LOD) shall be maintained along all stream
protection buffers as outlined in the IFPA and the IFPA rules.
      6.   Site improvements or conditions which lie within a stream protection
buffer may be replaced or altered in a manner which complies with the following
standards:
         a.   No addition or alteration encroaches farther into the stream
protection buffer than the preexisting improvements; and
         b.   Site disturbing activity within the stream protection buffer is
minimized to the greatest extent possible; and
         c.   All other requirements of this article are met.
      7.   One stairway or walkway, associated stairway landings, and a tram
may encroach within a stream protection buffer. Stairways and walkways shall
not exceed four feet (4') in width. Stairway landings shall not exceed six feet
(6') in width or length. Such structures shall not be constructed in a manner
that is substantially parallel to the stream, except that switchback designs
that provide access from higher elevations to lower elevations are permitted
whenever such designs are necessary due to steep slopes.
      8.   Vegetation modification to implement an approved wildfire mitigation
plan or in conjunction with noxious weed abatement is permitted.
      9.   Installation of water intake lines, power lines, and similar linear
infrastructure is permitted, provided that site disturbing activities within
the stream protection buffer are minimized and remediated to the greatest
extent possible.
      10.   Planting of native vegetation in conjunction with any remediation
or modification activity permitted pursuant to this section is encouraged.
   E.   Development Exceptions Within A Stream Protection Buffer:
      1.   Mechanical ground disturbances not associated with development and
not otherwise permitted in subsection D of this section may be permitted within
a stream protection buffer, so long as the applicant can adequately demonstrate
the necessity of such activity through the submittal of a stream protection
plan prepared by a design professional. To approve an exception, the director
must find that the risk to water quality will be less than or equal to the risk
if the work were performed by hand.
      2.   Development and associated mechanical ground disturbances may be
permitted within a stream protection buffer for maintenance, repair or
replacement of existing structures or improvements, or to remedy significant
erosion, structural integrity, or bank stabilization problems, so long as the
applicant can adequately demonstrate the necessity of such activities through
the submittal of a stream protection plan prepared by a design professional. To
approve an exception, the director must make the following findings:
         a.   The risk to water quality will be less than or equal to the risk
if the work were performed by hand;
         b.   The work proposed is the minimum necessary to control or
remediate the erosion, structural integrity, or bank stabilization problem, or
to complete the necessary maintenance, repair or replacement; and
         c.   Agencies with jurisdiction have been provided the opportunity to
review and comment. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016; amd. Ord. 546, 10-17-2019)
8.7.111: SHORELINE MANAGEMENT AREA:
   A.   Purpose: The shoreline management area is an area of concern for
Kootenai County because certain activities within this area have the potential
to impact water quality of adjacent water bodies due to their proximity.
Therefore, special consideration of this area is provided herein to ensure that
prior to, during, and after construction operations, water quality, aquatic
habitat, and property are protected, while recognizing the rights of property
owners to have appropriate use of their property and to be able to protect
their property from erosion.
   B.   Applicability And Dimensions: A shoreline management area of twenty
five feet (25') in slope distance landward of the ordinary high water mark of
all recognized lakes, the Coeur d'Alene River, and the Spokane River, is hereby
established. The shoreline management area shall be maintained as set forth in
this section.
   C.   Ordinary High Water Marks:
      1.   For purposes of this article, ordinary high water marks shall be
considered to be the following elevations according to the North American
vertical datum of 1988 (NAVD88):
Lake Elevation
Lake               Elevation
Coeur d'Alene Lake 2,128.71
Fernan Lake        2,135.1
Hauser Lake        2,190.9
Hayden Lake        2,242.9
Pend Oreille Lake  2,066.5
Spirit Lake        2,446.0
Twin Lakes         2,315.8
 
      Note:
         1.    Equivalent to 2,128.0 per Avista (WWP) datum.
      2.   The ordinary high water marks for all other water bodies shall be
determined by on site inspection of evidence of historical water levels.
   D.   Prohibited Activities:
      1.   Application of fertilizer to turf grass and storage of chemicals
which may adversely affect water quality, such as petroleum products,
pesticides, fertilizers and similar liquids or compounds.
      2.   Mechanical ground disturbances, except as permitted in this section.
   E.   Permitted Activities: The following improvements and activities,
including associated mechanical ground disturbances, are permitted within the
shoreline management area:
      1.   Construction of stairways, walkways, stairway landings, and trams.
         a.   Except as permitted in subsection E1b of this section, one
stairway or walkway, associated stairway landings, and a tram shall be allowed
to encroach within a parcel's shoreline management area. One additional
stairway or walkway, associated stairway landings, and a tram shall be
permitted whenever a parcel exceeds two hundred fifty feet (250') of shoreline
frontage as determined by the Kootenai County assessor or an Idaho licensed
surveyor. One more additional stairway or walkway, associated stairway
landings, and a tram shall be permitted for each two hundred fifty feet (250')
of shoreline frontage thereafter.
         b.   Stairways, walkways, stairway landings and trams associated with
a commercial marina or community dock, as those terms are defined in the rules
for the regulation of beds, waters, and airspace over navigable lakes in the
state of Idaho, IDAPA 20.03.04, or other commercial use permitted through the
Idaho department of lands, shall be permitted to enable access to dock
facilities as approved by IDL.
         c.   Stairways and walkways within the shoreline management area shall
not exceed four feet (4') in width. Stairway landings within the shoreline
management area shall not exceed six feet (6') in width or length. Stairways,
walkways and stairway landings within the shoreline management area which are
associated with a commercial marina, community dock, or other IDL permitted
commercial use may exceed these dimensions only to the extent necessary to
comply with accessibility standards under applicable federal, state or local
laws, rules, regulations or building codes.
         d.   Such structures shall not be constructed in a manner that is
substantially parallel to the shoreline, except that switchback designs that
provide access from higher elevations to lower elevations are permitted
whenever such designs are necessary due to steep slopes or to comply with
accessibility standards under applicable federal, state or local laws, rules,
regulations or building codes.
      2.   The repair, replacement, alteration, and relocation of existing site
improvements, including, without limitation, landscaping, retaining walls, and
shoreline protection revetments. If a site disturbance plan is not otherwise
required, the owner shall submit a site plan showing all activities to be
performed within the shoreline management area. The site plan shall be approved
if it demonstrates that the proposed activities will not create significantly
new impervious areas or other significant water quality impacts.
      3.   Installation of water intake lines, pump houses, power lines, and
similar linear infrastructure.
      4.   Removal of structures or debris created or deposited by wildfire,
flooding, or other acts of nature.
      5.   Vegetation modification to implement an approved wildfire mitigation
plan or in conjunction with noxious weed abatement.
      6.   The use of mechanical and other equipment for removal of dead or
dying trees, shoreline debris, and other similar activities related to routine
maintenance.
      7.   Seating, picnic and barbecue areas, and recreational equipment which
do not cause more than a de minimis disturbance of the shoreline management
area.
      8.   Shoreline erosion control measures, including, without limitation,
the following:
         a.   Willow wall construction;
         b.   Willow walls with a brush layer base;
         c.   Live cribwall construction;
         d.   Cordon construction;
         e.   Live fascine construction;
         f.   Cedar bender board fencing;
         g.   The use of coir fiber rolls (a natural fiber extracted from the
husk of coconut) and native or noninvasive plant materials; or
         h.   The use of six (6) to twelve inch (12") cobble and angular stone
along with overhanging native or noninvasive plant materials to keep the sun
from heating rocks and water.
      If a site disturbance plan is not otherwise required, the owner shall
submit a site plan showing all activities to be performed within the shoreline
management area. The site plan shall be approved if it demonstrates that the
proposed activities will not create significantly new impervious areas or other
significant water quality impacts.
      9.   Routine pruning, trimming, and other well recognized horticultural
and silvicultural practices.
      10.   The trimming of shrubs and removal of branches from trees for the
purpose of creating a view corridor. Such activities may occur no lower than
three feet (3') above ground level for shrubs, and no higher than one-third (1/
3) of the height of each individual tree then existing within the parcel's
shoreline management area. Such activities may encompass no more than one-third
(1/3) of the linear footage of a parcel's shoreline management area.
      11.   Pervious pavers, wood or composite decking, and similar types of
construction which do not concentrate runoff and do not cause more than a de
minimis disturbance of the Shoreline Management Area.
      12.   Planting of native vegetation in conjunction with any remediation
or vegetation modification activity permitted pursuant to this section is
encouraged.
   F.   Development Exceptions Within The Shoreline Management Area:
      1.   Mechanical ground disturbances not associated with development and
not otherwise permitted in subsection E of this section may be permitted within
the shoreline management area, so long as the applicant can adequately
demonstrate the necessity of such activity through the submittal of a shoreline
management plan prepared by a design professional. To approve an exception, the
director must find that the risk to water quality will be less than or equal to
the risk if the work was performed by hand.
      2.   Development and associated mechanical ground disturbances may be
permitted within the shoreline management area for maintenance, repair or
replacement of existing structures or improvements, or to remedy significant
erosion, structural integrity, or shoreline stabilization problems, so long as
the applicant can adequately demonstrate the necessity of such activities
through the submittal of a shoreline management plan prepared by a design
professional. To approve an exception, the director must make the following
findings:
         a.   The risk to water quality will be less than or equal to the risk
if the work was performed by hand; and
         b.   The work proposed is the minimum necessary to control or
remediate the erosion, structural integrity, or shoreline stabilization
problem, or to complete the necessary maintenance, repair or replacement; and
         c.   Agencies with jurisdiction have been provided the opportunity to
review and comment.
      3.   Marine Service Businesses, subject to the standards set forth in
section
8.4.1502 of this title.
      4.   Boat launches owned or operated by Kootenai County or other public
agency. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016; amd. Ord. 546, 10-17-2019; Ord. 614, 4-4-2025)
8.7.112: HAZARDS:
Whenever the director determines that an existing excavation, embankment, fill,
or roadway on private property has become a hazard to life and limb; endangers
other property, adversely affects the safety, use, or stability of a public or
private access, drainage channel, or adjacent or contiguous properties, the
director may require the property owner to correct the hazard. The director
shall give notice in writing to the owner specifying the period in which the
hazard is to be corrected. The hazard shall be corrected within the period
specified in the notice. Failure to correct the hazard within the period
specified in the notice shall constitute a violation subject to the provisions
of chapter 8, article 8.6 of the article. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016; amd. Ord. 546,
10-17-2019)
8.7.113: INSPECTION:
   A.   General: All activities subject to the permitting requirements of this
article shall be subject to inspection by the department. An approved set of
plans must be available for review on site whenever work is in progress. It
shall be the permittee's responsibility to keep the department notified of the
progress of the project and call for all required inspections.
   B.   High Risk Sites:
      1.   At a minimum, two (2) inspections shall be required for high risk
sites:
         a.   After erosion and sedimentation controls have been installed,
prior to ground disturbance; and
         b.   After the project has been completed, including revegetation.
      2.   For sites which are active during the winter, two (2) additional
inspections shall be required:
         a.   After the site has been prepared for the winter (typically in
September or October); and
         b.   Sometime in January or February to ensure that the erosion and
sedimentation control measures are adequate and maintained.
      3.   The permittee's design professional shall perform the inspections
and submit inspection reports to the director.
   C.   Moderate And Low Risk Sites: For moderate and low risk sites, the
director shall determine what inspections are necessary. The director, or their
designee, shall conduct the inspections for moderate risk sites. (Ord. 493, 6-
9-2016; amd. Ord. 546, 10-17-2019)
8.7.114: MAINTENANCE:
Maintenance requirements and responsibility shall be clearly identified for all
projects where BMPs are employed, including BMPs for erosion and sedimentation
control and stormwater management. When a stormwater system is designed to
service more than one parcel, a maintenance agreement between all parties which
benefit from the system must be established, including assurance of adequate
funding. Easements across private property for maintenance access to community
stormwater systems shall also be required where necessary. All maintenance
agreements must be approved by the director.
In the event that appropriate maintenance of any stormwater system is not
conducted, the county shall have the option of requiring the property owner or
association to provide for maintenance, or take other enforcement measures as
outlined in chapter 8, article 8.6 of this title. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016; amd.
Ord. 546, 10-17-2019)
8.7.115: PROHIBITED CONDUCT:
The following actions shall be violations of this article:
   A.   Where a permit is required, failure to obtain a permit prior to the
start of grading activity;
   B.   Failure to call for inspections as required by this article;
   C.   Once grading activity has begun, failure to complete the grading
activity and install the necessary erosion and sedimentation control,
stormwater management, and slope stabilization measures, in a timely manner;
   D.   Failure to maintain temporary and permanent erosion and sedimentation
control measures, the stormwater management system, or slope stabilization
measures;
   E.   Conduct work on a site which exceeds the scope of work outlined in the
approved plans;
   F.   Damage or otherwise impede the function of a stormwater system;
   G.   Export sediment from a site in a manner not authorized by this article;
   H.   Continue work at a site after a stop work order has been placed;
   I.   Discharge stormwater in a manner not authorized by this article;
   J.   Failure to correct a hazard as outlined in section
8.7.110 of this article; and
   K.   Engaging in construction activities within a stream protection buffer
or shoreline management area other than those permitted in section
8.7.108 or
8.7.109 of this article. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016; amd. Ord. 546, 10-17-2019)
8.7.116: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   General: The director shall administer the provisions of this article
in a manner consistent with other provisions of this code. The board of county
commissioners may, by resolution, adopt design standards, plan criteria, best
management practices, administrative procedures, fee schedules, etc., intended
to implement the requirements and standards set forth in this article. Changes
in the supporting documents may be accomplished by subsequently adopted
resolution.
   B.   Outside Review Assistance: The director may request a second opinion
from a design professional regarding any permitted or proposed work under this
article at any time. The cost of such a second opinion shall be borne by the
county.
   C.   Duration of Permit: Whenever a site disturbance permit is issued in
conjunction with a duly issued building permit, the site disturbance permit
shall expire one (1) year from the time of issuance of a certificate of
occupancy or, if no certificate of occupancy will be issued, the date on which
a satisfactory final inspection occurred. Otherwise, the site disturbance
permit shall expire two (2) years from the date of issuance. The Director may
grant a one-time extension for up to one (1) additional year on written request
by the permittee showing that circumstances beyond the control of the permittee
have prevented work authorized by the permit. In lieu of these time periods,
the Director may set specific shorter time limits on the permit for project
initiation and completion for environmental reasons or for coordination with
other permitted site work.
   D.   Financial Guarantees:
      1.   The owner of any parcel where work will be performed pursuant to an
approved site disturbance plan shall provide a financial guarantee to ensure
that erosion, sediment control, and stormwater management improvements will be
completed, as set forth in this subsection.
         a.   The owner shall provide a financial guarantee to the department
before a site disturbance permit may be issued for development of subdivision
infrastructure, commercial and industrial development, or development within a
high risk site.
         b.   For all other work to be completed in accordance with an approved
site disturbance plan, the director may require the owner to provide a
financial guarantee for any work not completed at the time of final inspection.
      2.   The design professional shall provide an estimate of the cost to
implement the improvements to be covered by the financial guarantee based on
then current local construction costs, including, without limitation, labor and
materials. The amount of the financial guarantee shall be as determined by the
director, but shall not exceed one hundred fifty percent (150%) of the
estimated cost.
      3.   The design professional must submit a letter to the department
certifying that the permitted development is complete and is compliant with the
requirements of this article before a financial guarantee can be released. If
the ownership of the property has changed since the financial guarantee was
provided, the financial guarantee shall be released to the current property
owner of record.
      4.   If the required improvements have not been completed by the
specified date, the department may contract to have the site brought into
compliance with the applicable requirements of this article with the money from
the associated financial guarantee. The department may also take additional
enforcement measures as provided by law. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016; amd. Ord. 546,
10-17-2019; Ord. 570, 9-16-2021)
8.7.117: RISK ASSESSMENTS:
   A.   Erosion Risk Assessment: Erosion risk shall be determined as follows:
      1.   Slope: Slope, measured in percent, as an average across the area to
be disturbed.
 
Gradient     Point Value
10%          1
>10% and 25% 5
>25%         10
 
      2.   Soil K Factor: Soil K factor, for water erosion susceptibility, as
indicated in the "Soil Survey Of Kootenai County Area, Idaho", or other
supplementary study. The highest K factor within the proposed disturbed soil
profile will be used. Soil type from the soil survey will be verified on site
by physical description.
 
K Factor     Point Value
0.2          1
>0.2 and 0.4 3
>0.4         5
 
      3.   Proximity To Surface Water: Proximity to surface water or any
feature which conveys water to surface water. Surface water includes all lakes,
rivers, streams, wetlands, and similar features. Conveyance features may
include natural or manmade ditches. Ponds, springs, or similar features that
are contained within the property shall not be considered surface water
features. Distance is measured along the slope from the closest boundary of the
proposed disturbance to the conveyance or surface water feature.
 
Distance       Point Value
>500'          1
>200' and 500' 5
200'           10
 
      4.   Disturbed Area: Amount of disturbed area, expressed as a percentage
of the parcel area. Areas to be disturbed during installation of utilities must
be included.
 
Disturbed Portion Point Value
33%               1
>33% and 66%      5
>66%              10
 
      5.   Buffer Strip: If the project has a usable buffer strip which
provides the appropriate level of treatment for the type of project proposed,
subtract ten (10) points.
      6.   Risk Category: The points for each factor shall be added and the
risk category shall be determined from the point total as follows:
 
Point Total Risk Category
0 - 10      Low risk
1 - 20      Moderate risk
>20         High risk
 
   B.   Stormwater Risk Assessment: Stormwater risk shall be determined as
follows:
      1.   Slope: Slope, measured in percent, as an average across the area to
be disturbed.
 
Gradient     Point Value
5%           0
>5% and 10%  3
>10% and 15% 6
>15% and 25% 10
>25%         15
 
      2.   Soil Permeability: Soil permeability, measured in inches per hour as
indicated in the "Soil Survey Of Kootenai County Area, Idaho", or other
supplementary study. The lowest permeability in the soil horizon shall be used.
Soil type from the soil survey will be verified on site by physical
description.
 
Permeability Point Value
0.5          0
<0.5         5
 
      3.   Proximity To Surface Water: Proximity to surface water or any
feature which conveys water to surface water. Surface water includes all lakes,
rivers, streams, wetlands, and similar features. Conveyance features may
include natural or manmade ditches. Ponds, springs, or similar features that
are contained within the property shall not be considered surface water
features. Distance is measured along the slope from the closest boundary of the
proposed disturbance to the conveyance or surface water feature.
 
Distance       Point Value
>500'          0
>200' and 500' 7
200'           15
 
      4.   Impervious Surfaces: Impervious area ratio, expressed as a
percentage of the parcel area covered with impervious surfaces.
 
Coverage     Point Value
<20%         0
20% and <40% 5
40%          10
 
      5.   Total Impervious Area: Total impervious area, expressed in square
feet.
 
Coverage        Point Value
20,000 sq. ft.  5
<20,000 sq. ft. 0
 
      6.   Drainage Crossing: Drainage crossing proposed. If the project
requires crossing a conveyance channel or drainage, add five (5) points.
      7.   Buffer Strip: If the project has a usable buffer strip which
provides the appropriate level of treatment for the type of project proposed,
subtract ten (10) points.
      8.   Risk Category: The points for each factor shall be added and the
risk category shall be determined from the point total as follows:
 
Point Total Risk Category
0 - 10      Low risk
11 - 20     Moderate risk
> 20        High risk
 
(Ord. 493, 6-9-2016; amd. Ord. 546, 10-17-2019)
ARTICLE 7.2. FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
SECTION:
8.7.201: General Provisions
8.7.202: Development In Floodways
8.7.203: General Standards For Floodplain Development
8.7.204: Specific Floodplain Development Standards
8.7.205: Administration
8.7.206: Floodplain Development Permits
8.7.207: Disclaimer Of Liability
8.7.201: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Applicability: The provisions of this article shall apply to all
special flood hazard areas within the jurisdiction of Kootenai County. Nothing
in this ordinance is intended to allow uses or structures that are otherwise
prohibited by other provisions of this title.
   B.   Findings Of Fact:
      1.   The special flood hazard areas of Kootenai County are subject to
periodic inundation that results in the following adverse effects on the public
health, safety, and general welfare:
         a.   Loss of life and property;
         b.   Health and safety hazards;
         c.   Disruption of commerce and governmental services;
         d.   Extraordinary public expenditures for flood relief and
protection; and
         e.   Impairment of the tax base.
      2.   These flood losses are caused by structures in flood hazard areas
which are inadequately elevated, floodproofed, or otherwise unprotected from
flood damages, and by the cumulative effect of obstructions in floodplains
causing increases in flood heights and velocities.
      3.   Pursuant to the authorities set forth in section
8.1.102 of this title, local governments have the primary responsibility for
planning, adopting, and enforcing land use regulations to accomplish proper
floodplain management.
   C.   Methods Of Reducing Flood Losses: In order to accomplish its purposes,
this article includes methods and provisions for:
      1.   Restricting or prohibiting uses which are dangerous to health,
safety, and property due to water or erosion hazards, or which result in
damaging increases in erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
      2.   Requiring that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
      3.   Controlling the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels,
and natural protective barriers, which help accommodate or channel floodwaters;
      4.   Controlling filling, grading, dredging, and other floodplain
development which may increase flood damage;
      5.   Preventing or regulating the construction of flood barriers which
will unnaturally divert floodwaters or may increase flood hazard in other
areas; and
      6.   Requiring adherence to the regulations pertaining to erosion and
sediment control, and stormwater management, contained in article 7.1 of this
chapter.
   D.   Basis For Special Flood Hazard Areas: The special flood hazard areas
identified by FEMA in its Flood Insurance Study (FIS) for Kootenai County,
Idaho, and Incorporated Areas, dated May 3, 2010, with accompanying Flood
Insurance Rate Maps (FIRM) and/or Digital Flood Insurance Rate Maps (DFIRM),
and other supporting data, are hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a
part of this article. The FIS and the FIRM are on file with the Department.
Additional special flood hazard areas may be designated in accordance with the
procedures set forth in subsection
8.7.205D of this article.
      1.   Base Flood Elevations Established: For purposes of this article,
base flood elevations for the following lakes shall be considered to be the
following elevations, as established in the FIS, according to the North
American Vertical Datum of 1988 (NAVD88):
Lake Elevation (in feet)
Lake               Elevation (in feet)
Hauser Lake        2195.0
Spirit Lake        2448.1
Fernan Lake        2139.3
Hayden Lake        2246.8
Twin Lakes         2319.6
Lake Coeur d'Alene 2139.3
Lake Pend Oreille  2073.7*
 
         * Base Flood Elevation for Lake Pend Oreille established in the Bonner
County FIS, as referenced in FEMA product ID#16017CV00013.
      2.   Base flood elevations for other bodies of water shall be determined
through consideration of information provided by FEMA or other authoritative
sources. Any affected person contesting the location of the boundary shall be
given a reasonable opportunity to appeal any such interpretations in accordance
with chapter 8, article 8.5 of this title.
   E.   Establishment Of Floodplain Development Permit: A floodplain
development permit shall be required in conformance with the provisions section
8.7.205 of this article before any floodplain development may begin.
   F.   Compliance: No structure or land within a special flood hazard area
shall hereafter be located, constructed, developed, extended, converted, or
altered in any way except in full compliance with the terms of this article and
other applicable provisions of this title and Title 7, Chapter 1 of this code.
This subsection shall not apply to routine maintenance of structures or to
agricultural or forestry activities. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016; amd. Ord. 545, 10-3-
2019)
8.7.202: DEVELOPMENT IN FLOODWAYS:
   A.   Description: Located within special flood hazard areas are areas
designated as floodways. The floodway is an extremely hazardous area due to the
velocity of floodwaters which carry debris, potential projectiles, and erosion
potential.
   B.   Restrictions On Development In Floodways: No floodplain development
shall be permitted in any designated floodway except new construction solely
for the replacement or substantial improvement of an existing residential or
commercial structure and accessory buildings in conjunction with an existing
residential or commercial use, and except as otherwise provided in this
section. Additionally, access roads may be permitted to cross the floodway
where no alternative access ways which do not encroach on the floodway are
possible. All floodplain development permitted in a floodway shall comply with
the following standards:
      1.   Floodplain development based on a no-rise certification.
         a.   For approval of a floodplain development permit for floodplain
development within a floodway based on a no-rise certification, a qualified
professional engineer licensed by the State of Idaho must submit a no-rise
certification which demonstrates, through hydrologic and hydraulic analyses
prepared in accordance with standard engineering practice (with supporting
technical data), that the proposed floodplain development would not result in
an increase in flood levels during the occurrence of the base flood.
         b.   All foundations for new construction and substantial improvement
shall be designed by a qualified engineer licensed by the State of Idaho and
constructed to withstand the hydrodynamic and hydrostatic pressures during the
discharge of the base flood. If flood velocities are excessive (greater than
four feet (4') per second), foundation systems other than solid foundation
walls are required so that obstructions to damaging flows are minimized.
      2.   Floodplain Development Based On An Approved CLOMR: A Conditional
Letter of Map Revision (CLOMR) approved by FEMA may be submitted with a
floodplain development permit application in lieu of a no-rise certification. A
Letter of Map Revision (LOMR) must be obtained within six (6) months of the
start of construction of the proposed floodplain development.
   3.   On existing lots of record where sufficient lot area is available, all
floodplain development, including fill, new construction, and substantial
improvements to existing structures shall occur outside of the floodway.
      4.   Construction pursuant to subsection
8.7.204(I), "Alteration And Maintenance Of Watercourses", of this article is
allowed in floodways with a floodplain development permit.
      5.   Encroachments:
         a.   A floodplain development permit shall be required for all
encroachments, regardless of whether or not the encroachment is in aid of
navigation.
         b.   All permits required by other agencies with jurisdiction shall
have been issued before a floodplain development permit may be issued.
         c.   The Director shall issue a floodplain development permit for an
encroachment if the applicable requirements of section
8.7.203 of this article have been met.
      6.   A structure that increases the level of the base flood may be
constructed in the floodway only if the Director finds that the structure would
serve a substantial public interest, and the applicant has applied for a
conditional FIRM and floodway revision, has fulfilled applicable FEMA
requirements for such revisions, and has received the approval of the Federal
Insurance Administrator. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016; amd. Ord. 545, 10-3-2019; Ord.
561, 12-17-2020)
8.7.203: GENERAL STANDARDS FOR FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT:
   A.   Building sites shall be reasonably safe from flooding.
   B.   All floodplain development, including new construction and substantial
improvements to existing structures, shall be designed (or modified) and
adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the
structure.
   C.   All floodplain development, including new construction and substantial
improvements to existing structures, shall be constructed with building
materials and utility equipment that are resistant to flood damage. Below base
flood elevation, materials must meet FEMA requirements for flood resistant
materials. Information on flood resistant materials is outlined in FEMA
publication FIA-TB-2.
   D.   All floodplain development, including new construction and substantial
improvements to existing structures, shall use methods and practices that
minimize or eliminate flood damages.
   E.   New and replacement electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air
conditioning equipment, aboveground storage tanks and other service facilities
shall not be located below the base flood elevation.
   F.   Design and implementation of utility systems required for floodplain
development are subject to approval.
   G.   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system. If any
portion of a public water system is in a special flood hazard area, an
emergency flood response plan must be developed and provided to DEQ, Kootenai
County and PHD. This plan must be implemented in the event that floodwaters
threaten to contaminate the water system, and must include:
      1.   Written instructions to the operator addressing circumstances
necessitating shutdown of the water system,
      2.   Instructions for disinfecting and testing the system prior to
startup, and
      3.   A protocol for notifying DEQ, PHD and all users when the water
system is at risk of being contaminated.
   H.   New community or individual sanitary sewage disposal systems shall be
located outside special flood hazard areas.
   I.   For new construction and substantially improved structures, a fully
enclosed area which is below the lowest floor shall:
      1.   Be constructed entirely of flood resistant materials to at least the
flood protection elevation; and
      2.   In Zones A and AE, flood openings shall be included which
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on walls by allowing for the
entry and exit of floodwaters. To meet this requirement, the openings must
either be certified by a professional engineer or architect, or must meet or
exceed the following minimum design criteria:
         a.   A minimum of two (2) flood openings on different sides of each
enclosed area subject to flooding;
         b.   The total net area of all flood openings must be at least one
square inch (one (1) sq. in.) for each square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding;
         c.   If a building has more than one enclosed area, each enclosed area
must have flood openings to allow floodwaters to automatically enter and exit;
         d.   The bottom of all required flood openings shall be no higher than
one foot (1') above exterior adjacent grade;
         e.   Flood openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or other
coverings or devices, provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions; and
         f.   Enclosures made of flexible skirting are not considered
enclosures for regulatory purposes, and therefore, do not require flood
openings. Masonry or wood underpinning, regardless of structural status, is
considered an enclosure and requires flood openings as outlined above.
   J.   If there is no alternative to locating a replacement sanitary sewage
disposal system within a special flood hazard area, the system shall be
designed and located to minimize or eliminate both the infiltration of
floodwaters into the system, and discharge from the system into floodwaters.
The determination that there is no alternative will be made by the Director
with input from PHD and/or DEQ.
   K.   New solid waste disposal facilities and sites, hazardous waste
management facilities, salvage yards, and chemical storage facilities shall not
be permitted except by variance approved pursuant to section
8.8.203 of this title. A structure or tank for chemical or fuel storage
incidental to an allowed use or to the operation of a water treatment plant or
wastewater treatment facility may be located in a special flood hazard area
only if the structure or tank is either elevated to at least the flood
protection elevation and certified in accordance with the provisions of
subsection
8.7.204(C) of this article.
   L.   All required Federal and State permits must be received before a County
floodplain development permit, building permit, or site disturbance permit may
be issued.
   M.   New floodplain development shall not increase flood heights except as
permitted in this chapter.
   N.   When a structure is partially located in a special flood hazard area,
the entire structure shall meet the requirements for new construction and
substantial improvements.
   O.   When a structure is located in multiple flood hazard zones or in a
flood hazard risk zone with multiple base flood elevations, the provisions for
the more restrictive flood hazard risk zone and the highest base flood
elevation (BFE) shall apply. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016; amd. Ord. 545, 10-3-2019)
8.7.204: SPECIFIC FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   Residential Structures:
      1.   New and replacement residential structures, accessory living units,
and all improvements to residential structures, including manufactured homes
and mobile homes, regardless of whether they meet the definition of a
"substantial improvement", shall have the top of the lowest floor, including
the floor of an attached garage or basement, elevated no lower than the flood
protection elevation except as provided in paragraph (D)(1) of this section.
      2.   Solid perimeter foundation walls are allowable only if the lowest
horizontal structural member is four feet (4') or less above interior grade
(shown as “L” in Illustration 7-201). Enclosed foundation areas below the
lowest floor that are subject to flooding are prohibited, except crawl spaces
less than four feet (4') in height and meet or exceed the following criteria:
         a.   The interior grade of a crawlspace below the BFE must not be more
than two feet (2') below the lowest adjacent exterior grade (LAG), shown as “D”
in Illustration 7-201.
         b.   A minimum of two (2) openings on different sides of each enclosed
area, having a total net area of not less than one square inch for every square
foot of enclosed area subject to flooding shall be provided. The bottom of all
openings shall be no higher than one foot (1') above lowest adjacent exterior
grade. Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or other coverings or
devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of floodwaters.
         c.   There must be an adequate drainage system that removes
floodwaters from the interior area of the crawl space. The enclosed area should
be drained within a reasonable time after a flood event. The type of drainage
system will vary because of the site gradient and other drainage
characteristics such as soil types. Possible options include natural drainage
through porous, well-drained soils and drainage systems such as perforated
pipes, drainage tiles, or gravel or crushed stone drainage by gravity or
mechanical means.
         d.   Fill may be used to elevate the grade next to foundation walls so
long as the fill meets the requirements of subsection H of this section.
         e.   The velocity of floodwaters at the site should not exceed five
feet per second (5 ft/sec) for any crawl space. For velocities in excess of
five feet per second (5 ft/sec), other foundation types should be used.
         f.   Below-grade crawl space construction in accordance with the
requirements listed in this subsection will not be considered a basement.
      3.   If the lowest horizontal structural member is more than four feet
(4') above grade, the residential structure shall not be built on solid
foundation walls, but shall be constructed on piers, posts, or piles. With the
exception of structural piers, posts or piles, the space below the lowest floor
must be free of obstruction. Single layer open wood lattice work or light mesh
insect screening is permissible below the lowest floor. Exceptions to the pier,
post, or pile construction are as follows:
         a.   Solid foundations under masonry chimneys are permissible.
         b.   Solid perimeter foundation walls may be permitted for an enclosed
accessway to the structure. Such accessways must meet the same requirements for
openings as crawl spaces.
         c.   Solid foundation walls that do not create an enclosed foundation
area (1 or 2 walls) are acceptable provided that the walls are engineered and
constructed to withstand the hydrodynamic pressure of water velocity and debris
and ice flow.
      4.   Where base flood elevation data is not available either through the
flood insurance study or from another authoritative source, applications for
building or location permits shall be reviewed to assure that proposed
construction will be reasonably safe from flooding. The test of reasonableness
is a local judgment and includes use of historical data, high water marks,
photographs of past flooding, etc., where available. In such locations, the top
of the lowest floor of structures must be elevated at least four feet (4')
above the highest adjacent grade.
   B.   Residential Accessory Structures:
      1.   Separate structures which are accessory to a residential use (e.g.,
garage, barn) are not required to be elevated as outlined in subsection A of
this section. For purposes of this article, accessory living units shall be
considered to be residential structures, and shall comply with the applicable
requirements of subsection
8.7.204A of this article.
      2.   Residential accessory structure shall be designed to comply with the
requirements of paragraph
8.7.203I.2. of this article.
      3.   Crawl spaces and other enclosed foundation areas shall comply with
the requirements of paragraph A2 of this section.
      4.   As part of any addition to an existing residential accessory
structure, the existing structure shall comply with the requirements for
openings as outlined in paragraph A2 of this section.
      Illustration 7-201
      Construction Diagram
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f76d2e4e8722669ad139ef438e24f88560956436/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1602.png]
   C.   Nonresidential Structures:
      1.   New and replacement nonresidential structures, and all improvements
to nonresidential structures, regardless of whether they meet the definition of
a "substantial improvement", shall have the top of the lowest floor, including
the floor of an attached garage or basement, elevated a minimum of three feet
(3') above the base flood elevation.
      2.   Solid perimeter foundation walls are allowable only if the lowest
horizontal structural member is four feet (4') or less above interior grade.
Enclosed foundation areas below the lowest floor that are subject to flooding
are prohibited except for crawl spaces less than four feet (4') in height.
Designs for meeting this requirement shall comply with the requirements of
paragraph A2 of this section.
      3.   If the lowest horizontal structural member is more than four feet
(4') above grade, the structure shall not be built on solid foundation walls,
but shall be constructed on piers, posts, or piles. With the exception of
structural piers, posts or piles, the space below the lowest floor must be free
of obstruction. Single layer open wood lattice work or light mesh insect
screening is permissible below the lowest floor. Exceptions to the pier, post,
or pile construction are as follows:
         a.   Solid foundations under masonry chimneys are permissible.
         b.   Solid perimeter foundation walls may be permitted for an enclosed
accessway to the structure. Such accessways must meet the same requirements for
openings as crawl spaces.
         c.   Solid foundation walls that do not create an enclosed foundation
area (1 or 2 walls) are acceptable provided that the walls are engineered and
constructed to withstand the hydrodynamic pressure of water velocity and debris
and ice flow.
      4.   Where base flood elevation data is not available either through the
flood insurance study or from another authoritative source, applications for
building permits shall be reviewed to assure that proposed construction will be
reasonably safe from flooding. The test of reasonableness is a local judgment
and includes use of historical data, high water marks, photographs of past
flooding, etc., where available. In such locations, the top of the lowest floor
of structures must be elevated at least four feet (4') above the highest
adjacent grade.
   D.   Additions And Improvements:
      1.   Structures originally constructed prior to March 1, 1982 (Pre-FIRM
structures):
         a.   If additions and improvements to pre-FIRM structures, in
combination with any interior modifications to the existing structure, do not
constitute a substantial improvement, the additions and improvements must be
designed to minimize flood damages and must not be any more non-conforming than
the existing structure.
         b.   If additions and improvements to pre-FIRM structures, in
combination with any interior modifications to the existing structure,
constitute a substantial improvement, both the existing structure and the
additions and improvements must comply with the standards for new construction
set forth in this article.
      2.   Structures originally constructed on or after March 1, 1982 (Post-
FIRM structures):
         a.   Additions to post-FIRM structures that constitute a substantial
improvement shall require only the addition to comply with the standards for
new construction set forth in this article so long as there are no
modifications to the existing structure other than a standard door in the
common wall.
         b.   If additions and improvements to post-FIRM structures, in
combination with any interior modifications to the existing structure, do not
constitute a substantial improvement, only the additions and improvements will
be required to comply with the standards for new construction set forth in this
article; or
         c.   If additions and improvements to post-FIRM structures, in
combination with any interior modifications to the existing structure,
constitute a substantial improvement, both the existing structure and the
additions and improvements shall be required to comply with the standards for
new construction set forth in this article.
      3.   Any substantial improvement must comply with the standards for new
construction set forth in this article. Improvements completed within the
previous five (5) year period shall be counted cumulatively. If a structure has
sustained substantial damage, any repairs shall be considered substantial
improvements regardless of the actual repair work performed. The requirement
does not, however, include either:
         a.   Any project for improvement of a building required to correct
existing health, sanitary, or safety code violations identified by the building
official and that are the minimum necessary to ensure safe living conditions;
or
         b.   Any alteration of an historic structure, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as an
historic structure.
   E.   Manufactured Homes And Mobile Homes:
      1.   All manufactured homes and mobile homes to be placed or
substantially improved within A zones on the FIRM shall be elevated on a
permanent foundation in compliance with section
8.7.203 of this article and subsection A of this section.
      2.   Manufactured homes and mobile homes shall be securely anchored to an
adequately anchored foundation to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral
movement, either by a certified engineered foundation system, or in accordance
with the most current edition of the Idaho Division of Building Safety's Idaho
Manufactured Home Installation Standard in accordance with subsection 44-2201
(2), Idaho Code. Additionally, when the elevation of the chassis is thirty-six
inches (36") or less above the elevation of the grade on site, the chassis
shall be supported by reinforced piers or an engineered foundation. When the
elevation of the chassis is above thirty-six inches (36") in height, an
engineering certification shall be required.
      3.   All enclosures or skirting below the lowest floor shall meet the
requirements of paragraph
8.7.203I.2. of this article.
      4.   An evacuation plan shall be developed for evacuation of all
residents of all new, substantially improved, or substantially damaged
manufactured home parks or subdivisions located within special flood hazard
areas. This plan shall be filed with and approved by the Director and the
Kootenai County Office of Emergency Management.
   F.   Recreational Vehicles: Recreational vehicles and park model
recreational vehicles shall not be used as dwellings, shall meet the applicable
requirements of chapter 4, article 4.4 of this title, and, in addition, when
placed on sites within A zones on the community's FIRM shall be:
      1.   On site for fewer than one hundred twenty (120) consecutive days
within one year; and
      2.   Fully licensed and ready for highway use, be on its wheels or
jacking system, be attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities
and security devices, and have no attached additions.
   G.   Land Division, Mobile Home Parks, And Planned Unit Developments:
      1.   All lots created after September 14, 1999, shall have a building
site that is a minimum of four thousand (4,000) square feet in size and
accessible by a driveway which meets the minimum standards of chapter 4,
article 4.2 of this title, all located outside of any special flood hazard
area.
      2.   If platted, the face of the plat shall indicate the location of any
special flood hazard area within the boundaries of the plat and a note shall be
placed on the plat restricting development to areas outside the designated
special flood hazard area. Such areas shall be preserved as open space and left
in their natural condition.
      3.   The following provisions shall also be met:
         a.   All projects shall be consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage, and shall be reasonably safe from flooding.
         b.   All projects shall have utilities and facilities such as sewer,
gas, electrical, and water systems located and constructed to minimize flood
damage. If any portion of a public water system is in a special flood hazard
area, an emergency flood response plan must be developed and provided to DEQ,
Kootenai County and PHD. This plan must be implemented in the event that
floodwaters threaten to contaminate the water system, and must include:
            (1)   Written instructions to the operator addressing circumstances
necessitating shutdown of the water system,
            (2)   Instructions for disinfecting and testing the system prior to
startup, and
            (3)   A protocol for notifying DEQ, PHD and all users when the
water system is at risk of being contaminated.
         c.   All projects shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce
exposure to flood damage.
         d.   Where base flood elevation data is not available either through
the flood insurance study or from another authoritative source, it shall be
generated by the developer's engineer for projects which contain at least five
(5) lots or five (5) acres (whichever is less).
         e.   All projects shall include a maintenance plan that includes the
cleaning and maintenance of culverts, ditches, and drainage swales to reduce
the risk of flood damage. Maintenance activities must be carried out in
accordance with all federal, state, and local regulations and all required
permits must be obtained.
         f.   For each project, if a public entity will not be responsible for
maintenance, a maintenance entity, such as a homeowners' association or utility
corporation, shall be established. If maintenance requirements are not met, the
county may contract to have the maintenance done at the expense of the
responsible party(ies). The county may also take enforcement measures as
provided by law.
   H.   Placement Of Fill In Special Flood Hazard Areas:
      1.   Fill must be placed and compacted in accordance with the
requirements of the international building code and of article 7.1 of this
chapter. Such fill must be compacted for at least fifteen feet (15') beyond the
limits of any structure placed on it; and
      2.   After placement and compaction, fill must be protected from erosion
and scour by riprap or sod forming grass or equivalent vegetation.
      3.   Compensatory Storage Required For Fill.
         a.   Fill within the special flood hazard area shall result in no net
loss of natural floodplain storage. The volume of the loss of floodwater
storage due to filling in the special flood hazard area shall be offset by
providing an equal volume of flood storage by excavation or other compensatory
measures at or adjacent to the development site.
   I.   Alteration And Maintenance Of Watercourses:
      1.   Stream and channel maintenance in special flood hazard areas may be
necessary, for example, when rock and other debris restrict the flow of
floodwaters. The cleaning of this debris and the creation of sediment pools
will be carried out in accordance with all applicable federal, state, and local
regulations and all necessary permits shall be obtained with copies provided to
Kootenai County.
      2.   The following are required before an alteration of any watercourse:
         a.   Notify adjacent property owners within one-half (1/2) mile
upstream and downstream from the project boundaries, any affected cities, and
the Idaho department of water resources prior to any alteration, maintenance,
or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such notification, along
with any required permits, to the federal insurance director and Kootenai
County.
         b.   Require that maintenance be provided within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse so that the flood carrying capacity is
not diminished.
      3.   The provisions of this subsection do not apply to the routine
removal of debris or navigational hazards.
   J.   Storage Tanks:
      1.   When gas and liquid storage tanks are to be placed within a special
flood hazard area, the following criteria shall be met:
         a.   Underground storage tanks in special flood hazard areas shall be
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads during conditions of the base flood,
including the effects of buoyancy (assuming the tank is empty);
         b.   Elevated above-ground storage tanks, in flood hazard areas shall
be attached to, and elevated to or above, the design flood elevation on a
supporting structure that is designed to prevent flotation, collapse, or
lateral movement during conditions of the base flood. Tank-supporting
structures shall meet the foundation requirements of the applicable flood
hazard area;
         c.   Non-elevated above-ground storage tanks that do not meet the
elevation requirements of this subsection shall be permitted in flood hazard
areas provided the tanks are anchored or otherwise designed and constructed to
prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement resulting from hydrodynamic and
hydrostatic loads during conditions of the design flood, including the effects
of buoyancy assuming the tank is empty and the effects of flood-borne debris.
         d.   Storage tank inlets, fill openings, outlets and vents shall be:
            (1)   At or above the flood protection elevation or fitted with
covers designed to prevent the inflow of floodwater or outflow of the contents
of the storage tanks during conditions of the base flood; and
            (2)   Anchored to prevent lateral movement resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy, during
conditions of the base flood.
   K.   Development Of Public Interest Projects: Floodplain development may
occur within a special flood hazard area outside of a floodway without having
to comply with the normally applicable requirements of this section if the
Director finds that such floodplain development would serve a substantial
public interest.
   L.   Other Activities: Floodplain development not specifically permitted in
this article shall be prohibited unless the following criteria are met:
      1.   The activity shall not result in any decrease in flood storage
capacity during discharge of the base flood; and
      2.   The activity shall not impair the natural and beneficial functions
of the floodplain. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016; amd. Ord. 545, 10-3-2019)
8.7.205: ADMINISTRATION:
The director shall act as the Floodplain Adminsitrator for purposes of
administration and enforcement of the provisions of this article. Duties of the
director shall include, without limitation, the following:
   A.   Granting or denying floodplain development permits in accordance with
section
8.7.206 of this article.
   B.   Review Of Building And Site Development Permits: The Director shall
review all building, location and site disturbance permits associated with
floodplain development to determine whether:
      1.   The applicable requirements of this article have been satisfied;
      2.   All necessary permits have been obtained from the federal, state,
and local governmental agencies from which prior approval is required; and
      3.   The proposed floodplain development is located in the floodway. If
located in the floodway, the director shall ensure that the proposed floodplain
development is allowed under, and complies with, the provisions of section
8.7.202 of this article.
   C.   Information To Be Obtained And Maintained: For all floodplain
development, the director shall:
      1.   Prevent encroachments into floodways and special flood hazard areas
unless the applicable certification and flood hazard reduction provisions of
this article have been met;
      2.   Require fully completed construction drawings, building under
construction, and finished construction elevation certificates, whenever
applicable;
      3.   Obtain actual elevation, in relation to mean sea level, of the
lowest flood (including basement) and all attendant utilities of all new and
substantially improved structures whenever required under the provisions of
this article.
      4.   Maintain fully completed finished construction elevation
certificates; and
      5.   Maintain all records pertaining to the provisions of this article
for public inspection.
   D.   Interpretation And Use Of Other Data: The director shall make
interpretations, where needed, as to exact location of the boundaries of
special flood hazard areas and floodways (for example, where there appears to
be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions), and shall
consider any information provided by FEMA or other authoritative sources. The
person contesting the location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable
opportunity to appeal any such interpretations in accordance with chapter 8,
article 8.5 of this title. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016; amd. Ord. 545, 10-3-2019)
8.7.206: FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMITS:
   A.   An application for a floodplain development permit shall be made to the
Director before any floodplain development may begin.
   B.   Application Requirements: In addition to the items required by the
provisions of section
8.8.204 of this title, the following items shall be submitted to the Director
in conjunction with an application for a floodplain development permit:
      1.   A site plan drawn to scale which shall include, without limitation,
the following specific details:
         a.   The nature, location, dimensions, and elevations of the area of
floodplain development or disturbance, including, without limitation, existing
and proposed structures, utility systems, grading and pavement areas, fill
materials, storage areas, drainage facilities, and any other proposed
floodplain development;
         b.   The boundary of the special flood hazard area as delineated on
the FIRM or as set forth in paragraph
8.7.201(B)(1) of this article, or a statement that the entire lot is within the
special flood hazard area;
         c.   The flood zone designation(s) of the proposed floodplain
development area as determined pursuant to this article;
         d.   The boundary of any floodways or flood fringe areas;
         e.   The Base Flood Elevation (BFE) where provided as set forth in
this article;
         f.   The old and new location of any watercourse that will be altered
or relocated as a result of the proposed floodplain development; and
         g.   The certification of the plot plan by a registered land surveyor
or professional engineer.
      2.   Proposed elevation, and method thereof, of all floodplain
development, including, without limitation, elevation in relation to mean sea
level of the proposed lowest floor (including basement) of all structures.
      3.   Foundations within a special flood hazard area shall be designed by
a qualified professional engineer licensed by the State of Idaho in accordance
with standard engineering practice. A foundation plan, drawn to scale, shall be
submitted which includes details of the proposed foundation system that ensure
that all applicable provisions of this article are met. These details include,
without limitation:
         a.   The proposed method of elevation, if applicable (e.g., fill,
solid foundation perimeter wall, solid backfilled foundation, open foundation,
or on columns, posts, piers, piles or shear walls); and
         b.   Openings to facilitate automatic equalization of hydrostatic
flood forces on walls in accordance with paragraph
8.7.203(I)(2) of this article when solid foundation perimeter walls are used in
Zones A and AE.
      4.   A statement detailing the proposed uses of any enclosed areas below
the lowest floor.
      5.   Plans detailing the methods to be used to protect public utilities
and facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, to be
located and constructed to minimize flood damage.
      6.   A certification that all other local, state, and federal permits
required have been received.
      7.   Documentation for placement of recreational vehicles, when
applicable, to ensure that the provisions of subsection
8.7.204F of this article are met.
      8.   When applicable, a description of any proposed watercourse
alteration or relocation, including, without limitation, the following:
         a.   An engineering report on the effects of the proposed project on
the flood-carrying capacity of the watercourse and the effects to properties
located both upstream and downstream; and
         b.   A map showing the location of the proposed watercourse alteration
or relocation, if not shown on the site plan.
   C.   Certification Requirements:
      1.   Elevation Certificates (FEMA Form 86-0-33).
         a.   Construction drawings. A construction drawings elevation
certificate is required prior to the actual start of any new construction. It
shall be the duty of the permit holder to submit to the Director a
certification of the elevation of the lowest floor in relation to mean sea
level. The Director shall review the certificate data submitted. Deficiencies
detected by such review shall be corrected by the permit holder before the
start of construction.
         b.   Building under construction. An elevation certificate for a
building under construction is required after the lowest floor is established.
Within seven (7) calendar days of establishment of the lowest floor elevation,
it shall be the duty of the permit holder to submit to the Director a
certification of the elevation of the lowest floor in relation to mean sea
level. Any work done within the seven (7) day calendar period and prior to
submission of the certification shall be at the permit holder's risk. The
Director shall review the certificate data submitted. Deficiencies detected by
such review shall be corrected by the permit holder immediately, and all
necessary corrections must be completed before any further work is permitted to
proceed.
         c.   Finished construction elevation certificates.
            (1)   A final as-built finished construction elevation certificate
is required after construction is completed and before a certificate of
occupancy or equivalent may be issued. It shall be the duty of the permit
holder to submit to the Director a certification of final as-built construction
of the elevation of the lowest floor and all attendant utilities. The Director
shall review the certificate data submitted. Deficiencies detected by such
review shall be corrected by the permit holder immediately, and all necessary
corrections must be completed before a certificate of occupancy or equivalent
may be issued. In some instances, another certification may be required to
certify corrected as-built construction.
            (2)   The engineer providing the finished construction elevation
certificate shall provide at least two (2) photographs showing the front and
rear of the building taken within ninety (90) days after the date of
certification. The photographs must be taken with views confirming the building
description and diagram number provided in subsection B of this section. To the
extent possible, these photographs should show the entire building including
the foundation. If the building has split-level or multi-level areas, at least
two (2) additional photographs showing side views of the building shall also be
provided. In addition, when applicable, an additional photograph of the
foundation showing a representative example of the flood openings or vents
shall be provided.
         d.   Failure to submit any required certification or to make required
corrections shall constitute good cause to issue a stop-work order for the
project, to deny, revoke or suspend a floodplain development permit, or to
deny, revoke or suspend any associated building, location, or site disturbance
permit.
      2.   If a manufactured home is placed within Zone A or AE and the
elevation of the chassis is more than thirty six inches (36") in height above
grade, an engineered foundation certification is required in accordance with
the provisions of subsection
8.7.204E of this article.
      3.   If a watercourse is to be altered or relocated, the following shall
be submitted by the applicant before a floodplain development permit is issued:
         a.   A description of the extent of watercourse alteration or
relocation;
         b.   A professional engineer's certified report on the effects of the
proposed project on the flood-carrying capacity of the watercourse and the
effects to properties located both upstream and downstream;
         c.   A map showing the location of the proposed watercourse alteration
or relocation; and
         d.   An approved Idaho stream channel alteration permit.
      4.   Certification Exemptions. If located within Zone A or AE, the
following structures shall be exempt from the elevation certification
requirements specified in paragraph (1) of this subsection:
         a.   Recreational vehicles which comply with the requirements of
subsection
8.7.204F of this article; and
         b.   Residential accessory structures of less than two hundred (200)
square feet in size which comply with the requirements of subsection
8.7.204B of this article.
   D.   Encroachments: Encroachments shall be exempt from the requirements of
subsections B and C of this section. In lieu of those requirements, the
applicant shall submit the encroachment permit issued by IDL for the
encroachment, all other permits issued by other agencies with jurisdiction, and
the entire contents of each case file pertaining to such permits.
   E.   Approval Procedure: Applications for floodplain development permits
shall be processed in accordance with this section and section
8.8.204 of this title, except that the issuance of an order of decision shall
not be required.
   F.   Decisions made by the Director may be appealed to the Board in
accordance with article 8.5 of this chapter. (Ord. 545, 10-3-2019)
8.7.207: DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
The degree of flood protection required by this article is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes. This article does not
imply that land outside special flood hazard areas, or uses permitted within
such areas, will be free from flooding or flood damage. This article shall not
create liability on the part of Kootenai County, any officer or employee
thereof, or the federal insurance administration for any flood damages that
result from reliance on this article or any administrative decision lawfully
made hereunder. This article is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any
existing easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016; amd.
Ord. 545, 10-3-2019)
ARTICLE 7.3. SUBSURFACE SEWAGE DISPOSAL
SECTION:
8.7.301: Prohibited Conditions
8.7.302: Sewage Disposal On Parcels Located Over The Rathdrum Prairie Aquifer
8.7.303: Authority For Enforcement
8.7.301: PROHIBITED CONDITIONS:
   A.   Domestic sewage, septage, sanitary sewage, industrial waste,
agricultural waste, sewage effluent, or human excreta is not allowed to remain
open to the atmosphere or on the surface of the ground in such a manner so as
to be a source of noxious or offensive odors, to be dangerous to health, or to
be a public nuisance.
   B.   Domestic sewage, sanitary sewage, septage, industrial sewage,
industrial waste, agricultural waste, sewage effluent, or human excreta is not
allowed to endanger any source or supply of drinking water, or cause damage to
any public or private property.
   C.   Raw or untreated sewage, septage, or industrial waste, or agricultural
waste is not allowed in any body of water, water course, or any underground
water drain, any storm water drain, channel, or other surface water drain.
(Ord. 574, 3-22-2022; amd. Ord. 578, 9-8-2022)
8.7.302: SEWAGE DISPOSAL ON PARCELS LOCATED OVER THE RATHDRUM PRAIRIE AQUIFER:
   A.   The provisions of this section shall apply to all subsurface sewage
disposal systems installed on any parcel located over the Rathdrum Prairie
Aquifer.
   B.   The Board of County Commissioners and the Board of Health have
determined that extensive use of subsurface wastewater disposal on parcels
located over the Rathdrum Prairie Aquifer presents a threat to the public
health by contamination of the Rathdrum Prairie Aquifer, which has been
designated as a sole source aquifer by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
(EPA) and as a sensitive resource aquifer by the Idaho Department of
Environmental Quality (DEQ). Therefore, it is the intent of the Board of County
Commissioners to adopt regulations which continue to govern subsurface sewage
disposal which shall apply to all parcels located over the Rathdrum Prairie
Aquifer.
   C.   Subsurface Sewage Disposal System Regulations:
      1.   All installations of subsurface sewage disposal systems must be made
in compliance with applicable DEQ and Panhandle Health District No. 1 (PHD)
rules.
      2.   A subsurface sewage disposal system for one (1) dwelling equivalent
may be installed in accordance with paragraph (1) of this subsection if the
system is on a single parcel of land of five (5.00) acres or larger in surface
area and the total loading for that parcel does not exceed one (1) dwelling
equivalent per five (5.00) acres, except where one (1) system is replacing
another. Every parcel of land created after December 20, 1977, except as
otherwise permitted in this section, shall maintain the dwelling equivalent(s)
allowed for the original parcel of land existing on that date.
      3.   No subsurface sewage disposal system may be installed on any parcel
of land of less than five (5.00) acres in surface area except under the
following conditions:
         a.   A subsurface sewage disposal system for a single dwelling
equivalent shall be permitted on parcels of land less than five (5.00) acres in
size which were acquired or established prior to December 20, 1977, provided
that such parcels comply with all other rules governing individual subsurface
sewage disposal systems; or
         b.   Where one (1) subsurface sewage disposal system is replacing
another with no increase in sewage loading.
      4.   On all developments subject to the provisions of subparagraph (a) of
paragraph (3) of this subsection, all installations shall be done in
coordination with local government planning, and approved by DEQ where
applicable.
      5.   Upon notification by the PHD Health Officer, the owner of any parcel
of land utilizing a subsurface sewage disposal system shall disconnect such
system from any buildings on that parcel of land and connect the building sewer
from the buildings to a collection and treatment system whenever it becomes
available for service to that parcel.
   D.   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any parcel in which
sewage disposal is provided by a municipal or community sewer system owned and
operated by a duly organized city, sewer district, water and sewer district, or
recreational water and sewer district. (Ord. 574, 3-22-2022; amd. Ord. 578, 9-
8-2022)
8.7.303: AUTHORITY FOR ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   The County and PHD shall have the power to apply and enforce the
provisions of this article, which shall include those powers expressly set
forth in this article and any powers necessarily implied from those provisions.
   B.   Nothing in this article shall be construed as requiring any particular
application of this article, nor any particular permitting or enforcement
action, nor any expenditure of funds.
   C.   Nothing in this article shall be construed as limiting the legal
remedies that may be sought by the County or PHD for a violation of any
provision of this article. (Ord. 574, 3-22-2022; amd. Ord. 578, 9-8-2022)
ARTICLE 7.4. STORAGE AND HANDLING OF CRITICAL MATERIALS
SECTION:
8.7.401: Purpose
8.7.402: Applicability
8.7.403: Commercial/Industrial Application
8.7.404: Performance Standards
8.7.405: Revocation Of Certificate
8.7.406: Variances
8.7.407: Violations
8.7.408: Authority For Enforcement
8.7.401: PURPOSE:
The purpose and intent of this article is to aid in the protection of the
Rathdrum Prairie Aquifer from potential sources of contamination from materials
handling and storage at facilities located over or adjacent to the Aquifer.
This article strives to achieve such protection through proper use of secondary
containment systems at fixed facilities that use, store, manufacture, or handle
critical materials. This article aligns with the requirements specified in
Title III of the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986 (SARA
Title III). (Ord. 601, 11-19-2024)
8.7.402: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   This article applies to any person, firm, corporation, or government
agency owning, operating, or proposing to locate, establish, or operate a
facility over the Aquifer or within a recognized Aquifer recharge area within
the unincorporated area of Kootenai County. Any facility so located shall
comply with the requirements of this article prior to initiation of operations
or engaging in any critical materials use activity. Every owner or operator of
a facility shall demonstrate compliance with this article by obtaining a
critical materials compliance certificate (CMCC) for current operations.
   B.   An application is required to establish a new use that could qualify as
a facility, including remodeling, operating changes, change in ownership, or
expansion of an existing facility, which would modify the type or quantity of
critical materials handled or stored.
   C.   Any CMCC granted is specific to that action and the application filed.
Subsequent actions shall require separate plan reviews and approvals to obtain
a CMCC.
   D.   All businesses over the Aquifer are subject to inspection in order to
determine if they are governed by this article. (Ord. 601, 11-19-2024)
8.7.403: COMMERCIAL/INDUSTRIAL APPLICATION:
Each applicant must submit to the Panhandle Health District (PHD) Health
Officer or designee for review a Commercial/Industrial application that
provides:
   A.   Sufficient information to allow for the determination of the type,
quantity, and physical state of all critical materials that are used, stored,
manufactured, or handled at the facility location. The Health Officer may
require that the applicant provide a complete list of critical materials
present at the facility.
   B.   Building plans and site development drawings showing compliance with
the secondary containment requirements set forth in this article. Such plans
shall also provide confirmation that the secondary containment methods are
compatible with the materials to be contained and that critical materials at
the facility are isolated from stormwater or other surface waters on the site.
The Health Officer may require that any such plans be certified by a licensed
engineer. The building and/or site plans must show the location of critical
materials in buildings and other designated site areas.
   C.   Proof of contact and resultant acknowledgment from other agencies which
have codes, standards, or rules which must be met by the applicant with respect
to handling of critical materials.
   D.   An opportunity for the Health Officer to perform an inspection to
evaluate chemical handling and storage at the facility.
   E.   The Health Officer shall evaluate the application with consideration
for the BMP Manual to determine the applicability of the provisions of this
article to the facility. A CMCC shall be issued to a fixed facility when it is
determined that the application is complete and meets the requirements of this
article and the BMP Manual, and an inspection, if required, demonstrates
compliance with    secondary containment criteria previously approved through
the plan review.
   F.   If the CMCC is denied, the Health Officer shall issue a written
statement to the applicant stating the reasoning for the determination that the
application was incomplete or that it did not meet the requirements of this
article.
   G.   The applicant may appeal the denial of a CMCC in accordance with
chapter 8, article 8.5 of this title. (Ord. 601, 11-19-2024)
8.7.404: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
Each fixed facility, as defined in section
8.9.202 of this title, must conform to the following performance standards:
   A.   Construct and maintain a secondary containment system for all critical
materials. The secondary containment system shall be designed to prevent
infiltration of any critical materials into the ground in the event that they
are released from their original storage containers.
   B.   The secondary containment system and methods must be non-reactive and
resistant to the materials to be contained, and must isolate the critical
materials at the fixed facility from stormwater, other surface waters on the
site, and reactive critical materials present in the same fixed facility.
   C.   Secondary containment systems must be sized to contain at least one
hundred ten percent (110%) of the volume of the largest container, or ten
percent (10%) of the aggregate volume of all containers, whichever is greater,
in any containment area within a fixed facility.
   D.   The owner or operator of any fixed facility shall report the presence
of any critical materials use activities to the Health Officer and all
responsible local, state, and federal agencies as required by applicable
federal or state laws or regulations, and by the provisions of this article.
   E.   Any spilling, leaking, emitting, discharging, escaping, or leaching of
any critical materials into the secondary containment system or the environment
must be reported to the Health Officer immediately upon discovery of the
release.
   F.   Should there be a conflict between the provisions of this article and
local, state, or federal rules and regulations regarding critical materials use
activities, the provision that provides the greatest degree of protection to
the Rathdrum Prairie Aquifer shall prevail, except where legal preemption of
regulatory authority by state or federal agencies may require application of a
different standard of protection.
   G.   Each fixed facility is subject to an inspection at intervals set by the
Health Officer to verify continued compliance with this article. (Ord. 601, 11-
19-2024)
8.7.405: REVOCATION OF CERTIFICATE:
The Health Officer, for good cause, may revoke any certificate granted by
providing written notice to the permit holder or agent. Any person,
association, or corporation who continues to act more than ten (10) days after
the notice of revocation has been mailed shall be in violation of this article
and subject to the penalties provided in section
8.8.603 of this title. The revocation of a CMCC may be appealed in accordance
with chapter 8, article 8.5 of this title. (Ord. 601, 11-19-2024)
8.7.406: VARIANCES:
   A.   A variance to any of the provisions of this article may be granted only
upon an affirmative showing by an applicant that a unique and undue hardship is
caused by a physical characteristic of a site that is not of the applicant’s
making, and that approval of the variance would not be contrary to the public
interest or to the purposes of this article.
   B.   In addition to the application requirements set forth in subsection
8.8.203(B) of this title, an applicant for a variance shall provide the
following:
      1.   An accurate site plan showing development of the site in question,
present and proposed, depicting all features relevant to the variance request.
The Health Officer shall identify information necessary to proper processing of
the request if information other than that normally required needs to be
supplied. The applicant shall describe the current and proposed use of the site
in question.
      2.   A narrative statement addressing the efforts, including
consideration of design alternatives, which the applicant has undertaken to
comply with the standard from which a variance is sought.
      3.   A narrative statement explaining the nature of the hardship, if any,
imposed by literal compliance with the rule in question.
      4.   A narrative statement explaining the effects of the requested
variance on the interests of adjoining landowners and of the public at large.
      5.   A narrative statement detailing what use could be made of the site
in question if the requested variance were not granted.
   C.   The procedure for consideration of a variance application, including
the findings required for the granting of a variance, shall be as set forth in
subsection
8.8.203(C) of this title.
   D.   The denial of a variance application may be appealed in accordance with
chapter 8, article 8.5 of this title. (Ord. 601, 11-19-2024)
8.7.407: VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Any owner or operator of a fixed facility is deemed to have violated
this article if:
      1.   A fixed facility is operated or if critical materials use activities
are conducted on any site without first submitting a Commercial/Industrial
application or if changes are made to critical materials use activities at a
fixed facility without resubmitting a Commercial/Industrial application for the
fixed facility as required in section
8.7.403 of this article.
      2.   An owner or operator knowingly submits any false or incomplete
statement in an application or in reports to the Health Officer or other
responsible agencies or officials concerning the nature or quantity of critical
materials present at a facility governed by this article.
      3.   An owner or operator fails to implement or maintain secondary
containment of critical materials at a fixed facility as necessitated by this
article.
      4.   An owner or operator fails to comply with time and reporting
standards for any critical materials use activities or fails to report any
discharge of critical materials into the secondary containment system required
by this article.
   B.   Enforcement of the provisions of this article shall be as set forth in
chapter 8, article 8.6 of this title.
   C.   In addition to the remedies set forth in chapter 8, article 8.6 of this
title, any person, association, or corporation, or the officers thereof found
to be in violation of this article shall be liable, whether by civil action or
restitution, for any expense incurred by the County, PHD or any other
governmental agency in enforcing the provisions of this article, or in removing
or terminating any nuisance or health hazard. (Ord. 601, 11-19-2024)
8.7.408: AUTHORITY FOR ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   The County, acting through the Director or designee, and PHD, acting
through its Health Officer or designee, shall have the power to apply and
enforce the provisions of this article, which shall include those powers
expressly set forth in this article and any powers necessarily implied from
those provisions.
   B.   Nothing in this article shall be construed as requiring any particular
application of this article, nor any particular permitting or enforcement
action, nor any expenditure of funds.
   C.   Nothing in this article shall be construed as limiting the legal
remedies that may be sought by the County or PHD for a violation of any
provision of this article. (Ord. 601, 11-19-2024)
CHAPTER 8
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
ARTICLE 8.1. ADMINISTRATION
SECTION:
8.8.101: Administrative Authority And Requirements
8.8.102: Fees Set By Resolution
8.8.103: Inactive Applications
8.8.104: Mediation
8.8.101: ADMINISTRATIVE AUTHORITY AND REQUIREMENTS:
The director shall be responsible for administration of this title, including,
without limitation, the following:
   A.   Fees: The director is authorized to collect fees, as approved by
resolution of the board, for services associated with development activities
authorized in this title.
   B.   Forms: The director is authorized to develop and require the completion
of forms to aid in the administration of this title.
   C.   Adoption Of Criteria For Supporting Documents: The board may adopt, by
resolution, criteria for supporting documents that may be necessary in the
administration of this title.
   D.   Interpretation: In applying this title to situations that are not
specifically addressed, the actions taken shall be in conformance with the
purpose and intent of the title, and shall be in the best interest of the
public, but with due consideration for individual property rights.
   E.   Right To Inspect: The property owner or authorized applicant's
signature on a permit application shall constitute approval for the department
to enter onto and inspect the property which is the subject of the permit
application except in cases where construction standards are governed by codes
other than those under the jurisdiction of the county, such as the national
electrical safety code (NESC), or where entry onto the property may be limited
to qualified or certified personnel due to the nature of the use. In such
cases, an application for a permit shall not constitute a waiver of the right
to limit entry onto the subject property.
   F.   Abatement Of Nuisances And Hazards: The director shall have the
authority to abate public nuisances and hazards as provided in Idaho law and in
section
8.8.604 of this chapter. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.8.102: FEES SET BY RESOLUTION:
The board shall adopt, by resolution, a schedule of fees for the department.
(Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.8.103: INACTIVE APPLICATIONS:
Upon filing of an application with the department for any permit or approval
authorized under this title, the applicant shall diligently pursue approval of
the application. Failure to comply with this duty shall subject the application
to dismissal for inactivity in accordance with the provisions of this section.
   A.   Inactivity Subjecting An Application To Dismissal: When an action by
the applicant is required for further processing of an application, the
application shall be subject to dismissal six (6) months after the date that
the action is requested, if the applicant either:
      1.   Fails to take the required action;
      2.   Fails to request an extension of time pursuant to subsection B of
this section; or
      3.   The department has been unable to contact the applicant during the
entirety of the six (6) month period.
   B.   Extension Of Time: Upon written request of the applicant made before
the expiration of the six (6) month period set forth in subsection A of this
section, or before the expiration of an extension period previously granted
pursuant to this subsection, the time for dismissal of an application may be
extended by up to six (6) additional months. The total of all extension periods
granted pursuant to this subsection shall not exceed two (2) years.
   C.   Notice Of Intent To Dismiss: Upon the expiration of the six (6) month
period set forth in subsection A of this section, the department shall issue a
notice of intent to dismiss the application which contains the reasons for the
proposed dismissal. The notice shall be mailed via certified mail, return
receipt requested, to the last known address of the applicant most likely to
provide notice of intent to dismiss the application. If the certified mailing
is returned undelivered or unclaimed, the notice shall then be sent via regular
first class mail.
   D.   Dismissal For Inactivity: After the expiration of thirty (30) days
after the mailing of a notice of intent to dismiss, the application shall be
dismissed unless the applicant has commenced the action required to be taken,
or has requested an extension of time pursuant to subsection B of this section.
   E.   Order Of Dismissal: Upon dismissal of an application for inactivity,
the director shall issue an order dismissing the application which contains the
reasons for the dismissal. The order shall be mailed via certified mail, return
receipt requested, to the last known address of the applicant most likely to
provide notice of dismissal of the application. If the certified mailing is
returned undelivered or unclaimed, the order shall then be sent via regular
first class mail.
   F.   Appeals: A dismissal for inactivity may be appealed in accordance with
article 8.5 of this chapter. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.8.104: MEDIATION:
   A.   Pursuant to section 67-6510, Idaho Code, the board may require an
applicant and affected persons objecting to an application made pursuant to any
provision of this title to participate in at least one mediation session.
Requests for mediation must be submitted to the board in writing, and may be
submitted by the applicant, an affected person, the planning commission, or a
hearing examiner.
   B.   If required, the board shall select and pay the expense of the mediator
for the first meeting. Compensation of the mediator for additional meetings
shall be determined among the parties at the outset of any mediation
undertaking.
   C.   Mediation may occur at any point during the decision making process or
after a final decision has been made; however, if mediation occurs after a
final decision, any resolution of differences must be the subject of another
public hearing before the hearing body.
   D.   The mediation session shall not be a part of the official record for an
application.
   E.   During mediation, any relevant time limitation on the application shall
be tolled. Such tolling shall cease when the applicant or other affected
person, after having participated in at least one mediation session, provides
the county with a written statement that no further participation is desired,
and the other parties are notified. If no mediation is scheduled, tolling shall
cease twenty eight (28) days from the date of the request. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
ARTICLE 8.2. PERMIT PROCEDURES AND REQUIRED FINDINGS
SECTION:
8.8.201: Conditional Use Permits
8.8.202: Special Notice Permits
8.8.203: Variances
8.8.204: Administrative Approvals
8.8.205: Building Permits And Certificates Of Occupancy
8.8.201: CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS:
   A.   Application Requirements: The following items constitute a complete
application for a conditional use permit:
      1.   Application Form: A completed application form must be submitted
with the property owner's signature, or with the applicant's signature together
with a notarized letter from the property owner authorizing the applicant to
file the permit application.
      2.   Fees: Fees as adopted by resolution of the board.
      3.   Site Plan: A site plan must be submitted which is drawn to scale
showing a north arrow, lot boundaries, location of all structures and
utilities, the location, dimension and purpose of existing easements, the
location of future structures, and other relevant information regarding the
site and the request. When required, site plans shall also contain the specific
information required for the proposed use as set forth in chapter 5, article
5.1 of this title.
      4.   Photographs: At least four (4) pictures of the site, taken at
various angles, must be submitted which depict the general character of the
site. Photographs must be accompanied by a map showing the location and
orientation of the photographs.
      5.   Narrative: A narrative must be submitted which describes in detail
the existing conditions of the property and the nature of the proposal. The
narrative should also explain why the request should be approved, including how
the proposal meets the applicable provisions of this title, why it would be in
the public interest and how it would affect the surrounding property owners and
the public.
      6.   Variances Or Deviations From Standards: An application for a
conditional use permit may include a request for one or more variances or
deviations from the standards which would otherwise apply to the use for which
the permit is sought. Any such request must be specifically identified and
addressed in detail in the narrative. The narrative should also explain why the
variance or deviation should be approved, including why an undue hardship
exists because of characteristics of the site, why the requested variance or
deviation is the minimum variance that will make possible the use associated
with the applied for permit, and why the variance or deviation would not be in
conflict with the public interest.
   B.   Approval Process And Requirements:
      1.   The applicant shall schedule a preapplication meeting with a
department planner to discuss the feasibility of the request and the
application requirements.
      2.   The applicant shall submit a complete application meeting the
application requirements set forth in subsection A of this section. Incomplete
applications will not be processed.
      3.   If the application is complete, the county will forward it to other
reviewing agencies and organizations with relevant expertise or jurisdiction,
requesting their comment within thirty (30) days. Agency comments should
explain whether the proposal appears feasible and will meet the agency's
requirements. All such comments shall become a part of the record of the
application.
      4.   After all required agency letters are received, the department will
review the application and schedule it for a public hearing. Notice shall be
provided in accordance with article 8.4 of this chapter.
      5.   Any person may submit written comments on the proposed application
through mail, electronic mail, or in person. All such comments shall become a
part of the record of the application.
   C.   Required Findings:
      1.   The hearing body shall not recommend for approval, and the board
shall not approve, a conditional use permit except upon the following findings:
         a.   The applicable procedural requirements have been met.
         b.   The proposal is in compliance with the applicable standards for
the proposed use without variances, or with such variances as may be approved
by the board.
         c.   The proposal is compatible with existing homes, businesses and
neighborhoods, and with the natural characteristics of the area.
         d.   The proposal adequately addresses site constraints or hazards,
and adequately mitigates any negative environmental, social and economic
impacts.
         e.   Services and facilities for the proposal are available and
adequate.
         f.   The proposal will meet the duly adopted requirements of other
agencies with jurisdiction.
         g.   The proposal is not in conflict with the comprehensive plan.
      2.   Any requested variance or deviation from standards which would
otherwise apply to the use for which the permit is sought shall not be approved
except upon the following findings:
         a.   An undue hardship exists because of characteristics of the site;
         b.   The granting of the variance or deviation will not be in conflict
with the public interest; and
         c.   The variance is the minimum variance that will make possible the
use approved in the permit.
      3.   If the decision is a denial, the board must state the actions, if
any, the applicant could take to gain approval.
   D.   Permit Conditions And Modifications:
      1.   Permits for conditional uses shall stipulate restrictions or
conditions which uphold the spirit and intent of this title and are roughly
proportional, both in nature and extent, to the reasonably expected impacts of
the approved use, including, without limitation, a definite time limit, hours
of operation, provisions for front, side, and rear yard setbacks less than or
greater than the normally applicable standards, suitable landscaping, sight
restrictions, or other conditions or safeguards which address reasonably
expected impacts of the approved use. Permit approval may be conditioned on
approval of other agencies with jurisdiction. Violation of any such conditions,
when made a part of the terms under which the permit is granted, shall be
deemed a violation governed under article 8.6 of this chapter.
      2.   Conditional use permits approved without a time deadline shall
expire after two (2) years from the date of signing the order of decision
approving the permit if the use authorized by the permit has not been
established through, at a minimum, development activity apparent upon a view of
the site or submittal of an application for one or more development permits.
      3.   A minor modification to a previously approved conditional use permit
may be granted by the director if it is determined that the requested
modification would not constitute a substantial change to the findings and
conclusions in the original approval, and that the proposed location, size,
design and operating characteristics of the proposed use and the conditions
under which it would be operated or maintained would not be detrimental to the
public health, safety or welfare, or materially injurious to properties or
improvements in the vicinity. The director shall deny the requested
modification upon a finding that the request constitutes a substantial change
to the permit. In such cases, the applicant may apply for approval of a use or
condition modification, as appropriate, in accordance with the procedures set
forth in this section.
   E.   Recordation: The Order of Decision approving a conditional use permit
application shall be recorded at the owner’s expense. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016; amd.
Ord. 546, 10-17-2019)
8.8.202: SPECIAL NOTICE PERMITS:
   A.   Application Requirements: The following items constitute a complete
application for a special notice permit:
      1.   Application Form: A completed application form must be submitted
with the property owner's signature, or with the applicant's signature together
with a notarized letter from the property owner authorizing the applicant to
file the permit application.
      2.   Fees: Fees, as adopted by resolution of the board.
      3.   Site Plan: A site plan must be submitted which is drawn to scale
showing a north arrow, lot boundaries, location of all structures and
utilities, the location, dimension and purpose of existing easements, the
location of future structures, and other relevant information regarding the
site and the request. When required, site plans shall also contain the specific
information required for the proposed use as set forth in chapter 5, article
5.2 of this title.
      4.   Photographs: At least four (4) pictures of the site, taken at
various angles, must be submitted which depict the general character of the
site. Photographs must be accompanied by a map showing the location and
orientation of the photographs.
      5.   Narrative: A narrative must be submitted which describes in detail
the existing conditions of the property and the nature of the proposal. The
narrative should also explain why the request should be approved, including how
the proposal meets the applicable provisions of this title, why it would be in
the public interest and how it would affect the surrounding property owners and
the public.
      6.   Variances Or Deviations From Standards: An application for a special
notice permit may include a request for one or more variances or deviations
from the standards which would otherwise apply to the use for which the permit
is sought. Any such request must be specifically identified and addressed in
detail in the narrative. The narrative should also explain why the variance or
deviation should be approved, including why an undue hardship exists because of
characteristics of the site, why the requested variance or deviation is the
minimum variance that will make possible the use associated with the applied
for permit, and why the variance or deviation would not be in conflict with the
public interest.
   B.   Approval Process And Requirements:
      1.   The applicant shall schedule a preapplication meeting with a
department planner to discuss the feasibility of the request and the
application requirements.
      2.   The applicant shall submit a complete application meeting the
application requirements set forth in subsection A of this section. Incomplete
applications will not be processed.
      3.   If the application is complete, the department shall review the
application and forward it to other reviewing agencies and organizations with
relevant expertise or jurisdiction, requesting their comment within thirty (30)
days. Agency comments should explain whether the proposal appears feasible and
will meet the agency's requirements. All such comments shall become a part of
the record of the application.
      4.   The department shall also schedule the application for a thirty (30)
day public comment period, which shall run concurrently with the agency comment
period. Notice of the public comment period shall be provided in accordance
with article 8.4 of this chapter.
      5.   Any person may submit written comments on the proposed application
through mail, electronic mail, or in person. All such comments received prior
to the close of the public comment period will become a part of the record on
the application.
      6.   After the close of the public comment period, the director shall
review the relevant evidence in the record and issue an order of decision.
   C.   Required Findings:
      1.   To approve an application, the director must make the following
findings:
         a.   The applicable procedural requirements have been met.
         b.   The proposal is in compliance with the applicable standards for
the proposed use without variances, or with such variances as may be approved
by the board.
         c.   The proposal is compatible with existing homes, businesses and
neighborhoods, and with the natural characteristics of the area.
         d.   The proposal adequately addresses site constraints or hazards,
and adequately mitigates any negative environmental, social and economic
impacts.
         e.   Services and facilities for the proposal are available and
adequate.
         f.   The proposal will meet the duly adopted requirements of other
agencies with jurisdiction.
      2.   Any requested variance or deviation from standards which would
otherwise apply to the use for which the permit is sought shall not be approved
except upon the following findings:
         a.   An undue hardship exists because of characteristics of the site;
         b.   The granting of the variance or deviation will not be in conflict
with the public interest; and
         c.   The variance is the minimum variance that will make possible the
use approved in the permit.
      3.   If the decision is a denial, the director must state the actions, if
any, the applicant could take to gain approval.
   D.   Permit Conditions And Modifications:
      1.   Special notice permits may stipulate restrictions or conditions
which uphold the spirit and intent of this title and are roughly proportional,
both in nature and extent, to the reasonably expected impacts of the approved
use, including, without limitation, a definite time limit, hours of operation,
provisions for front, side, and rear yard setbacks less than or greater than
the normally applicable standards, suitable landscaping, sight restrictions, or
other conditions or safeguards which address reasonably expected impacts of the
approved use. Permit approval may be made specifically contingent on approval
of other agencies with jurisdiction. Violation of any such conditions, when
made a part of the terms under which the permit is granted, shall be deemed a
violation governed under article 8.6 of this chapter.
      2.   Special notice permits approved without a time deadline shall expire
after two (2) years from the date of signing the order of decision approving
the permit if the use authorized by the permit has not been established
through, at a minimum, development activity apparent upon a view of the site or
submittal of an application for one or more development permits.
      3.   A minor modification to a previously approved special notice permit
may be granted by the director if it is determined that the requested
modification would not constitute a substantial change to the findings and
conclusions in the original approval, and that the proposed location, size,
design and operating characteristics of the proposed use and the conditions
under which it would be operated or maintained would not be detrimental to the
public health, safety or welfare, or materially injurious to properties or
improvements in the vicinity. The director shall deny the requested
modification upon a finding that the request constitutes a substantial change
to the permit. In such cases, the applicant may apply for approval of a use or
condition modification, as appropriate, in accordance with the procedures set
forth in this section.
   E.   Recordation: The Order of Decision approving a special notice permit
application shall be recorded at the owner’s expense.
   F.   Appeals: Decisions made by the director may be appealed to the board in
accordance with article 8.5 of this chapter. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016; amd. Ord.
546, 10-17-2019)
8.8.203: VARIANCES:
   A.   General Provisions:
      1.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to authorize such variances
from the provisions of this title in specific cases as will not be contrary to
the public interest where, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement
of the provisions of this title would result in unnecessary hardship.
      2.   Description: A variance is a modification of the bulk and placement
requirements of this title as to lot size, lot coverage, width, depth, front
yard, side yard, rear yard, setbacks, parking space, height of buildings, or
other provision of this title affecting the size or shape of a structure or the
placement of the structure upon lots, or the size of lots. A variance shall not
be considered a right or special privilege, but may be granted to an applicant
only upon a showing of undue hardship because of characteristics of the site
and that the variance is not in conflict with the public interest.
      3.   Invalid Grounds: No nonconforming use of neighboring land,
structures, or buildings in the same zone, and no permitted or nonconforming
use of lands, structures, or buildings, in other zones shall be considered
grounds for the issuance of a variance.
   B.   Application Requirements: The following items constitute a complete
application:
      1.   A completed application form signed by the property owner;
      2.   The appropriate application fee;
      3.   Photographs of the site, including the area that pertains to the
variance (if applicable);
      4.   A map of the vicinity of the property for which the variance is
sought;
      5.   A narrative that includes:
         a.   A written explanation of the variance that is requested;
         b.   The applicable sections of this title; and
         c.   An explanation of how the request meets the approval standards
and conditions outlined in this section.
      6.   A site plan for the property, drawn to scale, showing a north arrow,
property lines, structures, driveways, surface water, retaining walls,
easements, rights of way, wells, sewage systems, slopes, stormwater systems and
other items as may be required by the county. The maximum allowable size of the
site plan is eleven inches by seventeen inches (11" x 17").
   C.   Procedures For Granting Variances:
      1.   The applicant shall submit a complete application meeting the
application requirements set forth in subsection B of this section. Incomplete
applications will not be processed.
      2.   If the application is complete, the Department will forward it to
other reviewing agencies and organizations with relevant expertise or
jurisdiction, requesting their comment within thirty (30) days. Agency comments
should include any agency requirements and whether the requested variance would
be in conflict with the public interest. All such comments shall become a part
of the record of the application.
      3.   After all required agency letters are received, notice of public
hearing shall be given, and a public hearing held, in accordance with article
8.4 of this chapter.
      4.   The hearing body shall not recommend for approval, and the board
shall not approve, a variance except upon the following findings:
         a.   The applicable procedural requirements have been met.
         b.   An undue hardship exists because of characteristics of the site.
            (1)   The subject property has exceptional or extraordinary
physical characteristics such as irregularity, narrowness, shallowness, or
slope.
            (2)   Because of these physical characteristics, the strict
application of the provisions of this title that are the subject of the
requested variance would create an exceptional or undue hardship upon the
property owner.
            (3)   The hardship is not self-imposed.
         c.   The variance will not be in conflict with the public interest.
            (1)   The variance will not adversely affect the use of adjacent
property as permitted under this title.
            (2)   The variance will not change the character of the zone in
which the property is located, and is in keeping with the intent of this title,
the Comprehensive Plan, and any applicable area of city impact agreement or
other intergovernmental agreement.
            (3)   The variance will not adversely affect the health, safety,
and welfare of the citizens of Kootenai County.
      5.   In conjunction with the granting of any variance request, the
hearing body may recommend, and the board may impose, conditions of approval
which further the purposes of this title and are roughly proportional, both in
nature and extent, to the impacts of the variance. Violation of such
conditions, when made a part of the terms under which the variance is granted,
shall be deemed a violation governed under article 8.6 of this chapter.
   D.   Specific Approval Standards And Conditions For Flood Variances:
      1.   The issuance of variances to flood damage prevention standards
contained in chapter 7, article 7.2 of this title shall be for floodplain
management purposes only. The granting of a variance to such standards will not
reduce, and may increase, flood insurance premiums, which are determined on the
basis of actuarial risk in accordance with federal law.
      2.   The granting of variances will generally be limited to new
construction and substantial improvements on lots of one-half (1/2) acre or
less, contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed
below the base flood elevation. As the lot size increases beyond one-half (1/2)
acre, the technical justification required for issuing a variance will
increase.
      3.   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation, or
restoration of structures listed on the national register of historic places or
the state inventory of historic places, upon a determination that the proposed
work will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic
structure, and that the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the
historic character and design of the structure.
      4.   Variances shall not be issued within a designated floodway.
      5.   Variances shall be issued only upon the findings set forth in
subsection C3 of this section, and the following additional findings:
         a.   Good and sufficient cause exists for the variance. For purposes
of this subsection, a variance is based on "good and sufficient cause" if:
            (1)   The variance solely concerns site-specific physical
characteristics which are uniquely inherent to the property that is the subject
of the request and will not change or be significantly altered over time;
            (2)   The property possesses physical characteristics so unusual
that full compliance with the provisions of this article would create an
exceptional hardship related to the property, the surrounding property owners,
or the community in general; and
            (3)   The unusual physical characteristics are unique to the
property and are not shared by adjacent parcels or typical of other parcels in
the community.
         b.   Failure to grant the variance would result in exceptional
hardship to the applicant;
         c.   The granting of the variance will not result in increased flood
heights, will not harm other properties, will not result in additional threats
to public safety or result in extraordinary public expense, and will not create
nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public, or conflict with
existing laws or ordinances;
         d.   Adequate measures will be taken to minimize flood damage; and
         e.   The variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood
hazard, to afford relief.
      6.   In reviewing applications, the following factors shall be
considered:
         a.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
         b.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion
damage;
         c.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
         d.   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility
to the community;
         e.   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
         f.   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use
which are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
         g.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and
anticipated floodplain development;
         h.   The compatibility of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan
and floodplain management program for that area;
         i.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
         j.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the floodwaters expected at the site;
         k.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, and streets and
bridges;
         l.   Any technical evaluations in the record;
         m.   Any applicable standards specified in other sections of this
title; and
         n.   All other factors relevant to the request.
      7.   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice, signed by the chairman of the board and maintained with the record of
the variance action, of the following:
         a.   That the issuance of a variance is for floodplain management
purposes only and that it will not reduce, and may increase, flood insurance
premiums, which are determined on the basis of actuarial risk in accordance
with federal law;
         b.   That the issuance of a variance to construct a structure below
the base flood level will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance
up to amounts as high as twenty five dollars ($25.00) for every one hundred
dollars ($100.00) of insurance coverage;
         c.   That such construction below the base flood level increases risks
to life and property; and
         d.   That the county shall not be liable for any flood damages that
result.
      8.   In approving a variance, the board may attach conditions which
further the purposes of this title and are roughly proportional, both in nature
and extent, to the impacts of the variance. Violation of such conditions, when
made a part of the terms under which the variance is granted, shall be deemed a
violation subject to enforcement action pursuant to article 8.8 of this chapter
and shall render the variance null and void.
      9.   The county shall maintain the records of all variance and appeal
actions, including justification for their issuance, and report any variances
issued in its annual report to the federal insurance and mitigation
administration.
   E.   Administrative Approvals:
      1.   An administrative exception, not to exceed one foot (1') of any
dimensional requirement pertinent to front, side, rear, and flanking streets
setbacks may be granted by administrative action of the director without public
notice and without public hearing. No administrative exception which
constitutes a variance to flood damage prevention standard shall be granted.
      2.   A variance to a front, side, rear, or flanking street setback from a
private road, private right-of-way, or shoreline may be granted by
administrative approval of the Director pursuant to the procedure and approval
standards set forth in this section, except that a thirty (30) day public
comment period shall be provided in lieu of the requirement for a public
hearing.
      3.   Variances to setbacks from shorelines granted pursuant to this
subsection shall not authorize the construction of structures or mechanical
ground disturbances in a shoreline management area except as permitted in
section
8.7.109 of this title.
      4.   Decisions made by the Director pursuant to this subsection may be
appealed in accordance with article 8.5 of this chapter. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016;
amd. Ord. 545, 10-3-2019; Ord. 546, 10-17-2019; Ord. 569, 9-16-2021)
8.8.204: ADMINISTRATIVE APPROVALS:
The approval process for all permits requiring approval of the director, other
than special notice permits and building permits, shall be as follows:
   A.   Application: The applicant must submit a complete application packet
with sufficient copies for the review of other agencies, as determined by the
director. Incomplete applications will not be processed. The following items
constitute a complete application:
      1.   Application Form: A completed application form with the property
owner's signature or a notarized letter from the property owner authorizing the
applicant to act on the owner's behalf.
      2.   Fees: Fees as adopted by resolution of the board.
      3.   Site Plan: A detailed site plan and description of the proposed use
which contains information sufficient to demonstrate compliance with applicable
standards, and any other information reasonably requested by the director,
shall be submitted with the application. The site plan must be drawn to scale,
showing a north arrow, lot boundaries, location of all existing structures and
utilities, the location, dimension and purpose of existing easements, the
location of any proposed temporary structures, and any other relevant
information regarding the site and the request.
      4.   Photographs: At least four (4) photographs of the site must be
submitted which were taken at various angles and depict the general character
of the site. The photographs must be accompanied by a map showing their
respective locations and orientations.
      5.   Narrative: A narrative must be submitted which thoroughly describes
the current condition of the property and what is being proposed. The narrative
must explain why the request should be approved, how the proposal meets
applicable provisions of this code, why approval would be in the public
interest, and how approval would affect surrounding property owners and the
public.
   B.   Agency Review: Upon submittal of a complete application, the director
may forward application packets to agencies with jurisdiction requesting their
review and input within thirty (30) days of the date on which the application
package was sent. The applicant shall be responsible for determining whether
other agencies have any additional fee or submittal requirements. The applicant
must comply with any such requirements.
   C.   Required Findings: To approve an application, the director must make
the following findings:
      1.   The applicant has met the relevant application requirements.
      2.   The proposal is in compliance with the applicable standards for the
proposed use without variances, or with such variances as may be approved by
the board.
      3.   The proposal is compatible with existing homes, businesses and
neighborhoods, and with the natural characteristics of the area.
      4.   The proposal adequately addresses site constraints or hazards, and
adequately mitigates any negative environmental, social and economic impacts.
      5.   Services and facilities for the proposal are available and adequate.
      6.   The proposal will meet the duly adopted requirements of other
agencies with jurisdiction.
   D.   Order Of Decision:
      1.   After agency letters are received or the lapsing of thirty (30)
days, whichever is earlier, the director shall review the relevant evidence in
the record, and shall issue an order of decision within fourteen (14) days
after the expiration of the agency comment period, unless the applicant
expressly waives this time period in writing.
      2.   The order shall comply with the requirements of section 67-6535,
Idaho Code.
      3.   If the decision is an approval, the order shall include any
conditions, restrictions, or limitations of approval. If the decision is a
denial, the order shall include the actions which the applicant could take to
gain approval.
   E.   Conditions And Modification Of Approvals:
      1.   Administrative approvals may stipulate restrictions or conditions
which uphold the spirit and intent of this title and are roughly proportional,
both in nature and extent, to the reasonably expected impacts of the approved
use, including, without limitation, a definite time limit, hours of operation,
provisions for front, side, and rear yard setbacks less than or greater than
the normally applicable standards, suitable landscaping, sight restrictions, or
other conditions or safeguards which address reasonably expected impacts of the
approved use. Approval may be conditioned on approval of other agencies with
jurisdiction. Violation of any such conditions, when made a part of the terms
under which the permit is granted, shall be deemed a violation governed under
article 8.6 of this chapter.
      2.   A minor modification to a previously approved special notice permit
may be granted by the director if it is determined that the requested
modification would not constitute a substantial change to the findings and
conclusions in the original approval, and that the proposed location, size,
design and operating characteristics of the proposed use and the conditions
under which it would be operated or maintained would not be detrimental to the
public health, safety or welfare, or materially injurious to properties or
improvements in the vicinity. The director shall deny the requested
modification upon a finding that the request constitutes a substantial change
to the permit. In such cases, the applicant may apply for approval of a use or
condition modification, as appropriate, in accordance with the procedures set
forth in this section.
   F.   Appeals: Decisions made by the director may be appealed in accordance
with article 8.5 of this chapter. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.8.205: BUILDING PERMITS AND CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY:
All permits for construction, alteration, or for occupancy, shall be processed
in compliance with the provisions of title 7, chapter 1 of this code and the
building codes adopted thereby.
   A.   Building Permits: It shall be unlawful to construct, alter, move,
demolish, repair, or use any building or structure within Kootenai County,
except in compliance with this title and title 7, chapter 1 of this code. The
director may attach specific conditions to any building permit related to land
use functions, and to ensure compliance with the requirements and intent of
this title and the protection of public health and safety.
   B.   Requirements For Binding Site Plans: Each building permit application
will be accompanied by an eight and one-half inch by eleven inch (81/2" x 11")
site plan, drawn to scale, depicting the following information:
      1.   North arrow, scale, date;
      2.   Lot lines with dimensions and area;
      3.   Distances to property lines from all structures;
      4.   Existing and proposed easements, roads and road names;
      5.   Utility locations (including well and septic);
      6.   Location and setback from property lines of all existing and
proposed structures;
      7.   Location of driveways and parking areas;
      8.   Location of lakes, ponds, wetlands, waterways and drainages;
      9.   Location of any special setback and/or building envelope
requirements.
The work authorized by the approved building permit shall comply with the site
plan approved by the department. The contractor or property owner shall clearly
mark the property corners to facilitate the measurement of setbacks. If site
inspection by department personnel reveals that construction on site is not in
compliance with the approved site plan, work at the site shall cease until a
new site plan is submitted to, and approved by, the department.
   C.   Additional Requirements For Development In Special Flood Hazard Areas:
Before construction or development begins within any special flood hazard area,
the applicant shall provide sufficient information to conclusively demonstrate
compliance with the applicable provisions of chapter 7, article 7.2 of this
title. At a minimum, this shall include the following:
      1.   A fully completed, pre- and post-construction elevation certificate
for each structure;
      2.   A certification by a licensed professional engineer that any
structural fill has been appropriately compacted;
      3.   A description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered
or relocated as a result of the proposed development; and
      4.   Any additional information required by the director.
   D.   Certificates Of Occupancy:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to use or occupy, or permit the use or
occupancy, of any building or premises, or both, or part thereof thereafter
created, erected, changed, converted, or wholly or partly altered, or enlarged
in its use or structure until a certificate of occupancy shall have been issued
therefor.
      2.   The request for a certificate of occupancy will state the proposed
use of the building and/or the land, that the use conforms to the requirements
of this title, and with any or all conditional provisions that may have been
imposed, and shall be accompanied by approval signatures of those agencies
having jurisdiction over the use or structure.
      3.   The department will not issue a certificate of occupancy until all
building permit requirements and/or conditions of approval have been met, any
pending plat is recorded, and all necessary agency signatures and approvals are
obtained. The department shall have the right to inspect the site prior to
approval of the certificate of occupancy.
   E.   Waiver Or Modification: The provisions of this section may be
temporarily waived or modified to allow for the repair or replacement of
structures damaged as a result of a natural disaster pursuant to resolution of
the board, but only to the extent necessary to remedy damage actually or
proximately caused by the natural disaster. Such waiver or modification shall
not constitute a waiver or estoppel of the county's ability to enforce any
violations of this title, or of any other provision of this code, existing on
any parcel. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016; amd. Ord. 560, 12-17-2020)
ARTICLE 8.3. ESTABLISHMENT OF HEARING BODIES
SECTION:
8.8.301: Planning And Zoning Commission
8.8.302: Historic Preservation Commission
8.8.303: Hearing Examiners
8.8.304: Agricultural Protection Area Commission
8.8.301: PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION:
   A.   Establishment: A planning and zoning commission ("the commission") is
hereby established in and for the county pursuant to section 67-6504, Idaho
Code. Such commission shall consist of seven (7) members, appointed by the
chairman, and confirmed by a majority vote of the board. Members shall be
selected without regard to political affiliation and shall serve without
compensation, provided, however, that actual and necessary expenses shall be
allowed if approved by the board.
   B.   Qualifications: Commission members shall meet the requirements of
section 67-6504, Idaho Code.
   C.   Terms Of Office: The terms of office for commission members shall
conform to the requirements of section 67-6504, Idaho Code, and shall be for
three (3) years. Expired or vacant positions shall be filled within ninety (90)
days. Terms shall begin on January 1 and conclude on December 31. The board may
set term limitations for members of the commission by resolution.
   D.   Removal Of Members: Any member of the commission may be removed for
cause by a majority vote of the board. Any member who is absent from any series
of three (3) consecutive regular and/or special meetings and study sessions,
without the formal consent of the commission, or who fails to attend at least
seventy five percent (75%) of such regular and special meetings and study
sessions, in any one calendar year, may be removed by the board.
   E.   Chair: Once every year, at the regular meeting held in February, or the
first regular meeting thereafter, the commission shall select one of its
members as chair of the commission and one of its members as vice chair. In the
case of the absence of the chair and vice chair, the members present at any
meeting shall select one member to act as chair pro tem.
   F.   Meetings:
      1.   Time Of Meetings: Once each year, the director shall publish the
commission's monthly meeting schedule for the following year. Special meetings
may be called at any time by the chair of the commission or by the director,
subject to the notification requirements set forth herein.
      2.   Quorum: A majority of the filled positions on the commission shall
constitute a quorum for the purpose of conducting the commission's business,
provided there are at least three (3) filled positions. For purposes of
determining a quorum, a member who is present, but who cannot hear or
deliberate on an application because of a conflict of interest, shall be
counted as a member present for quorum purposes.
      3.   Record Of Proceedings: Minutes shall be kept of all commission
proceedings, and a transcribable recording of all commission proceedings shall
be made. The director shall ensure that recordings of commission proceedings
are transcribed when required by law, and may provide for transcription of
recordings of commission proceedings at any other time.
      4.   Voting: Each member of the commission which does not have a conflict
as defined in section 67-6506, Idaho Code, including the chair, chair pro tem
and vice chair, shall be entitled to one vote on each matter before the
commission.
   G.   Powers And Duties: The commission shall act in an advisory capacity to
the board, and shall perform such duties as may be imposed upon it by the
board.
   H.   Procedural Rules: The commission may adopt such bylaws or rules of
procedure as it may deem necessary to properly exercise its powers and duties.
Such rules shall be kept on file with the department and a copy thereof shall
be furnished to any person upon request.
   I.   Liability: Neither the commission, nor any person connected with the
commission, shall incur any financial liability in the name of the county.
(Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.8.302: HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION:
   A.   Establishment: A historic preservation commission is hereby established
in and for the county pursuant to section 67-4603, Idaho Code. Such commission
shall consist of seven (7) members, appointed by the chairman, and confirmed by
a majority vote of the board. Members shall be selected without regard to
political affiliation and shall serve without compensation, provided, however,
that actual and necessary expenses shall be allowed if approved by the board.
   B.   Purpose: This section establishes a program of historic preservation to
promote the use and conservation of the county's historical resources for the
education, inspiration, pleasure and enrichment of the citizens of Kootenai
County:
      1.   To designate, preserve, promote and perpetuate those sites, areas,
buildings, districts, structures and objects which reflect significant elements
of the county's, state's, and nation's cultural, architectural, archaeological,
historic and other heritage;
      2.   To foster civic pride in the beauty and accomplishments of the past;
      3.   To protect and enhance the county's tourism industry by stabilizing
and improving the economic vitality and values of landmarks, sites, districts,
buildings, structures and objects;
      4.   To promote the continued use of outstanding sites, districts,
buildings, structures and objects for the education, inspiration and welfare of
the people of Kootenai County;
      5.   To promote and continue private incentive for ownership and
utilization of landmark buildings, sites, districts, structures and objects;
and
      6.   To assist, encourage and provide incentives to private owners for
preservation, restoration, redevelopment and use of landmark buildings, sites,
districts, structures and objects.
   C.   Powers, Duties And Responsibilities: Subject to Idaho law and the
procedures described hereunder, the historic preservation commission shall have
and may exercise, in addition to any other powers specifically enumerated in
this section, the following powers, duties and responsibilities:
      1.   To function as the county agency responsible for developing and
coordinating the county's historic preservation activities;
      2.   To conduct a survey of county historic properties;
      3.   To advise and assist owners of historic property on physical and
financial aspects of historic preservation and on procedures for inclusion in
the national register of historic places;
      4.   To recommend ordinances to the board and otherwise provide
information for the purposes of historic preservation to the county;
      5.   To promote and conduct an educational and interpretive program
regarding historic properties within the county's jurisdiction;
      6.   To assist in the conduct of land use and other planning processes
undertaken by the county or municipalities in the county;
      7.   To adopt its own bylaws and procedural rules, subject to the
approval of the board;
      8.   To offer advice to the board as to the administration of gifts,
grants and money as may be appropriate for the purposes of this section;
      9.   To cooperate with federal, state and local governments in the
pursuit of historic preservation objectives; and
      10.   To undertake any other action or activity necessary and appropriate
to the implementation of its powers and duties, to the implementation of the
purpose of this chapter, or to any other functions which may be designated by
the board.
      11.   The historic preservation commission may recommend to the board,
within the limits of its funding, the employment or the contracting for the
services of a qualified person to act as county historic preservation officer.
The historic preservation commission may also recommend to the board, within
the limits of its funding, the employment or contracting with technical experts
or other persons as it deems necessary to carry out its essential functions.
   D.   Qualifications: All members of the historic preservation commission
shall have a demonstrated interest, competence or knowledge in historic
preservation. The board shall endeavor to appoint members who have professional
training or experience in the disciplines of architecture, history,
architectural history, planning, archaeology, and other fields relating to
historic preservation.
   E.   Terms Of Office: The terms of office for historic preservation
commission members shall be for three (3) years. Expired or vacant positions
shall be filled within ninety (90) days. Terms shall begin on January 1 and
conclude on December 31. The board may set term limitations for members of the
historic preservation commission by resolution.
   F.   Removal Of Members: Any member of the historic preservation commission
may be removed for cause by a majority vote of the board. Any member who is
absent from any series of three (3) consecutive regular and/or special meetings
and study sessions, without the formal consent of the historic preservation
commission, or who fails to attend at least seventy five percent (75%) of such
regular and special meetings and study sessions, in any one calendar year, may
be removed by the board.
   G.   Chair: Once every year, at the regular meeting held in February, or the
first regular meeting thereafter, the historic preservation commission shall
select one of its members as chair of the commission and one of its members as
vice chair. In the case of the absence of the chair and vice chair, the members
present at any meeting shall select one member to act as chair pro tem.
   H.   Meetings:
      1.   Time Of Meetings: Once each year, the director shall publish the
historic preservation commission's meeting schedule for the following year.
Special meetings may be called at any time by the chair of the historic
preservation commission or by the director, subject to the notification
requirements set forth herein.
      2.   Quorum: A majority of the filled positions on the historic
preservation commission shall constitute a quorum for the purpose of conducting
its business, provided there are at least three (3) filled positions. For
purposes of determining a quorum, a member who is present, but who cannot hear
or deliberate on an application because of a conflict of interest, shall be
counted as a member present for quorum purposes.
      3.   Record Of Proceedings: Minutes shall be kept of all historic
preservation commission proceedings, and a transcribable recording of all such
proceedings shall be made. The director shall ensure that recordings of such
proceedings are transcribed when required by law, and may provide for
transcription of recordings of such proceedings at any other time.
      4.   Voting: Each member of the historic preservation commission which
does not have a conflict as defined in section 67-6506, Idaho Code, including
the chair, chair pro tem and vice chair, shall be entitled to one vote on each
matter before it.
   I.   Procedural Rules: The historic preservation commission may adopt such
bylaws or rules of procedure as it may deem necessary to properly exercise its
powers and duties. Such rules shall be kept on file with the department and a
copy thereof shall be furnished to any person upon request.
   J.   Liability: Neither the historic preservation commission, nor any person
connected therewith, shall incur any financial liability in the name of the
county.
   K.   Special Restrictions: In addition to any power or authority vested in
the board, the board shall be empowered, pursuant to section 67-4612, Idaho
Code, to provide by ordinance, special conditions or restrictions for the
protection, enhancement and preservation of historic properties.
   L.   Exemption From Building Codes: In order to promote the preservation and
restoration of historic properties within the county's jurisdiction, and
pursuant to section 67-4618, Idaho Code, the board may exempt a historic
property from the application of certain standards contained in title 7,
chapter 1 of this code, if the board, upon recommendation of the historic
preservation commission, determines that compliance with those standards would
prevent or seriously hinder the preservation or restoration of that property.
   M.   Variances From Land Use Regulations: In order to promote the
preservation and restoration of historic properties within the county's
jurisdiction, and pursuant to section 67-6516, Idaho Code, the board may
approve a request pertaining to a historic property for a variance from the
application of certain standards contained in this title. The process for
approval of such variance requests, including required findings, shall be in
accordance with section
8.8.203 of this chapter, except that the historic preservation commission shall
be the initial hearing body. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.8.303: HEARING EXAMINERS:
   A.   Establishment: The position of hearing examiner is hereby established
in and for the county pursuant to section 67-6520, Idaho Code. One or more
hearing examiners shall be appointed by the chairman, and confirmed by a
majority vote of the board of county commissioners, and shall serve at the
board's discretion.
   B.   Qualifications: Hearing examiners may be professionally trained or
licensed planners, attorneys, engineers, or architects, who are experienced in
land use matters.
   C.   Meetings:
      1.   Time Of Meetings: Once each year, the director shall publish the
hearing examiners' monthly meeting schedule for the following year. Special
meetings may be called at any time by a hearing examiner or the director,
subject to the notification requirements set forth herein.
      2.   Record Of Proceedings: Minutes shall be kept of all proceedings
before the hearing examiner, and a transcribable recording of all such
proceedings shall be made. The director shall ensure that recordings of
commission proceedings are transcribed when required by law, and may provide
for transcription of recordings of commission proceedings at any other time.
   D.   Powers And Duties: Hearing examiners shall act in the same advisory
capacity to the board as the commission, and shall perform such duties as may
be imposed upon them by the board in accordance with Idaho Code.
   E.   Liability: No hearing examiner shall incur any financial liability in
the name of the county. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.8.304: AGRICULTURAL PROTECTION AREA COMMISSION:
   A.   Establishment. An Agricultural Protection Area Commission (“the APA
Commission”) is hereby established in and for the County pursuant to Title 67,
Chapter 97, Idaho Code. The APA Commission shall consist of five (5) members
appointed by majority vote of the Board. Members shall be selected without
regard to political affiliation and shall serve without compensation, provided,
however, that actual and necessary expenses shall be allowed if approved by the
Board.
   B.   Qualifications. Commission members shall meet the requirements of
section 67-9705, Idaho Code.
   C.   Terms of Office. The terms of office for APA Commission members shall
conform to the requirements of section 67-9705, Idaho Code, and shall be for
three (3) years. Expired or vacant positions shall be filled within ninety (90)
days. Terms shall begin on January 1 and conclude on December 31. The Board may
set term limitations for members of the APA Commission by resolution.
   D.   Removal of Members. Any member of the APA Commission may be removed for
cause by a majority vote of the Board. Any member who is absent from any series
of three (3) consecutive regular and/or special meetings and study sessions,
without the formal consent of the APA Commission, or who fails to attend at
least seventy five percent (75%) of such regular and special meetings and study
sessions, in any one calendar year, may be removed by the Board.
   E.   Chair. Once every year, at the regular meeting held in February, or the
first regular meeting thereafter, the APA Commission shall select one of its
members as Chair of the APA Commission and one of its members as Vice Chair. In
the case of the absence of the Chair and Vice Chair, the members present at any
meeting shall select one member to act as Chair pro tem.
   F.   Meetings.
      1.   Time of Meetings. Once each year, the Director shall publish the APA
Commission’s monthly meeting schedule for the following year. Special meetings
may be called at any time by the Chair of the APA Commission or by the
Director, subject to the notification requirements set forth herein.
      2.   Quorum. A majority of the filled positions on the APA Commission
shall constitute a quorum for the purpose of conducting the APA Commission’s
business, provided there are at least three (3) filled positions. For purposes
of determining a quorum, a member who is present, but who cannot hear or
deliberate on an application because of a conflict of interest, shall be
counted as a member present for quorum purposes.
      3.   Record of Proceedings: Minutes shall be kept of all APA Commission
proceedings, and a transcribable recording of all APA Commission proceedings
shall be made. The Director shall ensure that recordings of APA Commission
proceedings are transcribed when required by law, and may provide for
transcription of recordings of APA Commission proceedings at any other time.
      4.   Voting: Each member of the APA Commission which does not have a
conflict as defined in section 67-6506, Idaho Code, including the Chair, Chair
pro tem and Vice Chair, shall be entitled to one vote on each matter before the
APA Commission.
   G.   Powers and Duties. The APA Commission shall act in an advisory capacity
to the Board, and shall perform such duties as may be required under Title 67,
Chapter 97, Idaho Code.
   H.   Procedural Rules. The APA Commission may adopt such bylaws or rules of
procedure as it may deem necessary to properly exercise its powers and duties.
Such rules shall be kept on file with the Department and a copy thereof shall
be furnished to any person upon request.
   I.   Liability. Neither the APA Commission, nor any person connected with
the APA Commission, shall incur any financial liability in the name of the
County. (Ord. 607, 12-12-2024)
ARTICLE 8.4. PUBLIC HEARINGS
SECTION:
8.8.401: Types Of Hearings
8.8.402: Notice
8.8.403: Procedures For Legislative Public Hearings
8.8.404: Procedures For Quasi-Judicial Public Hearings
8.8.405: Discretionary Procedures For All Public Hearings
8.8.406: Deliberations
8.8.401: TYPES OF HEARINGS:
For purposes of this article, a legislative hearing is held for applications or
proposals of a general nature, such as those affecting Countywide ordinances or
plans. Quasi-judicial hearings are held for situation or site specific
requests, including applications for zone changes, subdivisions, conditional
use permits, variances, and appeals of department decisions. (Ord. 493, 6-9-
2016)
8.8.402: NOTICE:
   A.   Public Hearings: Notice of public hearings shall be provided as
follows:
      1.   Notice Of Meetings: In addition to the public notice provisions set
forth in this title, notice of regular and special meetings, including the
posting of agendas, shall be given in accordance with section 74-204, Idaho
Code.
      2.   Content: The content of notices for public hearings shall conform to
the requirements of title 67, chapter 65, Idaho Code, and shall include the
time and place of the hearing, a summary of the application or request, and a
statement that written comments on an application must be submitted at least
ten (10) days prior to the hearing, or at the hearing. Written comments are not
accepted during the ten (10) days preceding a hearing. If a County hearing body
has issued recommendations on the application, or made significant changes to a
proposal, the notice shall also include a summary of those recommendations and/
or changes.
      3.   Newspaper, Other Media, Political Subdivisions: At least twenty
eight (28) days prior to a public hearing, the department shall cause a copy of
the notice to be published in a newspaper of general circulation in Kootenai
County, and shall ensure that the notice is made available to other newspapers,
radio and television stations. At least twenty eight (28) days prior to the
hearing, the department shall also cause the notice to be mailed to all
political subdivisions providing services within Kootenai County, including
school districts. The cost of all required public hearing notices shall be
borne by the applicant or the person requesting the hearing, if other than the
applicant.
      4.   Property Owners:
         a.   When notice of adjacent and nearby property owners is required by
law, the department shall ensure that hearing notices are mailed, at the
expense of the applicant or the person requesting the hearing, if other than
the applicant, at least twenty eight (28) days prior to the hearing. The notice
shall be mailed to property owners or purchasers of record of all parcels
located within the applicable distance set forth in table 8-801 of this section
from the exterior boundaries of the parcels under consideration, including any
contiguous parcels under the same ownership.
         b.   For purposes of this subsection:
            (1)   The size of the parcels under consideration shall be
determined according to the aggregate size of all lots or parcels that are the
subject of the application. For example, if the parcels under consideration
consist of three (3) parcels that are three (3) acres, one acre, and two (2)
acres in size, the applicable notice distance would be five hundred feet (500')
because the aggregate size of all of the parcels that are the subject of the
application is six (6) acres.
            (2)   High intensity uses shall consist of the following: airports,
airstrips, racetracks, asphalt, cement, concrete or gypsum batch plants, any
use involving mining, blasting or crushing of rock or minerals, explosive
manufacturing, storage of explosive products, transitional group housing
facilities, or gun clubs (but not archery ranges).
         c.   The Director, hearing body, or Board may also require that notice
be provided to other areas that may be affected by the proposed change.
Additional procedures for notification of property owners may be established by
the department.
      5.   Site Posting: Where on-site posting of a hearing notice is required
by law, the notice shall be posted on the premises that is the subject of the
application, at least twenty one (21) days prior to the hearing. If the site is
inaccessible, the access driveway to the site shall be posted where it adjoins
a public or private road.
      6.   Alternate Forms Of Notice In Lieu Of Mailing: When notice is
required to two hundred (200) or more property owners or purchasers of record,
notice may be provided through a display advertisement at least four inches
(4") by two (2) columns in size, in the official newspaper of Kootenai County,
published at least twenty eight (28) days prior to the hearing. Notices of the
hearing must also be posted at the external boundaries of the site adjoining
public or private roads. If the site is not located on a road, the access
driveways to the site shall be posted where they adjoin public or private
roads.
      TABLE 8-801
      NOTICE DISTANCES
 
Size Of Parcels/Type Of Use                                 Distance From Site
Sites consisting of fewer than 5.00 acres (unless otherwise 300'
specified)
Sites consisting of 5.00 or more acres (unless otherwise    500'
specified)
All major subdivisions, and condominium plats consisting of 500'
5 or more units
All minor subdivisions, and condominium plats consisting of 300'
4 or fewer units
High intensity uses                                         1,000'
 
   B.   Changes Or Additions To Applications: Once hearing notices have been
mailed and/or published, the applicant may not modify the content of the
application, or submit additional items, until the hearing. The applicant may,
however, withdraw the application and resubmit it after the new or modified
items are submitted. If withdrawn, the application shall not be rescheduled for
a public hearing until the additional items have been received.
   C.   Agency And Public Comments: Written comments from agencies and the
public must be received at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing, or must be
submitted at the hearing. Written information shall not be accepted during the
ten (10) days preceding a hearing. (Ord. 517, 1-25-2018; amd. Ord. 546, 10-17-
2019)
8.8.403: PROCEDURES FOR LEGISLATIVE PUBLIC HEARINGS:
All legislative hearings shall comply with the following requirements:
   A.   Notice of the hearing pursuant to section
8.8.402 of this article;
   B.   The hearing to be open to the public pursuant to the Open Meetings Law,
title 74, chapter 2, Idaho Code;
   C.   A transcribable record shall be maintained in accordance with section
67-6536, Idaho Code;
   D.   The hearing body to accept a report from staff, including an evaluation
of the request, proposed findings of fact, and, if applicable, recommended
conditions or other considerations;
   E.   Every person wishing to testify to properly identify themselves for the
record;
   F.   Every exhibit to be marked and entered into the record;
   G.   Decisions and recommendations to be provided in writing in accordance
with title 67, chapter 65, Idaho Code; and
   H.   Decisions and recommendations to be based on the standards and criteria
set forth in Federal and State laws and regulations, applicable County
ordinances, and the Comprehensive Plan. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.8.404: PROCEDURES FOR QUASI-JUDICIAL PUBLIC HEARINGS:
All quasi-judicial hearings shall comply with the following requirements:
   A.   Notice of the hearing pursuant to section
8.8.402 of this article;
   B.   A determination that the application is complete for purposes of
hearing. The Director shall not schedule an application for hearing until he or
she makes a determination that the application is reasonably sufficient to
allow the hearing body to determine whether to approve or deny the application.
No application shall be scheduled for hearing until:
      1.   The application satisfies all application requirements enumerated in
the substantive County ordinance(s) governing the application;
      2.   The application includes all necessary agency comments. Agency
comments are necessary if the agency's approval or disapproval of the proposed
action may reasonably determine or otherwise significantly influence the
approval or disapproval of the application; and
      3.   The application includes any other information or documentation the
Director deems necessary for the hearing body's review of the application;
   C.   The application shall be entered into the official record once it is
determined to be complete for purposes of hearing;
   D.   Exhibits, presentations or other documents intended to be relied upon
during oral testimony at the hearing, including agency comments not previously
received, must be submitted at least fourteen (14) days prior to the hearing,
or may be submitted at the hearing;
   E.   Written public comments in response to the contents of the application
file must be submitted at least seven (7) days prior to the hearing, or may be
submitted at the hearing;
   F.   The hearing shall be open to the public pursuant to the Open Meetings
Law, title 74, chapter 2, Idaho Code;
   G.   A transcribable record shall be maintained in accordance with section
67-6536, Idaho Code;
   H.   Every person wishing to testify shall properly identify themselves for
the record;
   I.   Every exhibit shall be marked and entered into the record;
   J.   The hearing body shall declare any potential conflicts, or economic
interests in the proposed action, in accordance with section 67-6506, Idaho
Code. A member with a conflict may not deliberate on, nor participate in the
proceeding or action;
   K.   The hearing body shall accept a report from staff, including an
evaluation of the request, proposed findings of fact, and, if applicable,
recommended conditions or other considerations;
   L.   The hearing body shall allow the applicant the opportunity to present
the application;
   M.   The hearing body shall provide an opportunity for all interested
parties to present oral testimony, including testimony from the applicant
rebutting previously submitted testimony and evidence. The following order of
presentation should be observed:
      1.   Testimony by those in favor of the application;
      2.   Testimony by those neutral with respect to the application;
      3.   Testimony by those opposed to the application;
      4.   Rebuttal testimony by the applicant. Rebuttal shall be limited to
testimony which responds directly to issues raised in previous testimony;
   N.   The hearing body shall make a recommendation or decision to approve or
deny the application, or to remand the application to the department, based
only on the official record.
      1.   Once a hearing is closed, the hearing body shall not allow any
additions or modifications to the official record.
      2.   Decisions and recommendations shall be provided in writing in
accordance with title 67, chapter 65, Idaho Code, and shall be based on the
standards and criteria set forth in Federal and State laws and regulations and
applicable County ordinances.
      3.   If the hearing body determines that the official record is
incomplete or that the application needs additions, amendments or
modifications, the hearing body may remand, or recommend the remand of, the
application to the department.
         a.   If the application is remanded, the applicant may resubmit the
application with the necessary additions, amendments or modifications, or may
withdraw the application and submit a new application.
         b.   If the applicant elects to resubmit a remanded application with
the necessary additions, amendments or modifications, the Director must
determine that the application is complete for purposes of hearing pursuant to
subsection B of this section before a new hearing may be scheduled.
         c.   The hearing body may limit future hearings on a previously
remanded application to particular issues of fact;
   O.   The applicant or any affected person may submit a request for a public
hearing in writing before the Board at any time prior to the scheduled time for
deliberations on an application. If the request is granted, the person
requesting the public hearing shall be required to bear all costs of notice for
that hearing unless the Board determines that the County should bear those
costs;
   P.   A recommendation or decision shall be made within thirty five (35) days
of the close of the public hearing, or in the case of the Board, within thirty
five (35) days of the receipt of a hearing body recommendation, unless
otherwise agreed to by the applicant. If the Board has held a public hearing on
an application, the Board shall make a decision within thirty five (35) days of
the close of the final public hearing unless otherwise agreed to by the
applicant;
   Q.   In the event a hearing body fails to carry out its responsibilities
according to these regulations, the Board shall assume the hearing body's
duties. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.8.405: DISCRETIONARY PROCEDURES FOR ALL PUBLIC HEARINGS:
In every legislative or quasi-judicial hearing to which this chapter applies,
the hearing body may:
   A.   Require or allow persons wishing to testify to state their position in
writing before the hearing;
   B.   Limit the time that each person wishing to testify may speak, provided
that the following minimum time periods shall apply:
      1.   Applicant's presentation in chief: Thirty (30) minutes;
      2.   Public testimony: Five (5) minutes;
      3.   Group presentations, in which one person speaks for a group of ten
(10) or more persons, including the speaker: Fifteen (15) minutes;
      4.   Applicant's rebuttal: Fifteen (15) minutes;
   C.   Take notice of its own knowledge and experience as to a particular
issue;
   D.   Take notice of decisions of Federal and State courts and agencies, and
of other local governmental entities;
   E.   Require that persons wishing to testify be sworn; or
   F.   Continue a hearing to allow time for submission and/or review of new
information that has been requested by the hearing body. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.8.406: DELIBERATIONS:
The hearing body may discuss and vote on an application or issue at the same
meeting at which testimony is taken, or at a later meeting. (Ord. 493, 6-9-
2016)
ARTICLE 8.5. HEARINGS ON APPEALS AND REQUESTS FOR RECONSIDERATION
SECTION:
8.8.501: Administrative Appeals
8.8.502: Requests For Reconsideration
8.8.503: Filing Of Notice Of Appeal Or Request For Reconsideration; Payment Of
Fees
8.8.504: Notice Of Hearing
8.8.505: Standard Of Review; Burden Of Proof
8.8.506: Conduct Of Hearing
8.8.507: Action On Appeal
8.8.508: Action On Request For Reconsideration
8.8.501: ADMINISTRATIVE APPEALS:
Any "applicant" or "affected person", as defined in section
8.9.101 of this title, may appeal a department action by submitting, within
twenty eight (28) days of the decision, a written request for a public hearing
before a hearing examiner, an explanation of the grounds for the appeal, and
applicable fees. The hearing and public notice shall be conducted according to
the provisions of this article, and any other applicable provisions of this
title. The appeal shall be initially heard by a hearing examiner, who shall
make a recommendation to the board for a decision. The final decision on the
appeal shall be made by the board. Decisions made by the board may be appealed
to the district court as provided by law. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.8.502: REQUESTS FOR RECONSIDERATION:
Any "applicant" or "affected person", as defined in section
8.9.101 of this title, may make a request for reconsideration of a final
decision of the board by submitting, within fourteen (14) days of the decision,
a written request for reconsideration which includes an explanation of the
grounds for the request. Requests for reconsideration shall be limited to the
grounds set forth in section 67-6535, Idaho Code. The hearing and public notice
shall be conducted according to the provisions of this article, and any other
applicable provisions of this title. The request shall be heard by the board,
which will then make a decision on the request. Decisions made by the board on
reconsideration may be appealed to the district court as provided by law. (Ord.
493, 6-9-2016)
8.8.503: FILING OF NOTICE OF APPEAL OR REQUEST FOR RECONSIDERATION; PAYMENT OF
FEES:
An appeal or request for reconsideration shall be perfected by serving the
department with a written notice of appeal or request for reconsideration
specifically setting forth the grounds of appeal or reconsideration and the
relief sought. The appropriate appeal fee must be paid before an appeal may be
processed. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.8.504: NOTICE OF HEARING:
Upon receipt of the notice of appeal or request for reconsideration, the
department shall inform the appropriate hearing body of the appeal and set a
date for a hearing on the matter. The department shall provide written notice
of the time and place of the hearing to the hearing body, to the appellant, to
the property owner if the owner is not the appellant, and to any persons who
have lodged verbal or written complaints in the matter who have indicated that
they wished to receive such notice, at least twenty eight (28) days prior to
the hearing. The appellant shall be responsible for payment of all costs
associated with such notice. In addition, notices of regular and special
meetings, including the posting of agendas, shall be given in accordance with
section 74-204, Idaho Code. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.8.505: STANDARD OF REVIEW; BURDEN OF PROOF:
Appeals shall be based upon the grounds set forth in the written notice of
appeal or request for reconsideration and shall be heard and acted upon by the
hearing body in a de novo proceeding. The burden of proof shall fall upon the
appellant to establish, by a preponderance of the evidence, that the department
or board action was erroneous. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.8.506: CONDUCT OF HEARING:
The following rules shall govern the conduct of all hearings of appeals of an
administrative decision, appeals of the issuance of a notice of violation, and
requests for reconsideration:
   A.   Hearings shall be open to the public according to the provisions of the
Idaho open meetings law, title 74, chapter 2, Idaho Code, but shall not be
considered "public hearings" under the local land use planning act, title 67,
chapter 65, Idaho Code, and article 8.4 of this chapter.
   B.   The hearing shall be informal and strict rules of evidence shall not
apply. The appellant and the department may be represented by counsel and
present testimony and evidence at the hearing. The hearing examiner or the
chairman of the board shall regulate the course of the proceedings to assure
that there is a full disclosure of all relevant facts and issues.
   C.   Testimony and submission of evidence shall be limited to the appellant,
representatives of the department, and other affected persons. As a general
rule, the following order of presentation should be observed:
      1.   Introduction of appeal or request by staff;
      2.   Appellant's case in chief;
      3.   Testimony and/or evidence in support of the appellant;
      4.   County's case in chief;
      5.   Testimony and/or evidence in support of the county; and
      6.   Appellant's rebuttal.
   D.   A transcribable record of the hearing in its entirety shall be made by
mechanical, electronic or other means. Any party may cause additional
recordings to be made during the hearing if the making of the additional
recording does not cause distraction or disruption. Any party may request
preparation of a transcript of the hearing. Any transcript prepared at the
request of the board or the hearing examiner shall be at county expense. Any
transcript prepared at the request of any other party shall be at that party's
expense. Expenses for any transcript prepared for purposes of judicial review
shall be paid in accordance with rule 84 of the Idaho rules of civil procedure.
   E.   At the close of the hearing, the hearing body may take action on the
appeal or request for reconsideration, or may take it under advisement for a
period not to exceed fourteen (14) days. If it is taken under advisement by a
hearing examiner, the hearing examiner shall issue a written recommendation to
the board within fourteen (14) days after the conclusion of the hearing. If it
is taken under advisement by the board, the board shall issue a written
decision within fourteen (14) days after the conclusion of the hearing. (Ord.
493, 6-9-2016)
8.8.507: ACTION ON APPEAL:
   A.   The hearing examiner may recommend that the department action be
affirmed, reversed or modified based on substantial and competent evidence
presented at the hearing.
   B.   After receiving a recommendation from the hearing examiner, the final
decision on the appeal shall be made by the board. The board may summarily
issue a final decision approving the recommendation from the hearing examiner
after conducting deliberations on the matter, or may conduct an additional de
novo appeal hearing prior to making a final decision.
   C.   If an additional hearing is held before the board, the board may
affirm, reverse or modify the department action based on substantial and
competent evidence presented at the hearings held before the hearing examiner
and the board. In the event the board finds that the department action was
erroneous, it may reverse or modify the department action, or it may remand the
matter to the director or hearing examiner for further proceedings, as may be
appropriate.
   D.   The recommendation to the board by the hearing examiner, and the
decision of the board on appeal, shall be in writing, shall include a concise
and explicit statement of the underlying facts of record, and shall include a
reasoned statement in support of the decision. All parties to the appeal shall
be provided with a copy of the recommendation and/or decision.
   E.   The decision of the board on appeal shall be binding upon the
department. If the department action is reversed, the director shall comply
with the decision of the board upon expiration of the time for filing of a
petition for judicial review with the district court, or such longer period as
the board may permit.
   F.   If the board remands the matter to the director or hearing examiner for
further proceedings, the decision of the board shall specify the actions to be
taken by the director or hearing examiner on remand. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.8.508: ACTION ON REQUEST FOR RECONSIDERATION:
   A.   All decisions on requests for reconsideration shall be made by the
board. The board may affirm, reverse or modify its prior decision based on
substantial and competent evidence presented at the hearing held before the
board. The board may also remand the matter to the director or hearing examiner
for further proceedings as may be appropriate.
   B.   The decision of the board on reconsideration shall be in writing, shall
include a concise and explicit statement of the underlying facts of record, and
shall include a reasoned statement in support of the decision. All parties to
the request shall be provided with a copy of the decision on reconsideration.
   C.   If the board remands the matter, the decision of the board on
reconsideration shall specify the actions to be taken by the director or
hearing examiner on remand. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
ARTICLE 8.6. ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
8.8.601: Enforcement Procedure
8.8.602: Violations
8.8.603: Penalties
8.8.604: Abatement Of Nuisances And Hazards
8.8.605: Compliance Agreements
8.8.606: Vexatious Complainants
8.8.601: ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURE:
   A.   It shall be the duty of the director to enforce the provisions of this
title. The department shall not issue permits unless existing and intended
structures, the parcel of land, and uses of the buildings and land, conform in
all respects with the provisions of this title and other applicable provisions
of this code, with the following exceptions:
      1.   When the purpose of the permit is to correct a violation of this
title or other county ordinances.
      2.   To allow for the repair or replacement of structures damaged as a
result of a natural disaster pursuant to resolution of the board, but only to
the extent necessary to remedy damage actually or proximately caused by the
natural disaster. This shall not constitute a waiver or estoppel of the
county's ability to enforce any violations of this title, or of any other
provision of this code, existing on any parcel.
   B.   Whenever any construction or site work is not in compliance with this
title, specific conditions of approval, or other related laws, ordinances or
requirements, the director may issue a notice of violation and order any work
stopped by written notice. Such notice of violation or stop work order shall be
served on any persons engaged in doing or causing such work to be done, and
persons shall forthwith stop such work until authorized by the director to
proceed.
   C.   A copy of the notice of violation or stop work order, if applicable,
shall be mailed to the property owner of record and any other known holder of
any legal interest in the property as follows:
      1.   Notices of Violation and Stop Work Orders shall be mailed as
follows:
         a.   Initial Notices of Violation in which no Stop Work Order has been
issued may be mailed via first class mail.
         b.   Stop Work Orders and associated initial Notices of Violation
shall be mailed via certified mail, return receipt requested.
         c.   All Notices of Violation recorded in the Office of the Kootenai
County Recorder shall be sent via certified mail, return receipt requested.
      2.   The notification shall include:
         a.   The property owner and the legal description of the parcel;
         b.   A detailed description of the nature of the violation;
         c.   A detailed description of all remedial actions that must be
undertaken to resolve the violation; and
         d.   The length of time allotted to resolve the violation.
   D.   The property owner shall have forty five (45) days from the date the
notice of violation was mailed to resolve the violation. If resolution does not
occur within those forty five (45) days, the notice of violation shall be filed
in the office of the county recorder, with a copy mailed to the owner via
certified mail.
   E.   The notice of violation or stop work order shall also advise the owner
of the process for appeals of notices of violation and stop work orders. An
owner or a holder of any legal interest in the property may appeal a notice of
violation or stop work order pursuant to section
8.8.503  of this chapter. The appeal shall be heard in accordance with article
8.5 of this chapter. If the appeal is denied (i.e., the action is affirmed),
the board shall specify an exact number of days to gain compliance with this
title before the notice of violation is recorded, and may add or remove
conditions of remedial action. If the appeal is approved (i.e., the action is
reversed), the board shall specify actions to be taken by the director to
release the violation.
   F.   Prior to or at such time as a violation is resolved, the owner shall
pay the fee specified in the current adopted fee schedule unless the
enforcement action was reversed by the county or a court of competent
jurisdiction. Upon payment of such fees or a determination that payment of fees
is not necessary, the director shall cause a release of notice of violation to
be recorded in the office of the county recorder. The release shall contain all
of the information contained in the notice of violation, as well as the
corrective action taken to resolve the violation. A copy of the release shall
be mailed to the owner, via certified mail, return receipt requested. (Ord.
493, 6-9-2016; amd. Ord. 586, 9-26-2023)
8.8.602: VIOLATIONS:
Any person may file a written complaint alleging that a violation of this title
has occurred. Such complaint, stating fully the causes and basis thereof, shall
be filed with the director. The director shall immediately investigate the
allegations made in the complaint, and, if it appears that there is reasonable
cause to find that the alleged violation did occur, shall take action thereon
as provided in this article. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.8.603: PENALTIES:
Penalties for failure to comply with or violations of the provisions of this
title shall be as follows:
   A.   Violation of any of the provisions of this title or failure to comply
with any of its requirements shall constitute a misdemeanor punishable as set
forth in section
1-4-1  of this code, with the exception of those provisions which state that a
violation thereof shall constitute an infraction punishable as set forth in
section
1-4-1  of this code.
   B.   The Director may impose a civil penalty for a recorded violation of any
provision of this title or failure to comply with any of its requirements in an
amount not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per incident per day,
with a maximum penalty of twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00) per incident.
For purposes of this section, "incident" means any instance of a violation of a
provision of this title or failure to comply with a requirement of this title.
The Board may establish by resolution a schedule of civil penalties for
specific categories of incidents consistent with the provisions of this
section. Civil penalties shall be in addition to any fees imposed to recoup the
cost of enforcement.
   C.   Each day on which a violation or failure to comply continues shall be
considered a separate incident for purposes of both civil and criminal action.
Any landowner, tenant, subdivider, builder, or other person who commits,
participates in, assists in, or maintains such violation or failure to comply
may be found guilty of a separate offense and may be found liable for payment
of civil penalties. In cases where multiple individuals, firms, corporations or
agents have participated in an incident, they may be held jointly and severally
liable for any remedies, penalties or payments.
   D.   The Prosecuting Attorney or other attorney who represents the County
may also take civil action in district court on behalf of the County to
prevent, restrain, correct, or abate any action taken, or which may be taken,
in violation of this title, to vacate any subdivision or condominium plat
recorded in violation of this title, or to otherwise enforce the provisions of
this title. In addition to other actions that may be ordered by the Court, if
the County prevails, the violator shall pay to the County all fees associated
with the incident then due and owing. Either party may also seek costs and
attorney fees against the other pursuant to state laws and court rules. The
County may also seek the imposition of a civil penalty in an amount not to
exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per incident per day, with a total
maximum penalty of twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00) per incident and may
also seek to compel payment of any civil penalty previously imposed by the
Director. No abatement of property or foreclosure on a lien securing any civil
penalty imposed pursuant to this section shall occur unless the property has
been found to be a public or moral nuisance by a court of competent
jurisdiction.
   E.   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the Board or any other public
official or private citizen from taking such lawful action as is necessary to
restrain or prevent any violation of this title or of Idaho Code.
   F.   The director may withhold issuance of permits, including building
permits and certificates of occupancy, for subdivisions, lots, or parcels of
land that are in violation of any provision of this title.
   G.   Applications for approvals authorized by this title will not be
scheduled for hearing until all violations of this title or title 7, chapter 1
of this code are corrected, except when the purpose of the approval is to
correct the violations of this title or title 7, chapter 1 of this code then
existing. If any unpermitted site disturbance or subdivision development has
previously occurred (e.g., construction of roads, driveways, building pads), a
site disturbance permit must be obtained, a financial guarantee must be
provided, and stormwater and erosion control systems meeting the requirements
of chapter 7, article 7.1 of this title, and applicable BMPs, must be installed
and approved before an application will be accepted.
   H.   Any decision of the Director made pursuant to this section may be
appealed in accordance with article 8.5 of this chapter. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016;
amd. Ord. 586, 9-26-2023)
8.8.604: ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES AND HAZARDS:
   A.   Nuisances: Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to restrict the
power and duty of the county to abate public or moral nuisances, as defined in
title 52, chapter 1, Idaho Code. If the director determines that a structure or
use constitutes a public or moral nuisance, as defined in title 52, chapter 1,
Idaho Code, the director may require the property owner to abate the nuisance,
and may require that such structure shall not thereafter be used, restored,
repaired or rebuilt, or that such use shall not thereafter continue, except in
conformity with this title. The director shall give notice in writing to the
owner, owner's agent, or other person in control of the property. Upon receipt
of such notice, the owner, owner's agent, or other person in control of the
property shall abate the nuisance within the time period specified in the
notice or such other time period to which the director may agree. Failure to
complete the required abatement by the specified date shall constitute a
violation governed by the provisions of this article, and in such cases, the
county may contract to complete the work necessary to abate the nuisance at the
owner's expense.
   B.   Hazards: Whenever the director determines that there exists a condition
or situation on private property that is not defined as a public or moral
nuisance under title 52, chapter 1, Idaho Code, but which has become a hazard
to life and limb, or endangers other property, or adversely affects the safety,
use, or stability of public or private property, or adversely affects any
public or private access or drainageway, the director may require the property
owner to abate the hazard. The director shall give notice in writing to the
owner, owner's agent, or other person in control of the property. Upon receipt
of such notice, the owner, owner's agent, or other person in control of the
property shall abate the hazard within the time period specified in the notice
or such other time period to which the director may agree. Failure to complete
the required abatement by the specified date shall constitute a violation
governed by the provisions of this article, and in such cases, the county may
contract to complete the work necessary to abate the hazard at the owner's
expense. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.8.605: COMPLIANCE AGREEMENTS:
The Director may enter into compliance agreements on a case by case basis,
subject to the following provisions or conditions:
   A.   The Director finds that the violations that are the subject of the
compliance agreement do not pose an imminent threat to people or property.
   B.   The party responsible for compliance agrees to remedy the violation(s)
in an expeditious manner by a certain date.
   C.   The Director may require the responsible party to:
      1.   Agree to hold the Director and Kootenai County harmless and to
defend against any claims arising through operation of the compliance
agreement; and/or
      2.   Provide evidence of general liability coverage for personal injury
and property damage for the premises subject to the compliance agreement, with
Kootenai County named as an additional insured.
   D.   The responsible party shall pay any costs and/or attorney fees incurred
to enforce a compliance agreement. (Ord. 546, 10-17-2019)
8.8.606: VEXATIOUS COMPLAINANTS:
   A.   The Director may find a person to be a vexatious complainant based on a
finding that a person has done any of the following:
      1.   In the immediately preceding three (3) year period, the person has
made at least three (3) complaints regarding alleged violations of this title
that have been determined to be unfounded.
      2.   After a complaint has been finally determined to be unfounded, the
person has repeatedly complained or attempted to complain about either:
         a.   The validity of the determination that the original complaint was
unfounded; or
         b.   The original complaint or the reasons therefor, or any related
issues of fact or law, which had been previously determined to be unfounded.
      3.   The person has repeatedly submitted unmeritorious complaints or
other papers or engages in tactics that are frivolous or solely intended to
cause unnecessary delay.
   B.   The Director may issue an order stating that County code enforcement
staff will not investigate or take action on any complaint submitted by a
vexatious complainant without first obtaining authorization for such
investigation or action from the Board. A copy of such order shall be mailed to
both the complainant and to the record owner of any property that is or has
been the subject of complaints submitted by the complainant. Any such order may
be appealed to the Board in accordance with article 8.5 of this chapter.
   C.   The provisions of this section shall not preclude any other legal
remedy available to the Board, the Director, or the Prosecuting Attorney. (Ord.
546, 10-17-2019)
ARTICLE 8.7. NONCONFORMITIES
SECTION:
8.8.701: General
8.8.702: Nonconforming Structures
8.8.703: Nonconforming Use Of Structures, Land, Or Structures And Land In
Combination
8.8.704: Nonconforming Parcels Of Land
8.8.701: GENERAL:
Within Kootenai County there exist parcels of land, structures and uses which
were lawful prior to adoption of this title or under previously adopted
ordinances, but which no longer conform to the regulations for the zoning
district in which they are located. It is the intent of this title to permit
these nonconformities to continue until they are substantially destroyed,
removed or brought into conformance with this title, providing the
nonconformity is not enlarged or expanded. Nonconformities shall be regulated
according to the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.8.702: NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES:
   A.   Nonconforming structures shall not be expanded or enlarged in a way
that increases the nonconformity. For example, a home that does not meet the
rear setback requirement to the property line may not construct a deck or
addition to any portion of the house that further encroaches into that setback.
An addition may, however, be constructed to the front of the house.
   B.   A nonconforming structure that is completely demolished, removed, or
relocated from the parcel on which it was previously located may be replaced
within twelve (12) months of its demolition, removal, or relocation, provided
that no portion of any replacement structure shall increase the previously
existing nonconformity. Otherwise, any subsequently built structures shall
conform to the provision of this title.
   C.   Ordinary repairs and additions may be performed on a nonconforming
structure, including, but not limited to, repair or replacement of the roof,
walls, fixtures, wiring, or plumbing, provided that such work does not increase
the nonconformity. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.8.703: NONCONFORMING USE OF STRUCTURES, LAND, OR STRUCTURES AND LAND IN
COMBINATION:
   A.   The nonconforming use of a structure, land, or structure and land in
combination, shall not be enlarged or expanded beyond that which lawfully
existed on the effective date of this title or previously adopted applicable
ordinances. The criteria to be used to determine the fundamental and primary
use of the property, and whether such use has been enlarged or expanded, may
include, without limitation, hours of operation, square footage of structures
or area used, traffic generated, volume of goods handled, number of dwelling
units, and the International Building Code classification of uses. Mere
intensification of an existing nonconforming use shall not constitute an
unlawful enlargement or expansion of the use. A nonconforming use shall not be
used as justification for expanding or adding nonconforming uses other than the
fundamental and primary use of the property then existing.
   B.   Upon written request to, and approval by, the Director, a nonconforming
use may be changed to another nonconforming use, providing the new use would
result in the same or greater conformity to this title, and providing the
previous use is permanently abandoned. For example, a nonconforming business
that produces noise and emissions could be replaced by another nonconforming
business that is quieter and does not produce emissions. If a nonconforming use
is replaced with a permitted use, nonconforming uses shall not thereafter be
allowed.
   C.   When any nonconforming use is discontinued for a period of twelve (12)
consecutive months, any subsequent use shall conform to this title.
Nonconforming uses that are discontinued are also governed by the requirements
of section 67-6538, Idaho Code.
   D.   Ordinary repairs and additions may be performed on a structure housing
a nonconforming use, including, without limitation, repair or replacement of
the roof, walls, fixtures, wiring or plumbing, provided that such work does not
enlarge or expand the nonconformity.
   E.   A structure housing a nonconforming use that is completely removed may
not be replaced unless the use and structure are in conformance with this
title. (Ord. 514, 9-28-2017)
8.8.704: NONCONFORMING PARCELS OF LAND:
   A.   A parcel of land shall not be modified in any manner that results in it
becoming a nonconforming parcel, or that expands or enlarges an existing
nonconformity, unless the modification resulted from the exercise of eminent
domain.
   B.   Upon written request to, and approval by the Director, a nonconforming
parcel may be changed, providing the modification results in the same or
greater conformity with this title. Nonconforming parcels must progress toward
conformity. For example, the lot line of a lot that does not meet the minimum
size could be adjusted to increase the size of the lot, but it could not be
adjusted in a manner that would make the lot smaller. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
CHAPTER 9
DEFINITIONS
ARTICLE 9.1. DEFINITIONS A - D
SECTION:
8.9.101: Definitions - A
8.9.102: Definitions - B
8.9.103: Definitions - C
8.9.104: Definitions - D
8.9.101: DEFINITIONS - A:
ACCESS: The primary means of vehicular ingress/egress to a parcel or structure.
ACCESSORY BUILDING OR USE: A building or use which is dependent to that of the
main building or use on the same lot or parcel.
ACCESSORY LIVING UNIT: A building or portion(s) of a building, located on the
same lot, but separate from the principal dwelling with at least two hundred
twenty (220) square feet of habitable space, with plumbing for a sink, toilet
or bathing facilities and which does not meet the definition of a storage unit.
ADDRESS: The official County assigned unique identification number for a parcel
and/or structure that uniquely defines its location within the County. This
address may be used for mail delivery.
ADMINISTRATIVE DECISION: A decision made by the Director pursuant to authority
provided in any provision of this Code to which the provisions of this chapter
pertain.
AFFECTED PERSON: A person or legal entity having a bona fide interest in real
property which may be adversely affected by department or Board action.
AGENCY: Any municipal corporation or political subdivision of the State,
including, without limitation, cities, counties, school districts, highway
districts, water districts, sewer districts, irrigation districts, or
recreational water and sewer districts, or any regional health district, or any
agency of State government, or any agency of the United States government.
AGENT: One who acts for or in the place of another.
AGRICULTURE PRODUCTION: Activities or conditions conducted on land actively
devoted to agriculture as defined in section 63-604, Idaho Code, or on forest
land as defined in section 63-1701, Idaho Code.
AGRICULTURE PROTECTION AREA (APA): One or more specific parcels of land in a
designated geographic area voluntarily created under the authority of this
article for the purpose of protecting and preserving agricultural land.
AGRICULTURE PROTECTION AREA COMMISSION (APA Commission): The advisory board to
the Board of County Commissioners created pursuant to section 67-9705, Idaho
Code and section
8.8.304 of this title.
AGRITOURISM: Tourist activities which center around the act of visiting a
working farm, ranch, or any agricultural, horticultural or agribusiness
operation for the purposes of enjoyment, education, or active involvement in
the activities of the farm or rural operation. Agritourism activities may allow
visitors to become acquainted with various landscapes and farming systems, such
as crops, fruit trees or vines and livestock, and locally produced products,
and may include bed and breakfast facilities, cabins, or guesthouses.
AIRCRAFT PARKING AREAS: Those areas designated as parking areas for parking and
maneuvering aircraft while on the ground. "Tie down" areas shall also mean
aircraft parking areas and will be marked by "tie down" to denote this area.
AIRPORT: Any area of land or water designed and set aside for landing and
takeoff of aircraft and utilized or to be utilized in the interest of the
public for such purposes.
AIRPORT ADVISORY BOARD: The board consisting of members as defined by current
by-laws to provide information and recommendations to the Airport Manager and
County Commissioners pertaining to airport flight-line operations and
development in the Airport Overlay Zone.
AIRPORT DEVELOPMENT CONTROL COMMITTEE: A committee consisting of members as
defined by current by-laws to provide information and recommendations to the
Airport Manager and County Commissioners pertaining to development in the
Airport Overlay Zone.
AIRPORT HAZARD: Any structure, or tree, or use of land which obstructs the
airspace required for the flight of aircraft in landing and taking off at an
airport or is otherwise hazardous to such landing or taking off of aircraft.
AIRSTRIP: An improved or unimproved landing area used by pilots to land, park,
take off, unload, load and taxi all types and styles of aircraft.
ALIQUOT PART: A description of an unplatted parcel by one or more fractions of
a section.
AMPLITUDE: The vibration intensity measured in inches of earthborn vibration.
The amplitude is one-half (1/2) the total earth displacement, as measured with
a three (3) component measuring system.
ANTENNA: A device used in the sending and receiving of electromagnetic waves.
APARTMENT HOUSE: Any building or portion thereof, which is designed, built,
rented, leased, let, or hired out to be occupied as the home or residence of
three (3) or more families living independently of each other and doing their
own cooking in said building, and shall include flats, apartments, and multi-
family dwellings. An apartment house is the same as a "multiple-family
dwelling". "Apartment houses" and "multiple-family dwellings" refer to
buildings or portions thereof, which are built, rented, leased, let, or hired
out to be occupied on a permanent basis, as distinguished from a transient
occupancy basis.
APPELLANT: An applicant or affected person who files an appeal of department
action or who makes a request for reconsideration of a final decision of the
Board.
APPLICANT: Any person, corporation, partnership, or other legal entity, who
owns, or has an ownership interest, in the real property which is the subject
of an application for a permit or approval made pursuant to this title, or any
representative thereof.
APPROACH: The point of intersection or connectivity for a private road, common
driveway or driveway with a publicly dedicated and maintained road for which
approval has been given by the appropriate public highway agency.
APRON: The portion of an aircraft parking area (or tie down area) used for
access between taxiways, aircraft parking positions, hangars, and storage
facilities. An apron is outside the normal area of movement for aircraft.
AREA OF IMPACT (AOI): An area established pursuant to section 67-6526, Idaho
Code, and designated by county ordinance which is adjacent to a city and where
city growth and development are expected to occur.
AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD: See definition of special flood hazard area.
ASPHALT OR CONCRETE BATCH PLANT: A facility where asphalt or cement is mixed
with aggregate to create hot mix asphalt or concrete paving materials. Such
facilities do not include the actual manufacture or storage for resale or
distribution of asphalt tars and oils or portland cement.
AUTOMOTIVE HOBBY: An accessory use involving the restoration, maintenance, and/
or preservation of motor vehicles. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016; amd. Ord. 514, 9-28-
2017; Ord. 607, 12-12-2024; Ord. 616, 6-26-2025)
8.9.102: DEFINITIONS - B:
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year.
BASE FLOOD ELEVATION: Height of floodwaters during discharge of the base flood
as indicated on the FIRM, or as designated in accordance with the procedures
set forth in subsection
8.7.205C of this title based on the greatest flood of record or the best
available data available from FEMA or other authoritative sources, whichever is
higher. The base flood elevation is measured in feet using the North American
Vertical Datum of 1988 (NAVD88).
BASEMENT: Any area of a structure, including a crawl space, having a floor,
finished or unfinished, below grade (ground level) on all sides.
BED AND BREAKFAST INN: An owner occupied single-family dwelling which provides
up to five (5) rooms for lodging and meals for paying guests.
BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs): Physical, structural, and land management
practices which have been approved by the State of Idaho, Kootenai County, or
other public agency with jurisdiction, that are designed to maintain or enhance
water quality, to prevent or reduce water pollution and soil erosion, and to
minimize the discharge of sediment and other pollutants. The Director may from
time to time promulgate a list of publications that are recognized as BMPs.
BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES MANUAL FOR CONTAINING CRITICAL MATERIALS DURING
STORAGE & HANDLING (the “BMP Manual”): The manual maintained by Panhandle
Health District and its partners provides guidance on establishing proper
methods for the storage and handling of critical materials that have the
potential to contaminate the Rathdrum Prairie Aquifer.
BOARD: The Board of County Commissioners of Kootenai County, Idaho.
BOARDING KENNELS: See definition of kennel.
BOARDING STABLE: A structure designed for the feeding, housing, and exercising
of horses not owned by the owner of the premises and for which the owner of the
premises receives compensation. Boarding stables may include training and
scheduled events such as horse shows, workshops and clinics.
BOARD OF HEALTH: The Board of Health of Panhandle Health District 1 (PHD).
BUFFER STRIP: A vegetated area that slows stormwater runoff and provides
filtration. The effectiveness of buffer strips is determined by several factors
that include soil type, slope, width and vegetation type.
BUILDING: See definition of structure.
BUILDING ENVELOPE: A designated area shown on a plat within which all
structures must be located.
BUILDING HEIGHT: The vertical distance at the center of the building's front
measured from the average elevation of the finished grade along the front of
the building to the highest point of the coping of a flat roof, or to the deck
line of a mansard roof, or to the average height of the highest gable of a
pitch or hip roof, excepting chimneys and steeples.
BUILDING LINE: A line denoting the outer perimeter of a structure that is
permanently affixed to the land.
BUILDING RESTRICTION LINE: A line established by the Federal Aviation
Administration across which no structural development may occur. These lines
normally connect in such a fashion as to enclose an area in which no structures
may be built, except those necessary and incidental to airport operations.(Ord.
493, 6-9-2016; amd. Ord. 514, 9-28-2017; Ord. 545, 10-3-2019; Ord. 574, 3-22-
2022; Ord. 578, 9-8-2022; Ord. 601, 11-19-2024)
8.9.103: DEFINITIONS - C:
CAMPGROUND: One or more parcels of land which provide three (3) or more sites
for cabins, yurts, or tents, or provide for the placement of tents, as
temporary living quarters for recreation, camping, or vacation purposes. This
definition shall not include sites meeting the definition of a "recreational
vehicle park".
CARGO CONTAINER: Any structure that is or was used to transport goods by means
of rail, truck, or sea.
CHILDCARE: Care and supervision provided for compensation during part of a
twenty four (24) hour day, for a child or children not related by blood,
marriage or legal guardianship to the person or persons providing the care, in
a place other than the child's or children's own home or homes.
CHILDCARE CENTER: A place or facility providing daycare services for
compensation to seven (7) or more children not related to the provider, or to a
total of thirteen (13) or more children.
CHURCH: See definition of Place Of Worship.
CITY ADDRESS PROTECTION AREA: That area within which a city will have the
authority to designate addresses utilizing an address grid system that meets
the needs of the city. All unincorporated parcels within a city address
protection area shall be addressed as if they were within the city associated
with that address protection area.
CLEAR ZONE OR CLEARWAY: An area beyond the stop end of a runway, not less than
five hundred feet (500') wide, centered on the extended centerline of the
runway, and controlled by airport authorities.
CLEARING: The removal of vegetation by manual, mechanical, or chemical methods.
COLLOCATION: The placement of additional antennas on an existing transmission
tower or structure.
COMMERCIAL: A business enterprise which involves the purchase, sale or rental
of goods or services, or is otherwise carried on for profit. The sale or rental
of goods or services conducted by nonprofit entities shall also be included
within this definition.
COMMERCIAL KENNEL: A kennel facility which includes one or more of the
following activities:
   A.   Breeding for sale of more than two (2) litters each year; or
   B.   Offering a service for compensation in conjunction with the operation
of the kennel, including, without limitation, training, grooming, boarding, or
breeding; or
   C.   Raising of competition dogs for purposes of compensation, greyhound
racing, sled dog racing, dog pulls or any other events; or
   D.   Any pet shop regularly selling dogs.
COMMERCIAL RESORT: A privately owned indoor and outdoor recreation area which
is operated for profit. Activities which may be permitted as part of a
commercial resort shall include those set forth in section
8.5.110 of this title.
COMMERCIAL RIDING ARENA OR EQUINE TRAINING CENTER OR FACILITY: Land, or a
building or a part thereof, dedicated to clinics, workshops and training of
horses. An equine training center or facility may include boarding stables.
COMMISSION: The Kootenai County planning and zoning commission established
under section
8.8.301 of this title.
COMMON DRIVEWAY: A driveway that provides legal and physical access from a
public or private road to between two (2) and four (4) parcels of land.
COMMUNITY STORMWATER SYSTEM: A BMP or series of BMPs for stormwater drainage
and treatment which serves more than one parcel.
COMPLETE DEMOLITION or COMPLETELY DEMOLISHED: Any act or process that destroys
or removes seventy-five percent (75%) or more of the exterior walls of a
structure, improvement, or object.
CONDITIONAL USE: A use in which the issuance of a conditional use permit is
required before the use may be established. Conditional uses are those which
have been determined to be suitable for location in one or more particular
zones, but require a special degree of review to ensure that the use will be
compatible with other permitted uses within that zone, and that the use will
not impose excessive demands upon public services and utilities.
CONDOMINIUM: Shall be as defined in section 55-101B, Idaho Code.
CONDOMINIUM PLAT: A plat setting forth a division of units for condominium
ownership purposes where there is no subdivision of the land upon which the
units sit.
CONSERVATION EASEMENT: Shall be as defined in section 55-2101, Idaho Code.
CONSERVATION ORGANIZATION: Any governmental entity or charitable corporation,
association, or trust which may act as a holder of a conservation easement, as
those terms are defined in section 55-2101, Idaho Code.
CONSERVATION SUBDIVISION: A subdivision design that maximizes the conservation
of open space and the natural, cultural or historic characteristics of an area.
CONSTRUCTION: The process by which an improvement to any property, including,
without limitation, any new structure or any additions or improvements to an
existing structure, is made.
CONTIGUOUS: Describes parcels or other areas which share a mutual boundary
line. Parcels or other areas which meet only at a common corner point shall not
be considered to be contiguous.
CONTRACTOR STORAGE: Any land or buildings used primarily for the storage of
equipment, vehicles, machinery (new or used), building materials, paints, pipe,
or electrical components used by the owner or occupant of the premises in the
conduct of any building trade or building craft.
CONVEY: To grant or transfer title to any interest in land to another person or
legal entity.
CONVEYANCE: May mean either of the following, as the context may indicate:
   A.   A mechanism for transporting water from one point to another, including
pipes, ditches, and channels; or
   B.   The transfer of title to, or grant of an interest in, real property.
Conveyances may include land, improvements, easements, rights of way, or any
other conveyable interest in real property.
COOPERATIVE CORPORATION: Any nonprofit corporation, partnership, limited
liability company, or other nonprofit legal entity which operates on a
cooperative basis, is owned, operated, organized and maintained by its members,
and is operated for the purpose of providing goods or services to its members.
COTTAGE INDUSTRY: A commercial use of a residential parcel which is more
intensive than a home occupation but is still incidental to the residential use
of the site. Cottage industries are subject to the standards contained in
section
8.4.504 of this title.
COUNTY: Kootenai County, Idaho.
CRAWL SPACE: The area inside an enclosed foundation area between the top of the
grade and the lowest horizontal structural member.
CRITICAL MATERIAL: Any liquid, semi-liquid, flowable, or water soluble solid
that is listed in SARA Title III List of Lists published by the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency Office of Solid Waste and Emergency Response,
or is required by the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration to
have a safety data sheet (SDS), or any amendment thereto or superseding Act.
CRITICAL MATERIALS COMPLIANCE CERTIFICATE (CMCC): A certificate indicating
compliance with the reporting and secondary containment requirements of this
Chapter.
CRITICAL MATERIALS USE ACTIVITY: Any undertaking that involves the use,
storage, manufacture or handling of critical materials at a facility as set
forth in this article, or as incorporated into this article by reference.
CUT: To excavate into a hillside to create a flat area, or to steepen or
flatten a bank. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016; amd. Ord. 546, 10-17-2019; Ord. 601, 11-
19-2024; Ord. 611, 5-8-2025)
8.9.104: DEFINITIONS - D:
DATUM: A base measurement point (or set of points) from which all elevations
are determined. Historically, that common set of points was the National
Geodetic Vertical Datum of 1929 (NGVD29). The vertical datum currently adopted
by the federal government as a basis for measuring heights is the North
American Vertical Datum of 1988 (NAVD88).
DAYCARE CENTER OR DAYCARE FACILITY: See definition of Childcare Center.
DECIBEL: A unit of measurement of the intensity (loudness) of sound. Sound
level meters which are employed to measure the intensity of sound are
calibrated in decibels.
DECLARATION OF CONDOMINIUM: A document, other than a condominium plat, which
meets the relevant requirements of sections 55-1504 and 55-1505, Idaho Code.
DEPARTMENT: Kootenai County community development.
DEPARTMENT ACTION: The action from which an appeal has been taken, such as an
administrative decision made by the director, the issuance of a notice of
violation by the department, or the actions determined by the department to be
necessary to remedy a violation for which a notice of violation has been
issued.
DEPENDENT PERSON: A person who is incapable of living independently and without
daily care as a result of a physical or mental impairment.
DESIGN PROFESSIONAL: A professional engineer, landscape architect, or
geologist, registered for their respective profession by the state of Idaho, or
a certified professional in erosion and sediment control (CPESC) as determined
by the Soil And Water Conservation Society and the International Erosion
Control Association.
DETAIN OR DETENTION: The temporary storage of stormwater runoff, used to
control the peak discharge rates and provide gravity settling of pollutants.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or of equipment or
materials. For purposes of all provisions of this title other than Chapter 7,
Article 7.2 thereof, this definition shall apply only to those activities which
require a permit or approval pursuant to this title or Title 7, Chapter 1 of
this code.
DIRECT ACCESS: A driveway or common driveway that directly intersects with a
public or private road.
DIRECTOR: The director of Kootenai County community development, or his or her
designee.
DOCK LOT: A parcel on the shoreline of a lake or river which derives its value
primarily from its appurtenant riparian rights, including, without limitation,
eligibility for a dock permit issued by the Idaho Department of Lands.
Standards and limitations regarding access to and use of dock lots shall be as
set forth in section
8.4.1410 of this title.
DOMESTIC FOWL: Any domestic bird, including chickens, turkeys, ducks, geese,
pigeons, peacocks, and guineas.
DRAINAGEWAY: A watercourse that does not meet the definition of a class 1 or
class 2 stream.
DRIVEWAY: A means of vehicular access providing legal access to one parcel
which has an approach to a public road or connects to a private road or common
driveway.
DWELLING: A building in which the primary use is residential in nature. Types
of dwellings include the following:
Multiple-Family Dwelling: A building or portion thereof which contains more
than two (2) dwelling units.
Single-Family Dwelling: A building which contains one dwelling unit or which
meets the definition of a "group home".
Two-Family Dwelling: A site built structure containing two (2) dwelling units,
which have either a common interior wall or a common roofline with a common
exterior wall.
This definition shall not include hotels, motels, resort lodges, or similar
facilities.
DWELLING EQUIVALENT: The total sewage loading from a single family dwelling.
When applied to structures or facilities other than housing units, a dwelling
equivalent shall be equal to two-hundred and fifty (250) gallons per day or be
equal to twenty (20) persons using a non-residential facility on forty (40)
hour per week basis, with no wastewater generation except from restrooms.
DWELLING UNIT: One or more rooms physically arranged so as to create habitable
space that includes sleeping, eating, and sanitary facilities sufficient for
occupancy by one family. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016; amd. Ord. 545, 10-3-2019; Ord.
546, 10-17-2019; Ord. 574, 3-22-2022; Ord. 578, 9-8-2022)
ARTICLE 9.2. DEFINITIONS E - J
SECTION:
8.9.201: Definitions - E
8.9.202: Definitions - F
8.9.203: Definitions - G
8.9.204: Definitions - H
8.9.205: Definitions - I - J
8.9.201: DEFINITIONS - E:
EARTHBORN VIBRATIONS: Cyclic movement of the earth due to energy propagation.
EASEMENT: A legal encumbrance of real property which conveys a right of use,
usually for a certain stated purpose. Easements include, without limitation,
the following:
Drainage Easement: A legal encumbrance which secures access to or across real
property for the purpose of enabling the maintenance of drainage facilities, or
which reserves other specified rights for the users and beneficiaries of
drainage facilities contained within the boundaries of the easement.
Public Or Private Easement: A grant or dedication of a legal encumbrance of
real property by the owner to specific persons, or to the public, which
authorizes the use of the encumbered property for one or more specified
purposes. This definition also includes any easement acquired by eminent
domain, prescription, necessity, prior use, or other legal theory, which has
been adjudicated by a court of competent jurisdiction.
ECOTOURISM: Tourist activities involving travel to natural areas that is
intended to minimize environmental and social impacts, build environmental
awareness, respect local cultures, and aid in improving the welfare of local
populations.
ELEVATION CERTIFICATE: A form supplied by FEMA which is used to document
important elevation information for buildings within special flood hazard
areas. It is used to determine the proper flood insurance premium rate and to
document elevation information necessary to ensure compliance with community
floodplain management regulations. It may also be used to support a request for
a Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA) or Letter of Map Revision Based on Fill (LOMR-
F).
ENCLOSED FOUNDATION AREA: Any area consisting of three (3) or more solid
foundation walls that create an enclosed area below the lowest floor.
ENCLOSURE: An area enclosed by solid walls below the BFE or FPE or an area
formed when any space below the BFE or FPE is enclosed on all sides by walls or
partitions. Insect screening or open wood lattice used to surround space below
the BFE or FPE is not considered an enclosure.
ENCROACHMENT: Any structure located below the ordinary high water mark of a
navigable lake, river, or other body of water which is subject to the
permitting authority of the Idaho Department of Lands.
EROSION: The detachment and movement of soil or rock fragments by water, wind,
ice, or gravity.
EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION CONTROL: Describes those BMPs which are employed to
prevent or reduce erosion or sedimentation and are typically necessary when
ground disturbance occurs.
EXCAVATE: Any act by which earth, sand, gravel, rock, or other earthen material
is cut into, dug, uncovered, displaced, or relocated. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016; amd.
Ord. 545, 10-3-2019)
8.9.202: DEFINITIONS - F:
FACILITY: For purposes of Article 7.4 of this title, any established land use,
building, dwelling, structure, or site upon which or wherein a critical
material use activity is conducted.
   A.   Fixed facility: Any facility above the secondary containment quantity
set forth in Article 7.4 of this title.
   B.   Unfixed facility: Any facility below the secondary containment quantity
set forth in Article 7.4 of this title.
FAMILY: One or more persons who occupy a dwelling unit and live as a single
housekeeping unit, or those persons who reside in a group home. This definition
shall not be applied in a manner which discriminates on the basis of race,
color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national origin, disability, or familial
status in violation of federal or state law.
FAMILY DAYCARE HOME: A home, place, or facility providing childcare for six (6)
or fewer children.
FEEDLOT: An enclosed area where livestock are confined for the purpose of
resale or slaughter.
FILL: A solid material which increases the ground surface elevation or the act
of depositing such material by mechanical means.
FINAL PLAT: The final drawing of a subdivision and associated conveyances, to
be recorded in the office of the county recorder.
FINANCIAL GUARANTEE: An irrevocable letter of credit, cash deposit, bank
account, or surety bond, pledged to secure the performance of an obligation.
FLOOD CONTROL STRUCTURE: A manmade feature designed or constructed to reduce
damage caused by flood events, including, without limitation, a dam, dike,
channel, levy, or similar device.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM): The official map on which the federal
insurance administration has delineated the special flood hazard areas and the
risk premium zones applicable to the county. This term also includes digital
flood insurance rate maps (DFIRM).
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS): The "Flood Insurance Study For Kootenai County,
Idaho, And Incorporated Areas", dated May 3, 2010, with accompanying flood
insurance rate maps (FIRM) and/or digital flood insurance rate maps (DFIRM),
and other supporting data. The FIS includes flood profiles, the flood boundary-
floodway map, and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
FLOOD OR FLOODING: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry areas from the overflow of inland water or the
unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff or surface waters from any source.
FLOOD PLAIN OR FLOODPLAIN: Any land area susceptible to being inundated by
water from any source (see definition of flood).
FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT: Any development occurring within a special flood hazard
area. Floodplain development shall be subject to the regulations and permitting
requirements set forth in chapter 7, article 7.2 of this title regardless of
whether any other permit or approval would be required pursuant to this title
or Title 7, Chapter 1 of this code.
FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION: An elevation corresponding to the elevation of the
base flood (100-year flood), plus any increased flood elevation attributable to
floodway encroachment, plus any required freeboard. In Kootenai County, the
flood protection elevation shall be the base flood plus three feet (3').
FLOOD RESISTANT MATERIALS: Any building materials capable of withstanding
direct and prolonged contact with floodwaters without sustaining significant
damage. Flood resistant materials are outlined in FEMA publication FIA-TB-2.
FLOODWAY: The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation.
FOOT-CANDLE: A measure of the amount of light cast onto a given point. One
foot-candle is equivalent to one lumen per square foot. Foot-candles may be
measured in a horizontal or vertical plane, at a specified height, or with no
direction or height specified.
FOOTPRINT: The outline of the total area covered by a building’s perimeter at
ground level.
FREEBOARD: A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level for
the purposes of floodplain management. Freeboard tends to compensate for the
many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than the
height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such as
wave action, obstructed bridge openings, debris and ice jams, and the
hydrologic effects of urbanization in a watershed. The Base Flood Elevation
(BFE) plus the freeboard establishes the Flood Protection Elevation (FPE).
Freeboard shall be three feet (3').
FRONTAGE: The portion of a parcel that adjoins the road used to access the
parcel.
FRONTAGE LENGTH: The length of the portion of a parcel that adjoins the right
of way, or if no defined right of way exists, the road used to access the
parcel.
FUNCTIONAL CLASSIFICATION: The classification of roads based on their function
with respect to both mobility and access. Functional classifications include
interstate and state highways, principal and minor arterials, collectors and
local streets. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016; amd. Ord. 546, 10-17-2019; Ord. 601, 11-19-
2024)
8.9.203: DEFINITIONS - G:
GATED COMMUNITY: A subdivision with more than ten (10) residential lots which
contains one or more controlled entrances for pedestrians, bicycles, and
automobiles. Gated communities may be staffed by full time, private security
guards, may lead into one or more small residential streets, and there may be
walls or fences surrounding the perimeter of the development. Gated communities
may also have various amenities which make it possible for residents to stay
within the community for day to day activities.
GENERAL FARMING AND FORESTRY: The production of crops, timber and/or animals.
GRADE:
   A.   Ground level.
   B.   The slope of a road specified in percent (%).
GRADING: Any excavation, filling or movement of earth for the purposes of
changing the shape or topography of the land.
GREEN SPACE: Shall be as defined in section
8.6.604 of this title.
GREENHOUSE: An establishment where flowers, shrubbery, vegetables, trees, and
other horticultural products are grown in the open and/or in an enclosed
building. Greenhouses include the following:
Commercial Greenhouse: A greenhouse which offers horticultural products for
sale to the general public on a retail basis.
Wholesale Greenhouse: A greenhouse which offers horticultural products for sale
on a wholesale basis. Any retail sales on the premises shall be limited to
those occurring on an occasional and incidental basis.
GROSS ACREAGE: The size of a lot or parcel including one-half (1/2) of
adjoining rights of way.
GROUND COVER: Low growing plants, or plants that grow horizontally on the
ground, which are used to cover bare earth in order to prevent erosion, deter
the growth of weeds, and create a uniform appearance.
GROUNDWATER: Water in a saturated zone or stratum beneath the land surface or a
surface water body.
GROUP HOME: A single-family dwelling in which eight (8) or fewer unrelated
elderly persons or persons with disabilities reside and who receive on site
supervision in connection with their disability or age related infirmity.
Resident staff, if employed, need not be related to each other or to any of the
other persons residing in the group home. No more than two (2) of such staff
members shall reside in the dwelling at any given time.
GUARANTEE OF FINANCIAL SURETY: A surety bond, cash deposit, or escrow account,
irrevocable letter of credit, or other means acceptable to or required by the
county to guarantee that infrastructure or improvements are completed in
compliance with the project's approved plans. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.9.204: DEFINITIONS - H:
HARDSHIP: For purposes of Chapter 3, Article 3.4 of this title, a situation or
circumstance over which an owner of property designated as an agricultural
protection area has no control, including, without limitation, an adverse
result in litigation against the farm or landowner, death of the owner or a
family member that would lead to unanticipated financial hardships, significant
tax liabilities, bankruptcy due to another person’s fraud, or any other illegal
activity.
HEALTH OFFICER: The Director of PHD, or any agent or employee thereof whose
duties include enforcement of any provision of this article.
HEARING BODY: The entity charged with the conduct of a public hearing and a
decision or recommendation on an application or appeal pursuant to the
provisions of this title. The hearing body may be a hearing examiner, the
planning commission, the historic preservation commission, or the board, as
appropriate.
HEARING EXAMINER: Any person serving as a hearing examiner for Kootenai County,
as established in section
8.8.303 of this title.
HELIPAD: A landing area or platform for helicopters. While helicopters are able
to operate on a variety of relatively flat surfaces, a fabricated helipad
provides a clearly marked hard surface away from obstacles where helicopters
can land safely.
HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE (HAG): The highest natural elevation of the ground
surface prior to construction, adjacent to the proposed walls of a structure.
Refer to the FEMA Elevation Certificate for HAG related to building elevation
information.
HIGH WATER MARK, ORDINARY: See definition of Ordinary High Water Mark.
HIGHWAY: See definition of Road.
HIGHWAY DISTRICT: A public agency which has jurisdiction over public roads
within Kootenai County pursuant to title 40, chapters 13, 14, and/or 17, Idaho
Code.
HISTORIC PRESERVATION: The research, protection, restoration and rehabilitation
of buildings, structures, objects, districts, areas and sites significant in
the history, architecture, archaeology or culture of this county, its
communities, the state or the nation.
HOME OCCUPATION: An occupation, profession, or craft which is clearly
incidental to the residential use of a site. Home occupations are subject to
the standards contained in section
8.4.501 of this title.
HOSPITAL: A facility which meets the definition set forth in subsection 39-1301
(a), Idaho Code, and has been duly licensed by the state of Idaho pursuant to
title 39, chapter 13, Idaho Code.
HOTEL OR MOTEL: One or more buildings where lodging for a period of thirty (30)
or fewer days is offered for compensation. This definition shall not include
bed and breakfast inns, resort lodges, retreat centers, guest ranches, short
term rentals, group homes, or childcare centers, nor shall it include
facilities such as jails, hospitals, residential care facilities, prisons, or
other similar medical or penal facilities.(Ord. 493, 6-9-2016; amd. Ord. 545,
10-3-2019; Ord. 546, 10-17-2019; Ord. 574, 3-22-2022; Ord. 578, 9-8-2022; Ord.
607, 12-12-2024)
8.9.205: DEFINITIONS - I - J:
IMPACT NOISE: A short duration or rapidly changing sound which causes
fluctuations of the sound level meter needle in excess of plus or minus two
(±2) decibels and is, therefore, incapable of being accurately measured on a
sound level meter.
IMPERVIOUS SURFACE: Any hard surface area which prevents or retards the entry
of water into the soil mantle, or causes water to run off the surface in
greater quantities or at an increased rate of flow, when compared to natural
conditions prior to development. Common impervious surfaces include, without
limitation, roofs, walkways, patios, driveways, parking lots or storage areas,
concrete or asphalt paving, gravel and compacted native surface roads,
compacted earthen materials, and oiled, macadam or other surfaces which
similarly impede the natural infiltration of stormwater.
INFRASTRUCTURE: Support facilities for a subdivision including, without
limitation, water, sewage treatment, roads, fire protection, stormwater, and
other utility systems. This term includes both project support facilities, and
public system facilities serving the area.
JUNKYARD: Any outdoor space where waste, discarded, or salvaged materials are
bought, sold, exchanged, baled, packed, disassembled, stored or handled,
including, without limitation, inoperable motor vehicles, vessels, or farm
equipment, organic waste, lumber or other building materials, or structural
steel materials and equipment. This definition shall not include parcels where
such uses are conducted entirely within a completely enclosed building, such as
pawnshops and establishments for the sale, purchase or storage of used
furniture and household equipment, nor shall it include parcels used for the
sale of automobiles which are in operable condition, or the storage and sale of
salvage materials incidental to lawful manufacturing operations. (Ord. 493, 6-
9-2016)
ARTICLE 9.3. DEFINITIONS K - O
SECTION:
8.9.301: Definitions - K - L
8.9.302: Definitions - M
8.9.303: Definitions - N
8.9.304: Definitions - O
8.9.301: DEFINITIONS - K - L:
KENNEL: Any parcel or combination of parcels, or any building, structure, or
enclosure on such parcel or combination of parcels, in which a total of six (6)
or more dogs, six (6) months of age or over, are kept or maintained by one or
more persons. The term "kennel" shall not include any veterinary hospital,
office or clinic operated by a veterinarian licensed by the State of Idaho. A
noncommercial kennel is a kennel that does not meet the definition of
"commercial kennel" set forth in section
8.9.103 of this chapter.
LABORATORY: A place devoted to scientific or experimental study such as testing
and analysis.
LADDER FUEL: Shrubs, brush and woody debris that can carry a fire into the tree
canopy.
LAKE: A body of perennial, standing open water, larger than one acre in size.
Lakes include the bed, banks and wetlands below the ordinary high water mark.
Lakes do not include drainage or irrigation ditches, farm or stock ponds, or
settling or gravel ponds.
LAND DISTURBING ACTIVITY: Any manmade change to the land surface, including the
removal of vegetation and topsoil, filling, and grading. This definition shall
not include landscaping or agricultural land uses such as planting, cultivating
and harvesting of crops or trees.
LANDFILL: A facility to which solid waste is brought for final disposal.
Landfills may also include recycling facilities or energy generation
facilities.
LANDSCAPE DESIGNER: An individual skilled in the trade of nursery operation or
landscape design, to include the drafting of landscape plans and construction
details, development of plant material lists, and construction material
selection. Landscape designers do not need to have completed the State of Idaho
qualifications necessary to be classified as a landscape architect.
LARGE ORGANIC DEBRIS (LOD): Live or dead trees, and parts or pieces of trees,
that are large enough or long enough, or sufficiently buried in the stream bank
or bed, to be stable during high flows. Pieces longer than the channel width,
or longer than twenty feet (20'), whichever is shorter, are considered stable.
LOD creates a diverse fish habitat and stabilizes stream channels by reducing
water velocity, trapping stream gravel and allowing scour pools and side
channels to form.
LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC): A general term used to refer to the several types
of revisions and amendments to FEMA maps that can be accomplished via the
issuance of an official letter by FEMA. They include Letter of Map Amendment
(LOMA), Letter of Map Revision (LOMR), and Letter of Map Revision based on Fill
(LOMR-F), each of which is further defined as follows:
   A.   Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA): An official amendment, by letter, to an
effective National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) map. A LOMA establishes a
property's location in relation to the special flood hazard area (SFHA). LOMAs
are usually issued whenever a property has been inadvertently mapped as being
in the floodplain but is actually on natural high ground above the base flood
elevation.
   B.   Letter of Map Revision (LOMR): An official modification to an effective
Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM), a Flood Boundary and Floodway Map (FBFM), or
both. LOMRs are generally based on the implementation of physical measures that
affect the hydrologic or hydraulic characteristics of a flooding source and
thus result in the modification of the existing regulatory floodway, the
effective base flood elevations (BFEs), or the SFHA. The LOMR officially
revises the FIRM or FBFM, and sometimes the Flood Insurance Study (FIS) report,
and when appropriate, includes a description of the modifications. The LOMR is
generally accompanied by an annotated copy of the affected portions of the
FIRM, FBFM, or FIS report.
   C.   Letter of Map Revision Based on Fill (LOMR-F): FEMA's modification of
an SFHA as shown on the FIRM based on the placement of fill outside the
existing regulatory floodway. The LOMR-F does not change the FIRM, FBFM, or FIS
report.
   D.   Conditional Letter of Map Revision (CLOMR): A formal review and comment
as to whether a proposed flood protection project or other project complies
with the minimum NFIP requirements for such projects with respect to
delineation of special flood hazard areas. A CLOMR does not revise the
effective FIRM or FIS. Upon submission and approval of certified as-built
documentation, a LOMR may be issued by FEMA to revise the effective FIRM.
Neither building permits nor flood development permits may be issued based on a
CLOMR because a CLOMR does not change the NFIP map.
LIVESTOCK: Any large domestic or farm or ranch raised animal, including,
without limitation, horses, cattle, pigs, sheep, goats, llamas, elk, bison, and
other similar domestic animals. This definition does not include domestic fowl
or potbellied pigs kept as pets.
LOT: A platted parcel of land which has been legally created.
LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE (LAG): The lowest point of the ground level next to the
structure. Refer to the FEMA Elevation Certificate for LAG related to building
elevation information.
LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area, including a
basement, which is used for living purposes, including, without limitation,
working, storage, cooking and eating, recreation, or any combination thereof.
This definition also includes any floor that could be converted to such a use
including a basement or a crawl space that does not comply with the
requirements of subsection
8.7.204 of this title. An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, used solely
for parking of vehicles, building access, or storage, in an area other than a
basement, is not considered a structure's lowest floor. A crawl space is not
considered a building's lowest floor so long as it complies with the
requirements of subsection
8.7.204 of this title.
LOWEST HORIZONTAL STRUCTURAL MEMBER: The bottom of the lowest floor joist of
the lowest floor, the bottom of the concrete slab for slab on grade structures,
or similar structural floor member, whichever is lowest.
LUMEN: A measure of the amount of light emitted by a light source. (Ord. 493,
6-9-2016; amd. Ord. 514, 9-28-2017; Ord. 545, 10-3-2019; Ord. 546, 10-17-2019)
8.9.302: DEFINITIONS - M:
MAINTENANCE ENTITY: A private organization, such as a homeowners' association,
water company or association, or road maintenance association, that provides
maintenance for land, infrastructure or shared improvements within a
subdivision.
MAJOR RECREATIONAL EQUIPMENT: Includes, without limitation, boats, boat
trailers, travel trailers, "fifth wheel" trailers, pickup campers or coaches
designed to be mounted on motor vehicles, motorized dwellings, tent trailers,
and similar equipment, and cases or boxes used for transporting any such
equipment, regardless of whether or not such equipment is actually contained
therein.
MAJOR SUBDIVISION: A subdivision that proposes to create five (5) or more lots,
or to redivide land that has been subdivided in the previous five (5) years
when the two (2) subdivisions together will create five (5) or more lots.
MANUFACTURED HOME: Shall include any structure meeting the definition of either
a manufactured home, as defined in subsection 39-4105(8), Idaho Code, or a
mobile home, as defined in subsection 39-4105(9), Idaho Code. This definition
shall not include park trailers (also known as park models) or recreational
vehicles. For purposes of this title, manufactured homes are classified as
follows:
   A.   Class A: A manufactured home that satisfies the following additional
criteria:
      1. The home has a minimum living space of one thousand (1,000) square
feet.
      2. The home shall have a pitched roof, except that no standards shall
require a slope of greater than one foot (1') in height for each four feet (4')
in width.
      3. The exterior siding of the home consists of wood, hardboard, or
aluminum comparable in composition, appearance, and durability to the exterior
siding commonly used in standard residential construction. Carports or garages
shall be constructed of like materials.
      4. The home is placed on an excavated and backfilled foundation and
enclosed at the perimeter such that the home is located not more than twelve
inches (12") above grade.
      5. The tongue, axles, transporting lights, and removable towing apparatus
are removed from the home after placement on the lot and before occupancy.
   B.   Class B: A manufactured home that does not satisfy the criteria
necessary to qualify as a Class A manufactured home.
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK: A parcel of land under single ownership on which three
(3) or more manufactured homes are occupied as residences. A manufactured home
park may include special facilities for common use of the occupants, such as
recreational buildings, swimming pools, common open space, laundry facilities,
and incidental commercial uses.
MARINE SERVICE BUSINESS: A for-profit business or nonprofit organization which
provides specialized services related to boats and other watercraft, docks, and
shoreline development including construction, maintenance, repair, cleaning,
inspection, transportation, and other support activities.
MECHANICAL GROUND DISTURBANCE: The use of mechanized or mechanically powered
equipment in a manner that creates a disturbance within a stream protection
buffer or the shoreline management area, regardless of whether the equipment
itself is physically located within the applicable area. For example, a crane
located outside a stream protection buffer which is operating a bucket with its
boom in a manner that creates a disturbance within the stream protection buffer
would be deemed to be causing a mechanical ground disturbance.
MEDICAL OR DENTAL CLINIC: A building or portion of a building containing
offices for the provision of medical, dental, or psychiatric services for
outpatients only.
MINISTORAGE FACILITY: A storage facility which contains multiple individual
units available for sale or lease and meets the performance standards set forth
in section
8.5.117 of this title.
MINOR SUBDIVISION: A subdivision that proposes to create four (4) or fewer
lots. Property that has been subdivided within the previous five (5) years
cannot be redivided as a minor subdivision unless the two (2) subdivisions
together will create four (4) or fewer lots.
MITIGATE: To cause to become less harsh or hostile, to make less severe, or to
lessen the negative consequences of an action.
MODULAR BUILDING: Shall be as defined in subsection 39-4301(10), Idaho Code.
MOTEL: See definition of Hotel Or Motel. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016; amd. Ord. 614, 4-
4-2025)
8.9.303: DEFINITIONS - N:
NATURAL GRADE: The natural state of the land before any manmade alterations,
including, without limitation, dredging, filling, excavation, or drilling
operations.
NATURAL SLOPE: The slope of the land prior to any manmade disturbance.
NATURALLY OCCURRING DRAINAGE SWALE: Natural drainage conveyances that provide
for the discharge of stormwater to class 1 or class 2 streams, but have beds
and banks which are stable and have vegetative cover.
NET ACREAGE: The size of a parcel excluding any portion of adjoining rights of
way.
NO RISE CERTIFICATION: A certification by a licensed engineer that a project
will not cause a set increase (0.00 feet) in flood heights.
NOISE COMPATIBILITY AREA: Land surrounding the Coeur d'Alene Airport within the
2028 sixty five (65) decibel day-night average sound level (65 DNL) noise
contour delineated in the then current airport master plan.
NONCONFORMING PARCEL: A parcel that was lawfully established prior to the
adoption of this title or previously applicable ordinances, and which was in
compliance with land development regulations then in effect, but which no
longer conforms to the regulations for the zone in which it is located.
Examples include lots that do not meet the minimum lot sizes or open space
requirements, or lots that have a substandard access driveway.
NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE: A building, sign, or other structure that was lawfully
constructed prior to the adoption of this title or previously applicable
ordinances, but which no longer conforms to the regulations for the zone in
which it is located. Examples include signs and buildings that do not meet
required setbacks to property lines or that exceed height or size requirements.
NONCONFORMING USE: The use of a parcel or structure that was lawfully
established prior to the adoption of this title or previous applicable
ordinances, and which was in compliance with land use regulations then in
effect, but which no longer conforms to the regulations for the zone in which
it is located. Examples include residing in a second home on a parcel which has
not been approved as an accessory living unit, using a parcel in a manner that
does not meet landscaping, parking or lighting requirements, using a parcel or
structure for a business that is no longer allowed, or a permitted use which
does not comply with applicable standards or permitting requirements.
NONDOMESTIC WASTEWATER: Any wastewater that is not produced as sanitary
wastewater from restroom facilities, showers, or kitchens.
NONPROFIT TRADE OR BUSINESS ASSOCIATION: A public or private facility such as
those utilized by business leagues, boards of trade, or other associations of
persons having some common business interest, that is recognized by state and
federal taxing authorities as a bona fide nonprofit entity. In order to be
recognized as a nonprofit trade or business association, the entity's purpose
must primarily relate to the promotion of such common business interest, and
shall not be related to the regular transaction of business of a kind
ordinarily carried on for profit.
NONRESIDENTIAL STRUCTURE: Any structure which is not used for residential
purposes and is not considered accessory to a residential use (garage, barn,
etc.). Examples of nonresidential structures include, without limitation,
commercial, industrial, and community buildings. This definition shall not
include encroachments.
NOTICE OF VIOLATION: A notice, issued by department staff, of the existence of
any violation of any provision of this title.
NOXIOUS MATTER: A material which is capable of causing injury to living
organisms by chemical reaction or is capable of causing detrimental effects
upon the physical or economic well being of individuals.
NOXIOUS WEED: Any plant which has the potential to cause injury to public
health, crops, livestock, land or other property, and has been designated as a
noxious weed by the director of the Idaho department of agriculture.
NUISANCE: Anything which is injurious to health or morals, or is indecent, or
offensive to the senses, or an obstruction to the free use of property, so as
to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property, or which
unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary manner, of any
navigable lake, river, stream, canal or basin, or any public park, square,
street or highway.
NURSING HOME: A home, place, or institution for the care of children, the aged
or infirm, or a place of rest for those suffering bodily disorders. This
definition shall not include facilities for the treatment of sickness or
injuries or for surgical care. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016; amd. Ord. 545, 10-3-2019)
8.9.304: DEFINITIONS - O:
OCTAVE BAND: A prescribed interval of sound frequencies which permits
classifying sound according to its pitch. Octave bands specified are those
adopted by the American Standards Association as "preferred frequencies for
acoustical measurements", S1.6-1960.
OCTAVE BAND FILTER: An electrical frequency analyzer designed according to
standards formulated by the American Standards Association and used in
conjunction with a sound level meter to take measurements in specific octave
intervals.
ODOROUS MATTER: Any material, whether gaseous, liquid, or solid, that produces
a response in the normal human nose.
OPEN SPACE: Any open area which may include, without limitation, areas such as
parks, yards, playgrounds, beaches, waterways, parkways, patios, gazebos,
walkways, driveways, or roads.
ORDINARY HIGH WATER MARK: The line which the water impresses on the soil by
covering it for sufficient periods of time to deprive the soil of its
vegetation and destroy its value for agricultural purposes.
OUTDOOR RECREATIONAL FACILITIES: Areas designed for active recreation, whether
publicly or privately owned, which may include, without limitation, baseball
diamonds, soccer and football fields, golf courses, tennis courts, swimming
pools, outdoor riding arenas, and similar places of assembly for outdoor
recreational activities.
OUTDOOR STORAGE: The placement or storage of items outdoors for a period of
more than thirty (30) days. This definition includes storage within a structure
that is open or not entirely enclosed.
OWNER: The legal property owner of record, based on information provided by the
office of the Kootenai County assessor or the office of the Kootenai County
recorder.
OWNER OCCUPIED: Real property actually occupied by the record owner of the
property, according to the records of the Kootenai County assessor or the
Kootenai County recorder, or at least one member of the record owner's
immediate family. If the owner of such property is a corporation, partnership,
limited liability company, estate, trust, or other legal entity, it shall be
actually occupied by one or more persons who, in the aggregate, have at least a
twenty percent (20%) share of ownership of the entity. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016;
amd. Ord. 546, 10-17-2019)
ARTICLE 9.4. DEFINITIONS P - S
SECTION:
8.9.401: Definitions - P
8.9.402: Definitions - Q - R
8.9.403: Definitions - S
8.9.401: DEFINITIONS - P:
PARCEL: Any portion of land that is separately described in a deed of
conveyance. Parcel size shall be determined as set forth in section
8.4.1104 of this title.
PARK MODEL RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicle meeting the definition of park model
recreational vehicle, as defined in section 49-117, Idaho Code.
PARK TRAILER OR PARK MODEL: See definition of park model recreational vehicle.
PERPETUAL OR IN PERPETUITY: Continuing forever; valid for all time.
PERSONAL STORAGE BUILDING: A structure used solely for the storage of personal
property.
PLACE OF ASSEMBLY: Any building, other than a place of worship, which is used
as a facility for the holding of events, including, without limitation,
meetings, weddings, wedding receptions, community meetings, and other types of
group gatherings. A place of assembly shall be owner occupied unless it is
owned by a bona fide charitable, fraternal, benevolent, cultural, religious, or
educational organization.
PLACE OF WORSHIP: An institution that people regularly attend to participate in
or hold services, meetings, and other activities related to religious or
spiritual worship. This term shall include all buildings in which any religious
services or activities are held. In addition, a place of worship may include a
rectory, parsonage, or other building containing the residences or offices of
one or more clergy members or worship leaders. The application of this
definition and the provisions of this title related to places of worship shall
be applied in a manner which does not discriminate on the basis of religion,
does not infringe upon the free exercise of religion, and does not constitute
an establishment of religion or of any particular religion.
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT: An integrated design for development of residential,
commercial or industrial uses, or combinations of such uses, under single
ownership or control, in which the standards set forth in this title may be
varied from those which would otherwise apply. PUDs allow for the creation and
approval of development plans which provide flexibility and creativity in site
and building design and location, so long as such plans are determined to be in
accordance with the goals and policies of this title and the Comprehensive
Plan.
PLAT: The drawing, map or plan of a subdivision, cemetery, townsite or other
tract of land, including certifications, descriptions, approvals, and
associated conveyances.
PLAT AMENDMENT: A plat which makes changes to a previously recorded plat.
POST-FIRM: Floodplain development in which the start of construction occurred
on or after March 1, 1982, the effective date of the initial Flood Insurance
Rate Map (FIRM).
PRE-FIRM: Floodplain development in which the start of construction occurred
before March 1, 1982, the effective date of the initial Flood Insurance Rate
Map (FIRM).
PRELIMINARY SUBDIVISION PLAN: A map or drawing illustrating a preliminary
subdivision proposal.
PRESCHOOL: A school, whether public or private, and whether for profit or
nonprofit, which provides prekindergarten or kindergarten educational
instruction to children under seven (7) years of age. A Head Start facility is
a preschool which provides educational instruction as part of the national Head
Start Program.
PRIMARY ACCESS POINT: That primary point designated on a public or private
road, or common driveway, from which a driveway to a parcel or structure
intersects the road or common driveway.
PRIVATE RESORT: A privately owned, noncommercial indoor and outdoor recreation
area which complies with the standards set forth in section
8.5.205 of this title.
PRIVATE ROAD: See definition of road.
PROFESSIONAL FORESTER: An individual with at least a bachelor's degree in
forestry from an institution of higher education accredited by the Society of
American Foresters, or registration or licensure as a professional forester in
any state, or certification as a professional forester by the Society of
American Foresters, Association of Consulting Foresters, or similar
organization.
PROFESSIONAL WILDLIFE BIOLOGIST: An individual with at least a bachelor's
degree in wildlife biology, or who has been designated as a certified wildlife
biologist or an associate wildlife biologist by the Wildlife Society.
PROPERTY LINE: A series of lines which, when connected, denote the outer
perimeter of a parcel. A "metes and bounds" legal description describes the
physical layout of property lines for one or more parcels of real property in
accordance with generally accepted professional surveying practice.
PUBLIC HIGHWAY AGENCY: The Idaho Transportation Department, a highway district,
or other State agency or political subdivision of the State with jurisdiction
over public highways, public roads, and public rights-of-way.
PUBLIC OFFICE BUILDING: A structure used as the office or for the purpose of
conducting official business by one or more agencies of the Federal government,
the State of Idaho, or any political subdivision of the State of Idaho.
PUBLIC ROAD: See definition of road.
PUBLIC SAFETY FACILITY: A facility operated by the County or a city, fire
protection district, ambulance district, or other similar public entity
associated with the provision of firefighting, law enforcement, emergency
medical, emergency communications, or emergency management services. Such
facilities may include any of the following: offices, equipment storage,
personnel quarters, meeting rooms, operations centers, training facilities,
detention or correctional facilities, repair or maintenance facilities, or
other support facilities or operations.
PUBLIC SERVICE FACILITY: A public facility operated by the County or any city,
taxing district, or other public entity which is not a public safety facility
or utility.
PUBLIC UTILITY: A public or private enterprise regulated by the Federal
government, the State of Idaho, or any political subdivision or taxing
district, which provides to the public a utility service deemed necessary for
the public health, safety, and welfare. Public utilities may include, without
limitation, systems for the delivery of natural gas, electricity,
telecommunications services such as telephone, television, or internet, water,
wastewater treatment and disposal, stormwater treatment and disposal, or solid
waste disposal and recycling.
PUBLIC UTILITY COMPLEX FACILITY: A public utility facility of major importance
involving construction of facilities of a complex nature including, but not
limited to: station houses or station grounds, pumping stations, dam
structures, water storage facilities which hold more than one hundred thousand
(100,000) gallons or are greater than twenty five feet (25') in height, solid
waste transfer stations, landfills, telephone transmission stations, sewage
disposal or storage stations, railroad transportation lines, spurs, or
classification yards, or other structures principally used in interstate
transmission of electricity, natural gas, or fuel. This definition shall not
include wireless communication facilities.
PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM: A water system serving ten (10) or more residences, or
twenty five (25) or more people, for more than sixty (60) days per year. (Ord.
493, 6-9-2016; amd. Ord. 514, 9-28-2017; Ord. 545, 10-3-2019)
8.9.402: DEFINITIONS - Q - R:
RATHDRUM PRAIRIE AQUIFER: A groundwater aquifer located beneath the Rathdrum
Prairie and the Purcell Trench in portions of northern Kootenai County and
southern Bonner County. For purposes of this title, the Rathdrum Prairie
Aquifer shall be defined as that portion of the larger Spokane Valley-Rathdrum
Prairie Aquifer, as originally defined by the USGS map depicting the boundaries
of the Spokane Valley-Rathdrum Prairie Aquifer identified and designated under
the authority of Section 1424(e) of the Safe Drinking Water Act (PL 93-523) at
43 F.R. 5566-67 (Feb. 9, 1978), which is situated in Kootenai County.
RECOGNIZED LAKES: Coeur d'Alene Lake, Fernan Lake, Hauser Lake, Hayden Lake,
Pend Oreille Lake, Spirit Lake, Upper Twin Lake, Lower Twin Lake (including the
"midchannel" area), Rose Lake, Bull Run Lake, Killarney Lake, Cave Lake,
Medicine Lake, Swan Lake, Black Lake, Blue Lake, Thompson Lake, and Anderson
Lake.
RECREATIONAL BUILDING: Any building which provides indoor recreational
activities for use by the general public including, but not limited to,
nonprofit or public buildings, such as libraries, museums, art galleries, etc.
RECREATIONAL FACILITY: Any facility which provides indoor or outdoor
recreational activities for use by the general public.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicular type unit primarily designed as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, or travel use, which either has its
own motive power or is mounted on or drawn by another vehicle. The types of
recreational vehicles are camping trailers, fifth wheel trailers, motor homes,
travel trailers, and truck campers, each of which is defined in subsection 39-
4201(2), Idaho Code.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK: A parcel of land upon which three (3) or more
recreational vehicle sites are located, established, or maintained for
occupancy by recreational vehicles, or tents, as temporary living quarters for
recreation, camping, or vacation purposes.
RE-ENTRY FACILITY: A facility that allows offenders to work while becoming
reunited with families and the community, offers selected offenders who are
nearing release a chance to prepare themselves for release, and provides
protection to the community through high accountability and security of the
offenders housed in the facility.
REGULATORY FLOOD: A flood determined to be representative of large floods known
to have occurred in Idaho and which may be expected to occur on a particular
stream because of like characteristics. The regulatory flood is based upon a
statistical analysis of stream flow records available for the watershed or an
analysis of rainfall and runoff characteristics in the watershed. In inland
areas, the flood frequency of the regulatory flood is once in every one hundred
(100) years; this means that in any given year there is a one percent (1%)
chance that a regulatory flood may occur or be exceeded.
REGULATORY FLOODWAY: See FLOODWAY.
RENTAL WAREHOUSE: A storage facility available for sale or lease, with or
without individual units, that does not meet the standards set forth in
subsection
8.5.117C of this title.
RESIDENTIAL ACCESSORY STRUCTURE: A structure which is accessory to, and
detached from, a residential structure, including, without limitation, garages,
barns, or storage sheds. This definition shall not include accessory living
units, temporary hardship uses, or encroachments.
RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITY: A facility in which nine (9) or more unrelated
elderly persons or persons with disabilities reside, generally on a long-term
basis, and receive on-site supervision in connection with their disability or
age related infirmity. The facility may also provide short-term rehabilitation
services for such persons. Resident staff, if employed, need not be related to
each other or to any of the other persons residing in the facility.
RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURE: Any building that contains living facilities, including
provisions for sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation. This definition
includes accessory living units and temporary hardship uses, but shall not
include encroachments..
RESIDENTIAL ZONE: Refers to the Agricultural, Rural, Agricultural Suburban,
Restricted Residential, and High Density Residential Zones.
RESORT LODGE, RETREAT CENTER, OR GUEST RANCH: An owner occupied facility,
including a lodge and/or resort cabins with or without food service, which
serves as a destination point for visitors and relies on its rural location and
the natural environment to provide recreational facilities and activities for
the use of guests such as horse riding, hiking, fishing, and boating. Temporary
use of these facilities for meetings, recreation, or education is permitted as
an accessory use. Wedding and reception facilities are also permitted as an
accessory use.
RETENTION: The holding of runoff in a basin without release except by means of
evaporation, transpiration, infiltration, or emergency bypass.
RIGHT-OF-WAY: Land conveyed, dedicated, reserved, or otherwise acquired for use
as a road. In addition to the roadway, a right- of-way may also incorporate
curbs, utilities, lawn strips, sidewalks, parking lanes, or lighting and
drainage facilities, and may include special features such as grade separation,
landscaped areas, viaducts and bridges. Types of rights-of-way include the
following:
Private Right-Of-Way: Land conveyed, dedicated, or reserved for use as a
private roadway for one or more parcels of land, and which may also incorporate
public or private utilities or service areas.
Public Right-Of-Way: Land conveyed to a public highway agency, dedicated to a
public highway agency or to the public, or acquired by a public highway agency
by eminent domain, prescription, or other legal cause of action, which are
under the jurisdiction of a public highway agency.
ROAD: A roadway, plus all necessary culverts, sluices, drains, ditches,
waterways, embankments, retaining walls, bridges, tunnels, grade separation
structures, roadside improvements, adjacent lands or interests lawfully
acquired, pedestrian facilities, and any other structures, works or fixtures
incidental to the preservation or improvement of the roadway. This definition
shall not include driveways or common driveways. Types of roads include the
following:
Private Road: A road which has not been accepted for maintenance by a public
highway agency and which does not meet the definition of a "driveway" or a
"common driveway". Owners of property served by a private road are able to
lawfully exclude persons from using the road who do not have either the legal
right or permission to use the road unless the road is located within a public
right-of-way.
Public Road: A road which has been accepted for maintenance by a public highway
agency and which may be used by the public at large.
ROADWAY: A surface which has been designed and constructed, or has been
improved, or is ordinarily used, for vehicular travel.
RUNWAY: A defined rectangular area on an airport prepared for the landing and
takeoff of aircraft. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016; amd. Ord. 514, 9-28-2017; Ord. 545,
10-3-2019; Ord. 552, 10-15-2020; Ord. 574, 3-22-2022; Ord. 578, 9-8-2022)
8.9.403: DEFINITIONS - S:
SANITARY RESTRICTIONS: Water and sewer requirements imposed on a subdivision
plat in accordance with section 50-1326, Idaho Code.
SCARIFY: To break up or loosen the ground surface of an area.
SCHOOL: Any land, building or part thereof, whether publicly or privately
owned, which is used for the provision of education, instruction or training in
any branch of knowledge. This definition shall include schools providing
instruction for any grades between first and twelfth grade (and may also
include prekindergarten or kindergarten), and shall also include colleges,
universities, and professional, vocational, technical, or trade schools.
SECONDARY CONTAINMENT QUANTITY: The quantity of a critical material that
requires compliance with Article 7.4 of this title. For those critical
materials specifically listed in the SARA III List of Lists (or as otherwise
noted), the following quantities of qualifying substances are subject to the
provisions of Article 7.4 of this title:
   A.   SARA Section 302 Extremely Hazardous Substances: Ten (10) pounds in the
aggregate, exclusive of solvent or other medium or, one hundred (100) pounds in
the aggregate, inclusive of solvent or other medium.
   B.   CERCLA Hazardous Substances (listed in 40 C.F.R. § 302, Table 302.4):
One hundred (100) pounds in the aggregate, exclusive of solvent or other medium
or, one thousand (1,000) pounds in the aggregate, inclusive of solvent or other
medium.
   C.   SARA Section 313 Toxic Chemicals: One hundred (100) pounds in the
aggregate, exclusive of solvent or other medium or, one thousand (1,000) pounds
in the aggregate, inclusive of solvent or other medium.
   D.   SARA Section 311 and 312 Chemicals (Not listed in the List of Lists)
for which a safety data sheet (SDS) must be developed pursuant to OSHA Hazard
Communication Standards: Five thousand (5,000) pounds in the aggregate,
inclusive of solvent or other medium.
SEDIMENT: Fragmented material that originates from weathering and erosion of
rocks or unconsolidated deposits and is transported by, suspended in, or
deposited by water.
SEDIMENTATION: The deposition of sediment on ground surfaces and in
watercourses.
SENSITIVE AREAS: Any of the following areas:
   A.   Land in, or within three hundred feet (300') of wetlands, streams,
lakes, or other surface water bodies; or
   B.   Areas where the water table is within six feet (6') of ground surface
at any time of the year; or
   C.   Areas with slopes of twenty five percent (25%) or greater, or that
exhibit signs of instability; or
   D.   Soils identified by the Idaho geological survey as colluviums or
residuum; or
   E.   Areas where the ground surface is within fifty feet (50') of an
unconsolidated sand or gravel aquifer; or
   F.   Special flood hazard areas; or
   G.   Historic or archaeological resources identified as such by the historic
preservation commission, or by any federal, state, tribal or local agency with
jurisdiction.
SETBACK: A line governing the placement of buildings and other structures with
respect to parcel lines, roads, runways, or taxiways.
SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM: A system of piping, treatment devices, receptacles,
structures, or areas of land designed, used or dedicated to convey, store,
stabilize, neutralize, treat or dispose of wastewater. This definition includes
individual sewage disposal systems such as a septic system and drainfield.
SEWAGE LOADING: The total liquid volume of sewage produced on any given parcel
of land and expressed as gallons per day.
SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS:
   A.   A commercial establishment that devotes a significant or substantial
portion of its business to any one or more of the following:
      1. The sale, rental or viewing of any printed, audio, or visual
materials, whether in physical, mechanical, or electronic format, which are
characterized by an emphasis upon the depiction, display or exhibition of
specific sexual activities or specific anatomical areas, whether or not such
materials are constitutionally protected; or
      2. The sale or rental of instruments, devices, or paraphernalia which are
designed for use or marketed primarily for engaging in specific sexual
activities; or
   B.   A commercial establishment that devotes a significant or substantial
portion of its stock in trade, floor space, shelf space, storage space,
advertising, or marketing to the items listed in subsection A of this
definition, or that derives a significant or substantial portion of its
revenues from the items listed in subsection A of this definition.
   C.   Related definitions include the following:
      1. Specific Anatomical Areas: Less than completely and opaquely covered
human genitals, pubic regions, buttocks, anus, or female breasts below a point
immediately above the top of the areola. This definition shall also include
human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if completely and
opaquely covered.
      2. Specific Sexual Activities: Includes any of the following:
         a. The fondling or other intentional touching of human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus, or female breasts;
         b. Sexual acts, whether actual or simulated, including intercourse,
oral copulation, masturbation, or sodomy;
         c. Flagellation, mutilation or torture for purposes of sexual arousal,
gratification, pleasure, or abuse;
         d. Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal; or
         e. Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
activities set forth in this definition.
SHORELINE: Land adjacent to, and landward of, the ordinary high water mark of a
recognized lake, the Coeur d'Alene River, or the Spokane River.
SHORELINE MANAGEMENT AREA: The area within twenty five feet (25') in slope
distance landward of the ordinary high water mark of all recognized lakes and
the Coeur d'Alene and Spokane Rivers.
SHORELINE STABILIZATION: The use of structures, riprap, vegetation, or other
land management practices to provide shoreline protection along lakes, rivers,
and streams from current and continued erosion.
SIGN: Any device, structure, fixture, display, painting or visual image using
words, graphics, symbols, numbers, letters or lights to convey information or
attract attention. Signs include their structure and component parts, and
typically identify a residence or place of business, provide information, or
direct attention to a subject matter, product, service, event, place, activity,
institution, or organization. Signs may contain constitutionally protected
speech or expression. Related definitions include the following:
Animated Sign: A moving sign or display, or a sign depicting action or motion,
through electrical or mechanical means.
Awning Or Canopy Sign: A sign located on an awning or canopy that is attached
to a building.
Banner: A sign or display on lightweight fabric or similar material.
Electronic Message Center: A variable message sign using computer generated
messages or some other electronic means of changing copy.
Flashing Light, Sign Or Display: A sign, light or display with lighting or
messages that change more than once every four (4) seconds.
Illuminated Sign: A sign illuminated internally through its face by a light
source contained inside the sign, or externally by reflection of a light aimed
at its surface.
Monument Sign: A sign with low overall height, supported by a footing in the
ground, the sole purpose of which is to support the sign, where the entire base
of the sign is in contact with the ground.
Off Premises Sign: A sign that is not accessory to or associated with a
permitted structure or use on a parcel of land, such as a sign that directs
attention to a business, product, service, entertainment, event or other
activity that is conducted, produced, furnished, sold, or offered at another
location.
On Premises Sign: A sign that is located on the same parcel of land as the
owner or lessee's business, organization, product, service, event, activity, or
residence, and that is accessory to or associated with an allowed structure or
use.
Pole Sign: A sign, other than a monument sign, that is supported by a footing
in the ground, the sole purpose of which is to support the sign.
Portable Sign: A sign capable of being carried or easily moved.
Projecting Sign: A sign, other than a wall sign, that projects from and is
supported by the wall of a building or structure with the face of the sign
perpendicular to the building.
Roof Sign: A sign erected upon the roof of a building or the top of a
structure.
Sign Face: The surface of a sign on which a message is displayed.
Temporary Sign: An easily removable sign, constructed of plywood or other
nondurable material, which is displayed for a short period of time.
Wall Or Building Mounted Sign: A sign painted on, applied to, or attached to
the exterior surface of a building or structure, with the exposed face of the
sign in a plane parallel to the plane of the wall, and where no part of the
sign structure extends more than sixteen inches (16") out from that surface.
SITE: The parcel of land on which development is occurring, will occur, or is
proposed to occur. A right-of-way shall be considered a separate site from
adjacent properties.
SITING AREA: That portion of a parcel that contains the transmission tower, and
related buildings and equipment, required for the operation of a wireless
communication facility.
SLOPE: An incline, described by the vertical change in elevation that occurs in
one hundred feet (100') of horizontal distance (rise divided by run), expressed
in percent (%). Slope is measured perpendicular to the contour of the land, and
is the maximum incline for a given area.
SOLID WASTE RURAL COLLECTION SITE: A facility at which solid waste may be
disposed and held while awaiting transfer to a solid waste transfer station or
to a landfill.
SOLID WASTE TRANSFER STATION: A facility at which solid waste may be disposed,
separated and held while awaiting transfer to a landfill, recycling facility,
energy generation facility, or other final disposal site. Transfer stations may
also include recycling facilities or energy generation facilities.
SOUND LEVEL METER: An instrument, including a microphone, amplifier, output
meter, and frequency weighing network, for the measurement of noise and sound
levels in a specified manner.
SOUND PRESSURE LEVEL: The intensity of sound measured in decibels (dB), as
recorded or indicated on a sound level meter.
SPECIAL EVENT: Any outdoor public assembly in which persons are gathered
together for commercial, civic, or social functions, recreation, or for food or
drink consumption, including, without limitation, outdoor musical concerts,
festivals, fairs, or carnivals, which may be expected to have or have five
hundred (500) or more people at any given time. The Kootenai County Fairgrounds
shall be exempt from the provisions of this title which pertain to special
events and special event locations. Permitting requirements for special events
shall be in addition to the permitting requirements for marine events regulated
under section 67-7030, Idaho Code.
SPECIAL EVENT LOCATION: A site that has been approved to hold one or more
special events. This definition shall also include stadiums and arenas, as
defined in this section.
   A.   An annual special event location is a site that has been approved to
hold one special event for a period of no greater than five (5) consecutive
days in any given calendar year.
   B.   This definition shall not include the Kootenai County Fairgrounds or
commercial riding arenas.
SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA): The land within a floodplain which is subject
to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding any given year. The
boundaries of the special flood hazard area shall include all areas designated
as Zone A or AE on the FIRM, and shall also include all areas designated in
accordance with the procedures set forth in subsection
8.7.205C of this title based on the greatest flood of record or the best
available data available from FEMA or other authoritative sources.
SPOIL PILE: Soil or rock excavated from an area which may be used for backfill
or final grading on site.
STABILIZED CONSTRUCTION ENTRANCE: A stabilized pad of clean, crushed rock
located where traffic enters or leaves a construction site.
STADIUM OR ARENA: A field or court which is fully or partially enclosed by a
building or structure with tiers of seats (which may be seats, bleachers,
risers, or stands) for one thousand (1,000) or more spectators.
STORAGE UNIT: A nonhabitable building or portion of a building used for storage
of equipment or materials associated with a primary or accessory use of the
site. Storage units are typically distinguished from habitable space by having
a door at least eight feet (8') in width to access the storage area.
STORMWATER: That portion of precipitation that does not naturally percolate
into the ground, evaporate, or transpirate, but instead flows via overland
flow, interflow, channels, or pipes into a defined surface water channel or a
constructed infiltration facility.
STORMWATER CONTROL: Those BMPs which are employed to convey, direct, treat, or
dissipate stormwater and are typically necessary when impervious areas are
created or natural drainage is interrupted.
STORY: That portion of a building included between the surface of any floor and
the surface of the floor next above, or if there is no floor above, the space
between the floor and the ceiling next above. A basement shall be counted as a
story for the purpose of this title when more than one-half (1/2) of such
basement height is above the established curb level or above the finished lot
grade level where curb level has not been established.
STREAM: A watercourse of perceptible extent with a definite bed and banks which
confines and conducts continuously or intermittently flowing water. A definite
bed is a bed having a sandy or rocky bottom which results from the scouring
action of water flow. This definition shall include both natural or manmade
channels, but shall not include dead end streams (streams which infiltrate into
the ground prior to reaching a larger body of water) which do not support fish
or other beneficial uses. This definition shall not include the Coeur d'Alene
River, Spokane River, or any recognized lake. For purposes of this title,
streams are classified as follows:
   A.   Class 1 Stream: A stream which is used for domestic water supply or by
fish for spawning, rearing, or migration. Such waters will be considered to be
class 1 upstream from the point of domestic diversion for a minimum distance of
one thousand three hundred twenty feet (1,320').
   B.   Class 2 Stream: A stream that does not provide fish habitat. Class 2
streams are usually found in headwater areas or minor drainages, and their
principal value lies in their influence on water quality or quantity downstream
in class 1 streams.
STREAM PROTECTION BUFFER: The area encompassed by a slope distance of seventy
five feet (75') on each side of the ordinary high water mark of a class 1
stream, or thirty feet (30') in slope distance on each side of the ordinary
high water mark of a class 2 stream.
STREET: See definition of Road.
STRUCTURAL ALTERATION: Any change, other than ordinary maintenance or repairs,
which is intended to prolong the life of the supporting members of a building,
such as the bearing walls, beams, or girders.
STRUCTURE: That which is built or constructed; an edifice or building of any
kind, or any piece of work artificially built up or composed or parts joined
together in some definite manner. This definition includes structures for which
a building permit is required and structures which are exempt from building
permit requirements. This definition shall also include storage tanks for
liquid or gaseous materials that are principally above ground.
SUBDIVISION: The division of a parcel of land into two (2) or more parcels
through the recordation of a plat or deed effectuating the division.
SUBSTANTIAL CHANGE: Any change that will likely cause a material or directly
relevant bearing on the decision making process or on the reasonable
expectations of the public, or of one or more agencies, with respect to
information provided at the time of application.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure in which the
cost of restoring the structure to its previous condition would equal or exceed
fifty percent (50%) of its market value before the damage occurred.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other
improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent
(50%) of the market value of the structure before the start of construction of
the improvement. This term also includes structures which have incurred
"substantial damage", regardless of the type or cost of the actual repair work
performed.
   A.   For purposes of this definition, the start of construction shall be
deemed to be the date on which the building permit was issued so long as actual
construction, repair, reconstruction, placement, or other improvement begins
within one hundred eighty (180) days after that date. The actual start is
either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site,
such as the pouring of slab or footing, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation, or the
placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does
not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does
it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include
excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or foundations or the erection of
temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of
accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or
not part of the main structure.
   B.   The market value of the structure shall be the market value of the
structure before the start of the initial repair or improvement, or in the case
of damage, the market value of the structure before the damage occurred. Market
value of the existing structure shall be considered to be the most current
value of the structure as determined by the office of the Kootenai County
assessor, or in an appraisal from an Idaho licensed or certified appraiser. The
value of the proposed work shall be determined using the department's valuation
as figured in establishing building permit fees.
   C.   This definition shall not include the following:
      1.   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with then
currently adopted building codes; and
      2.   Any alteration of a structure listed on the national register of
historic places or a state inventory of historic places, providing the
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
historic structure.
SURFACE MINE: An area where minerals are extracted by removing the overburden
above and adjacent to natural deposits of minerals, and mining the deposits
thereby exposed.
SURFACE MINING: Activities performed within a surface mine as part of the
process of extracting minerals from the ground, including the excavation of
pits, removal of materials, disposal of overburden, and the construction of
haul roads. For purposes of this title, extraction of rock or fill material, or
the processing of rock or other road materials, by a highway district shall not
be considered surface mining activity when the activity is carried on within a
public right-of-way or an immediately adjoining property during temporary
construction activity associated with publicly maintained roadways.
SURFACE WATER: All lakes, rivers, streams, wetlands, and similar features, and
any feature which acts as a conveyance of water to a surface water feature.
Conveyance features may include natural or manmade ditches. This definition
shall not include ponds, springs, or similar features that are entirely
contained within a parcel of land, nor shall it include conveyance features
that infiltrate the water being conveyed, such as dead end streams. (Ord. 493,
6-9-2016; amd. Ord. 514, 9-28-2017; amd. Ord. 545, 10-3-2019; Ord. 546, 10-17-
2019; Ord. 574, 3-22-2022; Ord. 578, 9-8-2022; Ord. 601, 11-19-2024)
ARTICLE 9.5. DEFINITIONS T - Z
SECTION:
8.9.501: Definitions - T
8.9.502: Definitions - U - V
8.9.503: Definitions - W
8.9.504: Definitions - X - Z
8.9.501: DEFINITIONS - T:
TAXIWAY: A defined path from one part of an airport to another for the taxiing
of aircraft to and from a runway.
TEMPORARY HARDSHIP USE: A temporary residence which is used as a dwelling unit
for a dependent person when such use is located on the same parcel as the
dwelling of the owner of the property. Such use, when permitted, shall be
considered an accessory use that is personal to the then current owner, and
shall not be transferable upon the sale or lease of the property.
TOPOGRAPHIC MAP: A map with lines of equal elevation, showing the relief and
configuration of the ground surface.
TOPOGRAPHY: The configuration of the ground surface.
TOPSOIL: The darker colored, more friable upper position of the soil, down to
such restrictions as claypans, hardpans, coarse sand and gravel, or rock.
TOXIC MATERIALS: Materials which are capable of causing injury to living
organisms by chemical means when present in relatively small amounts.
TRANSITIONAL GROUP HOUSING FACILITY: A facility for the transitional housing or
sheltering of nine (9) or more disabled, indigent, or abused persons. Resident
staff, if employed, need not be related to each other or to any of the other
persons residing in the facility. For purposes of this definition:
   A.   "Disabled" shall have the same meaning as the term "qualified
individual with a disability", as set forth in the Americans With Disabilities
Act of 1990 and associated regulations, and shall also include those persons
determined to be disabled by the Social Security Administration or the
Department of Veterans Affairs, or pursuant to the workers' compensation laws
of any state.
   B.   "Indigent" shall mean any person who does not have sufficient income or
assets to provide for his or her basic needs, including food, clothing,
shelter, and transportation, and, if applicable, the basic needs of his or her
family.
   C.   "Abused" shall mean any person who is the victim of domestic battery,
injury to a child, or any crime of a sexual nature, as defined in title 18,
Idaho Code, similar Federal law, or similar law of any other state, whether or
not the alleged perpetrator was charged with such crime.
TRANSMISSION TOWER: A tower such as a self-supporting lattice, monopole
structure, or other similar construction, which elevates a wireless
communication antenna and may also include accessory transmission and receiving
equipment.
TREATMENT: Removal of sediment or other pollutants from stormwater.
TREE: A woody perennial plant with a single, well defined stem. (Ord. 493, 6-9-
2016; amd. Ord. 517, 1-25-2018)
8.9.502: DEFINITIONS - U - V:
UNOBTRUSIVE: Inconspicuous; not prominent.
USE: The purpose or activity for which the land, or building thereon, is
designed or intended, or for which is occupied or maintained, and shall include
any manner or performance of such activity with respect to the standards set
forth in this title.
UTILITY: A service provided to one or more subdivisions or to five (5) or more
parcels, which may include, without limitation, water, electricity, natural
gas, telephone, television, internet, wastewater treatment and disposal,
stormwater treatment and disposal, or solid waste disposal and recycling.
UTILITY COMPLEX: A facility providing one or more utility services which does
not rise to the level of a public utility complex facility. A utility complex
is more local in application and scope than a public utility complex facility.
Utility complexes include electrical distribution substations, natural gas gate
stations, natural gas regulator stations, solar or wind facilities, solid waste
rural collection sites, and other similar facilities which are located to
support load demand and overall system operations for better customer service.
This definition shall not include wireless communication facilities.
UTILITY SERVICES: Transmission, distribution and service lines, pipes and
facilities installed, operated, and/or maintained within established utility
corridors, easements, public rights- of-way, or other utility sites, or
constructed, installed and/or maintained in connection with or ancillary to
other approved uses.
VARIANCE: Shall be as defined in section 67-6516, Idaho Code.
VESTED: Guaranteed as a legal right. Except as otherwise provided in this
title, a complete application must be submitted in order to be considered
vested.
VESTING: The legal right to have an application processed in accordance with
the regulations in effect at the time the application was submitted.
VETERINARY CLINIC OR HOSPITAL: A place where animals are given medical care and
the boarding of animals is limited to short term care incidental to the
hospital use. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016; amd. Ord. 514, 9-28-2017; Ord. 517, 1-25-
2018)
8.9.503: DEFINITIONS - W:
WATER SYSTEM: A system of wells, pumps, piping, treatment devices, receptacles,
and structures, designed, used or dedicated to obtain, convey, treat, or store
water. A shared water system is a system that serves two (2) or more lots
within a subdivision.
WATERSHED: The surrounding land areas from which water drains to a given point.
WETLAND PROTECTION BUFFER: An area maintained in its natural state around a
wetland.
WETLAND SPECIALIST: A specialist in the field of wetlands delineation and
assessment. A wetlands specialist has the ability to delineate wetlands, assess
the function and value of particular wetlands, and provide assistance with
wetland regulations and permits, including the completion of application and
permit forms, and provide technical advice about avoidance, minimization and
compensatory mitigation of effects to wetlands. A wetlands specialist shall
have, at a minimum, a Bachelor's of Science degree from an accredited
university in biology, botany, ecology, environmental science, or similar
related field, plus either a minimum of two (2) years of full time field
experience as a wetlands professional, or additional education that includes
completion of a wetland specific training program. Proof of field experience
may be in the form of certification from the Society of Wetlands Specialists,
or in the form of a listing of accepted and approved plans from the U.S. Army
Corps of Engineers or other applicable local, State or Federal agencies. Any
additional education or training must include comprehensive information on
wetland hydrology, hydric soils and hydrophytic vegetation. Experience in
wetland delineation should include delineation of wetlands using State or
Federal regulatory manuals, preparing wetlands delineation reports as outlined
by State or Federal regulations, conducting wetland function and value
assessments, and developing and implementing mitigation plans.
WETLANDS: Those areas that are inundated or saturated by surface or ground
water, at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under normal
circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation adapted for life in
saturated soil conditions. Wetlands generally include swamps, marshes, bogs and
similar areas. A jurisdictional wetland is a wetland which the U.S. Army Corps
of Engineers has determined is part of the waters of the United States for
purposes of Federal jurisdiction and regulation.
WILL SERVE LETTER: A written statement from the owner of a water and/or sewage
treatment provider indicating that the system has the capacity to provide water
or sewage treatment service, and that the owner is willing to provide that
service to all of the lots in a proposed subdivision.
WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITY: Any facility designed and used for the purpose
of transmitting, receiving, or relaying voice and data signals. WCFs include
siting areas, transmission towers and antennas. This definition shall not
include towers less than twenty feet (20') in height that are mounted upon
another structure, or facilities with towers less than forty feet (40') in
height above natural ground level.
A public safety wireless communication facility is a WCF which is owned by a
public entity which provides emergency communications (911), fire, law
enforcement, emergency medical services, or emergency management services, and
is used for one or more of those purposes.
Public safety wireless communication facilities shall also include privately
owned WCFs that are part of a system designed to provide broadband Internet
services to unserved or underserved rural areas of Kootenai County which has
received funding from the Idaho Coronavirus Financial Advisory Committee (CFAC)
broadband initiative grant program in accordance with the Coronavirus Aid,
Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act of 2020. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016; amd.
Ord. 549, 7-7-2020)
8.9.504: DEFINITIONS - X - Z:
YARD: An open space on a parcel, other than a courtyard, which is unoccupied
and unobstructed from the ground upward, except as otherwise permitted in this
title. Types of yards include the following:
Front Yard: A yard extending along the full length of the front lot line
between the side lot lines.
Rear Yard: A yard extending along the full length of the rear lot line between
the side lot lines.
Side Yard: A yard extending along a side lot line from the front yard to the
rear yard.
ZONE: All land and water areas within a stated zone boundary.
ZOO: A collection of living animals located and housed for public display.
(Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
ARTICLE 9.6. ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
SECTION:
8.9.601: Acronyms
8.9.602: Abbreviations
8.9.601: ACRONYMS:
For purposes of this title, the acronyms set forth below shall have the
following meanings:
DEQ   Idaho department of environmental quality
EPA   U.S. environmental protection agency
FAA   Federal aviation administration
FCC   Federal communications commission
FEMA  Federal emergency management agency
IDFG  Idaho department of fish and game
IDL   Idaho department of lands
IDWR  Idaho department of water resources
ISDA  Idaho department of agriculture
ITD   Idaho transportation department
PHD   Panhandle health district no. 1
USACE U.S. army corps of engineers
USDA  U.S. department of agriculture
USFS  U.S. department of agriculture, forest service
 
(Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.9.602: ABBREVIATIONS:
For purposes of this title, the abbreviations set forth below shall have the
following meanings:
ACI   Area of city impact
BM    Boise meridian
BMPs  Best management practices
CC&Rs Covenants, conditions and restrictions
EMS   Emergency medical services
LA    Landscape architect
NPDES National pollution discharge elimination system
PE    Professional engineer
PG    Professional geologist
PUD   Planned unit development
RV    Recreational vehicle
WCF   Wireless communication facility
 
(Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
CHAPTER 10
AREAS OF CITY IMPACT
ARTICLE 10.1. ATHOL
SECTION:
8.10.101: Purpose
8.10.102: Area Of City Impact Defined
8.10.103: Standards
8.10.104: Enforcement
8.10.105: Renegotiation
8.10.106: Annexation
8.10.107: Coordination Of Plan Amendments, Ordinance Amendments And Zoning
Applications
8.10.108: Geographic Area Of City Impact Defined And Established
8.10.101: PURPOSE:
The purpose of establishing the area of city impact is to identify an urban
fringe area in the unincorporated territory surrounding the city within which
there is potential for development or changes in land use that must be planned
in an orderly and compatible manner in order to ensure timely or economical
provision of public services such as water supply, sanitary and storm sewage
collection and treatment, public safety services, other community service
facilities, and to promote land use compatibility, street alignment, and
traffic flow objectives. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.10.102: AREA OF CITY IMPACT DEFINED:
The area of city impact shall consist of an area where development or use of
land affects or may affect the city of Athol in consideration of trade areas,
geographic factors, and areas that can reasonably be expected to be annexed to
the city in the future. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.10.103: STANDARDS:
The following standards shall apply whenever an agency, planning and/or zoning
commission, hearing examiner, or governing body of the city or county considers
a zone change, comprehensive plan change, request for a special or conditional
use permit, planned unit development, limited planned unit development,
variance request, or subdivision plat within the area of city impact. Within
the area of city impact, the following standards shall apply:
   A.   The Kootenai County comprehensive plan;
   B.   The subdivision regulations set forth in chapter 6 of this title;
   C.   The zoning regulations set forth in this title;
   D.   The stormwater management regulations set forth in chapter 7, article
7.1 of this title;
   E.   Except as set forth above, all other applicable standards set forth in
this code;
   F.   City of Athol subdivision ordinance; and
   G.   Except as set forth above, all other standards of applicable special
districts having jurisdiction within the identified area of city impact. (Ord.
493, 6-9-2016)
8.10.104: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Kootenai County shall be responsible for the administration and
enforcement of the county's ordinances listed in subsections
8.10.103A through E of this article within the area of city impact, and shall
receive all permit fees for inspections performed to recapture direct costs of
inspections, administration, legal publications, any development fees such as
park land dedication fees or other costs arising from fulfilling the terms of
each ordinance or regulation.
   B.   The city of Athol and special districts shall be responsible for the
administration and enforcement of their respective regulations listed in
subsections
8.10.103F and G of this article within the area of city impact, and shall
receive all permit fees for inspections performed to recapture direct costs of
inspections, administration, legal publications, or other costs arising from
fulfilling the terms of each ordinance or regulation. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.10.105: RENEGOTIATION:
In accordance with subsection 67-6526(d), Idaho Code, the Athol city council or
the board may request, in writing, renegotiation of any provisions of this
article at any time. Within thirty (30) days of receipt of such written request
by either party, a meeting between the two (2) jurisdictions shall occur.
While renegotiation is occurring, all provisions of this article shall remain
in effect until this article is amended or a substitute ordinance is adopted by
the city of Athol and Kootenai County, in accordance with the notice and
hearing procedures provided in Idaho Code, or until a declaratory judgment from
the district court is final. Provided, however, that this article or stipulated
portions thereof shall be of no further force and effect if both jurisdictions
so agree by mutually adopted resolution or ordinance. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.10.106: ANNEXATION:
   A.   Annexation by the city of Athol shall be limited to those lands lying
within the area of city impact and being contiguous to the city limits of the
city of Athol. Upon annexation, the provisions of this article, which is the
agreement between the city of Athol and Kootenai County, shall no longer apply
to the annexed area.
   B.   Prior to any annexation by the city of Athol, the city shall forward a
copy of the annexation proposal to the county for review and comment at least
thirty (30) days prior to the first public hearing on the annexation request.
(Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.10.107: COORDINATION OF PLAN AMENDMENTS, ORDINANCE AMENDMENTS AND ZONING
APPLICATIONS:
   A.   All applications for amendment of the Kootenai County comprehensive
plan and implementing ordinances which apply to the Athol area of city impact
shall be sent by Kootenai County to the city of Athol for review.
   B.   All Kootenai County land use applications and public notices within the
Athol area of city impact shall be sent to the Athol city council for review
and comment. The city shall have thirty (30) days after receipt of the notice
prior to the public hearing to comment. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.10.108: GEOGRAPHIC AREA OF CITY IMPACT DEFINED AND ESTABLISHED:
   A.   Establishment: The officially adopted area of city impact is hereby
established and shown on the map entitled "Athol area of city impact" as set
forth in illustration 10-101 of this section.
   ILLUSTRATION 10-101
   ATHOL AREA OF CITY IMPACT MAP
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f76d2e4e8722669ad139ef438e24f88560956436/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1485.gif]
 
   B.   Legal Description: The area of city impact for the city of Athol is
hereby legally described as follows:
All of the following land lying within Township 53 North, Range 3 West, Boise
Meridian, Kootenai County, Idaho: Sections 3, 4, 5, 8, 9, 10, 15, 16, 21, 22,
and the East One-Half (1/2) of the Southeast Quarter (1/4), and the North One-
Half (1/2), of Section 17.
   C.   Interpretation Of Area Of City Impact Boundary: In case a property
under single ownership is divided by the boundary line of the Athol area of
city impact and the line divides such property so that one or both of the parts
has a depth of three hundred feet (300') or less, such part may be included in
the jurisdiction within which the remainder and larger portion of the property
is located.
   D.   Precedence: In the event of any conflict between this map and the legal
description contained in this section, the legal description shall take
precedence. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
ARTICLE 10.2. COEUR D'ALENE
SECTION:
8.10.201: Purpose
8.10.202: Area Of City Impact Defined
8.10.203: Standards
8.10.204: Enforcement
8.10.205: Hearing Procedures Within The Area Of City Impact
8.10.206: Standard Amendment And Notice
8.10.207: Geographic Area Of City Impact Defined And Established
8.10.201: PURPOSE:
The purpose of establishing the Coeur d'Alene area of city impact is to
identify an urban fringe area in the unincorporated territory surrounding the
city within which there is potential for development or changes in land use
that must be planned in an orderly and compatible manner in order to ensure
timely or economical provision of public services such as water supply,
sanitary and storm sewage collection and treatment, public safety services,
other community service facilities and to promote land use compatibility,
street alignment and traffic flow objectives. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.10.202: AREA OF CITY IMPACT DEFINED:
The area of city impact shall consist of an area where development or use of
land affects or may affect the city of Coeur d'Alene in consideration of trade
areas, geographic factors and areas that can reasonably be expected to be
annexed to the city in the future. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.10.203: STANDARDS:
Upon adoption by the city and county, the following standards shall apply
whenever an agency, planning and/or zoning commission, hearing examiner, or
governing body of the city or county considers a zone change, comprehensive
plan change, request for a special or conditional use permit, planned unit
development, limited planned unit development, variance request or subdivision
plat within the area of city impact.
   A.   Within the area of city impact, the following standards shall apply:
      1.   The subdivision regulations set forth in chapter 6 of this title,
and provisions for future utility infrastructure set forth in title 16 of the
Coeur d'Alene municipal code;
      2.   City road widths and profiles found in title 16 of the Coeur d'Alene
municipal code, except that where improvement standards of the associated
highway districts differ from those of the city, the provisions imposing the
highest level of improvements shall prevail;
      3.   The zoning regulations set forth in this title;
      4.   The stormwater management regulations set forth in chapter 7,
article 7.1 of this title;
      5.   Except as set forth above, all other applicable standards set forth
in this code; and
      6.   Except as set forth above, all other standards of applicable special
districts having jurisdiction within the identified area of city impact.
   B.   Within unincorporated areas not in the area of city impact, only county
standards shall apply. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.10.204: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Kootenai County shall be responsible for the administration and
enforcement of the county's ordinances listed in subsection
8.10.203A of this article within the area of city impact, and shall receive all
permit fees for inspections performed to recapture direct costs of inspections,
administration, legal publications, any development fees such as park land
dedication fees or other costs arising from fulfilling the terms of each
ordinance or regulation.
   B.   The city of Coeur d'Alene and special districts shall be responsible
for the administration and enforcement of their respective regulations listed
in subsection
8.10.203A of this article within the area of city impact, and shall receive all
permit fees for inspections performed to recapture direct costs of inspections,
administration, legal publications, and any development fees such as park land
dedication fees or other costs arising from fulfilling the terms of each
ordinance or regulation.
   C.   A certificate shall appear on the face of the final plat for execution
by the city engineer attesting to the plat's conformance with municipal
infrastructure standards set forth in subsection
8.10.203A of this article. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.10.205: HEARING PROCEDURES WITHIN THE AREA OF CITY IMPACT:
   A.   All applications for subdivision plats and all other applications
(e.g., zone change, comprehensive plan amendment, variance, conditional use,
etc.) within the area of city impact shall be filed by the applicant with
Kootenai County. All public hearings in the area of city impact shall be held
only before the county.
   B.   It is the intent of this section that the processing of subdivisions be
administered by the county, but with the inclusion of city infrastructure
improvement standards, including, but not limited to, water, sewer, and roads.
Unless expressly waived by the city, in accord with the city's deviation
provisions, municipal infrastructure standards shall apply to all subdivisions
in the area of city impact. In furtherance thereof, applicants for preliminary
plat approval shall solicit comments and recommendations from the city of Coeur
d'Alene in the same manner as they are required to solicit same from other
agencies and districts.
   C.   Within the area of city impact, upon an application to the county or
the county's planning commission for a zone change, comprehensive plan change,
request for a special or conditional use permit, planned unit development,
limited planned unit development, variance request, or similar land use
request, the applicant shall provide written notice to the Coeur d'Alene city
clerk of any public hearing related to the application. The city shall have
thirty (30) days after receipt of the notice but prior to any public hearing to
comment on such application.
   D.   Within the unincorporated areas outside an area of city impact, the
county will provide the city notice of any public hearing related to an
application to the county or the county's planning commission for a zone
change, comprehensive plan change, request for a special or conditional use
permit, planned unit development, limited planned unit development, variance
request, subdivision plat or similar land use request. The city shall have
fifteen (15) days after receipt of the notice but prior to any public hearing
to comment.
   E.   The city and the county may elect to jointly hear an application. (Ord.
493, 6-9-2016)
8.10.206: STANDARD AMENDMENT AND NOTICE:
   A.   Prior to amendment by the county of any provision set forth in
subsection
8.10.203A of this article which is applicable in the area of city impact, the
county shall forward the proposed change to the city for review and comment at
least thirty (30) days prior to the first public hearing at which such
amendment will be considered.
   B.   Prior to amendment by the city of any provision set forth in subsection
8.10.203A1 or A2 of this article which are applicable in the area of city
impact, the city shall forward the proposed change to the county for review and
comment at least thirty (30) days prior to the first public hearing at which
such amendment will be considered. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.10.207: GEOGRAPHIC AREA OF CITY IMPACT DEFINED AND ESTABLISHED:
   A.   Establishment: The officially adopted area of city impact is hereby
established and shown on the map entitled "Coeur d'Alene area of city impact"
as set forth in illustration 10-201 of this section.
   ILLUSTRATION 10-201
   COEUR D'ALENE AREA OF CITY IMPACT MAP
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f76d2e4e8722669ad139ef438e24f88560956436/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1487.gif]
 
   B.   Legal Description: The area of city impact for the city of Coeur
d'Alene is hereby legally described as follows:
BEGINNING at the intersection of the south line of Section 15, Township 50
North, Range 4 West, Boise Meridian, and the westerly shoreline of Coeur
d'Alene Lake;
THENCE, westerly along said south line to the southwest corner of said Section
15;
THENCE, northerly along the west line of said Section 15 to the west quarter
corner thereof;
THENCE, easterly along the south line of the northwest quarter of said Section
15 to the southeast corner thereof;
THENCE, northerly along the east line of said northwest quarter to the north
quarter corner of said Section 15;
THENCE, westerly along the north line of said Section 15 to the northwest
corner thereof;
THENCE, westerly along the south line of Section 9, Township 50 North, Range 4
West, Boise Meridian to the southwest corner thereof;
THENCE, northerly along the west line of said Section 9 to the north shoreline
of the Spokane River and a point on the Coeur d'Alene city limits;
THENCE, along said city limits as follows:
Westerly along the Spokane River to an angle point on said city boundary;
(NOTE: The following bearings are based on the Idaho State Plane Coordinate
System, West Zone, NAD 83, 92 adj.)
THENCE, North 1°25'34" East, 773.15 feet to the south line of Maplewood Avenue
being a point on a nontangent curve concave to the north having a radius of
5799.65 feet, a central of 5°04'58", and a long chord that bears south
85°06'16" east, 514.33 feet;
THENCE, along said south line and said curve 514.50 feet;
THENCE, North 0°05'32" East, 100.00 feet to the north line of the Chicago,
Milwaukee and St. Paul Railroad being a point on a nontangent curve concave to
the north having a radius of 5699.65 feet, a central of 0°12'36", and a long
chord that bears South 87°42'40" East, 20.90 feet;
THENCE, along said south line and said curve 20.90 feet;
THENCE, South 87°55'39" East, 441.66 feet;
THENCE, North 0°05'32" East, 446.48 feet;
THENCE, South 84°47'58" East, 180.82 feet;
THENCE, North 0°05'32" East, 360.00 feet to the south line of Reeves-Farrell
Addition to Huetter, as per the plat recorded in Book "C" of Plats, Page 52,
Records of Kootenai County;
THENCE, along said south line South 84°47'58" East, 316.09 feet;
THENCE, along the east line of said Reeves-Farrell Addition to Huetter North
0°03'12" West, 60.34 feet;
THENCE, North 89°56'48" East, 102.63 feet;
THENCE, North 0°03'12" West, 150.00 feet;
THENCE, South 89°56'48" West, 102.63 feet;
THENCE, along the east line of said Reeves-Farrell Addition to Huetter North
0°03'12" West, 81.85 feet to the south line of the abandoned Burlington
Northern Railroad;
THENCE, along said south line South 73°04'49" East to the west one-sixteenth
line of Section 4, Township 50 North, Range 4 West, Boise Meridian;
THENCE, leaving said city boundary, northerly along said one-sixteenth line to
the south right-of-way line of Interstate 90;
THENCE, northwesterly along said south line to the west line of said Section 4;
THENCE, northerly along said west line to the northwest corner of said Section
4, Township 50 North, Range 4 West, Boise Meridian;
THENCE, northerly along the west lines of Sections 33 and 28, Township 51
North, Range 4 West, Boise Meridian to the northwest corner of said Section 28;
THENCE, along the north lines of Sections 28, 27, and 26, Township 51 North,
Range 4 West, Boise Meridian, to U.S. Highway 95 and the Hayden city limits;
THENCE, southerly along said city limits to the southwest corner thereof;
THENCE, easterly along the south line of the City of Hayden to the west line of
Section 25, Township 51 North, Range 4 West, Boise Meridian;
THENCE, southerly along said west line and the west line of Section 36,
Township 51 North, Range 4 West, Boise Meridian, to the west quarter corner of
said Section 36;
THENCE, easterly along the east-west quarter line of said Section 36 to the
east quarter corner of said Section 36;
THENCE, easterly along the east-west quarter lines of Sections 31 and 32,
Township 51 North, Range 3 West, Boise Meridian, to the center quarter corner
of said Section 32;
THENCE, southerly along the north-south quarter line of said Section 32 to the
south quarter corner thereof;
THENCE, southerly along the north-south quarter line of Section 5, Township 50
North, Range 3 West, Boise Meridian, to the south quarter corner thereof;
THENCE, easterly along the south lines of Sections 5 and 4, Township 50 North,
Range 3 West, Boise Meridian, to the southeast corner of said Section 4;
THENCE, southerly along the east lines of Sections 9, 16, 21, 28, 33, Township
50 North, Range 3 West, Boise Meridian to the southeast corner of said Section
33;
THENCE, southerly along the east line of Section 3, Township 49 North, Range 3
West, Boise Meridian, to the north shoreline of Coeur d'Alene Lake;
THENCE, along said shoreline in a northwesterly, westerly and southerly
direction to the POINT OF BEGINNING.
   C.   Precedence: In the event of any conflict between this map and the legal
description contained in this section, the legal description shall take
precedence.
   D.   Reevaluation: The Coeur d'Alene area of city impact shall be
reevaluated by the city of Coeur d'Alene and Kootenai County at such times as
they may agree upon to consider possible changes in the geographic area
affected and/or other provisions of this article, including, but not limited
to, applicable standards. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
ARTICLE 10.3. DALTON GARDENS
SECTION:
8.10.301: Purpose
8.10.302: Comprehensive Plan
8.10.303: Subdivision Ordinance
8.10.304: Zoning Ordinance
8.10.305: Code And Ordinance Administration And Enforcement
8.10.306: Renegotiation
8.10.307: Geographic Area Of City Impact Defined And Established
8.10.301: PURPOSE:
The purpose of establishing the Dalton Gardens area of city impact is to
identify an urban fringe area adjoining the city of Dalton Gardens, Idaho. The
urban fringe area is realizing, or will realize, growth and development
pressures that must be planned and managed in an orderly fashion. The area of
city impact recognizes trade areas, geographic factors, and the potential
delivery of public services as being associated with the city of Dalton Gardens
and comprised of areas that may reasonably be annexed to the city in the near
and distant future. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.10.302: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN:
The comprehensive plan and subsequent amendments thereto as officially adopted
by the county of Kootenai, Idaho, shall apply to the area of city impact within
the unincorporated area of Kootenai County, Idaho. The city of Dalton Gardens
shall amend its comprehensive plan to be consistent with the Kootenai County
comprehensive plan, if in conflict. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.10.303: SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE:
The subdivision regulations set forth in chapter 6 of this title and subsequent
amendments thereto as officially adopted by the county of Kootenai, Idaho,
shall apply to the area of city impact within the unincorporated area of
Kootenai County, Idaho. The subdivision regulations set forth in chapter 6 of
this title shall also prevail over any city ordinances pertaining to the
division of original parcels of record, plat amendments, lot line adjustments,
minor subdivisions, short plats, or administrative lot splits. (Ord. 493, 6-9-
2016)
8.10.304: ZONING ORDINANCE:
The zoning regulations set forth in this title, zoning map, and subsequent
amendments thereto, as officially adopted by the county shall apply to the area
of city impact within the unincorporated area of Kootenai County, Idaho. (Ord.
493, 6-9-2016)
8.10.305: CODE AND ORDINANCE ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Kootenai County shall be responsible for the administration and
enforcement of the plan and ordinances listed in sections
8.10.302, 8.10.303 and 8.10.304 of this article, and shall receive all permit
fees for inspections performed to recapture direct costs of inspections,
administration, legal publications, or other costs arising from fulfilling the
terms of each ordinance or regulation.
   B.   Amendments to the Kootenai County comprehensive plan, requests for
preliminary and final plats or the vacation thereof, requests for zone changes
or any other type of development applications, with the exception of building
permits or development applications for agricultural purposes, involving
property located in the area of city impact within the unincorporated area of
Kootenai County being proposed shall be reviewed by the city council upon
recommendation of the city planning and zoning commission in accordance with
titles 50 and 67, Idaho Code, who will give a recommendation to the county for
approval, denial, or the placement of special conditions.
   C.   The city agrees not to annex any property outside of its established
area of city impact, even if receiving a petition from such property owner, but
reserves the right to renegotiate the area of impact boundaries in the future.
This shall apply, with the exception of forty feet (40') south of the south
boundary of the Dalton Gardens city limits, from 16th Street to 18th Street
(right of way for Dalton Avenue). Upon a request for annexation within the area
of city impact, the city agrees to notify the county and allow the county
thirty (30) days to comment on such request.
   D.   Maintenance of public streets located in the area of city impact shall
be the exclusive responsibility of the Lakes highway district unless stipulated
by written agreement between the highway district and the city of Dalton
Gardens.
   E.   The city of Dalton Gardens shall appoint a member on its planning and
zoning commission to represent the area of city impact. This representative
shall reside within the area of city impact and shall be reappointed, upon any
vacancy, by citizens also residing within the area of city impact. (Ord. 493,
6-9-2016)
8.10.306: RENEGOTIATION:
The area of city impact agreement shall be reviewed by the city of Dalton
Gardens and Kootenai County at least once every five (5) years and shall be
renegotiated at any time upon the request of either party hereto. Renegotiation
shall begin thirty (30) days after written request by either the city or county
and shall follow procedures for the original negotiation, as set forth in
section 67-6526, Idaho Code. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.10.307: GEOGRAPHIC AREA OF CITY IMPACT DEFINED AND ESTABLISHED:
   A.   Establishment: The officially adopted and agreed upon "area of city
impact for Dalton Gardens, Idaho" is established and shown on the map entitled
"Dalton Gardens area of city impact" as set forth in illustration 10-301 of
this section.
   ILLUSTRATION 10-301
   DALTON GARDENS AREA OF CITY IMPACT MAP
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f76d2e4e8722669ad139ef438e24f88560956436/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1535.png]
 
   B.   Legal Description: The area of city impact for the city of Dalton
Gardens is hereby legally described as follows:
BEGINNING at the point of intersection of the East right-of- way line of
Government Way (a.k.a. Old U.S. Highway 95), and the East-West centerline of
Section 36, Township 51 North, Range 4 West, Boise Meridian, Kootenai County,
Idaho, said beginning point being 30 feet East of the West Quarter corner of
said Section 36;
thence East along said East-West centerline of Section 36 and continuing along
the East-West centerline of Section 31, Township 51 North, Range 3 West, Boise
Meridian, to the East Quarter corner of said Section 31;
thence North along the East line of Sections 31 and 30, to the Northeast corner
of the Southeast Quarter of the Northeast Quarter of Section 30 being a point
on the southerly line of the Hayden Lake Recreational Water and Sewer District
as defined in Exhibit B, Case No. 34668, First District Court, State of Idaho;
thence northwesterly and westerly along said line as follows:
West along the North line of said Southeast Quarter of the Northeast Quarter to
the Northwest corner thereof;
thence North, 345 feet, more or less, along the East line of the Northwest
Quarter of the Northeast Quarter of said Section 30;
thence North 89°59'57" West, 475.00 feet (of record as West, parallel with the
North line of said Section 30, a distance of 475 feet, more or less);
thence North 47°00'03" West, 575.00 feet (of record as North 47° West, 575
feet, more or less);
thence South 86°59'57" West, 150.00 feet (of record as South 87° West, 150
feet, more or less);
thence South 68°42'25" West, 1660.00 feet (of record as South 66° West, 1657
feet, more or less) along the southerly line of WOODLAND HEIGHTS 5TH ADDITION,
according to the plat on file in Book G of Plats at page 64, and said southerly
line extended to the Northeast corner of Lot 7, Block 2, WOODLAND HEIGHTS,
according to the plat on file in Book E of Plats at page 129;
thence along the northeasterly line of Block 2 of said WOODLAND HEIGHTS as
follows:
South 82°20'15" West, 52.47 feet;
thence North 83°51'30" West, 158.91 feet;
thence North 64°21'30" West, 415.97 feet;
thence North 49°39'15" West, 647.74 feet, to the Northwest corner of Lot 1,
said Block 2;
thence North 31°28'59" West, 450.19 feet;
thence North 89°29'17" West, 170.00 feet;
thence North 0°46'08" West, 239.76 feet, to the North line of said Section 30;
thence North 89°00'11" West, 30.0 feet along said North line to the corner
common to Sections 24 and 25, Township 51 North, Range 4 West and said Sections
19 and 30, Township 51 North, Range 3 West;
thence North, 1139.26 feet along the West line of Section 19, Township 51
North, Range 3 West, Boise Meridian, to the Southwest corner of the Dalton
Water Association tract;
thence along the southerly line of said tract as follows:
North 69°20' East, 187.00 feet;
thence North 20°40' West, 50.00 feet;
thence North 69°20' East, 197 feet, more or less, to the North line of the
Southwest Quarter of the Southwest Quarter of said Section 19;
thence West, 342 feet, more or less, along said North line to the Northwest
corner of said Southwest Quarter of the Southwest Quarter;
thence South, 115.12 feet along the West line of said Section 19 and the East
line of Section 24, Township 51 North, Range 4 West, Boise Meridian, to the
Northeast corner of Tax Number 10001 (Book 82, page 933);
thence southwesterly along the northwesterly line of Tax Number 10001 as
follows:
South 68°28'06" West, 633.85 feet;
thence South 51°52'34" West, 263.29 feet;
thence South 28°47'04" West, 269.98 feet;
thence South 33°08'44" West, 319.38 feet;
thence South 35°06'49" West, 340.48 feet to the North line of Section 25;
thence along the North line of Section 25, Township 51 North, Range 4 West,
Boise Meridian, to a point on the East right-of-way line of Government Way
(a.k.a. Old U.S. Highway 95), said point being 30.00 feet East of the Northwest
corner of said Section 25;
thence South along the East right-of-way line of U.S. Highway 95, to the POINT
OF BEGINNING.
   C.   Precedence: In the event of any conflict between this map and the legal
description contained in this section, the legal description shall take
precedence. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
ARTICLE 10.4. RESERVED
(Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
ARTICLE 10.5. HARRISON
SECTION:
8.10.501: Purpose
8.10.502: Comprehensive Plan
8.10.503: Subdivision Ordinance
8.10.504: Zoning Ordinance
8.10.505: Review
8.10.506: Code And Ordinance Administration And Enforcement
8.10.507: Renegotiation
8.10.508: Geographic Area Of City Impact Defined And Established
8.10.501: PURPOSE:
The purpose of establishing the Harrison area of city impact is to identify an
urban fringe area adjoining the city of Harrison, Idaho. The urban fringe area
is realizing, or will realize, growth and development pressures that must be
planned and managed in an orderly fashion. The area of city impact recognizes
trade area, geographic factors, and the potential delivery of public services
as being associated with the city of Harrison and comprised of areas that may
reasonably be annexed to the city in the near and distant future. (Ord. 493, 6-
9-2016)
8.10.502: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN:
The comprehensive plan and subsequent amendments thereto as officially adopted
by the county of Kootenai, Idaho, shall apply to the area of city impact within
the unincorporated area of Kootenai County, Idaho. The city of Harrison shall
amend its comprehensive plan to be consistent with the Kootenai County
comprehensive plan, if in conflict. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.10.503: SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE:
The subdivision regulations set forth in chapter 6 of this title and subsequent
amendments thereto as officially adopted by the county of Kootenai, Idaho,
shall apply to the area of city impact within the unincorporated area of
Kootenai County, Idaho. The subdivision regulations set forth in chapter 6 of
this title shall also prevail over any city ordinances pertaining to the
division of original parcels of record, plat amendments, lot line adjustments,
minor subdivisions, short plats, or administrative lot splits. (Ord. 493, 6-9-
2016)
8.10.504: ZONING ORDINANCE:
The zoning regulations set forth in this title, zoning map, and subsequent
amendments thereto, as officially adopted by the county shall apply to the area
of city impact within the unincorporated area of Kootenai County, Idaho. (Ord.
493, 6-9-2016)
8.10.505: REVIEW:
The county acknowledges that the city of Harrison is currently working on a
subdivision and zoning ordinance and may wish to reopen this agreement upon
completion of those ordinances to review whether they should be applied within
the area of impact. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.10.506: CODE AND ORDINANCE ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Kootenai County shall be responsible for the administration and
enforcement of the plan and ordinances listed in sections
8.10.502,
8.10.503 and
8.10.504 of this article, and shall receive all permit fees for inspections
performed to recapture direct costs of inspections, administration, legal
publications, or other costs arising from fulfilling the terms of each
ordinance or regulation.
   B.   Amendments to the Kootenai County comprehensive plan, requests for
preliminary and final plats or the vacation thereof, requests for zone changes
or any other type of development applications, with the exception of building
permits or development applications for agricultural purposes, involving
property located in the area of city impact within the unincorporated area of
Kootenai County being proposed shall be reviewed by the city council upon
recommendation of the city planning and zoning commission in accordance with
titles 50 and 67, Idaho Code, who will give a recommendation to the county for
approval, denial, or the placement of special conditions.
   C.   The county shall notify the city within twenty (20) days of receiving
an application for development of any type within the area of city impact.
Copies of such application shall be forwarded to the city with notification.
The city shall return a recommendation within thirty (30) days of receipt of
the application but at least fifteen (15) days prior to any public hearing set
for the matter. The city agrees to return a response, even if they have no
comment on the application, to acknowledge receipt of the application. If no
acknowledgment is received within the time period, the county agrees to confirm
that notice was received by the city.
   D.   The city agrees not to annex any property outside of its established
area of city impact, even if receiving a petition from such property owner, but
reserves the right to renegotiate the area of impact boundaries in the future.
Upon a request for annexation within the Harrison area of city impact, the city
agrees to notify the county and allow the county thirty (30) days to comment on
such request. The county agrees to return a response even if they have no
comment on the application. If no acknowledgment is received within the time
period, the city agrees to confirm that notice was received by the county.
   E.   Maintenance of public streets located in the area of city impact shall
be the exclusive responsibility of the East Side highway district unless
stipulated by written agreement between the highway district and the city of
Harrison.
   F.   Law enforcement and fire protection services in the area of city impact
shall be the exclusive responsibility of Kootenai County, the East Side fire
protection district, and the St. Maries rural fire district unless otherwise
stipulated by written agreement between the county and/or fire district and the
city of Harrison.
   G.   The city of Harrison shall appoint a member on its planning and zoning
commission to represent the area of city impact. This representative shall
reside within the area of city impact and shall be reappointed, upon any
vacancy, by citizens also residing within the area of city impact. (Ord. 493,
6-9-2016)
8.10.507: RENEGOTIATION:
The area of city impact agreement shall be reviewed by the city of Harrison and
Kootenai County at least once every five (5) years and shall be renegotiated at
any time upon the request of either party hereto. Renegotiation shall begin
thirty (30) days after written request by either the city or county and shall
follow procedures for the original negotiation, as set forth in section 67-
6526, Idaho Code. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.10.508: GEOGRAPHIC AREA OF CITY IMPACT DEFINED AND ESTABLISHED:
   A.   Establishment: The officially adopted and agreed upon "area of city
impact for Harrison, Idaho" is established and shown on the map entitled
"Harrison area of city impact" as set forth in illustration 10-501 of this
section.
    ILLUSTRATION 10-501
   HARRISON AREA OF CITY IMPACT MAP
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f76d2e4e8722669ad139ef438e24f88560956436/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1537.png]
 
   B.   Legal Description: The area of city impact for the city of Harrison is
hereby legally described as follows:
BEGINNING at the southern Municipal boundary at the City of Harrison, where it
intersects the high water mark of Coeur d'Alene Lake (Elevation 2128 feet);
THENCE, westerly in a straight line from that point to the point where the
Section line between Sections 34 and 35, Township 48 North, Range 4 West Boise
Meridian, intersects the high water mark of Coeur d'Alene Lake;
THENCE, following said Section line north until it intersects with the
centerline of Bell Bay Road;
THENCE, easterly along the centerline of Bell Bay Road until it intersects the
centerline of State Highway 97;
THENCE, southeasterly on State Highway 97 until it intersects the north south
half section line of Section 30, Township 48 North, Range 4 West Boise
Meridian;
THENCE, easterly along said half section line to the east section line of said
Section 30;
THENCE, southerly along said section line and continuing south along the east
section line of Section 31, Township 48 North, Range 4 West Boise Meridian, to
the southeast corner of Section 31;
THENCE, continuing south on the east section line of Section 6, Township 47
North, Range 4 West Boise Meridian, until it intersects with the center line of
Skyline Drive;
THENCE, southeasterly along the center line of Skyline Drive, to the center
line of State Highway 97;
THENCE, easterly along the center line of State Highway 97 to the center line
of Manifold Road;
THENCE, southerly along the center line of Manifold Road, until it intersects
the north south half section line of Section 8, Township 47 North, Range 4 West
Boise Meridian,
THENCE, westerly along said half section line, and continuing west along the
half section line of Section 7, Township 47 North, Range 4 West Boise Meridian,
until it intersects the mean high water mark of Coeur d'Alene Lake;
THENCE, northwesterly along said high water mark to the southern Municipal
boundary of the City of Harrison, which is the POINT OF BEGINNING.
   C.   Precedence: In the event of any conflict between this map and the legal
description contained in this section, the legal description shall take
precedence. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
ARTICLE 10.6. HAUSER
SECTION:
8.10.601: Purpose
8.10.602: Goals
8.10.603: Geographic Area Of City Impact Established And Defined
8.10.604: Comprehensive Plan
8.10.605: Subdivision Ordinance
8.10.606: Other Ordinances
8.10.607: Code And Ordinance Administration And Enforcement
8.10.608: Renegotiation
8.10.609: Legal Description; Precedence
8.10.610: Eligibility For Permits
8.10.601: PURPOSE:
The purpose of establishing the City of Hauser Area of City Impact is to
identify a fringe area adjoining the City of Hauser, Idaho. The fringe area is
realizing, or will realize, growth and development pressures that must be
anticipated, planned for and managed in an orderly fashion. The Area of City
Impact recognizes trade area, geographic factors, and the potential delivery of
public services as being associated with the City of Hauser and comprised of
areas that may reasonably be annexed to the City in the future. (Ord. 557, 11-
12-2020)
8.10.602: GOALS:
The City of Hauser and Kootenai County:
   A.   Desire to adopt an Area of City Impact where urban services can be most
efficiently and economically provided for orderly growth and development;
   B.   Desire to see the quality of life within the Area of City Impact
maintained or improved;
   C.   Recognize a mutual intent to protect the Hauser Lake Watershed Area
from further environmental pollution; and
   D.   Recognize a mutual intent to minimize the disruptive impacts of
uncoordinated growth. (Ord. 557, 11-12-2020)
8.10.603: GEOGRAPHIC AREA OF CITY IMPACT ESTABLISHED AND DEFINED:
The officially adopted and agreed upon "Area of City Impact for Hauser, Idaho"
is hereby established, and is set forth on the map entitled "City of Hauser
Area of City Impact" in Illustration 10-601 of this article. The City of Hauser
Area of City Impact is broken down into three (3) areas. The area defining the
City of Hauser trade area shall be known as Area 1. The area defining the
geographic factors of Hauser Lake and its watershed shall be known as Area 2.
The area for potential delivery of public services and areas reasonably
expected to be annexed into the City shall be known as Area 3.
ILLUSTRATION 10-601
HAUSER AREA OF CITY IMPACT MAP
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f76d2e4e8722669ad139ef438e24f88560956436/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1680.png]
(Ord. 557, 11-12-202 0)
8.10.604: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN:
The Kootenai County Comprehensive Plan, and subsequent amendments thereto,
shall apply within the Area of City Impact, including Area 1, Area 2, and Area
3 thereof. The City of Hauser Comprehensive Plan, and subsequent amendments
thereto, shall continue to apply within the city limits of the City of Hauser.
(Ord. 557, 11-12-2020)
8.10.605: SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE:
The subdivision regulations set forth in this title, and subsequent amendments
thereto, shall apply within the Area of City Impact, including Area 1, Area 2,
and Area 3 thereof. The subdivision regulations set forth in this title shall
also prevail over any City ordinances pertaining to the division of original
parcels of record, plat amendments, lot line adjustments, minor subdivisions,
short plats, or administrative lot splits outside of the City's boundaries and
within the Area of City Impact. The Hauser City Code shall govern over lands
within the City's boundaries. (Ord. 557, 11-12-2020)
8.10.606: OTHER ORDINANCES:
The zoning regulations set forth in this title, zoning map, other applicable
provisions of this code, and subsequent amendments thereto, shall apply outside
of the City's boundaries and within the Area of City Impact, including Area 1,
Area 2, and Area 3 thereof. The zoning regulations set forth in the Hauser City
Code shall apply within the City's boundaries. (Ord. 557, 11-12-2020)
8.10.607: CODE AND ORDINANCE ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   The County shall be responsible for the administration and enforcement
of its Comprehensive Plan and this title. Fees shall be charged pursuant to the
then-current County fee resolution and distributed as follows:
 
Fiscal Year    City of Hauser Kootenai County
2020           90%            10%
2021           80%            20%
2022           70%            30%
2023           60%            40%
2024 and later 50%            50%
 
   All fees collected by the County and to be distributed to the City shall be
disbursed on or before September 30 of each year.
   B.   Amendments to the Kootenai County Comprehensive Plan, requests for
preliminary and final plats or the vacation thereof, requests for zone changes
or any other type of development applications, involving property located in
Area 1, Area 2, or Area 3 within the unincorporated area of Kootenai County
being proposed shall be reviewed by the City in accordance with titles 50 and
67, Idaho Code, who will give comments and/or a recommendation to the County
for approval, denial, or the placement of special conditions. The City's
Comprehensive Plan and subsequent amendments thereto shall apply to areas
within the City's boundaries.
   C.   Upon application to the County for a land use request, the County shall
provide written notice and a copy of the application to the City. The City
shall have thirty (30) days to comment after receipt of the notice, prior to
any public hearing on said request. The City agrees to return a response even
if they have no comment on the application to acknowledge receipt of the
application. If the City does not respond within the time period, it shall be
presumed that it approves the application. Kootenai County Community
Development shall notify the City of Hauser, in writing, of the County's
recommendations and actions on said applications within the Hauser Area of City
Impact within thirty (30) days following a recommendation or action on such
matter.
   D.   The City agrees not to annex any property outside of its established
Area of City Impact, even if a petition from such property owner has been
received, but reserves the right to renegotiate the boundaries of the Area of
City Impact.
   E.   Upon receiving a request for annexation within the Area of City Impact,
the City agrees to notify the County and allow the County thirty (30) days to
comment on such request prior to any public hearing on the request. (Ord. 557,
11-12-2020)
8.10.608: RENEGOTIATION:
In accordance with subsection 67-6526(d), Idaho Code, the City of Hauser or the
County may request in writing to renegotiate any provision of this article at
any time. Within thirty (30) days of receipt of such request by either party, a
meeting between the two (2) jurisdictions shall occur. While renegotiation is
occurring, all provisions of this article shall remain in effect until this
article is amended or a substitute ordinance is adopted by the City of Hauser
and Kootenai County, in accordance with the notice and hearing procedures
provided in title 67, chapter 65, Idaho Code or until a declaratory judgment
from the District Court is final. Provided, however, that this article or
stipulated portions thereof shall be of no further force and effect if both
jurisdictions so agree in writing. (Ord. 557, 11-12-2020)
8.10.609: LEGAL DESCRIPTION; PRECEDENCE:
   A.   Legal Description:
      1.   The Area of City Impact for the City of Hauser is hereby legally
described as follows:
      Commencing at the Northwest Corner of Government Lot 4 of Section 25
(Township 51 North, Range 6 West), said point being the REAL POINT OF
BEGINNING,
      thence along the northerly line of said Government Lot 4, the northerly
line of the South 1/2 of the East 1/2 of the Southwest 1/4 and the northerly
line of the South 1/2 of the Southeast 1/4 of said Section 25 and its easterly
projection thereof East a distance of 4700 feet, more or less, to a point on
the southerly line of Bonneville Power Administration, Washington Water Power
and Pacific Gas and Transmission easements as they cross Section 30 (Township
51 North, Range 5 West),
      thence leaving said easterly projection along the southerly line of said
easements northeasterly a distance of 4600 feet, more or less, to a point on
the southerly line of the North 1/2 of the Northeast 1/4 of said Section 30,
      thence leaving said southerly easement line along said southerly line
East a distance of 1400 feet, more or less, to the Southeast Corner of said
North 1/2,
      thence leaving said southerly line along the easterly line of said
Section 30 a distance of 1320 feet, more or less, to a point on the Northeast
Corner of said section 30, also being the Northwest Corner of Section 29
(Township 51 North, Range 5 West),
      thence leaving said easterly line along the northerly line of said
Section 29 a distance of 2640 feet, more or less, to a point on the North 1/
4 Corner of said Section 29,
      thence leaving said northerly line along the North-South Center of
Section line of Section 20 (Township 51 North, Range 5 West) North a distance
of 4550 feet, more or less, to a point on the center line of State Highway 53,
      thence leaving said North-South Center of Section along said center line
northeasterly a distance of 3500 feet, more or less, to a point on the easterly
line of Section 17 (Township 51 North, Range 5 West),
      thence leaving said center line along the easterly line of said Section
17 North a distance of 1175 feet, more or less, to a point on the East 1/
4 Corner of said Section 17;
      thence leaving said easterly line along the East-West Center of Section
line of said Section 17 West a distance of 2660 feet, more or less, to a point
at the Center of Section 17;
      thence leaving said East-West Center of Section along the North-South
Center of Section line of said Section 17 North a distance of 2645 feet, more
or less, to the Northeast Corner of said Section 17;
      thence leaving said North-South Center of Section along the northerly
line of said Section 17 West, a distance of 1340 feet, more or less, to a point
on the Southeast Corner of the West 1/2 of the West 1/2 of Section 8 (Township
51 North, Range 5 West);
      thence leaving said northerly line along the easterly line of the West 1/
2 of the West 1/2 of said Section 8 North a distance of 5280 feet, more or
less, to a point on the northerly line of said Section 8;
      thence leaving said easterly line along the northerly line of said
Section 8 West a distance of 1375 feet, more or less, to the Northwest Corner
of said Section 8, also being the Southeast Corner of Section 6 (Township 51
North, Range 5 West),
      thence leaving said northerly line along the easterly line of said
Section 6 North a distance of 1320 feet, more or less, to the Northeast Corner
of the Northeast 1/4 of the Southeast 1/4 of the Southeast 1/4 of said Section
6;
      thence leaving said easterly line along the southerly line of the
Northwest 1/4 of the Southwest 1/4 of Section 5 (Township 51 North, Range 5
West) East a distance of 1360 feet, more or less, to the Southeast Corner of
the Northwest 1/4 of the Southwest 1/4 of said Section 5;
      thence leaving said southerly line along the easterly line of the
Northwest 1/4 of the Southwest 1/4 of Section 5 North a distance of 1325 feet,
more or less, to a point on the East-West Center of Section line of said
Section 5;
      thence leaving said easterly line along the East-West Center of Section
line of said Section 5 East a distance of 1340 feet, more or less, to a point
at the Center of said Section 5;
      thence leaving said East-West Center of Section along the North-South
Center of Section line of said Section 5 North a distance of 2660 feet, more or
less, to the North 1/4 Corner of said Section 5;
      thence leaving said North-South Center of Section along the northerly
line of said Section 5 West a distance of 2700 feet, more or less, to the
Northwest Corner of said Section 5, also being the Southeast Corner of Section
31 (Township 52 North, Range 5 West),
      thence leaving the northerly line of said Section 5 along the easterly
line of said Section 31 North a distance of 5280 feet, more or less, to the
Northeast Corner of said Section 31, said Corner being on the southerly line of
Section 30 (Township 52 North, Range 5 West),
      thence leaving said easterly line along the southerly line of said
Section 30 East a distance of 250 feet, more or less, to the Southeast Corner
of said Section 30,
      thence leaving said southerly line along the boundary of said Section 30
the following courses:
      North a distance of 5280 feet, more or less, to the Northeast Corner of
said Section 30,
      thence West a distance of 5280 feet, more or less, to the Northwest
Corner of said Section 30,
      thence South 5280 feet, more or less, to the Southwest Corner of said
Section 30 being also the Northwest Corner of Section 31 (Township 52 North,
Range 5 West),
      thence leaving the boundary of said Section 30 along the westerly line of
said Section 31 South a distance of 5280 feet, more or less, to the Southwest
Corner of said Section 31 being also the Northeast Corner of Section 1
(Township 51 North, Range 6 West),
      thence leaving the westerly boundary of said Section 31 along the
northerly boundary of said Section 1, West a distance of 4400 feet, more or
less, to a point on the westerly boundary of the State of Idaho,
      thence leaving the northerly line of said Section 1 along said westerly
boundary South a distance of 22,910 feet, more or less, to the Northwest Corner
of Government Lot 4 of said Section 25 (Township 51 North, Range 6 West), said
point being the REAL POINT OF BEGINNING.
      2.   Area 1 shall be defined as that area within the Area of City Impact
described in paragraph 1 of this subsection located to the south of a line
described as follows:
      COMMENCING at a point on the Southwest Corner of Section 13, Township 51
North, Range 6 West Boise Meridian, Kootenai County, Idaho, which point is
located on the Idaho-Washington State Line, and said point being the POINT OF
BEGINNING for this description;
      Thence along the southerly line of said Section 13 East 4590 feet, more
or less, to the Southeast Corner of said Section 13, being also the Southwest
Corner of Section 18, Township 51 North, Range 5 West;
      Thence continuing along the southerly line of said Section 18 East 5210
feet, more or less, to a point on the Southeast Corner of said Section 18,
being also the Southwest Corner of Section 17, Township 51 North, Range 5 West;
      Thence continuing along the southerly line of said Section 17 East 2655
feet, more or less, to a point on the Southeast Corner of the Southwest 1/4 of
said Section 17, being also the Northeast Corner of the Northwest 1/4 of
Section 20, Township 51 North, Range 5 West;
      Thence leaving the southerly line of said Section 17 along the North-
South Center of Section line of said Section 20 South 750 feet, more or less,
to a point on the center line of State Highway 53, said point being the POINT
OF TERMINATION for this description.
      3.   Area 2 shall be defined as that area within the Area of City Impact
described in paragraph 1 of this subsection that is located to the north of a
line described as follows:
      COMMENCING at a point on the Southwest Corner of Section 1, Township 51
North, Range 6 West Boise Meridian, Kootenai County, Idaho, said point being
located on the Idaho-Washington State Line, and said point being the POINT OF
BEGINNING for this description;
      Thence along the southerly line of said Section 1 East 4410 feet, more or
less, to the Southeast Corner of said Section 1, being also the Southwest
Corner of Section 6, Township 51 North, Range 5 West;
      Thence continuing along the southerly line of said Section 6 East 5320
feet, more or less, to a point on the Southeast Corner of said Section 6, said
point being the POINT OF TERMINATION for this description.
      4.   Area 3 shall be defined as that area within the Area of City Impact
described in paragraph 1 of this subsection that is located to the north of the
line described in paragraph 2 of this subsection and south of the line
described in paragraph 3 of this subsection.
   B.   Precedence: In the event of any conflict between this map and the legal
description contained in this section, the legal description shall take
precedence. (Ord. 557, 11-12-2020)
8.10.610: ELIGIBILITY FOR PERMITS:
Any parcel located within the Area of City Impact that has been determined to
have been legally created and was eligible for permit issuance under City of
Hauser land use regulations and zoning designations as of November 12, 2020
shall not be deemed ineligible for permit issuance solely by virtue of the
adoption of Kootenai County land use regulations and zoning designations within
the Area of City Impact on that date. (Ord. 577, 9-8-2022)
ARTICLE 10.7. COORDINATED AREA OF CITY IMPACT (HAYDEN,
POST FALLS, RATHDRUM)
SECTION:
8.10.701: Recitals Of Premises Of Cooperation
8.10.702: Effective Date
8.10.703: Term; Early Termination
8.10.704: Two Tiered Area Of City Impact
8.10.705: Applicable Regulations Within Areas Of City Impact
8.10.706: Comprehensive Studies
8.10.707: Implementation Of Studies
8.10.708: Limitation On Annexation
8.10.709: Geographic Area
8.10.710: Illustrations
8.10.701: RECITALS OF PREMISES OF COOPERATION:
Whereas, Kootenai County and the cities of Rathdrum, Post Falls and Hayden are
mutually facing the pressures and benefits of shared growth; and
Whereas, each of these public agencies shares jurisdiction regarding
development and management of public services and facilities on lands within
parts of the Rathdrum Prairie; and
Whereas, the Rathdrum Prairie has provided a land resource for private
development that has added to the geographic area of the cities of Rathdrum,
Post Falls and Hayden; and
Whereas, the Rathdrum Prairie Aquifer has served as a source of clean,
available water to sustain life, health and economic development; and
Whereas, the Rathdrum Prairie has traditionally supplied open spaces that
contribute to the overall quality of life upon and around its environs; and
Whereas, development of private lands on the Rathdrum Prairie has been subject
to planning and regulation by one or more of the public agencies referenced
above; and
Whereas, continued political pressure and ongoing litigation are challenging
the viability of current agricultural practices, and owners of agricultural
lands are seeking viable options for their future; and
Whereas, a regional approach to serving the Rathdrum Prairie with cooperative
wastewater disposal options would be prudent and worthy of further study; and
Whereas, such cooperation among the parties may result in an area wide
wastewater master plan that includes the potential for land application of
treated wastewater, thereby enabling options to sustain agriculture or to
preserve open space on parts of the Rathdrum Prairie; and
Whereas, continuing agriculture on the prairie holds significant potential to
aid in preserving green space that will otherwise be lost if an affordable
means for preservation cannot be found; and
Whereas, each of the parties hereto recognizes the need to protect the common
water resource and to integrate means of transportation and provision of other
public services in developing areas; and
Whereas, the parties recognize that the rate of urbanization for the
communities that are a party to this agreement will be different from one
community to another; and
Whereas, Idaho law provides tools to allow the cooperation of counties and
cities in public planning and implementation; and
Whereas, since the adoption of the area of city impact agreements and
ordinances for the cities of Rathdrum, Post Falls and Hayden there have been
significant changes while growth continues to be strong and sustained, thereby
supporting amendment of the current area of city impact agreements for the
cities; and
Whereas, the parties share common goals and desire to engage in a shared,
cooperative effort to chart a meaningful intergovernmental plan and
implementation strategy for the Rathdrum Prairie.
Now, therefore, the parties hereto agree that a coordinated area of city impact
agreement for the cities of Rathdrum, Post Falls and Hayden is hereby adopted
with the following terms and conditions. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.10.702: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This agreement/article shall be effective with respect to Kootenai County and
each respective city referenced herein upon the latter day of the date of
publication of this article after passage or the date of publication of a
companion ordinance enacted by each cooperating city. This article establishing
area of city impact requirements for each of the respective cities referenced
herein shall not become effective with respect to each respective city until
said city passes and publishes an area of city impact ordinance consistent with
the provisions of this article. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.10.703: TERM; EARLY TERMINATION:
The term of this agreement/article shall be for a period of five (5) years from
the initial effective date set forth above. The parties further agree to begin
renegotiation of their respective area of city impact agreements no later than
three and one-half (31/2) years after the initial effective date set forth
above. If the parties are unable to agree upon a replacement for this
agreement/article within five (5) years from its initial effective date, this
agreement/article shall remain in full force and effect with each party
thereafter authorized to seek a two (2) party area of city impact agreement
with Kootenai County that would supersede this agreement with respect to that
city. Any participating city that elects to terminate participation as set
forth herein prior to expiration of the five (5) year term, or before mutual
agreement upon a superseding cooperative agreement, whichever comes first,
shall be entitled to fifteen (15) days' notice of any special use, subdivision
or rezoning proposals within an area one-half (1/2) mile from its corporate
boundary as such boundary existed on the initial effective date of this
article. Otherwise, regular county standards and procedures would apply. (Ord.
493, 6-9-2016)
8.10.704: TWO TIERED AREA OF CITY IMPACT:
The parties agree that the area of city impact for each of the cities signatory
hereto shall consist of two (2) tiers.
   A.   Exclusive Tier: The first tier of the area of city impact shall be an
area exclusive to each respective city as set forth in a companion ordinance
enacted concurrently with this article as depicted on the reference map set
forth in section
8.10.710, illustration 10-701 of this article. The parties agree that the
exclusive tier geographic area may be modified for any individual city after
consultation among all parties and showing that community development needs
would best be addressed by such modification. Any such subsequent modification
shall require concurrence by the respective city councils of each cooperating
city.
   B.   Shared Tier: The shared tier shall constitute the balance of the
Rathdrum Prairie that is not within the corporate limits of any other city and
not within an exclusive area of city impact of any other city established by
this article or of any other city established by prior ordinance and located
within the area enclosed by the Washington state line to the west, Highway 53
to the north, Highway 95 to the east, and Interstate 90 to the south that is
not within the exclusive tier of area of city impact. The shared tier shall be
managed jointly by the parties to this agreement in accordance with the terms
and conditions set forth in this article. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.10.705: APPLICABLE REGULATIONS WITHIN AREAS OF CITY IMPACT:
The following regulations shall be applicable in the respective tiers of area
of city impact for each of the signatory cities:
   A.   Exclusive Tier:
      1.   The county agrees to apply infrastructure and subdivision
development standards identical to those from the respective cities to all
development within the exclusive tier of area of city impact.
      2.   The county agrees that no new subdivisions or resubdivision of
existing large lot developments will be allowed unless the development will be
served by municipal sewer and the sewer system installed is continued to the
exterior property boundaries of the subdivision in the direction where
subsequent development is likely to occur.
      3.   The county agrees to zone land within the exclusive tier at a
density that will be compatible with the respective city's comprehensive plan.
Said obligation will not require any change to existing zoning.
      4.   The county agrees to require all development to use public sewer and
public water systems and to meet the fire flow requirements of the respective
cities or of the international fire code.
   B.   Shared Tier:
      1.   The county agrees, for the duration of this agreement, that county
will not hereafter rezone agricultural zoned land to any other zone unless
Kootenai County provides at least thirty (30) days' notice to each of the
cooperating cities prior to the initial public hearing concerning a rezoning
request. If any party to this agreement expresses concerns or objections to a
proposed rezoning of land currently zoned agricultural, the board of county
commissioners agrees it will not approve any such rezoning request unless it
makes an express finding that the proposed rezone will not adversely affect the
provision of or potential for provision of public wastewater collection and
treatment to the lands that are the subject of the rezoning application or to
lands that would be collaterally affected thereby.
      2.   County agrees not to allow special/conditional use permits within
any zone except in accordance with the notice and finding procedures provided
above. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.10.706: COMPREHENSIVE STUDIES:
The parties agree to promptly embark upon cooperative comprehensive studies of
wastewater collection and disposal, transportation and circulation, and open
space preservation within the first three (3) years of this agreement. These
studies shall culminate in an array of options for wastewater collection and
treatment, open space preservation and roadway and pathway designation and
responsibility. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.10.707: IMPLEMENTATION OF STUDIES:
Upon completion of the studies, the parties shall enter into negotiations,
pursuant to section
8.10.703 of this article, to provide a long term area of city impact agreement,
either shared or independent, to supersede this agreement. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.10.708: LIMITATION ON ANNEXATION:
The parties agree that during the term of this agreement that no annexation of
land within the shared tier will occur without the concurrence of all of the
cities that are a party to this agreement. Such concurrence shall be provided
unless an objective planning concern addressed by this article is invoked. The
board of county commissioners agrees to attempt to mediate any such dispute
concerning annexation and the respective cities agree to accept their efforts
in this regard. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.10.709: GEOGRAPHIC AREA:
   A.   Establishment; Precedence: The geographical areas to be included within
each tier of the area of city impact shall be as set forth in the legal
descriptions contained in this section and the map contained in section
8.10.710, illustration 10-701 of this article. In the event of any conflict
between any legal description and the map, the legal description shall take
precedence.
   B.   Legal Descriptions; Exclusive Tiers: The exclusive tiers of area of
city impact for the respective cities are hereby described as follows:
      1.   Exclusive Tier For The City Of Hayden: Lands not within the city
limits of the city of Hayden, but situated within the following legal
description, shall fall within the exclusive area of city impact for the city
of Hayden.
The exclusive tier for the City of Hayden shall consist of all of Sections 1,
2, 3, 4, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 21, 22, and 23, Township 51 North,
Range 4 West Boise Meridian; a part of Sections 24, 25, and 26, Township 51
North, Range 4 West Boise Meridian; and a part of Sections 7, 19, and 30,
Township 51 North, Range 3 West Boise Meridian, Kootenai County, Idaho; more
particularly described as follows:
BEGINNING at the Southwest corner of said Section 21, Township 51 North, Range
4 West B.M., being the intersection of Huetter Road and Prairie Avenue;
THENCE East along the South lines of said Sections 21, 22, and 23 to the
Easterly right-of-way line of U.S. Highway 95 in said Section 23;
THENCE South 5°51' West, 630 feet, more or less, along said Easterly right-of-
way line to Highway right-of-way monument P.T. 153+44.70;
THENCE 347.38 feet along said Easterly right-of-way line on the arc of a
28,537.9 foot radius curve left, said curve having a chord bearing South
5°28'06" West, 347.38 feet to the Northerly right-of-way line of Aqua Avenue;
THENCE South 88°57'32" East, 1275.35 feet along said Northerly right-of-way
line to its intersection with the Westerly right-of-way line of Government Way
(a.k.a. Old Highway 95);
THENCE continuing South 88°57'32" East, 60.00 feet, and leaving said Westerly
right-of-way line to the Easterly right-of-way line of said Government Way and
the Westerly line of the City of Dalton Gardens;
THENCE North 1°04'06" East, 989.24 feet (of record as North) along said
Easterly right-of-way line and the Northerly projection thereof, and said
Westerly line of the City of Dalton Gardens to a point on the South line of
said Section 24 on the centerline of Prairie Avenue, said point also being the
Northwest corner of the City of Dalton Gardens;
THENCE East 3930.00 feet, more or less, along the South line of said Section
and the Northerly line of the City of Dalton Gardens to the East 1/16 section
corner common to said Sections 24 and 25;
THENCE along the Northwesterly boundary of that certain right-of-way easement
granted from Charles Finucane and Marion Finucane to the Dalton Gardens
Irrigation District on the 13th day of March, 1954, as Instrument Number
284140, records of said County, and described as follows:
A strip of land 11 feet in width situated in the Southeast Quarter of Section
24, Township 51 North, Range 4 West Boise Meridian, Kootenai County, Idaho, the
centerline of said strip of land being parallel with and 12 feet to the left of
the following described line:
BEGINNING at the Southwest corner of the Southeast Quarter of the Southeast
Quarter of said Section 24;
North 34°44' East, 750.0 feet;
thence North 31°20' East, 241.4 feet;
thence along a curve to the right, 190.0 feet;
thence North 69°20' East, 618.6 feet to a point on the East line of said
Southeast Quarter of Section 24, said point being 129.0 feet South of the
Northeast corner of the Southeast Quarter of the Southeast Quarter of Section
24, all in Kootenai County, Idaho;
THENCE South (from said point, being 129.0 feet South of the Northeast corner
of the SE 3 of the SE 3 of said section, which point is also North 47°41'00"
East, 1740.97 feet from the East 1/16 section corner common to said Sections 24
and 25), along the East line of said Section 24 to the corner common to said
Sections 24 and 25, Township 51 North, Range 4 West and said Sections 19 and
30, Township 51 North, Range 3 West;
THENCE South 89°00'11" East, 30.0 feet along the North line of said Section 30;
THENCE South 0°46'08" East, 239.76 feet;
THENCE South 89°29'17" East, 170.0 feet;
THENCE South 31°28'59" East, 450.19 feet to the Northwest corner of Lot 1,
Block 2, WOODLAND HEIGHTS, according to the plat on file in Book E of Plats at
page 129;
THENCE traversing the northerly line of Block 2 of said WOODLAND HEIGHTS, as
follows:
South 49°39'15" East, 647.74 feet;
thence South 64°21'30" East, 415.97 feet;
thence South 83°51'30" East, 158.91 feet;
thence North 82°20'15" East, 52.47 feet to the Northeast corner of Lot 7, Block
2 of said Plat;
THENCE leaving said plat of WOODLAND HEIGHTS, North 68°42'25" East, 1660.00
feet (of record as North 66° East, 1657 feet, more or less) along the Southerly
line of WOODLAND HEIGHTS 5th ADDITION, according to the plat on file in Book G
of Plats at page 64, and said Southerly line extended;
THENCE North 86°59'57" East, 150.00 feet (of record as North 87° East, 150
feet, more or less);
THENCE South 47°00'03" East, 575.00 feet (of record as South 47° East, 575
feet, more or less);
THENCE South 89°59'57" East, 475.00 feet (of record as East, parallel with the
North line of said Section 30, a distance of 475 feet, more or less), to a
point on the East line of the NW 3 of the NE 3 of said Section 30, said point
being South 0°10'56" East, 975.00 feet from the Northeast corner of said NW 3
of the NE 3;
THENCE South, along the East line of said NW 3 of the NE 3 to the Southeast
corner thereof;
THENCE East along the South line of the NE 3 of the NE 3 of said Section 30, to
the Southeast corner thereof;
THENCE North along the East line of said NE 3 of the NE 3 to the Northeast
corner of said Section 30 (corner to said Sections 19, 20, 29, and 30);
THENCE North along the East line of said Section 19 to the shoreline of Hayden
Lake;
THENCE Westerly, Northerly, and Easterly along the mean high water line of
Hayden Lake to the Southeast corner of Tax Number 1560, according to Book 91 of
Deeds at page 514;
THENCE West along the Southerly line of said Tax Number, also being along the
Southerly line of the Village of Hayden Lake, according to said Book 91 of
Deeds at page 514, and also being along said Southerly line extended to the
Westerly right-of-way line of Chalet Road;
THENCE Northerly along said Westerly right-of-way line to the Southerly line of
a parcel recorded in Book 76 of Deeds at page 425, as Instrument Number 16016;
THENCE West along said Southerly line, parallel with the North line of the NW 3
of said Section 19, a distance of 1265.9 feet, more or less, to the West line
of said NW 3;
THENCE North along said West line to the Northwest corner of said Section 19,
at Hayden Avenue;
THENCE North along the East lines of said Sections 13 and 12 to the 3 section
corner common to said Section 12, Township 51 North, Range 4 West, and said
Section 7, Township 51 North, Range 3 West, being on the centerline of Strahorn
Road;
THENCE North 0°03'45" East, 770.8 feet along the West line of the NW 3 of said
Section 7 and also being the centerline of Strahorn Road;
THENCE Northeasterly along said centerline to the North line of said Section 7;
THENCE West along the North line of said Section 7 to the Northwest corner
thereof (corner to said Sections 1, 12, 6, and 7);
THENCE North along the East line of said Section 1 to the Northeast corner
thereof (corner common to Sections 1, 6, 31, and 36);
THENCE West along the North line of said Section 1 and the North lines of
Sections 2, 3, and 4, Township 51 North, Range 4 West Boise Meridian, to the
Northwest corner of said Section 4;
THENCE South along the West line of Sections 4, 9, 16, and 21, Township 51
North, Range 4 West Boise Meridian, to the Southwest corner of said Section 21,
the POINT OF BEGINNING.
      2.   Exclusive Tier For The City Of Post Falls: Lands not within the city
limits of the city of Post Falls, but situated within the following legal
description, shall fall within the exclusive area of city impact for the city
of Post Falls.
The exclusive tier for the City of Post Falls shall consist of all of Sections
25, 26, 27, 28, 32, 33, 34, 35, and 36, Township 51 North, Range 5 West Boise
Meridian; a part of Sections 22, 23, 24, and 31, Township 51 North, Range 5
West Boise Meridian; all of Sections 19, 29, 30, 31, and 32, Township 51 North,
Range 4 West Boise Meridian; all of Sections 5 and 6, Township 50 North, Range
4 West Boise Meridian; that part of Sections 7 and 8, Township 50 North, Range
4 West Boise Meridian lying North of the Spokane River; all of Sections 1, 2,
and 6, Township 50 North, Range 5 West Boise Meridian; part of Sections 3, 4,
5, 7, 8, 11, and 12, Township 50 North, Range 5 West Boise Meridian; and part
of Sections 1 and 12, Township 50 North, Range 6 West Boise Meridian, Kootenai
County, Idaho; more particularly described as follows:
BEGINNING at the Northwest corner of Section 28, Township 51 North, Range 5
West, Boise Meridian;
THENCE Easterly along the North section line to the Northeast corner of said
Section 28, also being the Southwest corner of Section 22, Township 51 North,
Range 5 West;
THENCE Northerly along the West section line of the Southwest quarter of
Section 22 to the West quarter corner of said section;
THENCE Easterly along the north line of the South 1/2 of said Section 22, to
the east quarter corner;
THENCE continuing Easterly along the north line of the South 1/2 of Sections 23
and 24 to the east quarter corner of said Section 24;
THENCE continuing Easterly along the North line of the Southwest 1/4 of Section
19, Township 51 North, Range 4 West, to the center of said section;
THENCE Southerly along the East line of the Southwest 1/4 of Section 19 to the
South quarter corner of said section;
THENCE Easterly along the North section line of Section 30 and Section 29,
Township 51 North, Range 4 West, to the Northeast corner of said Section 29;
THENCE Southerly along the centerline of Huetter Road to the Southeast corner
of Section 5, Township 50 North, Range 4 West;
THENCE Southerly along the East line of Section 8, Township 50 North, Range 4
West, to a point on the North bank of the Spokane River;
THENCE Westerly along the North bank of the Spokane River and existing city
limits to a point on the East right-of-way line of Spokane Street where it
meets the river;
THENCE Southerly along the East side of the Spokane Street bridge across the
Spokane River and along the East line of Spokane Street to the north side of
Park Way Drive, also being the North line of Section 10, Township 50 North,
Range 5 West;
THENCE Westerly along the North line of Section 10, Township 50 North, Range 5
West, to the Northwest corner of said section;
THENCE Northerly along the East line of Section 4, Township 50 North, Range 5
West, to a point on the South bank of the South channel of the Spokane River;
THENCE Westerly along the South bank of the South channel of the Spokane River
to the main channel and continuing Westerly along the centerline of the Spokane
River to the Washington State line;
THENCE Northerly along the Washington State line to a point on the South right-
of-way line of Seltice Way;
THENCE Northeasterly along the Southeast boundary of the City of Stateline to
where it intersects with the North right-of-way line of Seltice Way;
THENCE Easterly along Seltice Way to a point that is the Northwest corner of
the Northeast quarter of the Northeast quarter of Section 6, Township 50 North,
Range 5 West;
THENCE Northerly to a point that is the Northwest corner of the Northeast
quarter of the Northeast quarter of Section 31, Township 51 North, Range 5
West;
THENCE Easterly along the North section line of Sections 31 and 32, Township 51
North, Range 5 West, to the Northeast corner of said Section 32;
THENCE Northerly along the West section line of Section 28, Township 51 North,
Range 5 West, to the Northwest corner of said Section, being the POINT OF
BEGINNING.
      3.   Exclusive Tier For The City Of Rathdrum: Lands not within the city
limits of the city of Rathdrum, but situated within the boundaries of the
following described area, shall fall within the exclusive area of city impact
for the city of Rathdrum.
The exclusive tier for the City of Rathdrum shall consist of all of Sections 5
and 6, and portions of Sections 2, 7, 8 and 10, Township 51 North, Range 4
West, Boise Meridian, together with all of Sections 1, 11 and 12, Township 51
North, Range 5 West, Boise Meridian, together with all of Sections 19, 29, 30,
31 and 32, and portions of Sections 20 and 21, Township 52 North, Range 4 West,
Boise Meridian, together with all of Sections 23, 24, 25, 26, 35 and 36,
Township 52 North, Range 5 West, Boise Meridian, all in Kootenai County, Idaho,
and being more particularly described as follows:
BEGINNING at the Southwest corner of Section 10, Township 51 North, Range 5
West;
THENCE along the West line of said Section 10, Northerly, 790 feet, more or
less, to the centerline of State Highway No. 53, as it now exists;
THENCE along the centerline of State Highway No. 53, as it now exists,
Northeasterly, 13,220 feet, to a point of intersection with the Southerly
extension of the East boundary line of that parcel of land described in the
Warranty Deed recorded as Instrument No. 1715425, hereinafter referred to as
the "1715425 Parcel";
THENCE along said East boundary line of said "1715425 Parcel", Northerly,
430.37 feet, more or less, to the Northeast corner thereof;
THENCE Northerly, 564.88 feet, more or less, to the Southwest corner of Block
1, of the plat of "Raging Bull", recorded in Book J of Plats, Page 141;
THENCE along the West boundary line of said Block 1, Northerly, 375.88 feet,
more or less, to an angle point in said Block 1;
THENCE continuing along said West boundary line of Block 1, Westerly, 150 feet,
more or less, to an angle point;
THENCE continuing along said West boundary line of Block 1, Northerly, 868.36
feet, more or less, to the Northwest corner thereof;
THENCE along the Northerly extension of said West boundary line of Block 1,
being coincidental with the West boundary line of that parcel of land described
in the document recorded as Instrument No. 1417172, Northerly, 108.46 feet,
more or less, to a point of intersection with the North line of the Southeast
Quarter of the Southeast Quarter of Section 35, Township 52 North, Range 5
West;
THENCE along said North line of the Southeast Quarter of the Southeast Quarter
of Section 35, Easterly, 809.92 feet, more or less, to the Northeast corner
thereof, on the East line of said Section 35;
THENCE along said East line of Section 35, Northerly, 3,960 feet, more or less,
to the Northeast corner thereof, being coincidental with the Southeast corner
of Section 26, Township 52 North, Range 5 West;
THENCE along the North line of said Section 35, being coincidental with the
South line of said Section 26, Westerly, 5,280 feet, more or less, to the
Northwest corner of said Section 35, being coincidental with the Southwest
corner of said Section 26;
THENCE along the West line of Section 26, Township 52 North, Range 5 West,
Northerly, 5,280 feet, more or less, to the Northwest corner thereof;
THENCE along the North line of said Section 26, being coincidental with the
South line of Section 22, Township 52 North, Range 5 West, Easterly, to the
Southeast corner of said Section 22, being coincidental with the Southwest
corner of Section 23, Township 52 North, Range 5 West;
THENCE along the West line of said Section 23, Northerly, 5,280 feet, more or
less, to the Northwest corner thereof;
THENCE Easterly along the North line of said Section 23 and Section 24,
Township 52 North, Range 5 West;
THENCE continuing Easterly along the North line Section 19, Township 52 North,
Range 4 West to the Northeast corner thereof;
THENCE Southerly along the East line of the Northeast quarter of said Section
19 to the East quarter corner thereof, being also the West quarter corner of
said Section 20;
THENCE Easterly along the North line of the Southwest quarter of said Section
20, to the center quarter thereof;
THENCE along the North line of the Southeast quarter of said Section 20 to the
East quarter corner thereof, being also the West quarter corner of Section 21
of said Township 52 North, Range 4 West;
THENCE along the North line of the Southwest quarter of said Section 21, a
distance of 2,100 feet, more or less, to a point on the northerly line of the
Burlington Northern Santa Fe right-of-way;
THENCE along said right-of-way southwesterly a distance of 2,850 feet, more or
less, to a point on the West line of Section 21, being also the East line of
Section 20;
THENCE along the West line of Section 21, being also the East line of Section
20 a distance of 750 feet, more or less, to the Southwest corner of Section 21,
being also the Southeast corner of Section 20;
THENCE Southerly along the East line of Section 29 and Section 32 to the
Southeast corner thereof;
THENCE Southerly along the East line of said Section 5, to the Southeast corner
thereof, being also the Northeast corner of Section 8 of Township 51 North,
Range 4 West;
THENCE Southerly along the East line of the Northeast quarter of said Section
8, to the East quarter corner thereof;
THENCE Westerly along the South line of said Northeast quarter of Section 8 to
the center quarter thereof;
THENCE along the South line of the Northwest quarter of said Section 8, to the
West quarter corner thereof, being also the Southeast corner of the Northeast
quarter of Section 7, Township 51 North, Range 4 West;
THENCE along the South line of the Northeast quarter of said Section 7, to the
center quarter corner thereof;
THENCE Southerly along the East line of the Southwest Quarter of said Section 7
to the South quarter corner thereof;
THENCE Westerly along the South line of said Southwest Quarter of Section 7, to
the Southwest corner thereof;
THENCE continuing Westerly along the South line of Sections 12, 11, and 10 to
the Southwest corner of said Section 10, Township 51 North, Range 5 West; being
the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING.
      4.   Line Of Demarcation; City Of Rathdrum: The Line of Demarcation for
the City of Rathdrum lies within or adjacent to portions of Sections 19 and 30,
Township 52 North, Range 4 West, and also portions of Sections 25, 35 and 36,
Township 52 North, Range 5 West, and also a portion of Section 2, Township 51
North, Range 5 West, Boise Meridian, Kootenai County, Idaho, said Line of
Demarcation being more particularly described as follows:
BEGINNING at the Southeast corner of that parcel of land described in the
Warranty Deed recorded as Instrument No. 1715425, located upon the Northerly
line of the Right-of-Way for State Highway No. 53, as it now exists;
THENCE along said Northerly line of the Right-of-Way for State Highway No. 53,
4700 feet, more or less, to a point of intersection with the East line of the
Southwest Quarter of Section 36, Township 52 North, Range 5 West;
THENCE along said East line of the Southwest Quarter of Section 36 and the West
line of the Northeast Quarter of said Section 36, Northerly, 3150 feet, more or
less, to the Northwest corner of said Northeast Quarter of Section 36, being
coincidental with the Southwest corner of the Southeast Quarter of Section 25,
Township 52 North, Range 5 West;
THENCE along the South line of said Section 25, Easterly, 1320 feet, more or
less, to the Southwest corner of the Southeast Quarter of the Southeast Quarter
of said Section 25;
THENCE along the West line of said Southeast Quarter of the Southeast Quarter
of said Section 25, Northerly, 1320 feet, more or less, to the Northwest corner
thereof;
THENCE along the North line of said Southeast Quarter of the Southeast Quarter
of Section 25, Easterly, 1320 feet, more or less, to the Northeast corner
thereof, on the East line of said Section 25, being coincidental with the West
line of Section 30, Township 52 North, Range 5 West;
THENCE along said West line of Section 30, Northerly, 1320 feet, more or less,
to the Southwest corner of the West Half of the Northwest Quarter of said
Section 30;
THENCE along the South line of said West Half of the Northwest Quarter of said
Section 30, Easterly, 1320 feet, more or less, to the Southeast corner thereof;
THENCE along the East line of said West Half of the Northwest Quarter of said
Section 30, Northerly, to the Northwest corner of the parcel of land described
in the Quitclaim Deed recorded as Instrument No. 1539659, said parcel being the
South 660 feet of the North 868.71 feet of the Northeast Quarter of the
Northwest Quarter of said Section 30 and being hereinafter referred to as the
"1539659 Parcel";
THENCE along the North boundary line of said "1539659 Parcel", Easterly, 1320
feet, more or less, to the Northeast corner thereof, on the East line of said
Northeast Quarter of the Northwest Quarter of Section 30;
THENCE along said East line of said Northeast Quarter of the Northwest Quarter
of Section 30, and along the West line of the Southwest Quarter of the
Southeast Quarter of Section 19, Township 52 North, Range 4 West, Northerly,
1320 feet, more or less, to the Northwest corner of said Southwest Quarter of
the Southeast Quarter of Section 19;
THENCE along the North line of said Southwest Quarter of the Southeast Quarter
of Section 19, Easterly, 1320 feet, more or less, to the Northeast corner
thereof, being coincidental with the Southwest corner of the Northeast Quarter
of said Southeast Quarter of Section 19;
THENCE along the West line of said Northeast Quarter of said Southeast Quarter
of Section 19, Northerly, 1320 feet, more or less, to the Northwest corner
thereof;
THENCE along the North line of said Northeast Quarter of said Southeast Quarter
of Section 19, Easterly, 1320 feet, more or less, to the Northeast corner
thereof, located on the East line of said Section 19, and being the Terminus of
the described Line of Demarcation.
   C.   Legal Description; Shared Tier: The shared tier shall generally
constitute the balance of the Rathdrum Prairie that is not within the corporate
limits of any other city and not within an exclusive area of city impact of any
other city established by this article or of any other city established by
prior ordinance and located within the area enclosed by the Washington state
line to the west, Highway 53 to the north, Highway 95 to the east, and
Interstate 90 to the south that is not within the exclusive tier of area of
city impact. The shared tier is more particularly described as follows:
The shared tier for this Area of City Impact shall consist of all of Sections
17, 18, and 20, Township 51 North, Range 4 West; a portion of Sections 7, 8,
and 19, Township 51 North, Range 4 West; all of Sections 13, 14, 15, and 21,
Township 51 North, Range 5 West; a portion of Sections 16, 17, 20, 22, 23, 24,
30, and 31, Township 51 North, Range 5 West; all of Section 36 and a portion of
Section 25, Township 51 North, Range 6 West; a portion of Section 6, Township
50 North, Range 5 West Boise Meridian; and a portion of Section 1, Township 50
North, Range 6 West Boise Meridian, Kootenai County, Idaho; more particularly
described as follows:
BEGINNING at the Southeast corner of said Section 20, Township 51 North, Range
4 West B.M., being the intersection of Huetter Road and Prairie Avenue;
THENCE Northerly along the East section line of Sections 20, and 17, Township
51 North, Range 4 West, to the Northeast corner of said Section 17;
THENCE continuing Northerly along the east line of the Southeast quarter of
Section 8, Township 51 North, Range 4 West, to the East quarter corner of said
Section 8;
THENCE Westerly along the North line of the South 1/2 of Section 8 to the West
quarter corner thereof, being also the Northeast corner of the Southeast
quarter of Section 7, Township 51 North, Range 4 West;
THENCE continuing Westerly along the North line of the Southeast quarter of
said Section 7, to the center quarter corner thereof;
THENCE Southerly along the East line of the Southwest Quarter of said Section 7
to the South quarter corner thereof;
THENCE Westerly along the South line of said Southwest Quarter of Section 7, to
the Southwest corner thereof;
THENCE continuing Westerly along the South line of Sections 12, 11, and 10 to
the Southwest corner of said Section 10, Township 51 North, Range 5 West;
THENCE continuing Westerly along the North line of Section 16, Township 51
North, Range 5 West, to a point on the center line of State Highway 53;
THENCE Southwesterly along the center line of State Highway 53 to a point on
the East section line of Section 17, Township 51 North, Range 5 West;
THENCE continuing along the center line of State Highway 53 to a point on the
South section line of Section 17, Township 51 North, Range 5 West;
THENCE continuing along the center line of State Highway 53 to a point on the
North-South center section line of Section 20, Township 51 North, Range 5 West;
THENCE Southerly on the North-South center section line of said section 20,
4550 feet, more or less, to the South quarter corner of said section;
THENCE continuing Southerly along the East line of the North 1/2 of the
Northwest 1/4 of Section 29, Township 51 North, Range 5 West to the Southeast
corner of said North 1/2 of the Northwest 1/4;
THENCE Westerly along the South line of said North 1/2 of the Northwest 1/4 of
Section 29 to the southwest corner of said North 1/2 of the Northwest 1/4;
THENCE continuing Westerly along the South line of the North 1/2 of the
Northeast 1/4 of Section 30 a distance of 1400 feet, more or less, to a point
on the Southerly line of Bonneville Power Administration, Avista (a.k.a.
Washington Water Power), and Pacific Gas and Transmission easements as they
cross Section 30, Township 51 North, Range 5 West;
THENCE Southwesterly along the Southerly line of said easements a distance of
4600 feet, more or less, to a point on the West section line of Section 30,
also being the Northeast corner of the South 1/2 of the Southeast 1/4 of
Section 25, Township 51 North, Range 6 West;
THENCE Westerly along the North line of said South 1/2 of the Southeast 1/4 of
Section 25;
THENCE continuing Westerly along the North line of the South 1/2 of the
Southwest 1/4 of said Section 25 to a point on the Idaho State line;
THENCE Southerly along the State line to the Northwest corner of the City of
Stateline;
THENCE Northerly and Easterly along the North boundary of the City of Stateline
to where it intersects with the North right-of-way line of Seltice Way;
THENCE Easterly along Seltice Way to a point that is the Northwest corner of
the Northeast quarter of the Northeast quarter of Section 6, Township 50 North,
Range 5 West;
THENCE Northerly to a point that is the Northwest corner of the Northeast
quarter of the Northeast quarter of Section 31, Township 51 North, Range 5
West;
THENCE Easterly along the North section line of Section 31, Township 51 North,
Range 5 West, to the Northeast corner of said Section 31;
THENCE Easterly along the North section line of Section 32, Township 51 North,
Range 5 West, to the Northeast corner of said Section 32;
THENCE Northerly along the West section line of Section 28, Township 51 North,
Range 5 West, to the Northwest corner of said Section;
THENCE Easterly along the North section line to the Northeast corner of said
Section 28, also being the Southwest corner of Section 22, Township 51 North,
Range 5 West;
THENCE Northerly along the West section line of the Southwest quarter of
Section 22 to the West quarter corner of said section;
THENCE Easterly along the North line of the South 1/2 of said Section 22, to
the East quarter corner;
THENCE continuing Easterly along the North line of the South 1/2 of Sections 23
and 24 to the East quarter corner of said Section 24;
THENCE continuing Easterly along the North line of the Southwest 1/4 of Section
19, Township 51 North, Range 4 West, to the center of said section;
THENCE Southerly along the East line of the Southwest 1/4 of Section 19 to the
South quarter corner of said section;
THENCE Easterly along the North section line of Section 30 and Section 29,
Township 51 North, Range 4 West, to the Northeast corner of said Section 29,
said corner also being the Southeast corner of Section 20, Township 51 North,
Range 4 West B.M., the intersection of Huetter Road and Prairie Avenue and the
POINT OF BEGINNING.
   D.   Map: The exclusive tier areas of city impact for the cities of Hayden,
Post Falls and Rathdrum, and the shared tier as described in this article,
shall be as set forth in section
8.10.710, illustrations 10-701 through 10-704 of this article. (Ord. 493, 6-9-
2016)
8.10.710: ILLUSTRATIONS:
   ILLUSTRATION 10-701
   COORDINATED AREA OF CITY IMPACT MAP
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f76d2e4e8722669ad139ef438e24f88560956436/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1541.png]
 
   ILLUSTRATION 10-702
   RATHDRUM EXCLUSIVE TIER
   Showing Line Of Demarcation
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f76d2e4e8722669ad139ef438e24f88560956436/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1543.png]
 
   ILLUSTRATION 10-703
   POST FALLS EXCLUSIVE TIER AND SHARED TIER
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f76d2e4e8722669ad139ef438e24f88560956436/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1545.png]
 
   ILLUSTRATION 10-704
   HAYDEN EXCLUSIVE TIER
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f76d2e4e8722669ad139ef438e24f88560956436/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1547.png]
 
(Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
ARTICLE 10.8. HAYDEN LAKE
SECTION:
8.10.801: Purpose
8.10.802: Area Of City Impact Defined
8.10.803: Standards
8.10.804: Enforcement
8.10.805: Hearing Procedures Within The Area Of City Impact
8.10.806: Annexation
8.10.807: Geographic Area Of City Impact Defined And Established
8.10.801: PURPOSE:
The purpose of establishing the new Hayden Lake area of city impact is to
identify an urban fringe area in the unincorporated territory surrounding the
city within which there is potential for development or changes in land use
that must be planned in an orderly and compatible manner with the adopted
comprehensive plan of the city and to ensure timely or economical provision of
public service, and to protect and sustain existing public services and
residential communities, and to promote traffic flow objectives, conform with
the comprehensive plan and zoning regulations of the city of Hayden Lake, and
protect the safety of all users of city streets affected by increased traffic
from land use decisions in the Hayden Lake area of city impact. Traffic safety,
bicycling safety and pedestrian safety are substantial governmental goals
furthered by this article. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.10.802: AREA OF CITY IMPACT DEFINED:
The new area of city impact shall consist of an area where development or use
of land affects or may affect the city of Hayden Lake in consideration of trade
areas, geographic factors, and areas that can reasonably be expected to be
annexed to the city in the future. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.10.803: STANDARDS:
Upon adoption by the city and county, the following standards shall apply
wherever an agency, planning and/or zoning commission, hearing examiner, or
governing body of the city or county considers a zone change, comprehensive
plan change, request for a special or conditional use permit, planned unit
development, limited planned unit development, variance request, other land use
decision, or subdivision plat within the area of city impact:
   A.   The Kootenai County comprehensive plan;
   B.   The subdivision regulations set forth in chapter 6 of this title;
   C.   The zoning regulations set forth in this title as amended for
application within the area of city impact;
   D.   The site disturbance regulations set forth in chapter 7, article 7.1 of
this title;
   E.   Except as set forth above, all other applicable standards set forth in
this code;
   F.   The city of Hayden Lake standards for street, bicycle access,
pedestrian usage and traffic calming devices, which may include dedication
requirements and provisions for future street improvements; and
   G.   Except as set forth above, all other standards of applicable special
districts having jurisdiction within the identified area of city impact.
   H.   No application for a preliminary plat within the area of city impact
shall be accepted by the county as complete until the city of Hayden Lake city
engineer attests in writing that either traffic flow from the subdivision will
not impact city streets or that appropriate measures have been addressed by the
applicant to improve traffic, bicycling and pedestrian safety along affected
city streets, or that the applicant and the city have not come to an agreement
on appropriate measures to improve traffic, bicycling and pedestrian safety
along affected city streets. The city shall provide review and comment to the
applicant in a timely manner. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.10.804: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Kootenai County shall be responsible for the administration and
enforcement of county ordinances and regulations within the area of city impact
and shall, except as otherwise provided, receive all permit fees for
inspections performed to recapture direct costs of inspections, administration,
legal publications, any development fees such as park land dedication fees, or
other costs arising from fulfilling the terms of each ordinance or regulation.
   B.   The city of Hayden Lake shall receive its adopted applicable fees
within the area of city impact, for design review and inspections performed in
evaluating traffic flow and inspecting, designing and implementing traffic
calming devices and other street improvements to address traffic, bicycling and
pedestrian safety. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.10.805: HEARING PROCEDURES WITHIN THE AREA OF CITY IMPACT:
   A.   All applications for subdivision plats, zone change, comprehensive plan
amendment, variances, conditional use, planned unit development, and limited
planned unit development within the area of city impact shall be heard by
Kootenai County. Upon receipt of an application, the county shall forward to
the city a copy of the application and related material. The city shall have
thirty (30) days after receipt of the same, but prior to the scheduling of any
public hearing, to comment on such application.
   B.   Prior to amendment by the county of any ordinance which is applicable
in the area of city impact, the county shall forward the proposed change to the
city for review and comment at least thirty (30) days prior to the first public
hearing at which such amendment will be considered. The city shall have thirty
(30) days after receipt of the same, but prior to the scheduling of any public
hearing, to comment on such amendment.
   C.   Prior to amendment by the city of any ordinance which is applicable in
the area of city impact or any annexation, the city shall forward the proposed
change or request for annexation to the county for review and comment at least
thirty (30) days prior to the first public hearing at which such amendment or
annexation will be considered. The county shall have thirty (30) days after
receipt of the same for comment. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.10.806: ANNEXATION:
   A.   Annexation by the city of Hayden Lake shall be limited to those lands
lying within the area of city impact and being contiguous to the city limits of
the city of Hayden Lake. Upon annexation, the provisions of this article, which
is the agreement between the city of Hayden Lake and Kootenai County, shall no
longer apply to the annexed area. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.10.807: GEOGRAPHIC AREAS OF CITY IMPACT DEFINED AND ESTABLISHED:
   A.   Establishment: The officially adopted area of city impact is hereby
established and shown on the map entitled "Hayden Lake area of city impact" as
set forth in illustration 10-801 of this section.
     ILLUSTRATION 10-801
   HAYDEN LAKE AREA OF CITY IMPACT MAP
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f76d2e4e8722669ad139ef438e24f88560956436/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1549.png]
 
   B.   Legal Description: A legal description for the area of city impact for
the city of Hayden Lake, Idaho, being portions of Section 7, Section 9, Section
16, Section 17, Section 18, Section 19 and all of Section 8, all located in
Township 51 North, Range 3 West, Boise Meridian, Kootenai County, Idaho, more
particularly described as follows:
BEGINNING at the southwest corner of said Section 18;
THENCE, northerly along the west line of said Section 18 and said Section 7, to
the southwest corner of Lot 1, Block 26, Avondale on Hayden Third Addition, on
the northerly right- of-way line of Strahorn Road;
THENCE, leaving said west line, in a generally northeasterly direction, along
the northerly right-of-way of Strahorn Road, and the northeasterly extension
thereof, to a point of intersection with the north line of said Section 7;
THENCE, easterly along the north line of said Section 7 to a point of
intersection with the northerly extension of the east line of Lot 6, Block 25,
Avondale on Hayden Third Addition;
THENCE, southerly along said line, and continuing southerly along the east
lines of Lots 5 and 4, Block 25, Avondale on Hayden Third Addition, to the
southeast corner of said Lot 4, said point also being the northwest corner of
lot 5, Block 11, Avondale on Hayden Second Addition;
THENCE, easterly along the north lines of Lots 5, 4, 3, 2, and 1, Block 11,
Avondale on Hayden Second Addition, to the northeast corner of said Lot 1, said
point also being on the northerly right-of-way line of St. James Avenue;
THENCE, easterly on said northerly right-of-way line of St. James Avenue to the
northwest corner of Lot 1, Block 28, Avondale on Hayden Fourth Addition;
THENCE, easterly along the northerly property lines of Lots 1, 2, and 3, Block
28, Avondale on Hayden Fourth Addition, to the point of intersection with the
westerly line of Lot 2, Block 42, Avondale on Hayden Ninth Addition;
THENCE, northwesterly along said westerly line to the northwest corner of said
Lot;
THENCE, northeasterly along the northerly line of said Lot 2 to the northeast
corner of said Lot; said point also being on the westerly right-of-way line of
St. James Avenue;
THENCE, northeasterly across said St. James Avenue to the northwest corner of
Lot 4, Block 41, Avondale on Hayden Ninth Addition, said point also being on
the easterly right- of-way line of said St. James Avenue;
THENCE, northeasterly along the northerly line of said Lot 4 to the
northernmost northeast corner of said Lot, said point also being on the
westerly line of dedicated right-of-way for Common Space;
THENCE, southeasterly across said Common Space to the northernmost corner of
Lot 8, Block 45, Avondale on Hayden Eleventh Addition, said Point also being on
the easterly right-of-way for said Common Space;
THENCE, southeasterly along the line common to said Lot 8 and Lot 9, Block 45,
Avondale on Hayden Eleventh Addition, to the southernmost corner of said Lot 9,
said point also being on the northerly right-of-way line of York Court;
THENCE, northeasterly along said right-of-way line and the extension thereof,
to a point of intersection with the west line of said Section 8;
THENCE, northerly along the west line of said Section 8 to the northwest corner
of said Section;
THENCE, easterly along the north line of said Section to the northeast corner
of said Section, also being the northwest corner of Section 9;
THENCE, easterly along the north line of Section 9 to the northeast corner of
said Section;
THENCE, southerly along the east line of Section 9 to the point of intersection
with the shore line of Hayden Lake;
THENCE, along said shore line in a generally southwest direction to the point
of intersection of the north line of Section 16 with said shore line,
THENCE, continuing along said shore line in a generally southwest direction to
the point of intersection of the east line of said Section 17 with said shore
line,
THENCE, continuing along said shore line in a generally westward direction to
the point of intersection of the eastern city boundary of the City of Hayden
Lake;
THENCE, continuing along said shore line in a generally southwest direction to
the point of intersection of the east line of Section 18 with said shore line;
THENCE, continuing along said shore line in a generally southwest direction to
the point of intersection of the north line of said Section 19 with said shore
line;
THENCE, continuing along said shore line in a southerly direction to the
southeast corner of that real property described in Book 91, Page 514, Kootenai
County Records, a.k.a. Tax No. 1560, in said Section 19;
THENCE, westerly along the south line and its extension of said parcel to the
westerly right-of-way of Chalet Road;
THENCE, in a generally northeasterly direction, along said right-of-way to its
intersection with the easterly extension of the south line of Block 13, Hayden
Lake Country Homes;
THENCE, along the south line of said Block 13, and the easterly and westerly
extensions thereof, to the west line of said Section 19;
THENCE, northerly along the west line of said Section 19 to the southwest
corner of said Section 18, which is the POINT OF BEGINNING.
EXCEPTING THEREFROM, all parcels within the city limits of the City of Hayden
Lake.
   C.   Precedence: In the event of any conflict between this map and the legal
description contained in this section, the legal description shall take
precedence. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
ARTICLE 10.9. HUETTER
SECTION:
8.10.901: Goals And Objectives
8.10.902: Terms Of The Area Of City Impact
8.10.903: Referral Process Agreement
8.10.904: Renegotiation
8.10.905: Geographic Area Of City Impact Defined And Established
8.10.901: GOALS AND OBJECTIVES:
   A.   Goals:
      1.   Kootenai County and the city of Huetter desire to adopt an area of
city impact to enhance and encourage planned, orderly growth and development
where urban services can be most efficiently and economically provided.
      2.   Kootenai County and the city of Huetter desire to preserve and
enhance the quality of life within the area of city impact.
      3.   Kootenai County and the city of Huetter recognize a mutual intent to
protect the Rathdrum Prairie Aquifer from further pollution.
      4.   Kootenai County and the city of Huetter recognize a mutual intent to
protect the investments of both present and future property owners in the area
of city impact and to minimize the disruptive impacts of uncoordinated growth
upon those property owners.
      5.   Kootenai County and city of Huetter recognize a mutual intent to
make efficient use of local tax dollars through policies encouraging
development within the area of city impact.
   B.   Objectives: To accomplish the above goals, Kootenai County and the city
of Huetter agree to the following objectives as a means of accomplishing the
foregoing goals:
      1.   Encourage and contain urban development within the city of Huetter
and its area of city impact and preserve farmland and open space by
discouraging development outside the area of city impact.
      2.   Provide, through the use of joint planning powers, for continuity
and consistency between city and county developments within the area of city
impact.
      3.   Develop a plan for the orderly annexation of land within the area of
city impact.
      4.   Provide, through land use planning, for the orderly extension of
urban services such as sewerage disposal, urban roads and streets, domestic
water, refuse disposal, storm drainage and public safety services (urban fire
protection, law enforcement and emergency medical services).
      5.   Develop appropriate policies, ordinances, and techniques to enhance
and protect the public health, safety, comfort and general welfare.
      6.   Review the area of city impact boundary annually and adjust as
necessary. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.10.902: TERMS OF THE AREA OF CITY IMPACT:
   A.   Upon annexation of any portion of the area of city impact into the city
of Huetter, the provisions of this agreement shall no longer apply to such
annexed areas.
   B.   The city of Huetter shall limit its annexation to those lands within
its area of city impact. If the city of Huetter wishes to annex lands outside
of its area of city impact, it shall renegotiate its area of city impact
boundary with Kootenai County in accordance with subsection 67-6526(d), Idaho
Code.
   C.   The comprehensive plan for Kootenai County, adopted and amended by
Kootenai County as of December 30, 2010, shall apply within the unincorporated
lands within the Huetter area of city impact.
   D.   The official zoning map of Kootenai County and the regulations set
forth in this title shall apply within the unincorporated lands within the
Huetter area of city impact.
   E.   All zoning, planning and development applications of Kootenai County
shall be sent to the city of Huetter in accordance with the referral process
agreement as included in section
8.10.903 of this article. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.10.903: REFERRAL PROCESS AGREEMENT:
   A.   Amendment Of County Comprehensive Plan And County Zoning And
Subdivision Ordinance: All amendments to the Kootenai County comprehensive plan
and to the text of this title shall be received by the city of Huetter for
comment at least twenty (20) days prior to any county public hearing on said
amendments. Any comment by the city of Huetter on said amendments shall be made
to Kootenai County community development in writing prior to or at said county
public hearing. Kootenai County community development shall notify the city of
Huetter, in writing, of the county's recommendation and action on said
amendments within the Huetter area of city impact within twenty (20) days
following a recommendation or action on such matter.
   B.   Processing County Planning, Zoning And Development Applications In The
Huetter Area Of City Impact:
      1.   The director of Kootenai County community development shall
coordinate the implementation of this title within the Huetter area of city
impact with the city of Huetter so that applications are administered as
consistently as possible with the two (2) jurisdictions.
      2.   All county zone change, conditional use, variance, subdivision,
planned unit development and comprehensive plan amendment applications sent to
the city of Huetter shall be received by the city council of Huetter twenty
(20) days prior to any county public hearing on said applications. The city
council of Huetter shall make recommendations to Kootenai County on said
applications in writing. Said recommendations shall be received by Kootenai
County community development no later than fifteen (15) days after the city
council of Huetter has received said applications.
      3.   The board of commissioners, the county planning and zoning
commission and the county hearing examiner shall not hold a public hearing on
said applications until the recommendation of the city council of Huetter has
been received or the date of county receipt of the city council's
recommendation, specified above, has passed.
      4.   Kootenai County community development shall notify the city of
Huetter in writing of the county's recommendations and actions on said
applications within the Huetter area of city impact within twenty (20) days
following a recommendation or action on such matter. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.10.904: RENEGOTIATION:
In accordance with Idaho Code 67-6526(d), the city of Huetter or Kootenai
County may request in writing to renegotiate any provision of this agreement at
any time. Within thirty (30) days of receipt of such request by either party, a
meeting between the two (2) jurisdictions shall occur. While renegotiation is
occurring, all provisions of this article shall remain in effect until this
article is amended or a substitute ordinance is adopted by the city of Huetter
and Kootenai County, in accordance with the notice and hearing procedures
provided in title 67, chapter 65 of Idaho Code or until a declaratory judgment
from the district court is final. Provided, however, that this article or
stipulated portions thereof shall be of no further force and effect if both
jurisdictions so agree in writing. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.10.905: GEOGRAPHIC AREA OF CITY IMPACT DEFINED AND ESTABLISHED:
   A.   Establishment: The officially adopted area of city impact is hereby
established and shown on the map entitled "Huetter area of city impact" as set
forth in illustration 10-901 of this section.
    ILLUSTRATION 10-901
   HUETTER AREA OF CITY IMPACT MAP
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f76d2e4e8722669ad139ef438e24f88560956436/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1551.png]
 
   B.   Legal Description: The area of city impact for the city of Huetter is
hereby legally described as follows:
Beginning at a point where the south right-of-way boundary of the Interstate 90
freeway intersects a line on the east side of the NW 1/4 of the SW 1/4 of
Section 4, Twp. 50N., R. 4W., B.M., thence, South along said line to the mean
high water line lying on the north side of the Spokane River in Section 9, Twp.
50N., R. 4W., B.M., thence west along said mean high water line to a point
intersecting a line on the west side of the NE 1/4 of the NE 1/4 of Section 8,
Twp. 50N., R. 4W., B.M., thence north along said line to a point on the south
right-of-way boundary of the Interstate 90 freeway in Section 5, Twp. 50N., R.
4W., B.M., thence east along said right-of-way boundary to the POINT OF
BEGINNING.
   C.   Precedence: In the event of any conflict between this map and the legal
description contained in this section, the legal description shall take
precedence.
   D.   Interpretation: If a property under single ownership is divided by the
boundary line of the Huetter area of city impact and that said line divides the
property so that one or both of the parties has a depth of three hundred feet
(300') or less, the remainder or larger portion of the property may be
negotiated with the city of Huetter and Kootenai County to be included in the
Huetter area of city impact. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
ARTICLE 10.10. RESERVED
(Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
ARTICLE 10.11. RESERVED
(Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
ARTICLE 10.12. SPIRIT LAKE
SECTION:
8.10.1201: Purpose
8.10.1202: Goals
8.10.1203: Geographic Area Of City Impact Established And Defined
8.10.1204: Comprehensive Plan
8.10.1205: Subdivision Ordinance
8.10.1206: Other Ordinances
8.10.1207: Code And Ordinance Administration And Enforcement
8.10.1208: Renegotiation
8.10.1209: Legal Description; Precedence
8.10.1201: PURPOSE:
The purpose of establishing the Spirit Lake area of city impact is to identify
an urban fringe area adjoining the city of Spirit Lake, Idaho. The urban fringe
area is realizing, or will realize, growth and development pressures that must
be planned and managed in an orderly fashion. The area of city impact
recognizes trade area, geographic factors, and the potential delivery of public
services as being associated with the city of Spirit Lake and comprised of
areas that may reasonably be annexed to the city in the near and distant
future. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.10.1202: GOALS:
The city of Spirit Lake and Kootenai County:
   A.   Desire to adopt an area of city impact to enhance and encourage
planned, orderly growth and development where urban services can be most
efficiently and economically provided;
   B.   Desire to preserve and enhance the quality of life within the area of
city impact;
   C.   Recognize a mutual intent to protect the Spirit Lake watershed area
from further pollution;
   D.   Recognize a mutual intent to protect the investments of both present
and future property owners in the area of city impact and to minimize the
disruptive impacts of uncoordinated growth upon those property owners; and
   E.   Recognize a mutual intent to make efficient use of local tax dollars
through the policies encouraging development within the area of city impact.
(Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.10.1203: GEOGRAPHIC AREA OF CITY IMPACT ESTABLISHED AND DEFINED:
The officially adopted and agreed upon "area of city impact for Spirit Lake,
Idaho" is hereby established, and is set forth on the map entitled "Spirit Lake
area of city impact" in illustration 10-1201 of this section. The area of city
impact shall be known as area 1. The map also defines the Spirit Lake watershed
notification area, which shall be known as area 2.
    ILLUSTRATION 10-1201
   SPIRIT LAKE AREA OF CITY IMPACT MAP
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f76d2e4e8722669ad139ef438e24f88560956436/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1553.png]
 
(Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.10.1204: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN:
The comprehensive plan and subsequent amendments thereto as officially adopted
by the county of Kootenai, Idaho, shall apply to the area of city impact, area
1, and area 2, within the unincorporated area of Kootenai County, Idaho. The
city of Spirit Lake shall amend its comprehensive plan to be consistent with
the Kootenai County comprehensive plan, if in conflict. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.10.1205: SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE:
The subdivision regulations set forth in chapter 6 of this title and subsequent
amendments thereto as officially adopted by the county of Kootenai, Idaho,
shall apply to area 1 and area 2 within the unincorporated area of Kootenai
County, Idaho. The subdivision regulations set forth in chapter 6 of this title
shall also prevail over any city ordinances pertaining to the division of
original parcels of record, plat amendments, lot line adjustments, minor
subdivisions, short plats, or administrative lot splits. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.10.1206: OTHER ORDINANCES:
The zoning regulations set forth in this title, zoning map, other applicable
provisions of this code, and subsequent amendments thereto, as officially
adopted by the county shall apply to area 1 and area 2 within the
unincorporated area of Kootenai County, Idaho. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.10.1207: CODE AND ORDINANCE ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Kootenai County shall be responsible for the administration and
enforcement of the plan and ordinances listed in sections
8.10.1204,
8.10.1205 and
8.10.1206 of this article, and shall receive all permit fees for inspections
performed to recapture direct costs of inspections, administration, legal
publications, or other costs arising from fulfilling the terms of each
ordinance or regulation.
   B.   Amendments to the Kootenai County comprehensive plan, requests for
preliminary and final plats or the vacation thereof, requests for zone changes
or any other type of development applications, involving property located in
area 1 or area 2 within the unincorporated area of Kootenai County being
proposed shall be reviewed by the city in accordance with titles 50 and 67,
Idaho Code, who will give comments and/or a recommendation to the county for
approval, denial, or the placement of special conditions.
   C.   Upon application to the county for a land use request, the county shall
provide written notice and a copy of the application to the city. The city
shall have thirty (30) days to comment after receipt of the notice, prior to
any public hearing on said request. The city agrees to return a response even
if they have no comment on the application to acknowledge receipt of the
application. If the city does not respond within the time period, it shall be
presumed that it approves the application. Kootenai County community
development shall notify the city of Spirit Lake, in writing, of the county's
recommendations and actions on said applications within the Spirit Lake area of
city impact within thirty (30) days following a recommendation or action on
such matter.
   D.   The city agrees not to annex any property outside of area 1 of its
established area of city impact, even if a petition from such property owner
has been received, but reserves the right to renegotiate the area of city
impact, area 1 and area 2 boundaries in the future.
   E.   Upon receiving a request for annexation within the area of city impact,
the city agrees to notify the county and allow the county thirty (30) days to
comment on such request prior to any public hearing on the request.
   F.   The city of Spirit Lake shall appoint a member on its planning and
zoning commission to represent the area of city impact. This representative
shall reside within area 1 of the area of city impact and shall be reappointed,
upon any vacancy, by citizens also residing within area 1 of the area of city
impact. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.10.1208: RENEGOTIATION:
In accordance with subsection 67-6526(d), Idaho Code, the city of Spirit Lake
or the county may request in writing to renegotiate any provision of this
article at any time. Within thirty (30) days of receipt of such request by
either party, a meeting between the two (2) jurisdictions shall occur. While
renegotiation is occurring, all provisions of this article shall remain in
effect until this article is amended or a substitute ordinance is adopted by
the city of Spirit Lake and Kootenai County, in accordance with the notice and
hearing procedures provided in title 67, chapter 65, Idaho Code, or until a
declaratory judgment from the district court is final. Provided, however, that
this article or stipulated portions thereof shall be of no further force and
effect if both jurisdictions so agree in writing. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.10.1209: LEGAL DESCRIPTION; PRECEDENCE:
   A.   Legal Description:
      1.   The area of city impact for the city of Spirit Lake (depicted as
area 1 on the map contained in section
8.10.1203, illustration 10-1201 of this article) is hereby legally described as
follows:
BEGINNING at the northeast corner of Section 4, Township 53 North, Range 4
West, Boise Meridian;
THENCE, west along the north line of Sections 4, 5, and 6, to the northwest
corner of Section 6, Township 53 North, Range 4 West, B.M.;
THENCE, south along the west line of Sections 6, 7, and 18, to the southwest
corner of Section 18, Township 53 North, Range 4 West, B.M.;
THENCE, east along the south line of Sections 18, 17, and 16, to the southeast
corner of Section 16, Township 53 North, Range 4 West, B.M.;
THENCE, north along the east line of Sections 16, 9, and 4, to the northeast
corner of Section 4, Township 53 North, Range 4 West, B.M., the point of
beginning.
      2.   The watershed notification area for the city of Spirit Lake
(depicted as area 2 on the map contained in section
8.10.1203, illustration 10-1201 of this article) is hereby legally described as
follows:
BEGINNING at the northeast corner of Section 1, Township 53 North, Range 5
West, Boise Meridian;
THENCE, west along the north line of said Section 1 and Section 2, Township 53
North, Range 5 West, B.M., to a point that is the northwest corner of the
northeast quarter of said Section 2;
THENCE, south along the west line of the northeast quarter of Section 2 to the
southwest corner of said quarter section;
THENCE, west along the half section line of Sections 2, 3, and 4, to the
northwest corner of the south 1/2 of Section 4, Township 53 North, Range 5
West, B.M.;
THENCE, south along the west line of said half section, to the northeast corner
of Section 8, Township 53 North, Range 5 West, B.M.;
THENCE, west along the north line of Section 8, to the northwest corner of said
section;
THENCE, south along the west line of Sections 8, 17, 20, and 29, to the half
section line of Section 29, Township 53 North, Range 5 West, B.M.;
THENCE, east along the half section line of Sections 29, 28, 27, and 26, to the
southeast corner of the north 1/2 of Section 26, Township 53 North, Range 5
West, B.M.;
THENCE, north along the east line of Section 26, to the southwest corner of
Section 24, Township 53 North, Range 5 West, B.M.;
THENCE, east along the south line of Sections 24 and 19, to the southeast
corner of Section 19, Township 53 North, Range 4 West, B.M.;
THENCE, north along the east line of Section 19, to the southwest corner of the
north 1/2 of Section 20, Township 53 North, Range 4 West, B.M.;
THENCE, east along the south line of the half section to the southeast corner
of said half section;
THENCE, north along the east line of Section 20, to the northeast corner of
Section 20, Township 53 North, Range 4 West, B.M.;
THENCE, west along the north line of Sections 20 and 19, to the northwest
corner of Section 19, Township 53 North, Range 4 West, B.M.;
THENCE, north along the east line of Sections 13, 12, and 1, to the northeast
corner of Section 1, Township 53 North, Range 5 West, B.M., the point of
beginning.
   B.   Precedence: In the event of any conflict between this map and the legal
description contained in this section, the legal description shall take
precedence. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
ARTICLE 10.13. RESERVED
(Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
ARTICLE 10.14. WORLEY
SECTION:
8.10.1401: Legislative Purpose
8.10.1402: Comprehensive Plan
8.10.1403: Subdivision Ordinance
8.10.1404: Zoning Ordinance
8.10.1405: Review
8.10.1406: Code And Ordinance Administration And Enforcement
8.10.1407: Renegotiation
8.10.1408: Geographic Area Of City Impact Defined And Established
8.10.1401: LEGISLATIVE PURPOSE:
The purpose for establishing an area of city impact is to identify an urban
fringe area adjoining the city of Worley, Idaho. The urban fringe area has the
potential to realize growth and development pressures that must be planned and
managed in an orderly fashion. The area of city impact recognizes trade area,
geographic factors, and the feasibility of public services associated with the
city of Worley and is comprised of areas that may reasonably be annexed to the
city in the future. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.10.1402: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN:
The comprehensive plan and subsequent amendments thereto, as officially adopted
by the county of Kootenai, Idaho, shall apply to the area of city impact within
the unincorporated area of Kootenai County, Idaho. The city of Worley shall
amend its comprehensive plan to be consistent with the Kootenai County
comprehensive plan, if in conflict. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.10.1403: SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE:
The subdivision regulations set forth in chapter 6 of this title and subsequent
amendments thereto, as officially adopted by the county of Kootenai, Idaho,
shall apply to the area of city impact within the unincorporated area of
Kootenai County, Idaho. The subdivision regulations set forth in chapter 6 of
this title shall also prevail over any city ordinances pertaining to the
division of original parcels of record, plat amendments, lot line adjustments,
minor subdivisions, short plats, or administrative lot splits. (Ord. 493, 6-9-
2016)
8.10.1404: ZONING ORDINANCE:
The zoning regulations set forth in this title, zoning map, and subsequent
amendments thereto as officially adopted by the county shall apply to the area
of city impact within the unincorporated area of Kootenai County, Idaho. (Ord.
493, 6-9-2016)
8.10.1405: REVIEW:
The county acknowledges that the city of Worley is currently working on a
subdivision and zoning ordinance and may wish to reopen this agreement upon
completion of those ordinances in order to review whether they should be
applied within the area of city impact. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.10.1406: CODE AND ORDINANCE ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   The county shall be responsible for the administration and enforcement
of the plan and ordinances listed in sections
8.10.1402,
8.10.1403 and
8.10.1404 of this article, and shall receive all permit fees for inspections
performed to recapture direct costs of inspections, administration, legal
publications, and other costs arising from the process.
   B.   Amendments to the Kootenai County comprehensive plan, requests for
preliminary and final plats or the vacation thereof, requests for zone changes
or any other type of development applications, with the exception of building
permits or development applications for agricultural purposes, involving
property located in the area of city impact within the unincorporated area of
Kootenai County being proposed shall be reviewed by the city council acting as
the city planning and zoning commission in accordance with titles 50 and 67,
Idaho Code, and will give a recommendation to the county for approval, denial,
or the placement of certain conditions.
   C.   The county shall notify the city within twenty (20) days of receiving
an application for development of any type within the area of city impact.
Copies of such application shall be forwarded to the city with notification.
The city shall return a recommendation within thirty (30) days of receipt of
the application but at least fifteen (15) days prior to any public hearing set
for the matter. The city agrees to return a response, even if they have no
comment on the application, to acknowledge receipt of the application. If no
acknowledgment is received within the time period, the county agrees to confirm
that notice was received by the city.
   D.   The city agrees not to annex any property outside of its established
area of city impact, even if receiving a petition from such property owner, but
reserves the right to renegotiate the area of impact boundaries in the future.
Upon a request for annexation within the Worley area of city impact, the city
agrees to notify the county and allow the county thirty (30) days to comment on
such request. The county agrees to return a response even if they have no
comment on the application. If no acknowledgment is received within the time
period, the city agrees to confirm that notice was received by the county.
   E.   Maintenance of public streets located in the area of city impact shall
be the exclusive responsibility of the Worley highway district unless otherwise
stipulated by written agreement between the highway district and the city of
Worley.
   F.   Law enforcement and fire services in the area of city impact shall be
the exclusive responsibility of Kootenai County and the Worley fire protection
district unless otherwise stipulated by written agreement between the county
and/or fire district and the city of Worley.
   G.   The city of Worley shall appoint a member of the city council to
represent the area of city impact. This representative shall be reappointed
upon any vacancy. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.10.1407: RENEGOTIATION:
The area of city impact agreement shall be reviewed by the city of Worley and
Kootenai County at least once every five (5) years and shall be renegotiated at
any time upon the request of either party hereto. Renegotiation shall begin
thirty (30) days after written request by either the city or county and shall
follow the procedures of the original negotiation, as set forth in section 67-
6526, Idaho Code. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
8.10.1408: GEOGRAPHIC AREA OF CITY IMPACT DEFINED AND ESTABLISHED:
   A.   Establishment: The officially adopted and agreed upon "area of city
impact for Worley, Idaho" is established and shown on the map entitled "Worley
area of city impact" as set forth in illustration 10-1401 of this section.
   ILLUSTRATION 10-1401
   WORLEY AREA OF CITY IMPACT MAP
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f76d2e4e8722669ad139ef438e24f88560956436/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1558.png]
 
   B.   Legal Description: The area of city impact for the city of Worley is
hereby legally described as follows:
The West 1/2 of the Northeast 1/4, and the Northwest 1/4 of Section 23,
Township 47 North, Range 5 West B.M.; and
The West 5 acres of the Southwest 1/4 of the Northwest 1/4 of Section 24,
Township 47 North, Range 5 West B.M.; and
The East 1/2 of the Northeast 1/4 of Section 26, Township 47 North, Range 5
West B.M., except a tract of land located in the Northeast 1/4 of the Northeast
1/4 of Section 26, Township 47 North, Range 5 West, B.M., Kootenai County,
Idaho, more particularly described as follows: Beginning at a point which is N
89°36' W along the North line of said Section 26, 331.40 feet from the
Northeast corner of said Section 26, said point being the True Point of
Beginning of this description; thence South 150.00 feet to a point; thence N
89°36' W 60.00 feet to a point; thence North 150.00 feet to a point; thence S
89°36' E, along the North line of said Section 26, 60.00 feet to the True Point
of Beginning and the last point of this description. Said Tract of land
contains 0.207 acres. And,
A tract of land north of Highway 95 and east of Worley, Idaho, beginning at a
point 2109.1 feet N 00°10' E of the corner of Sections 23-24-25-26, Township 47
North, Range 5 West; thence N 00°10' E 277.4 feet to an iron pipe; thence S
46°49' E 404.5 feet to an iron pin; thence west 294.06 feet to an iron pin, the
Place of Beginning.
   C.   Precedence: In the event of any conflict between this map and the legal
description contained in this section, the legal description shall take
precedence. (Ord. 493, 6-9-2016)
 
