COUNTY CODE
OF
LATAH COUNTY, IDAHO
2018
Code current through:
Ord. 408, passed June 24, 2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
         This code of the County of Latah County, as supplemented, contains
ordinances up to and including ordinance 408, passed June 24, 2025. Ordinances
of the County adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this
code to the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult
the County office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the
code has been amended, superseded or repealed.
                     American Legal Publishing
                     Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not amend the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
LATAH COUNTY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon adoption by the Board of County Commissioners, this Code is hereby
declared to be and shall hereafter constitute the official County Code of Latah
County. This Code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the LATAH COUNTY
CODE and is hereby published by authority of the County Commissioners and shall
be supplemented to incorporate the most recent legislation of the County as
provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this Code by title in any legal documents. (2018 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This Code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of this
State as the ordinances of the County of general and permanent effect, except
the excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2018 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this Code shall set forth the title, chapter and section
number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall constitute
sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to the
amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this Code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this Code. Each such replacement page shall be
properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of this Code.
(2018 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this Code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Said Code, while in
actual possession of officials and other interested persons, shall be and
remain the property of the County and shall be returned to the Office of the
County Clerk when directed so to do by order of the County Commissioners. (2018
Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances; Exceptions
1-2-2: Court Proceedings
1-2-3: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Repealer; Exceptions: All general ordinances of the County passed prior
to the adoption of this Code are hereby repealed, except such as are included
in this Code or are by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal
(subject to the saving clauses contained in the following sections), and
excluding the following ordinances which are not hereby repealed:
      1.   Tax levy ordinances.
      2.   Appropriation ordinances.
      3.   Ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations.
      4.   Franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to
persons or corporations.
      5.   Contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants.
      6.   Salary ordinances.
      7.   Ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, public ways or
other public places in the County.
      8.   Local improvement districts.
      9.   Bond ordinances.
      10.   Ordinances relating to elections.
      11.   Ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by
or from the County.
      12.   Ordinances designating zone changes to specific property.
      13.   All special ordinances.
   B.   Continuance Of Effect: All ordinances listed in subsection A of this
section shall continue in full force and effect to the same extent as if fully
set out herein. (2018 Code)
1-2-2: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as
to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done,
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or
claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   Extend To All Repeals: This section shall extend to all repeals, either
by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making
any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Current And Pending Actions: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the County herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this Code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the County under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this Code. (2018 Code)
1-2-3: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this Code,
or any part hereof, or any portion adopted by reference or any codes or
portions of codes adopted herein is for any reason held to be unconstitutional
or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision
shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of the remaining portions of
this Code, or any part hereof, or any portion adopted by reference or any codes
or portions of codes adopted herein. The Board of County Commissioners hereby
declares that it would have passed each section, subsection, paragraph,
sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or
more sections, subsections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases be
declared unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (2018 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: General Rules Of Interpretation
1-3-2: General Definitions
1-3-3: Catchlines/Headings
1-3-1: GENERAL RULES OF INTERPRETATION:
   A.   Delegation Of Authority: Whenever a provision appears requiring the
head of a department or some other County officer to do some act or perform
some duty, it shall be construed to authorize the head of the department or
other officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the
required act or perform the duty unless the terms of the provision or section
specify otherwise.
   B.   Gender: The use of any gender based pronoun should not be construed to
be gender biased, but is only used for grammatical simplicity.
   C.   May/Shall: The word "may" is permissive; the word "shall" is mandatory.
   D.   Nontechnical And Technical Words: Words and phrases shall be construed
according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words
and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
   E.   Number: A word importing the singular number only may extend and be
applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing.
   F.   Officers And Employees Generally: Whenever any officer or employee is
referred to by title only, such reference shall be construed as if followed by
the words "of Latah County".
   G.   Tense: Words used in the past or present tense include the future as
well as the past and present.
   H.   Ordinance: The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the
County has been changed in the content of this Code to "title", "chapter",
"section" and/or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and
clarification purposes only. Such change to the County's ordinances is not
meant to amend passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (2018
Code)
1-3-2: GENERAL DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases, whenever used in the ordinances of the County,
and this Code, shall be construed as defined in this section unless from the
context a different meaning is intended or unless a different meaning is
specifically defined and more particularly directed to the use of such words or
phrases:
COUNTY: The County of Latah, State of Idaho.
COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OR BOARD: The Board of County Commissioners of Latah
County, Idaho.
IC: Idaho Code.
LAW: Denotes applicable Federal law, the Constitution and Statutes of the State
of Idaho, the ordinances of the County of Latah, and, when appropriate, any and
all rules and regulations which may be promulgated thereunder.
PERSON: Shall extend and be applied to an actual person, any persons and to
associations, clubs, societies, firms, partnerships, and bodies politic and
corporate, or the manager, lessee, agent, servant, officer or employee of any
of them, unless a contrary intention plainly appears.
STATE: The State of Idaho. (2018 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES/HEADINGS:
The catchlines of the several titles, chapter and sections of this Code are
intended as mere catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall
not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern,
limit, modify or in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the
provisions of any section of this Code, nor, unless expressly so provided,
shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines,
are amended or reenacted. (2018 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY 1 :
   A.   Misdemeanor: Except in cases where a different punishment is hereafter
prescribed by County ordinance or this Code, every offense declared to be a
misdemeanor is punishable by a fine not exceeding one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) or by imprisonment in jail not exceeding six (6) months, or by
both, together with such costs as may be required by law. These punishments
shall comply with Idaho Code section 18-113, as amended. If a penalty is
limited by State law the punishment for violations shall not exceed the maximum
permitted by State law.
   B.   Infraction: When the offense is designated as an infraction by any
section or provision of this Code or by State law, it is punishable only by a
penalty not exceeding three hundred dollars ($300.00) and no period of
incarceration may be imposed. (2018 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. IC §§ 18-111, 18-113, 18-113A and 31-714.
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Application Of Penalty:
      1.   The penalty provided in this chapter shall be applicable to every
section of this Code the same as though it were a part of each and every
separate section. Any person convicted of a violation of any section of this
Code where any duty is prescribed or obligation imposed or where any action
which is of a continuing nature is forbidden or is declared to be unlawful
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor unless otherwise provided. A separate
offense shall be deemed committed upon each day such duty or obligation remains
unperformed or such act continues unless otherwise specifically provided in
this Code.
      2.   Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act
constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this Code, and there shall
be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of
this chapter shall apply.
   B.   Breach Of Provisions: Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to
do any act constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this Code and
there shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the
provisions of this chapter shall apply. (2018 Code)
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this Code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty unless the intention of
the Board of County Commissioners to impose such fine or penalty on such
officer or employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the section
creating the duty. (2018 Code)
CHAPTER 5
COUNTY SEAL
SECTION:
1-5-1: Authority
1-5-2: Adoption Of County Seal
1-5-3: Use Of County Seal And Logo
1-5-4: Penalties
1-5-1: AUTHORITY:
This chapter is enacted pursuant to the authority granted to the Board of
County Commissioners by the applicable provisions of the Idaho State
Constitution and by Idaho Code sections 31-714 and 31-821. (Ord. 234, 6-24-
2002, eff. 6-24-2002)
1-5-2: ADOPTION OF COUNTY SEAL:
Acknowledging the statutory power and duty of the Board of County Commissioners
to adopt a seal under Idaho Code section 31-821, and having determined that
adoption and protection of a seal and logo for Latah County is appropriate and
necessary, and Latah County having devised and utilized a seal and logo in the
form appended as exhibit A on file in the County, the Board of County
Commissioners does hereby ratify and adopt said seal and logo as the official
seal and official logo of Latah County, Idaho. (Ord. 234, 6-24-2002, eff. 6-24-
2002)
1-5-3: USE OF COUNTY SEAL AND LOGO:
The official seal of Latah County and the official logo of Latah County shall
be used only for official County purposes as required or provided by law or as
further approved or authorized by the Board of County Commissioners. (Ord. 234,
6-24-2002, eff. 6-24-2002)
1-5-4: PENALTIES:
Any person who uses or attempts to use the official seal of Latah County or the
official logo of Latah County, except as authorized in section
1-5-2 of this chapter and such conduct does not amount to forgery or
counterfeiting of a public seal under Idaho Code section 18-3603, shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and is punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this title. Additionally, the Board of County Commissioners reserves
unto itself any and all other remedies available to it at law or in equity.
(Ord. 234, 6-24-2002, eff. 6-24-2002; amd. 2018 Code)
CHAPTER 6
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
SECTION:
1-6-1: Meetings
1-6-1: MEETINGS:
   A.   Authority: This section is enacted pursuant to the authority granted to
the Board of County Commissioners by article XII, section 2 of the Constitution
of the State of Idaho, and Idaho Code sections 31-710 and 31-714.
   B.   Meeting Days And Times:
      1.   Schedule Of Meetings: Having determined that County affairs require
regular meetings of the Board of County Commissioners at more frequent
intervals than on the second Monday of each month, the following regular
meeting schedule is hereby established for the Board of County Commissioners:
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday of each week from nine o'clock
(9:00) A.M. to five o'clock (5:00) P.M. Meetings duly scheduled within these
designated times may commence or continue beyond that same day or evening
without further notice and such shall be deemed a continuation of the regular
meeting of the Board.
      2.   Holidays: Meetings shall not be held on any of the days listed in
subsection B1 of this section when such day is designated a holiday pursuant to
Idaho Code section 73-108 except as may be otherwise authorized by law (i.e.,
emergencies). Whenever a regular meeting date falls on a legal holiday, the
Board may hold its regular meeting on the next succeeding business day and such
shall not be considered a special meeting.
   C.   Adjourned And Special Meetings: Adjourned and special meetings and
executive sessions may be held as provided in Idaho Code sections 31-710, 74-
201 through 74-208, and public hearings or other required meetings may be held
at other times as provided by law, upon due notice thereof. (Ord. 241, 1-15-
2003)
CHAPTER 7
CONDUCT OF HEARINGS AND MEETINGS
SECTION:
1-7-1: Authority
1-7-2: Definitions
1-7-3: Hearing And Meeting Procedures
1-7-4: Voting
1-7-5: Quasi-Judicial Decisions
1-7-6: Hearing Examiners
1-7-7: Ethics And Conflicts Of Interest
1-7-1: AUTHORITY:
This chapter is enacted and adopted pursuant to the authority granted to the
Board of County Commissioners by article XII, section 2 of the Constitution of
the State of Idaho and Idaho Code sections 31-714 and 67-6534. (Ord. 253, 9-8-
2004)
1-7-2: DEFINITIONS:
For purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall be applicable:
BOARD: The Board of County Commissioners of Latah County, including when it is
acting as the Board of Equalization and a Land Use Appeal Board.
CHAIR: The Board or commission member elected or appointed to preside at
meetings. If the Chair is not present or has been disqualified, an interim or
Vice Chair may be chosen to preside for all or a portion of the meeting.
COMMISSION: The Latah County Planning Commission and/or the Latah County Zoning
Commission.
EXHIBIT: Any document, paper, or other item filed and made a part of the record
of a proceeding. Exhibits shall include, but not be limited to, maps, plats,
drawings, letters, affidavits, depositions, petitions, photographs, blueprints,
films, reports, recordings, and other tangible items.
HEARING: A session which is either a legislative or quasi- judicial hearing.
   Legislative Hearing: A hearing where general standards for procedures,
rules, or regulations and changes or amendments to ordinances, policies, plans,
or regulations are addressed and formulated. Such hearings result in general
rules or policies which are applicable to an open class of individuals,
interests, or situations. Legislative bearings shall include, but not be
limited to, amendments of the County comprehensive plan, land use ordinances,
or other ordinances.
   Quasi-Judicial Hearing: A hearing where general standards are applied to
specific individuals, interests, or situations. Quasi-judicial hearings shall
include, but are not limited to, zone change applications for individual
parcels, subdivision applications, conditional use permit applications,
variance applications, petitions for vacation of plats or other property, Board
of Equalization hearings, indigency appeals, and other appeals before the Board
or the Zoning Board of Appeals.
HEARING EXAMINER: A person appointed to hear quasi-judicial applications as
provided by law.
MEETING: A session where the Board or commission reviews, discusses, receives
testimony on, votes on, or takes any other action relating to a matter or
application before the body. Meetings shall include hearings, both legislative
and quasi- judicial, work sessions, and regularly or specially scheduled
meetings of the hearing body, but shall not include meetings held in executive
session.
MEMBER: A person duly appointed or elected to a seat on the Latah County
Planning Commission, the Latah County Zoning Commission, or the Board of County
Commissioners.
QUORUM: A majority (more than 1/2) of the voting members of the body. Any
positions unfilled shall not be included in the count of voting members.
STAFF: Employees of the Latah County Planning and Building Department, or other
County employees who appear at a hearing to assist the Board or commission.
(Ord. 253, 9-8-2004)
1-7-3: HEARING AND MEETING PROCEDURES:
   A.   Meeting Procedures: The following procedures shall apply to all
meetings before the Board or commission:
      1.   A parliamentarian shall not be required at hearings or meetings.
Neither the Board nor commission shall be required to adhere to "Robert's Rules
of Order" or any other rules of order except as adopted by the Board or
commission.
      2.   Notice of the meeting shall be provided to all members at least five
(5) days prior to the meeting.
      3.   A quorum shall be present when any vote or other binding action is
taken, except as otherwise provided by law.
      4.   Public notice of the meeting shall be given as required by law and
the meeting shall be open to the public. The location of a public meeting shall
be accessible to all interested parties.
      5.   Written minutes shall be taken of all meetings, which shall be made
available to the public as provided by law.
   B.   Procedures In Legislative Hearings: The following procedures shall
apply to all legislative hearings before the Board or commission:
      1.   A record shall be taken and maintained of all discussions, votes and
actions.
      2.   The Board or commission may require that a sign in roster be kept at
the entrance to the hearing room, and may request people to indicate whether
they support or oppose the contemplated action. The roster shall be included in
the record of the hearing.
      3.   All affected persons shall be given the opportunity to present and
rebut evidence. Every person wishing to testify, provide exhibits, or otherwise
address the commission or Board shall be identified for the record by name and
address.
   C.   Procedures In Quasi-Judicial Hearings: Unless otherwise provided by
law, the following procedures shall apply to all quasi-judicial hearings before
the Board or commission:
      1.   A transcribable record shall be taken and maintained of all
testimony, evidence, deliberation, votes, and actions.
      2.   The Board or commission may require that a sign in roster be kept at
the entrance to the hearing room, and may request people to indicate whether
they support or oppose the contemplated action. The roster shall be included in
the record of the hearing.
      3.   All affected persons shall be given the opportunity to attend and to
present and rebut evidence. Every person wishing to testify, provide exhibits,
or otherwise address the Board or commission shall be identified for the record
by name and address. The Board may, but is not required to, take testimony
under oath.
      4.   The hearing shall commence as follows:
         a.   The Chair shall open the hearing.
         b.   The Chair shall give an introductory statement which may include
the Chair's name and title, the date and location of the hearing, the legal
authority for the action, an explanation of the notice of the hearing, and the
method of receiving oral and written statements, including any time limits that
will be placed on witnesses.
         c.   Members shall disclose any conflicts of interest as defined by
law. Members shall also identify any comments or other information communicated
to the members prior to the hearing, including the identity of the person who
provided the information and the substance of the information received.
         d.   The Chair may require staff members present to introduce and
report on the application. The staff report shall be entered into the record as
an exhibit.
         e.   If testimony is to be taken under oath, the Clerk may administer
the oath to all prospective witnesses.
      5.   Testimony and evidence shall then be received from the applicant,
witnesses, and other interested parties. The order of testimony shall be as
follows:
         a.   Testimony from the applicant or appellant and/or the applicant's
or appellant's representative.
         b.   Experts and other testimony in support of the application.
         c.   Testimony from witnesses and all interested parties, including
anyone testifying in opposition to the application.
         d.   Any rebuttal from the applicant or appellant.
         e.   The Chair may allow limited testimony in response to rebuttal in
the event that new evidence or information is presented in rebuttal.
      6.   The Chair shall close the hearing. Once the hearing is closed, no
new testimony or evidence shall be allowed unless the hearing is reopened. The
Board or commission may reopen a hearing for just and legal cause and if the
Board or commission concludes that it cannot render a full and fair decision
without more testimony or evidence.
      7.   The Chair shall be responsible for the general conduct of the
hearing, including maintaining order at all meetings and hearings. The Chair
may eject individuals from the meeting room or take other action found
necessary to maintain order. However, absent extraordinary circumstances, no
person shall be deprived of an opportunity to give testimony or to address the
Hearing Board without due warning.
      8.   Oral and written statements, exhibits, and testimony shall be
relevant to the topic of the hearing. The Board or commission may reject
evidence, exhibits, or testimony which they determine is not relevant to the
topic of the hearing.
      9.   The Board or commission may require that exhibits be submitted three
(3) or more days prior to any hearing. This requirement shall be included in
the legal notice published before the hearing. Any written information or other
items received prior to the hearing shall be entered into the record as
exhibits, unless they are rejected as irrelevant. No "anonymous" exhibits will
be received.
      10.   A record shall be kept of all exhibits, which shall include a
number or letter designation, the date, identification of the hearing, and who
offered the exhibit. Exhibits will be kept by the Board or commission and must
be submitted in a form that is reproducible and capable of being marked and
admitted into the record at the hearing.
      11.   Exhibits, including exhibits that were rejected by the Board or
commission, shall be made available for inspection and review by any interested
party. If possible, copies may be made upon request and reasonable duplication
fees may be charged.
      12.   The Board may direct that subpoenas be issued for the attendance of
witnesses and/or the production of records and documents. In the event that a
party is seeking the issuance of subpoenas, that request shall be made to the
Board no later than fourteen (14) days prior to the hearing.
      13.   The Board or commission is entitled to set time limits on the
length of time that the applicant and/or the witnesses may speak at the
hearing; provided, that notice is given of such time limits when the hearing is
opened.
      14.   Members are entitled at any time to question or direct comment
toward the applicant, any witnesses, staff members, or legal counsel during the
hearing. The members may also rely on their own knowledge and experience on any
particular issue.
      15.   The Chair may, in its discretion, entertain questions regarding the
procedures of the hearing from the audience at large. Anyone wishing to address
the Board or commission in this capacity must approach the microphone or
designated location and be fully recognized for the record. No one shall
address the Board or commission from the audience.
      16.   The Board or commission has the authority to continue the hearing
to a later date, up to the time that a final decision is rendered. Whenever a
hearing is continued to a later date, the Board or commission shall announce
the new date, time, and location at the scheduled hearing or shall supply
individual notice by mail to all parties required by law to receive the notice
as well as any other parties who legibly signed the hearing roster.
      17.   After the hearing is closed, the Board or commission may deliberate
and act on the application or issue at that time or may delay deliberation and
action until a later meeting. Further, the Board or commission may recess
deliberations at any time and continue ongoing deliberations to a later date.
In either event, the new date, time, and location shall be given as provided
earlier in this section.
      18.   The record of the hearing, including all exhibits and the
transcribable record, shall be preserved for a period of not less than one year
after the date the final decision on the application or issue is reached. A
permanent record of the minutes of the Board or commission shall be maintained
as required by law. (Ord. 253, 9-8-2004)
1-7-4: VOTING:
Members must be present at the meeting in order to vote. Proxy or substitute
votes shall not be allowed. A member may vote on any issue, even if the member
was not present at a hearing where evidence was presented on that issue,
provided the member has reviewed the record of that hearing, either by
reviewing the transcribable record or a summary. Each member shall be allowed
one vote. The Chair of the Board shall be allowed to vote as a member of the
Board. The Chair of the Planning or Zoning Commission shall only vote in the
case of a tie vote between the other members. If a tie vote occurs, the Chair
may continue consideration of the issue to a later date, reopen the hearing to
allow new testimony, or table the issue, upon a majority vote of the Board or
commission. (Ord. 253, 9-8-2004)
1-7-5: QUASI-JUDICIAL DECISIONS:
Following a quasi-judicial hearing, findings of fact and conclusions of law
shall be adopted for each final decision or recommendation. All such findings
of fact and conclusion of law shall be made in writing and shall be kept in the
permanent records of the Board or commission. Each decision shall explain the
criteria and standards considered relevant by the members of the majority in
reaching the decision, shall state the facts relied upon, and shall explain the
justification for the decision based upon the criteria, standards, and facts
set forth in the decision. A copy of the recommendation or decision shall be
sent by first class mail to the applicant and all other interested parties who
have requested a copy no later than five (5) days after such written decision
has been approved by the Board or commission. (Ord. 253, 9-8-2004)
1-7-6: HEARING EXAMINERS:
In accordance with Idaho Code section 67-6520, the Board may appoint a hearing
examiner, such as a professionally trained or licensed staff planner, engineer,
or architect, to preside at a quasi-judicial hearing on a land use application,
to receive testimony and evidence, and thereafter to make a recommendation to
the Board or commission. (Ord. 253, 9-8-2004)
1-7-7: ETHICS AND CONFLICTS OF INTEREST:
Members of the Board or commission shall abide by all applicable laws regarding
ethics and conflicts of interest. (Ord. 253, 9-8-2004)
CHAPTER 8
FINANCES AND FEES
SECTION:
1-8-1: Warrant Of Distraint Fee
1-8-2: Plat Verification Fee
1-8-1: WARRANT OF DISTRAINT FEE:
   A.   Authority: This section is adopted pursuant to the provisions of Idaho
Code sections 63-1013(2) and 31-870 effective immediately upon passing and
publication of a public notice in a newspaper of general circulation in Latah
County as prescribed by law.
   B.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to set fees for the issuance of
warrants of distraint, collection, levy and return of the same.
   C.   Fee: Latah County shall charge a fee of ten dollars ($10.00) for
issuing a warrant of distraint by the Tax Collector, which shall be added to
all other lawful charges related to the service and execution of the warrant of
distraint. (Ord. 301, 2-16-2011)
1-8-2: PLAT VERIFICATION FEE:
   A.   Fee Established: Pursuant to Idaho Code section 50-1305, the following
fee is adopted and shall be collected from the subdivider or developer for the
required service of having a qualified surveyor or engineer check the plat and
computations thereon for compliance with Idaho Code title 50, chapter 13: (Ord.
267, 7-17-2006, eff. 8-1-2006; amd. 2018 Code)
Two hundred dollars ($200.00) plus twenty five dollars ($25.00) per lot for the
first four (4) lots and five dollars ($5.00) for each additional lot shown
thereon.
   B.   Collection For Services: Said fee shall be collected by the County
Surveyor or in his/her absence the County Planner and shall include costs for
preparation of duplicate mylar; upon completion, the plat shall be submitted to
the County Recorder by the County Planner for recording, at which time any
applicable recording fees will be paid which are set by Idaho Statute and are
in addition to the surveyor checking fees. (Ord. 267, 7-17-2006, eff. 8-1-2006)
CHAPTER 9
PROPERTY TAX EXEMPTION PROCEDURE
SECTION:
1-9-1: Authority
1-9-2: Application Procedure
1-9-3: Appeals And Complaints Of Exemption Decisions
1-9-4: Appeals From County Board Of Equalization
1-9-1: AUTHORITY:
This chapter is enacted and adopted pursuant to the authority granted to the
Board of County Commissioners of Latah County by article XII, section 2 of the
Idaho Constitution; Idaho Code section 31-714; and Idaho Code title 63,
chapters 5 and 6. (Ord. 320, 3-2-2015, eff. 3-9-2015)
1-9-2: APPLICATION PROCEDURE:
   A.   Compliance With Statute: The procedure for filing an application for
Property Tax exemption shall be as stated in Idaho Code section 63-602, as
amended from time to time. (Ord. 320, 3-2-2015, eff. 3-9-2015)
      1.   Minimum Investment Amount:
         a.   Per Idaho Code, the minimum investment amount for plant
investment at project sites within Latah County, Idaho is set at a minimum
threshold of five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00); and
         b.   Those seeking a Property Tax exemption under Idaho Code must
still meet the other requirements of said Code in order to be granted the
Property Tax exemption. (Ord. 350, 11-6-2017)
   B.   Application Forms: For Property Tax exemptions that require
application:
      1.   If a parcel has not previously been granted an exemption from
taxation or if a parcel has changed ownership, the application for Property Tax
exemption shall be on the form entitled, "Latah County Application for Property
Tax Exemption".
      2.   If a parcel has previously been granted an exemption from taxation,
the application for Property Tax exemption may be on either the "Latah County
Application for Property Tax Exemption" form or the "Latah County Application
for Renewal of Property Tax Exemption" form.
   C.   County Board Decisions: The Board of Latah County Commissioners shall
decide all Property Tax exemption applications at duly noticed open public
meetings. No public hearings regarding Property Tax exemption applications
shall be held by the Board of Latah County Commissioners. (Ord. 320, 3-2-2015,
eff. 3-9-2015)
1-9-3: APPEALS AND COMPLAINTS OF EXEMPTION DECISIONS:
   A.   Filing Of Appeal: Any Latah County property taxpayer or Latah County
resident may file an appeal or complaint of a Property Tax exemption decision
with the Latah County Board of Equalization in accordance with Idaho Code
sections 63-501 and 63-501A, as amended from time to time.
   B.   Conduct Of Hearing: The Latah County Board of Equalization shall
conduct a hearing for each Property Tax exemption appeal or complaint in
accordance with the procedures set forth in chapter 7, "Conduct Of Hearings And
Meetings", of this title for quasi-judicial hearings, as amended from time to
time ("exemption hearing"). Notwithstanding said chapter 7 of this title, the
Latah County Board of Equalization may, but is not required to, adopt findings
of fact and conclusions of law.
   C.   Conflicts; Governing Provision: If the provisions of chapter 7 of this
title conflict with this chapter, the provisions of this chapter shall govern.
   D.   Notice Of Hearing:
      1.   Latah County shall provide notice of the exemption hearing to the
property owner and the complainant, if there is a complainant, by first class
mail to the mailing address on the Property Tax exemption application and/or
complaint; hand delivery; or facsimile at the fax number included on the
Property Tax exemption application and/or complaint. If the complaint is filed
by someone other than the property owner, Latah County shall provide the
property owner with a copy of the complaint.
      2.   Latah County shall mail notices by first class mail at least five
(5) days prior to the exemption hearing; provided, that the notice period may
be shortened at the discretion of the Chair of the Latah County Board of
Equalization if the property owner and complainant, if there is a complainant,
have actual notice of the exemption hearing. Notice will be deemed effective as
of the date of postmark.
   E.   Attendance At Hearing: The property owner and the complainant, if there
is a complainant, shall attend the exemption hearing. If proper notice was
provided, and the property owner or complainant does not attend the exemption
hearing, the Latah County Board of Equalization may, but is not required to,
declare the appeal or complaint withdrawn.
   F.   Decisions Of County Board Of Equalization:
      1.   All decisions of the Latah County Board of Equalization regarding
Property Tax exemptions shall be by majority vote. If a majority of the Latah
County Board of Equalization cannot reach a decision, the appeal or complaint
shall be deemed denied.
      2.   All decisions of the Latah County Board of Equalization regarding
Property Tax exemptions shall be in writing. Latah County shall provide a copy
of the written decision to the property owner and complainant, if there is a
complainant, by hand delivery or first class mail. (Ord. 320, 3-2-2015, eff. 3-
9-2015)
1-9-4: APPEALS FROM COUNTY BOARD OF EQUALIZATION:
Appeals from the Latah County Board of Equalization shall be made pursuant to
Idaho Code section 63-511, as amended from time to time. (Ord. 320, 3-2-2015,
eff. 3-9-2015)
CHAPTER 10
GIS GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION SYSTEM
SECTION:
1-10-1: Notice Of Copyright
1-10-2: GIS Committee
1-10-3: GIS Technical Group
1-10-4: Paper Maps
1-10-5: On-Line Services
1-10-6: GIS Data
1-10-7: Penalties
1-10-1: NOTICE OF COPYRIGHT:
All data and maps assembled, created, maintained or published by Latah County
are copyrighted by the same and all rights thereto are reserved by Latah
County. Reproduction, conveyance, or other means of duplication without express
written permission is strictly prohibited. (Ord. 323, 8-12-2015)
1-10-2: GIS COMMITTEE:
   A.   Committee Established; Membership: A GIS Committee is hereby
established. Membership shall be comprised of a Latah County employee from each
of the following offices and departments: Assessor's Office, Treasurer's
Office, Sheriff's Office, Auditor's Office, Disaster Services Department, Weed
Control Department, and Planning and Building Department. Said employees shall
be appointed by their respective elected official or department head. The Board
of County Commissioners may appoint other staff to the committee as needed.
   B.   Officers Of Committee: The Board of County Commissioners shall appoint
one member of the committee as Chair of the same. The committee, by a majority
vote of those present at any meeting, may elect a Vice Chair to act in the
Chair's absence.
   C.   Duties: The duties of the GIS Committee shall include:
      1.   Oversight of the County GIS Development Plan.
      2.   Collaboration of GIS projects, grants and programs.
      3.   Presentation of regular reports to the Board of County Commissioners
on the progress and needs of the County GIS.
      4.   Recommendations on GIS data licenses and fee waivers as provided
herein. (Ord. 323, 8-12-2015)
1-10-3: GIS TECHNICAL GROUP:
Employees directly involved in the day to day maintenance and operation of the
County GIS shall be referred to as the GIS Technical Group. The group shall
implement plans developed by the committee and do other GIS related work, as
may be authorized by the employee's respective elected official or department
head, or by the Board of County Commissioners. (Ord. 323, 8-12-2015)
1-10-4: PAPER MAPS:
Paper maps created using the County GIS for sale to the public shall be subject
to fees as adopted by resolution by the Board of County Commissioners. (Ord.
323, 8-12-2015)
1-10-5: ON-LINE SERVICES:
In order to enhance public accessibility to the County's geographic data, the
County may, but it is not required to, make certain GIS data sets, parcel data
and other information available on the internet or to cybernetic systems. These
on- line services shall be subject to fees as adopted by resolution by the
Board of County Commissioners. (Ord. 323, 8-12-2015)
1-10-6: GIS DATA:
   A.   Requests For Data:
      1.   All requests for GIS data shall be submitted to Latah County and
shall be subject to fees as adopted by resolution by the Board of County
Commissioners. Such requests are further subject to a "GIS data license"
(hereinafter referred to as "license") to be executed in each instance in a
form substantially similar to exhibit A on file in the County. The Chair of the
GIS Committee, the GIS Coordinator, or the Latah County Assessor are hereby
authorized to accept and fulfill such licenses on behalf of Latah County. Once
fulfilled, all data licenses shall be given to the GIS Coordinator for keeping.
      2.   Persons, organizations or agencies may request to be exempt from the
required fees to acquire County GIS data by submitting said proposal in writing
to the GIS Committee, which shall forward a recommendation to the Board of
County Commissioners. This may be approved if the Board has determined the
following:
         a.   The County will receive GIS data from the requester, or services
related to the same, that is of comparable or equal value to that which is to
be provided by the County.
         b.   The requester ensures that the data will be protected from
improper or illegal use.
         c.   The benefits to the County and the public outweigh the revenue
loss from the fee waiver.
   B.   Data Owned By Third Parties: Data stored by the County that is
copyrighted by third parties shall not be conveyed to the public or other
agencies without the express written permission of the copyright holder.
   C.   Use Of Data For Emergency Response:
      1.   County employees may, without a license or fee, under the direction
of an elected County official or department head, release GIS data to agencies
and personnel engaged in legitimate law enforcement activity or response to
floods, wildfires, acts of terrorism or other emergencies to prevent imminent
peril to life or property. The employee(s) releasing the GIS data shall include
written notification with the released GIS data that its use is limited to
emergency response actions and all other use is strictly prohibited without
appropriate approval in accordance with this chapter.
      2.   Within one month of the release, the GIS Coordinator shall report to
the Board of County Commissioners the circumstances of the release and make any
recommendations for future action. (Ord. 323, 8-12-2015)
1-10-7: PENALTIES:
In addition to any and all remedies available at law or in equity, each
violation of the provisions of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor punishable
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this title. (Ord. 323, 8-12-2015; amd. 2018 Code)
CHAPTER 11
911 EMERGENCY COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM
SECTION:
1-11-1: Authority
1-11-2: Service Area
1-11-3: Administration; User Fees
1-11-1: AUTHORITY:
This chapter is enacted pursuant to the authority granted to the Board of
County Commissioner by article 12, section 2 of the Constitution of the State
of Idaho, and by Idaho Code section 31-714 and Idaho Code title 31, chapter 48.
(Ord. 107, 9-6-1990, eff. 10-1-1990)
1-11-2: SERVICE AREA:
A consolidated 911 emergency communications system area is hereby created,
which area is defined as the entire area of Latah County, exclusive of the
corporate limits of the City of Moscow, as they exist on the date of enactment
hereof or as amended via annexation. (Ord. 107, 9-6-1990, eff. 10-1-1990)
1-11-3: ADMINISTRATION; USER FEES:
   A.   Governing Board And Administrator: The Board of County Commissioners
shall be the Governing Board for the establishment and operation of the
emergency communication system described herein. The Sheriff of Latah County is
designated as the Administrator of the system, and his office shall receive and
service all calls made on the system.
   B.   User Fees; Fund: The user fees shall be transmitted to the Treasurer of
Latah County, who shall deposit such funds into a fund which shall be
established by the County auditor. Said fund shall be designated as the "911
Fund" and expenditures therefrom shall be paid upon the presentation of a
voucher submitted by the Administrator, and approved by the Governing Board.
(Ord. 107, 9-6-1990, eff. 10-1-1990; amd. 2018 Code)
TITLE 2
BOARDS, COMMISSIONS AND COMMITTEES
CHAPTER 1
HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-1-1: Purpose
2-1-2: Definitions
2-1-3: Commission Established; Members
2-1-4: Organization, Officers, Rules And Meetings
2-1-5: Powers, Duties And Responsibilities
2-1-6: Special Restrictions
2-1-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to promote the educational, cultural, economic
and general welfare of the public of the County through the identification,
evaluation, designation, and protection of those buildings, sites, areas,
structures, and objects which reflect significant elements of the County's, the
State's, and the Nation's historic, architectural, archaeological, and cultural
heritage. (Ord. 302, 4-6-2011)
2-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases when used in this chapter shall have, unless
the context clearly indicates otherwise, the following meanings:
COMMISSION: The Historic Preservation Commission of the County of Latah.
COUNTY: The County of Latah.
HISTORIC PRESERVATION: The research, documentation, protection, restoration,
and rehabilitation of buildings, structures, objects, districts, areas, and
sites significant in the history, architecture, archaeology or culture of this
State, its communities, or the Nation.
HISTORIC PROPERTY: Any building, structure, area or site that is significant in
history, architecture, archaeology or culture of this community, the State, or
the Nation. (Ord. 302, 4-6-2011)
2-1-3: COMMISSION ESTABLISHED; MEMBERS:
   A.   Commission Established: There is hereby created a Historic Preservation
Commission which shall consist of not less than five (5) and not more than ten
(10) members, who shall be appointed by the Chairman with the advice and
consent of the Board of Latah County Commissioners.
   B.   Qualifications: All members of the commission shall have a demonstrated
interest, competence, or knowledge of history or historic preservation. The
Board of Latah County Commissioners shall endeavor to appoint at least two (2)
members with professional training or experience in the disciplines of
architecture, history, architectural history, urban planning, archaeology,
engineering, law, or other historic preservation related disciplines.
   C.   Appointment; Terms; Vacancies: The five (5) initial appointments to the
commission shall be made as follows: one (1) 1-year term; two (2) 2-year terms;
two (2) 3-year terms. The initial appointment of up to five (5) additional
members, should the Board choose to make them, shall be set for a term of one,
two (2), or three (3) years, such that approximately one-third (1/3) of the
total number of appointments will expire each year. All subsequent appointments
shall be made for three (3) year terms, unless a shorter term is necessary to
achieve the staggered expiration schedule. Commission members may be
reappointed to serve additional terms. Vacancies shall be filled in the same
manner as original appointments and the appointee shall serve for the remainder
of the unexpired term.
   D.   Reimbursement For Expenses: The members of the commission may be
reimbursed by the Historical Society for expenses incurred in connection with
their duties.
   E.   Continuance Of Service: Current members of the commission who were
appointed by the Board prior to the effective date hereof shall continue to
serve in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   F.   Staff Members Not Part Of Commission: Latah County employees assigned
from time to time by the Board as staff members to assist the commission in
carrying out its duties shall not be counted as commission members and shall
not exercise the powers and duties of appointed commission members. (Ord. 302,
4-6-2011)
2-1-4: ORGANIZATION, OFFICERS, RULES AND MEETINGS:
   A.   Rules And Bylaws: The commission shall have the power to make whatever
rules are necessary for the execution of its duties as set forth in this
chapter. Rules of procedure and bylaws adopted by the commission shall be
available for public inspection.
   B.   Officers: The commission shall elect officers from among the commission
members. The Chair shall preside at meetings of the commission. The Vice Chair
shall, in the absence of the Chair, perform the duties of the Chair.
   C.   Meetings Open To Public: All meetings of the commission shall be open
to the public, and follow the requirements of Idaho's Open Meeting Laws. The
commission shall keep minutes and other appropriate written records of its
resolutions, proceedings, and actions.
   D.   Contracting Special Services: The commission may recommend to the Board
of Latah County Commissioners, within the limits of its funding, the employment
of or the contracting with other parties for the services of technical experts
or other persons as it deems necessary to carry on the functions of the
commission. (Ord. 302, 4-6-2011)
2-1-5: POWERS, DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
The commission shall be advisory to the Board of Latah County Commissioners and
shall be authorized to:
   A.   Conduct a survey of local historic properties.
   B.   Recommend the acquisition of fee or lesser interest in historic
properties, including adjacent or associated lands, by purchase, bequests, or
donation.
   C.   Recommend methods and procedures necessary to preserve, restore,
maintain, and operate historic properties under the ownership or control of the
County.
   D.   Recommend the lease, sale, other transfer or disposition of historic
properties subject to rights of public access and other covenants and in a
manner that will preserve the property.
   E.   Contract, with the approval of the Board of Latah County Commissioners,
with the State or Federal government, or any agency of either, or with any
other organization.
   F.   Cooperate with Federal, State, and local governments in pursuing the
objectives of historic preservation.
   G.   Make recommendations in the planning process undertaken by the County,
cities located with the County, the State, or the Federal government and the
agencies of these entities.
   H.   Recommend ordinances and otherwise provide information for the purpose
of historic preservation in Latah County.
   I.   Promote and conduct an educational and interpretive program on historic
preservation and historic properties in Latah County.
   J.   Review nominations of properties to the National Register of Historic
Places for properties within the County's jurisdiction. (Ord. 302, 4-6-2011)
2-1-6: SPECIAL RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Commission members, employees or agents of the commission may enter
private property, buildings, or structures in the performance of official
duties only with the express consent of the owner or occupant thereof.
   B.   Under the provisions of Idaho Code section 67-4612, the Board of Latah
County Commissioners may provide by ordinances, special conditions or
restrictions for the protection, enhancement and preservation of historic
properties. (Ord. 302, 4-6-2011)
CHAPTER 2
ARTS AND CULTURE COMMITTEE
SECTION:
2-2-1: Authority
2-2-2: Establishment
2-2-3: Membership
2-2-4: Term Of Service; Vacancies
2-2-5: Duties And Responsibilities
2-2-6: Organization
2-2-7: Meetings
2-2-8: Compensation
2-2-1: AUTHORITY:
This chapter is enacted and adopted pursuant to the authority granted to the
Board of County Commissioners by article XII, section 2 of the Constitution of
the State of Idaho and Idaho Code sections 31-714 and 31-828. (Ord. 145, 12-27-
1994, eff. 1-2-1995)
2-2-2: ESTABLISHMENT:
The Latah County Board of Commissioners hereby establishes a committee known as
the Latah County Arts and Culture Committee. The committee shall serve in an
advisory capacity to the Latah County Commissioners. (Ord. 145, 12-27-1994,
eff. 1-2-1995)
2-2-3: MEMBERSHIP:
The committee shall be composed of not less than seven (7) and not more than
ten (10) members, appointed by the Latah County Commissioners. Members shall be
persons with an interest in the arts and cultural matters. Members shall be
residents of Latah County, and not more than four (4) members shall be
residents of the City of Moscow. (Ord. 145, 12-27-1994, eff. 1-2-1995)
2-2-4: TERM OF SERVICE; VACANCIES:
The committee shall be appointed annually at a meeting of the Board of County
Commissioners held during the month of December of each year. Appointees shall
serve from January 1 through December 31 of the following year. In the event
that any member is absent without notice for three (3) meetings during any
year, that position shall be declared vacant. Any vacancy shall be filled by
committee recommendation to the Board of County Commissioners for the unexpired
term. Members shall serve at the will and pleasure of the Board of
Commissioners and may be removed by the Board at any time with or without
cause. (Ord. 145, 12-27-1994, eff. 1-2-1995)
2-2-5: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
The Arts and Culture Committee shall:
   A.   Have the responsibility of making recommendations to the Board of
County Commissioners on matters pertaining to the promotion and development of
the artistic and cultural atmosphere of Latah County.
   B.   Determine and furnish the Latah County Commissioners with the opinions
and desires of the County residents regarding needs and priorities for artistic
and cultural development.
   C.   Provide planning input to the Latah County Planning and Zoning
Commission on artistic and cultural matters.
   D.   Aid in the coordination of the Latah County artistic and cultural
activities with those of Federal, State, and Municipal agencies, including, but
not limited to, coordination and administering grant programs.
   E.   Advise and assist the Board of County Commissioners in the preparation
of an annual arts and culture budget.
   F.   Advise and assist satellite art groups, with a special emphasis on
those areas and citizens not having ready access to such activities in the City
of Moscow.
   G.   Perform other advisory functions as the Board of County Commissioners
may request. (Ord. 145, 12-27-1994, eff. 1-2-1995)
2-2-6: ORGANIZATION:
The committee shall elect, among themselves, a Chairperson, a Secretary and
such other officers as it deems necessary. Officers shall be selected. Terms of
office shall be as determined by the committee. A quorum shall consist of four
(4) members, with each member having one vote. (Ord. 145, 12-27-1994, eff. 1-2-
1995)
2-2-7: MEETINGS:
The committee shall meet monthly for not less than ten (10) months per year.
All meetings shall be open to the public. Public notice of all meetings shall
be provided not less than five (5) days in advance of each meeting with an
agenda posted at least forty eight (48) hours in advance of the meeting. Such
notices shall be posted in the Latah County Courthouse and shall be provided
individually to each member. The committee may adopt such bylaws as are
necessary for the orderly conduct of its business. (Ord. 145, 12-27-1994, eff.
1-2-1995)
2-2-8: COMPENSATION:
Committee members shall serve without compensation, except that they may be
reimbursed for mileage for travel performed in the course of performing their
duties hereunder, at a rate set by the Board of County Commissioners. (Ord.
145, 12-27-1994, eff. 1-2-1995)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
SECTION:
3-1-1: Definitions
3-1-2: License
3-1-3: Applications
3-1-4: Denial Of License Application
3-1-5: Revocation Of License
3-1-6: Appeals
3-1-7: Types Of Licenses/License Fees
3-1-7-1: Alcoholic Beverage Catering Permit
3-1-8: Length Of License
3-1-9: Renewal
3-1-10: License Transfer
3-1-11: Hours Of Sale
3-1-12: License Conditions
3-1-13: Penalty
3-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter the following words and phrases shall have the
following meaning when not inconsistent with the context. Words used in the
present tense include the future, words in the plural number include the
singular number, and words in the singular number include the plural. The word
shall is always mandatory and not merely directory.
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE: Any beverage containing alcohol which is a product of
distillation of any fermented liquor, or synthetic ethyl alcohol, including
beer, wine, spirits, or any liquid containing alcohol, beer, wine or spirits.
BEER: Any beverage obtained by alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
decoction of barley, malt, and/or other ingredients in drinkable water.
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS: The Board of Latah County Commissioners.
BOTTLED BEER: Beer sold or disposed of while securely, tightly and adequately
sealed in a glass, metal or other container of a capacity not to exceed two (2)
gallons.
COUNTY: The County of Latah, State of Idaho.
COUNTY CLERK'S OFFICE: The Office of the County Clerk or his/her designee.
LICENSE: A license issued by the Latah County Clerk to a qualified person,
under which it shall be lawful for the licensee to sell and dispense alcoholic
beverages, as provided by this chapter.
LICENSEE: The person to whom a license is issued under the provisions of this
chapter and who holds a valid Idaho alcoholic beverage license issued by the
Idaho State Police, Alcohol Beverage Control.
LIQUOR: All kinds of liquor sold by and in a State liquor store of the State of
Idaho.
OFF THE PREMISES: A license authorizing a person to sell beer or wine at retail
for consumption off of the licensed premises.
ON THE PREMISES: A license to sell beer or wine by the individual glass or
opened bottle at retail for consumption on the premises only.
PERSON: Includes an individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation, or
any group or combination acting as a unit, and includes the plural as well as
the singular unless the intent to give a more limited meaning is disclosed by
the context in which it is used.
PLACE OF BUSINESS: The place where business is carried on by the owners or
agents of owners and under the control of those owners or agents.
PREMISES: The business place in which the service and sale of any alcoholic
beverage is authorized under this chapter and pursuant to Idaho Statute.
RETAILER: Any person engaged in the sale or distribution of alcoholic
beverages, with the exception of keg beer sold by Idaho State licenses
wholesalers.
SHERIFF: The Sheriff for the County of Latah, Idaho, or his/her designated
agent.
SHERIFF'S OFFICE: The Latah County Sheriff's Office.
SPIRITS: Any beverage which contain alcohol obtained by distillation mixed with
drinkable water or other substances in solution, including, among other things,
brandy, rum, whiskey, vodka and gin.
STATE: The State of Idaho.
WINE: Any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of the natural sugar
content of fruits (grapes, apples, etc.) or other agricultural products
containing sugar (honey, milk, etc.) containing not more than sixteen percent
(16%) alcohol by volume. This also includes "dessert wine", which means only
those wines that contain more than sixteen percent (16%) alcohol by volume, but
do not exceed twenty four percent (24%) alcohol by volume. (Ord. 361, 4-30-
2018, eff. 4-30-2018)
3-1-2: LICENSE:
It shall be unlawful for any person or licensee to sell, keep for sale, or
dispense any alcoholic beverage without first obtaining a license required by
Idaho State law and this chapter. (Ord. 361, 4-30-2018, eff. 4-30-2018)
3-1-3: APPLICATIONS:
An application for a license under this chapter shall be filed with the County
Clerk's Office, upon a form supplied by said Clerk. At the time of making such
application, the applicant shall pay the appropriate license fee to the County
Clerk's Office. A copy of the receipt shall be attached to the application when
it comes before the Board of Latah County Commissioners for their review. Each
application for a license, transfer or renewal of a license shall be submitted
to the Board of County Commissioners for a decision. Any time the application
is for a new license or for a transfer of a license, the applicant must
schedule and meet with the Board of Commissioners before their final decision
is made. The Board shall have a reasonable time to examine the application for
a license before a decision is made to grant or deny the license. The Board
will make a written determination. If the Board determines to grant the license
they shall do so by affixing their signatures on the license. The County
Clerk's Office shall issue such license. The Board of County Commissioners
shall have not more than thirty (30) days from the date of the application, in
which to make a decision to grant or deny a license to any application. It
shall be understood by the licensee that any license issued is subject to all
necessary changes in this chapter and the laws of the State of Idaho, without
notice to the licensee. (Ord. 361, 4-30-2018, eff. 4-30-2018)
3-1-4: DENIAL OF LICENSE APPLICATION:
The Board of County Commissioners may deny any license application as
authorized by title 23, Idaho Code and this chapter. Whenever the Board of
County Commissioners denies an application for a license, the Board shall
specify in writing to the applicant:
   A.   The statutes, ordinances and standards used in evaluating the
application;
   B.   The reasons for the denial of the application; and
   C.   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain the
license, transfer, or renewal thereof.
In any case wherein the Board of Commissioners has determined to refuse to
grant an application for or a renewal of a license, notice of such refusal
shall be personally served on the applicant or mailed, by certified mail,
postage prepaid, to the applicant not less than fifteen (15) days prior to the
date of expiration of the license. (Ord. 361, 4-30-2018, eff. 4-30-2018)
3-1-5: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
The Board of County Commissioners shall have the right, and does hereby retain
the right, to revoke or cancel any license granted under this chapter at any
time for any violation of the provisions of title 23 of the Idaho Code, or any
of the provisions of this chapter by the licensee, including their agents and
employees.
When the Board of County Commissioners has made a determination to revoke or
cancel a license, the Board shall follow this procedure:
   A.   Written notice shall be either personally served on the licensee, or
mailed to the licensee, by certified mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the
premises for which the license was issued;
   B.   The notice shall contain a statement of the act or acts of with which
the licensee is charged, and upon which the Board's decision is based, and in
the case of a determination to suspend the license, the period of such
suspension; and
   C.   In any case where the Board of County Commissioners has determined to
revoke or suspend a license, such revocation or suspension shall become
effective fifteen (15) days after the notice of such revocation or suspension
has been personally served or mailed to the licensee. (Ord. 361, 4-30-2018,
eff. 4-30-2018)
3-1-6: APPEALS:
Whenever an applicant for a license has been denied a license, or whenever a
licensee has received a notice of a revocation or suspension of their license,
they may, within twenty eight (28) days after all other remedies have been
exhausted under all County ordinances or procedures, seek judicial review under
the procedures provided for each license type in title 23 of the Idaho Code.
(Ord. 361, 4-30-2018, eff. 4-30-2018)
3-1-7: TYPES OF LICENSES/LICENSE FEES:
The types of licenses and fees for all licenses are hereby fixed as follows:
   A.   Liquor license types:
      1.   The retailing of liquor by the drink within the City of Moscow,
which is to be consumed on the premises where sold, shall be one hundred eighty
seven dollars fifty cents ($187.50) per year. This fee also includes and
authorizes the sale of wine by the drink served on the premises and retail wine
to be consumed off the premises.
      2.   The retailing of liquor by the drink outside the City of Moscow,
which is to be consumed on the premises where sold, shall be seventy five
dollars ($75.00) per year. This fee also includes and authorizes the sale of
wine by the drink served on the premises and retail wine to be consumed off the
premises.
   B.   Beer license types:
      1.   The retailing of draught beer and bottled or canned beer, or draught
beer only, shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00) per year.
      2.   The retailing of bottled beer or canned beer, which is to be
consumed on the premises where sold, shall be seventy five dollars ($75.00) per
year.
      3.   The retailing of bottled or canned beer, none of which is to be
consumed on the premises where sold, shall be twenty five dollars ($25.00) per
year.
   C.   Wine license types:
      1.   The retailing of wine by the drink which is to be consumed on the
premises where sold, and/or the retailing of wine by the bottle which is to be
consumed off the premises where sold, shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00)
per year. This fee shall not be included for retailers who hold any of the
above liquor by the drink licenses. (Ord. 361, 4-30-2018, eff. 4-30-2018)
3-1-7-1: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CATERING PERMIT:
   A.   Authority: This section is enacted and adopted pursuant to the
authority granted to the Board of County Commissioners of Latah County, Idaho,
by article 12, section 2, of the Constitution of the State of Idaho and Idaho
Code sections 31-714, 23-934A and 23-1337.
   B.   Definitions: The following words shall be given the following
interpretations. See also section
3-1-1 of this chapter.
   CONVENTION: A formal meeting of members, representatives, or delegates, as
of a political party, fraternal society, profession or industry.
   FESTIVAL: A period or program of festive activities, cultural events, or
entertainment lasting three (3) or more consecutive days.
   PARTY: A social gathering especially for pleasure or amusement and includes,
but is not limited to, such social events as weddings, birthdays, and special
holiday celebrations to include, but not be limited to, New Year's
celebrations, Super Bowl Sunday, St. Patrick's Day, the Fourth of July and
Labor Day.
   WINERY: A place, premises or establishment within the State of Idaho for the
manufacture or bottling of table wine for sale.
   C.   Eligibility/Permit Required: An alcoholic beverage catering permit may
be applied for by any licensee who is licensed to sell alcoholic beverages in
the State of Idaho. It shall be unlawful for any person or corporation, their
agents, employees, servants, or other persons acting on behalf of such person
or corporation, to serve and/or offer for sale alcoholic beverages at any
convention, festival, or party held at a location within Latah County, but
outside of a City's jurisdiction, without having first obtained a permit under
the provisions of this section.
   D.   Permit Length And Fees:
      1.   Alcoholic beverage catering permits for conventions or festivals may
be approved for no more than five (5) consecutive days by the Board of County
Commissioners and the Latah County Sheriff. A fee shall be collected for each
permit issued and must be paid in advance. Permittees issued permits for
conventions or festivals may request one extension of their permit, subject to
the same terms and conditions as the original permit. An extension may be
granted or denied at the sole discretion of the Board of County Commissioners.
      2.   Alcoholic beverage catering permits for a party may be approved for
no more than two (2) consecutive days by the Board of County Commissioners and
the Latah County Sheriff. A fee shall be collected for each permit issued and
must be paid in advance.
      3.   Fees for alcoholic beverage catering permits shall be twenty dollars
($20.00) per day.
   E.   Permits For Benevolent, Charitable, Or Public Purposes:
      1.   Alcoholic beverage catering permits may be issued to organizations
or persons who meet the requirements set forth in Idaho Code sections 23-1007A
and/or 23-1336, as may be amended, when such person or organization has been
authorized by the State of Idaho, Idaho State Police, Alcohol Beverage Control
for the sale of alcoholic beverages for a benevolent, charitable or public
purpose as set forth under those statutes and rules.
      2.   Permits issued under this subsection E shall only authorize the sale
of beer and/or wine, and shall be limited to only those alcoholic beverages
authorized to be sold by the Idaho State Police, Alcohol Beverage Control.
      3.   Before a permit is issued to any person or corporation by Latah
County under this section, the applicant must first furnish evidence to the
County Clerk's Office that a permit has been issued for the sale of alcoholic
beverages for a benevolent, charitable or public purpose by the State of Idaho,
Idaho State Police, Alcohol Beverage Control.
      4.   Permits issued under this subsection E shall only authorize the sale
of beer and/or wine for a period not to exceed three (3) consecutive days.
   F.   Permit Conditions:
      1.   Alcoholic beverage catering permittees shall sell and/or serve
alcoholic beverages in one location only. Such location shall be designated on
the permit issued. The permittee shall keep the permit posted in a conspicuous
place at the location for which the permit was issued.
      2.   Alcoholic beverage catering permit applicants shall be required to
show that they possess an active alcoholic beverage license in Latah County.
Permits issued under this section shall be limited to only those types of
alcoholic beverages which are authorized to be sold under the applicant's
active Latah County and State alcoholic beverage license.
      3.   An application for an alcoholic beverage catering permit shall be
filed with the County Clerk's Office upon a form supplied by said Clerk.
      4.   Any person who is the holder of an Idaho winery license shall also
be eligible to obtain an alcoholic beverage catering permit. Two (2) or more
wineries may use a winery's licensed premises to host an event under an
alcoholic beverage catering permit to serve and sell their respective wines at
that event.
   G.   Revocation Of Permit: The Board of County Commissioners shall have the
right, and does hereby retain the right, to revoke or cancel an alcoholic
beverage catering permit at any time for any violation of the provisions of
title 23 of the Idaho Code, or any of the provisions of this section.
   H.   Hours Of Sale: No person or corporation holding an alcoholic beverage
catering permit under this section shall sell, dispense, or give away any
alcoholic beverage between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and six o'clock
(6:00) A.M.
   I.   Penalties: See section
3-1-13 of this chapter. (Ord. 358, 4-9-2018, eff. 4-9-2018)
3-1-8: LENGTH OF LICENSE:
Unless another length of time is specified by the Board of County
Commissioners, all licenses granted under this chapter shall be granted by the
Board of County Commissioners annually on Latah County's renewal month which
will be in concurrence with the month that is determined by the Director of the
Idaho State Police by Administrative Rule, per Idaho Code section 23-908(1).
All licenses shall expire at one o'clock (1:00) A.M. on the first day of the
renewal month. A full year's license fee shall be collected for each license
issued. All fees shall be paid in advance. (Ord. 361, 4-30-2018, eff. 4-30-
2018)
3-1-9: RENEWAL:
Renewal of a license shall be on forms prescribed and furnished by the County
Clerk's Office. Renewal forms shall be submitted at least thirty (30) days
prior to the expiration of the current license. The required license fee and an
affidavit verifying that the information contained in the original application
is unchanged must accompany a renewal form. (Ord. 361, 4-30-2018, eff. 4-30-
2018)
3-1-10: LICENSE TRANSFER:
A license granted under this chapter may be transferred, but the transferee,
including any executor, administrator, or trustee in bankruptcy of the estate
of the retailer shall not be authorized to retail alcoholic beverages
thereunder until the transferee shall have filed under oath an application
therefore containing the same information required in an application for a
license, and if the transferee possesses the qualifications and none of the
disqualifications of a retailer as provided in title 23, Idaho Code, the
Commissioners shall approve such transfer and the Clerk shall amend the license
to reflect the transfer.
Transfer fees shall be as follows:
   A.   An application for transfer of a liquor by the drink license shall be
made to the County Clerk's Office, and a transfer fee of ninety three dollars
seventy five cents ($93.75) shall be paid at the time such application is made.
   B.   An application for transfer of any beer license shall be made to the
Clerk of the Board of County Commissioners, and a transfer fee of five dollars
($5.00) shall be paid at the time such application is made.
   C.   An application for transfer of any wine license shall be made to the
Clerk of the Board of County Commissioners, and a transfer fee of twenty
dollars ($20.00) shall be paid at the time such application is made. (Ord. 361,
4-30-2018, eff. 4-30-2018)
3-1-11: HOURS OF SALE:
No alcoholic beverages shall be sold, dispensed or given away in any place
licensed under this chapter between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and
six o'clock (6:00) A.M. However, any patron present on the licensed premises at
two o'clock (2:00) A.M., as provided herein, shall have a reasonable time not
to exceed thirty (30) minutes to consume any alcoholic beverage already served.
(Ord. 361, 4-30-2018, eff. 4-30-2018)
3-1-12: LICENSE CONDITIONS:
   A.   The licensee shall permit the sale of alcoholic beverages in one place
of business only. Such place of business shall be designated on the license
issued. The licensee shall keep the license posted in a conspicuous place in
the place of business for which the license was issued.
   B.   Retailers holding valid licenses for the retail sale of liquor may sell
wine for consumption on or off the licensed premises. Retailers holding a valid
on the premises wine license may sell wine for consumption on the premises
only. Retailers who do not possess a valid license for the retail sale of
liquor or retailers who do not have a valid on the premises wine license shall
not permit consumption of wine on the licensed premises and may sell the wine
only in its original unbroken container. Wine sold for consumption on or off
the licensed premises may be sold only during hours and on the days beer can be
sold. (Ord. 361, 4-30-2018, eff. 4-30-2018)
3-1-13: PENALTY:
   A.   Any person or corporation who violates the provisions of this chapter
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 361, 4-30-2018, eff. 4-30-2018; amd. 2018 Code)
   B.   In addition to the above penalty, any person or corporation who
violates any of the provisions of this chapter may be subject to revocation or
suspension of their license under this chapter. (Ord. 361, 4-30-2018, eff. 4-
30-2018)
TITLE 4
HEALTH, SANITATION AND ENVIRONMENT
CHAPTER 1
FARM OPERATIONS
SECTION:
4-1-1: Intent
4-1-2: Definitions
4-1-3: Operations Not Considered Nuisance
4-1-4: Hours And Days Of Operation
4-1-1: INTENT:
   A.   The intent of this chapter shall be to promote and enhance an
environment conducive to the preservation and growth of the farm industry in
Latah County.
   B.   This chapter is not intended to be construed as affecting, diminishing,
or compromising existing County ordinances, or State or Federal laws, rules or
regulations. (Ord. 117, 3-9-1993, eff. 3-14-1993)
4-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms shall have the following meanings in the context of this
chapter:
FARM: The land, improvements, machinery, and other physical assets used in the
commercial production of farm products.
FARM OPERATION: A condition or activity occurring on or about a farm as part
of, or in conjunction with, the commercial production of farm products. A "farm
operation" includes, but is not necessarily limited to: noise, odors, dust and
fumes associated with production; the operation of a roadside or farm market;
ground or aerial seeding, spraying, dusting, or other application activities;
the application of soil conditioners and other natural or manmade agricultural
chemicals; the employment and use of labor, the transport or relocation of farm
machinery or farm products; and all phenomena typically associated with such
conditions or activities.
FARM PRODUCT: Those plants and animals useful to humans. Such plants and
animals include, for example, forage and sod crops, grain and feed crops, dairy
and dairy products, poultry and poultry products, livestock, fruit, vegetables,
flowers, seeds, grass, trees, fish, apiaries, equine, and other products which
incorporate the use of food, feed, fiber or industrial feed stock.
GENERALLY ACCEPTED AGRICULTURAL MANAGEMENT PRACTICES: Best Management Practices
generally accepted and used in Latah County, as well as those practices defined
by the USDA, the Idaho State Department of Agriculture, the Soil Conservation
Service, and the recommendations of the Idaho State Cooperative Extension
service and agricultural trade organizations. Specifically excluded from this
definition is any act or practice which is contrary to local, State or Federal
rules, regulations or law. (Ord. 117, 3-9-1993, eff. 3-14-1993)
4-1-3: OPERATIONS NOT CONSIDERED NUISANCE:
A farm or farm operation shall not be considered a public or private nuisance
if it:
   A.   Conforms to generally accepted agricultural management practices; and
   B.   Is conducted or used according to generally accepted agricultural
management practices which have been adjusted to meet varying conditions such
as geographical location, weather, soil types and conditions, type of crop or
farm production, management systems, etc.; and
   C.   Existed before any changes in use or occupancy of neighboring land or
other land in the general area which is affected by the farm or farm operation,
or which the owners or occupants thereof are affected by the farm or farm
operation. (Ord. 117, 3-9-1993, eff. 3-14-1993)
4-1-4: HOURS AND DAYS OF OPERATION:
Farm operations shall not be restricted to any particular hours or days of the
week, but shall be scheduled and conducted according to generally accepted
agricultural management practices. (Ord. 117, 3-9-1993, eff. 3-14-1993)
CHAPTER 2
NOXIOUS WEEDS
SECTION:
4-2-1: Purpose
4-2-2: Definitions
4-2-3: County Enforcement Duties
4-2-4: County Authority
4-2-5: Weed Control Advisory Committee
4-2-6: Notice For Weed Control; Procedure; Costs
4-2-7: Landowner Duties And Rights
4-2-8: Designation Of Noxious Weeds And Action Plans
4-2-9: Unknown Plants And New Alien Species
4-2-10: Violations And Penalties
4-2-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to designate Latah County noxious weeds, legal
requirements, duties, and responsibilities of parties to which this chapter
applies, and to provide the statutory and financial means for the control of
Latah County noxious weeds. (Ord. 135, 6-13-1994)
4-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in and for purposes of this chapter, all definitions contained in Idaho
Code title 22, chapter 24, or its successor, are hereby adopted, unless
modified herein:
COUNTY: Latah County or its Board of County Commissioners (hereinafter called
"the Board").
COUNTY NOXIOUS WEED: Any plant having the potential to cause injury to public
health, crops, livestock, land or other property; and which is designated as
noxious by the Board.
NOXIOUS WEED FUND: The County Noxious Weed Fund, which is hereby created and
established and shall be maintained in the County and which shall be used
exclusively for the purpose of fulfilling the County's role in noxious weed
control. (Ord. 135, 6-13-1994; amd. 2018 Code)
4-2-3: COUNTY ENFORCEMENT DUTIES:
   A.   Weed Control Superintendent: The duty of enforcing this chapter and
carrying out its provisions is vested in the Board and its designated Weed
Control Superintendent.
   B.   Duties Of Superintendent: The Weed Control Superintendent shall:
      1.   Carry out the duties and responsibilities vested in the County under
this chapter and rules and regulations prescribed by the Board.
      2.   Establish and maintain a coordinated program for control of County
noxious weeds in the County.
      3.   Maintain liaison with the Board.
      4.   Manage and control operational and educational funds provided by the
Board.
      5.   Publish, between March 1 and April 30, in a newspaper of general
circulation within the County, a general notice for control of County noxious
weeds. The notice shall contain the list of County noxious weeds and identify
those known to be in the County, and shall stipulate the obligation to control.
Failure to publish the notice for control or serve individual notices herein
provided does not relieve any person from full compliance with this chapter and
regulations thereunder. Such publication shall be deemed legal and sufficient
notice.
      6.   Cause, whenever the County finds it necessary to secure more prompt
or definite control of County noxious weeds than is accomplished by the general
notice, individual notices on a form approved by the Board to be served upon
the landowner and where possible on the manager of the land giving specific
instructions when and how certain named County noxious weeds are to be
controlled. The individual notice shall also contain information concerning the
right to appeal. Individual notices shall be applicable only to the current
growing season.
      7.   Ensure that all money received under the provisions of this chapter
shall be deposited to the County Noxious Weed Fund. Said fund shall be
accounted for as prescribed by the County auditor, and disbursements from the
Noxious Weed Fund shall be made only for noxious weed control purposes.
      8.   The County Weed Superintendent is authorized and charged to:
         a.   Examine all land within the County where there are noxious weeds,
for the purpose of examining the property for compliance with the provisions of
this chapter, and then only in accordance with subsection
4-2-4C of this chapter.
         b.   Maintain records, compile data and submit such reports as the
Board may require.
         c.   Consult, advise, confer and provide direction on matters
pertaining to County noxious weeds and the most effective and most practical
methods of County noxious weed control.
         d.   Investigate or aid in the investigation and prosecution of any
violation of the provisions of this chapter, including serving of notices.
         e.   Meet certification requirements as prescribed by the Board. (Ord.
135, 6-13-1994)
         f.   Compile and keep current a list of such noxious weeds accurately
identified by both common and scientific name. (Ord. 135, 6-13-1994; amd. 2018
Code)
4-2-4: COUNTY AUTHORITY:
With respect to County designated noxious weeds, the Board, by and through its
Weed Control Superintendent, is authorized to perform all of those functions of
the State and/or the County listed in Idaho Code title 22, chapter 24, as said
statute exists on the effective date hereof or may be hereafter amended and
including, but not limited to, the following:
   A.   Investigate the subject of County noxious weeds.
   B.   Cooperate and enter into agreements with persons and with Federal,
State and County agencies in carrying out the Board's duties under this
chapter, and to conduct matters outside this County in the interest of County
noxious weed control.
   C.   Call and attend meetings and conferences dealing with the subject of
County noxious weeds.
   D.   Inspect and certify the County's crops, imports and exports to verify
freedom from County noxious weeds.
   E.   Perform such other acts as may be necessary or appropriate to the
administration of the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 135, 6-13-1994)
   F.   Permit modification of specific County noxious weed control
requirements in certain areas, after consulting with the landowner. (Ord. 135,
6-13-1994; amd. 2018 Code)
   G.   Temporarily designate a plant species to be a County noxious weed for
up to fifteen (15) months, after consultation with affected persons and
publication in a newspaper of general circulation serving the area of
infestation.
   H.   Have County noxious weeds controlled without cost to the landowner if
that is to the benefit of the County, without prejudice toward provisions of
this chapter relating to landowner responsibility to pay for costs of control.
(Ord. 135, 6-13-1994)
4-2-5: WEED CONTROL ADVISORY COMMITTEE:
   A.   Committee Established; Organization: Pursuant to Idaho Code title 22,
chapter 24, the Latah County Weed Control Advisory Committee is hereby
established. Said committee shall be organized and perform all duties with
respect to State and County designated noxious weeds set forth in Idaho Code
title 22, chapter 24, and this chapter.
   B.   Membership; Terms; Meetings: The Weed Control Advisory Committee shall
consist of not less than five (5) and not more than fifteen (15) members, who
shall serve a term of two (2) years. Said committee shall meet at least four
(4) times per year on such dates and times as the committee shall determine. At
least fifty percent (50%) of the members of the committee must be present to
constitute a quorum. All actions of the committee must be approved by a
majority of the committee members present and voting. (Ord. 135, 6-13-1994)
4-2-6: NOTICE FOR WEED CONTROL; PROCEDURE; COSTS:
   A.   Kinds Of Notices: Notices for control of County noxious weeds shall
consist of the following kinds:
      1.   A general notice for control of County noxious weeds to be published
in a newspaper of general circulation within the County.
      2.   Individual notices in a form prescribed by the Board.
   B.   Contents Of Individual Notices: Whenever the County finds it necessary
to secure more prompt or definite control of County noxious weeds than is
accomplished by the general notice, it shall cause individual notices to be
served upon the person or agency owning and controlling such land, giving
specific instructions when and how certain named weeds are to be controlled.
The individual notice shall also contain information concerning the right to
appeal. Individual notices shall be applicable only to the current growing
season.
   C.   Failure Of Owner To Control; Cost Of County Control: Whenever the owner
of any land on which County noxious weeds are present has neglected or failed
to initiate control as required pursuant to this chapter within five (5)
working days from receipt of an individual notice given pursuant to this
section, the County shall have proper control methods used on such land,
including necessary destruction of crops, and shall advise the owner of the
cost incurred in connection with such operation. The cost of any such control
on private land shall be at the expense of the owner. If unpaid for sixty (60)
days or longer, the amount of such expense shall become a lien upon the
property. Thereafter the lien shall be subject to collection by the County by
sale of the property in the same manner as for delinquent taxes. If the costs
have not been paid to the person that performed the work within sixty (60)
days, the County Commissioners may direct that suit be brought in a court of
competent jurisdiction for the unpaid charges. Nothing contained in this
section shall be construed to require satisfaction of the imposed obligation by
the sale of property or to bar the application of any other available remedy.
Amounts collected under this section shall be deposited to the County Noxious
Weed Fund.
   D.   Quarantine Of Infested Land: When it appears to the County Weed
Superintendent that upon any tract of land under County jurisdiction there is
an infestation of County noxious weeds beyond the ability of the owner of such
land to control, the Superintendent may quarantine such land and put into
immediate operation the necessary means for the control of such County noxious
weeds including necessary destruction of crops. The Superintendent shall, prior
to the entry upon such land, serve individual notice on the owner thereof of
such quarantine and of the date of the proposed entry, and shall also advise
the same persons of the completion of the control operation and the cost
thereof. If the owner is not known or readily available, notice shall be deemed
satisfied after eight (8) days from postmark of registered mail to the address
as shown on the assessment roll of the County. (Ord. 135, 6-13-1994)
4-2-7: LANDOWNER DUTIES AND RIGHTS:
   A.   Duties And Responsibilities:
      1.   It shall be the duty and responsibility of all landowners to control
County noxious weeds on their land and property, in accordance with this
chapter.
      2.   The cost of controlling County noxious weeds shall be the obligation
of the landowner. (Ord. 135, 6-13-1994)
      3.   Noxious weed control must be for prevention, eradication,
rehabilitation, control or containment efforts. However, areas may be modified
from the eradication requirement if the landowner is a participant in a County-
approved weed management plan or County-approved cooperative weed management
area. (Ord. 135, 6-13-1994; amd. 2018 Code)
      4.   The landowner shall reimburse the County for work done by the County
because of the landowner's failure to comply with this chapter.
      5.   The landowner shall not move any article that is infested with
County noxious weeds from the landowner's premises until it is treated in
accordance with the applicable regulations, or if quarantine applies, in
accordance with the written permission of the Board or its designee.
   B.   Rights:
      1.   Any landowner who is dissatisfied with the control measures used or
the manner in which control is conducted upon his property, or with the amount
of any charge by the County for control work or for the purchase of materials
or use of equipment, may, within thirty (30) days after being advised of the
amount of the charge, file a protest with the Clerk of the Board.
      2.   Any person served with an individual notice may, within two (2) days
of receipt of the notice, appeal to the Board. A hearing shall be set by the
Board within fifteen (15) days after receipt of notice of the appeal. Notice of
the hearing shall be sent by the Clerk of the Board to the appellant. (Ord.
135, 6-13-1994)
4-2-8: DESIGNATION OF NOXIOUS WEEDS AND ACTION PLANS:
   A.   Request For Noxious Weed Designation: Any County resident may submit to
the Board a request for designation of a species as a County noxious weed. Such
requests shall be submitted in writing to the County Weed Superintendent and
must include reasons and a proposed plan for County action on such species. All
non-native plant species reliably reported to exist in the County, and all
requests for County noxious weed designation, shall be considered by the Weed
Control Advisory Committee for recommendation to the Commissioners within six
(6) months of the request. Records of all such considerations must be
maintained on permanent file by the Board. (Ord. 135, 6-13-1994)
   B.   Designation By Board Resolution: Every species for which County noxious
weed designation is required or deemed feasible, including species considered
for temporary designation, shall, except as otherwise herein provided, be
designated a County noxious weed only upon recommendation from the County Weed
Control Advisory Committee and subsequent approval by resolution of the Board.
Designated County noxious weeds under this chapter are subject to change in
designation upon review by the County Weed Control Advisory Committee and
subsequent action of the Board, except as otherwise herein provided. County
noxious weeds shall be so designated only upon meeting certain criteria, and
shall be listed by both common and scientific names. Any species so designated
shall automatically and immediately cease to be so designated if and when that
species is designated noxious under Idaho Code. (Ord. 135, 6-13-1994; amd. 2018
Code)
4-2-9: UNKNOWN PLANTS AND NEW ALIEN SPECIES:
Since serious weeds often become established because their noxious potential is
not recognized until they have spread beyond possibility of eradication,
protection of Latah County against unrecognized threats shall include the
following:
   A.   Unknown Plants: No plant, including seed or other propagules, of any
alien species shall be grown in, transported within, or admitted into Latah
County without accurate taxonomic identification as to species by either Latin
name or by common name listed in locally available standard reference books.
All unknown plants are hereby designated County noxious weeds for quarantine
purposes only, and submitted to a County designated authority for
identification. If such plants are identified in accordance with this chapter
to the satisfaction of the Board, the noxious status of such plants is no
longer based on unknown status and is determined by that identification. (Ord.
135, 6-13-1994)
   B.   New Alien Species: Any plant species found in the County, and that has
not been documented to previously exist in the County, shall be automatically
and immediately designated a County noxious weed on a temporary basis. Said
temporary designation shall be reviewed by the Board within six (6) months to
determine whether such designation should be made permanent. Such designation
may be withdrawn or amended by the Board, after further investigation and
completion of the Noxious Weed Review and Decision Record. (Ord. 135, 6-13-
1994; amd. 2018 Code)
4-2-10: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Violations; Penalty: Any person knowing of the existence of any County
noxious weeds on lands owned or controlled by him, who fails to control such
weeds in accordance with this chapter or any person who intrudes upon any land
under quarantine or who moves or causes to be moved any article covered by this
chapter except as provided or who prevents or threatens to prevent entry upon
land as provided in this chapter, or who interferes with the carrying out of
the provisions of this chapter or who violates any of the provisions of this
chapter, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code for each violation.
   B.   Civil Or Criminal Action: The Board, by and through the County
Prosecuting Attorney, may bring an appropriate civil or criminal action to
enforce the provisions of this chapter, and the penalty provided for under this
section. (Ord. 135, 6-13-1994; amd. 2018 Code)
CHAPTER 3
SOLID WASTE COLLECTION SYSTEM
SECTION:
4-3-1: Short Title
4-3-2: Authority And Purpose
4-3-3: Scope
4-3-4: Definitions
4-3-5: Solid Waste Coordinator
4-3-6: Contract Authorization
4-3-7: Licensing Of Collectors
4-3-8: Collection Of Solid Waste
4-3-9: Special Services
4-3-10: Container Placement For Pick Up And Storage
4-3-11: Hazardous Materials
4-3-12: Bulky Waste And Recycling Programs
4-3-13: Landfills And Other Solid Waste Facilities
4-3-14: Violation; Penalties
4-3-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as and may be cited as the LATAH COUNTY SOLID WASTE
ORDINANCE. (Ord. 324, 10-28-2015)
4-3-2: AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to establish a dependable, economical and
environmentally safe solid waste disposal system in Latah County with waste
reduction as a main goal, pursuant to the authority of and in compliance with
Idaho Code title 31, chapter 44; title 39, chapter 65; and title 39, chapter
74; and the "Solid Waste Management Rules" in IDAPA section 58.01.06. (Ord.
324, 10-28-2015)
4-3-3: SCOPE:
This chapter shall apply to all lands and premises in Latah County, except
those located within the corporate limits of any city that is operating and
maintaining a solid waste disposal system in compliance with Idaho law. (Ord.
324, 10-28-2015)
4-3-4: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions apply generally to the provisions of this chapter.
Additional definitions related to the County Waste Tire Management Plan may be
found in article D of this chapter.
ACCUMULATION: Act or state of collection of materials resulting in a mass
amount, continuously growing in size and volume.
ASBESTOS: A fibrous mineral, either amphibole or chrysotile, formerly used for
making incombustible or fireproof articles. Hazardous waste specified disposal
requirements and disposal fees shall apply.
ASHES: The residue from the burning of wood, coal, coke or other combustible
materials.
BAGS: See definition of containers.
BOARD: The Board of Commissioners of Latah County, Idaho.
BULKY WASTE: Items weighing over sixty (60) pounds and any materials over four
feet (4') in length, including, but not limited to, stoves, refrigerators,
water tanks, washing machines, furniture, appliances, bedsprings and
mattresses, carpets, demolition, commercial, industrial motor vehicle bodies/
metal parts, dirt, wood, wire, tires, rock, cement, concrete, sheetrock, sod,
loose branches and large dead animals (over 10 pounds).
BULKY WASTE SITE: A specified location, open on a limited schedule and
specified waste commodities accepted throughout the year and available to rural
County/rural City residents.
BUNDLE: Small trees, shrub and brush trimmings or newspapers and magazines
securely tied together forming an easily handled package not exceeding four
feet (4') in length or thirty five (35) pounds in weight.
BURNING: See section
4-3A-5 of this chapter.
BUSINESS: An individual, partnership, association, corporation, company, trust,
firm, estate, joint venture, unit, agent, public agency, industry, or other
legal entity operating as a self-contained independent enterprise, such as a
beauty shop, retail shop, professional office, etc.
CFC APPLIANCE: Appliance that contains chlorofluorocarbons.
CARRYOUT SERVICE: Services by which contractor's employees enter a residential
customer's property to convey waste and recyclable materials to the collection
vehicle. This service may include additional fees.
CITY: An incorporated Municipality under title 50 of the Idaho Code.
COLLECTION UNIT: A Latah County resident and/or agent who generates waste and
requires collection and disposal of that waste from a place of residence or
place of business located within rural Latah County.
   Business Unit: Each space occupied by an individual business. A business
shall be deemed occupied when either occupied or producing solid waste.
   Residential Unit: A dwelling within the County of Latah occupied by a person
or group of persons. A residential unit shall be deemed occupied when either
occupied or producing solid waste. Each unit within an apartment, condominium
or mobile home park dwelling shall be treated as an individual residential
unit.
COLLECTION VEHICLE: A mobile collection vehicle having the capacity sufficient
to receive and dispose of all household waste deposited at rural container
sites or at individual collection units for disposal at a disposal site.
COLLECTOR: The person holding a license, franchise or contract with the County,
and/or employed by the County and thereby authorized as a collector or
designated by the County to collect, handle, transport and dispose of solid
waste.
COMPOSTING: A mixture of various decaying organic substances as dead leaves or
manure used for fertilizing soil. The biological decomposition of organic or
natural yard waste under controlled conditions.
CONTAINERS:
   Bags: Plastic sacks designed to store solid waste with sufficient wall
strength to maintain physical integrity when lifted by the top. Total weight of
bag and its contents shall not exceed thirty five (35) pounds for collection
services.
   Compactor Container: A receptacle designed to compact solid waste and to be
moved by mechanical means so that its contents can be emptied.
   Manual Container (Garbage Can): A receptacle with a capacity of greater than
twenty (20) gallons, but not more than thirty six (36) gallons tapered so that
it is larger at the top than at the bottom, made of metal, plastic, or
fiberglass having a tight fitting lid which completely covers the top to the
container, rodentproof and not exceeding sixty (60) pounds of gross loaded
weight and having handles of adequate strength for lifting.
   Mechanical Container: A receptacle designed for loose solid waste to be
lifted by mechanical means so that its contents can be emptied.
   Roll Cart Container: A receptacle of various sizes, shapes and colors,
generally constructed of medium or high density polyethylene (MDPE/HDPE)
plastic resin and utilized for the County's residential solid waste collection.
Roll cart containers normally have handles, wheels and permanently attached
closeable lids. Roll cart containers are universally designed to allow service
by semiautomated and fully automated mechanical lifting devices.
CONTAINMENT STRUCTURES: Any structure, framework or fence constructed or
erected for the purpose of housing or retaining any containers as defined
herein.
CONTRACT: An exclusive contract/privilege granted by Latah County to collect,
handle, dispose or recycle solid waste.
CONTRACTOR: The person, firm or corporation awarded an exclusive contract to
collect, handle, transport, dispose, recycle or recover solid waste.
COORDINATOR: A supervisor or such other person designated by the Board.
COUNTY: Refers to Latah County.
CUSTOMER: A waste generator or producer served by the Latah County collection
system.
DISPOSAL: Discharge, deposit, injecting, dumping, spilling, leaking, leaching,
migration, or placing of any solid waste into or on any land or water so that
such solid waste or any constituent thereof may enter the environment or be
emitted into the air or discharged into any waters including groundwater, or
disposing of solid waste in a disposal site; disposal of solid waste for
resource recovery or transportation to another site or facility.
DISPOSAL SITE (DUMP): A waste facility or site where solid waste is disposed
of, reduced or recovered, such as sanitary landfills, transfer stations,
incinerators and resource recovery facilities which are licensed or approved to
receive for processing or final disposal of solid waste by all governmental
bodies and agencies having jurisdiction.
E-WASTE: Electronic waste such as TVs, laptops, monitors, cpu's, towers or any
other electronic item with hazardous material inside. Items not included would
be fax machines, telephones, radios, copiers, keyboards and power cords.
EQUIPMENT: Equipment used by a franchisee within the County for the collection
or disposal of solid waste.
EXEMPTION: A waiver of the solid waste fee, if approved by the Latah County
Board of County Commissioners or the Solid Waste Coordinator.
FRANCHISEE: A licensed and insured business that provides service to Latah
County. Also see definition of contractor.
GARBAGE: Any waste consisting of putrescible animal and vegetable material
resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of food,
including waste materials from households, markets, storage facilities,
handling and sale of produce and other food products. Any matter that is no
longer wanted or needed; trash.
GENERATOR: Any person, business or other entity, which produces solid waste,
recyclables, e-waste, tires, appliances, non-MSW waste, yard waste and
hazardous waste within the collection area.
HAZARDOUS WASTE: Any chemical, compound, mixture, substance, or article which
is designated by the United States Environmental Protection Agency or other
appropriate agency of the Federal government or State of Idaho, to be
"hazardous" as that term is defined by or pursuant to law.
HAZARDOUS WASTE, CONDITIONALLY EXEMPT: Small quantities of hazardous waste
generated in the household waste stream, acceptable by EPA standards for
disposal in MSW landfills because of its quantity, concentration and
characteristics.
HAZARDOUS WASTE GENERATOR: Any resident of a residential or business unit in
the Latah collection area.
HOUSEHOLD WASTE: Any solid waste, including kitchen wastes, and trash derived
from households; including single and multiple residences, hotels, and motels,
bunkhouses, ranger stations, crew quarters, campgrounds, picnic grounds and day
use recreation areas which fits into a bag, manual container or bundle less
than four feet (4') in length; does not include bulky, infectious, or hazardous
waste, or any type of solid waste that is not normally collected by the
franchisee at residential or business units on individual collection routes.
INFECTIOUS WASTE: Any material, chemical, compound, mixture, substance or
article known to be infectious by the producer or which is designated by the
United States Environmental Protection Agency or other appropriate agency of
the Federal government or the State of Idaho to be "infectious" as that term is
commonly defined or defined by or pursuant to law.
INSPECTOR: The authorized employee or agent having the duty of enforcement of
ordinances, regulations, and laws.
LANDFILL: An area of land or excavation in which solid wastes are placed for
permanent disposal and that is not a land application unit, surface
impoundment, injection well or waste pile.
LIQUID WASTE: Any waste material that is determined to contain free liquids as
described in Test Methods for Evaluating Solid Wastes, Physical/Chemical
Methods, Method 9095 (EPA Pub. no. SW-846).
LOOSE YARDAGE (OVERFLOW): Any solid waste placed beside, in the area of, or
over the top of a container.
MSW WASTE: All putrescible and nonputrescible solid and semisolid wastes,
including, but not limited to, garbage, rubbish, ashes, industrial wastes,
swill, demolition and construction wastes, abandoned vehicles or parts thereof
and discarded commodities.
NON-MSW WASTE: Solid waste, largely inert waste, resulting from the demolition
or razing of buildings, roads and other manmade structures.
PREMISES: Land and all buildings and structures thereon, but not excluding by
terms of enumeration, single- or multiple- family dwellings, rooming houses,
apartment houses, hospitals, convalescent and nursing homes, hotels and motels,
restaurants, drive-in establishments, schools (kindergartens, academic, trade,
or industrial), mobile home parks, and any other place of habitation, office,
shop or establishment or place of conducting a business, trade or occupation.
PRODUCER: Residential unit or business unit as defined herein.
PUTRESCIBLE WASTE: Solid waste which has the capacity to become rotten or foul.
RECYCLING: The reclamation of solid waste and its subsequent introduction into
the industrial process by which the material is transformed into a new product
in such a manner that the original identity as a product is lost.
RESIDENT: Every person in possession, charge, custody or control of any
premises where solid waste is created or accumulated, whether the property
owner or lessee.
RESOURCE RECOVERY: The process, including recycling, of obtaining useful
material or energy resources from solid waste.
ROADWAY: That portion of right-of-way or private property adjacent to the
traveled portion of the County road or State highway right-of-way used for the
placement of all solid waste containers on collection days.
SOLID WASTE: Any garbage or refuse, sludge from a wastewater treatment plant,
water supply treatment plant, or air pollution control facility and other
discarded material including solid, liquid, semisolid, or contained gaseous
material resulting from industrial, commercial, mining, and agricultural
operations and from household, business or community activities, but does not
include solid or dissolved materials in domestic sewage, or solid or dissolved
materials in irrigation return flows or industrial discharges that are point
sources subject to permit under Federal law, or source, special nuclear, or
byproduct material as defined in the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended.
TRANSFER STATION: A facility or building or location where solid waste is
transferred from one container to another for hauling to another location.
WASTE REDUCTION: The diversion of any portion of the waste stream for
recycling, energy recovery, composting, or any other lawful process for the
purpose of reducing the volume of the waste stream. (Ord. 324, 10-28-2015; amd.
2018 Code)
4-3-5: SOLID WASTE COORDINATOR:
   A.   The Board shall have authority to appoint a Solid Waste Coordinator and
to employ such additional persons as it shall deem necessary to administrator
the solid waste disposal and collection system, recycling, waste reduction
program and education program.
   B.   All salaries paid from the Solid Waste Fund shall be determined and
fixed by the Board.
   C.   All duties and responsibilities of the Solid Waste Coordinator shall be
determined and fixed by the Board. (Ord. 324, 10-28-2015)
4-3-6: CONTRACT AUTHORIZATION:
   A.   The County may contract for the collection, removal and disposal of
solid waste and recyclable materials, the operation and maintenance of rural
container sites, designated landfill sites or any combination thereof. No
contract shall exceed ten (10) years' duration.
   B.   The County may contract with cities in Latah County for the purpose of
permitting such cities to join the County solid waste collection and/or
disposal system or any combination of the same. (Ord. 324, 10-28-2015)
4-3-7: LICENSING OF COLLECTORS:
The Board shall be the sole authority to license, franchise, contract for, or
perform all services pertaining to the collection and disposal of solid waste,
and to establish reasonable fees for licenses, and may enter into agreements
with one or more collectors or governmental entities and establish reasonable
rules and regulations governing the conduct and operation of such collectors.
(Ord. 324, 10-28-2015)
4-3-8: COLLECTION OF SOLID WASTE:
   A.   There is hereby established a system for the collection of solid waste
in Latah County.
   B.   The Board may establish regular collection schedules for the
collection, transportation and disposal of solid waste from all premises in
rural Latah County, provided that the owners/occupiers of such premises comply
with the provisions of this chapter, and all rules and regulations adopted by
the Board.
   C.   It shall be the duty of the persons served by the collector at all
times to keep, or cause to be kept, containers, as defined herein, and to
deposit or cause to be deposited therein all solid waste, except as otherwise
provided.
   D.   All containers shall be: 1) equipped with close fitting covers, 2)
securely tied, or 3) otherwise closed to prevent the contents from being blown
by the wind, scattered by animals, or otherwise littered.
   E.   Solid waste or recyclable materials shall not be compacted in a
container to the extent of obstructing free and easy removal from the
container.
   F.   All persons shall restrain their animals from spreading solid waste or
recyclable materials left for collection or from interfering with pick up
personnel during collection. Owners of animals shall be held responsible for
any cleanup required from the actions of their animals.
   G.   All solid waste, before being placed or deposited in sanitary
containers for collection, shall have drained from it all free liquids and may
be wrapped and placed in paper or plastic bags.
   H.   Tree trimmings, hedge clippings and similar materials shall be cut to a
length not to exceed four feet (4') or thirty five (35) pounds in weight and
securely tied in bundles before being deposited for collection.
   I.   Grass clippings, leaves, and garden debris, except sod, soil, and
rocks, may be placed in plastic bags or other similar covered and tied
containers not exceeding thirty five (35) pounds in weight.
   J.   At premises wherein large accumulations of solid waste occur, the
resident or owner of such premises may place bags in mechanical containers,
provided either by such person or the collector. All such containers shall be
watertight, cleaned on a regular basis, closed at all times and so constructed
as to have lids or covers easily managed and operated. (Ord. 324, 10-28-2015)
4-3-9: SPECIAL SERVICES:
The Board reserves the right to, and may at its option, provide for a voluntary
collection system for recyclables, which may include the separation of
recyclable materials from other solid waste and require the deposit thereof in
separate containers. The Board may also issue further regulations for the
placement and disposal of recyclable materials. (Ord. 324, 10-28-2015)
4-3-10: CONTAINER PLACEMENT FOR PICK UP AND STORAGE:
   A.   All containers shall be placed for collection outside of all buildings
and shall be placed as close as reasonably possible to the County or State
highway right-of-way without obstructing parking areas or pedestrian travel.
When construction work is being performed in the right-of-way, containers, bags
or bundles shall be placed as close as possible to an access point for the
collection vehicle.
   B.   All containers shall be replaced, upright where found, with lids on
them. Containers and lids shall not be placed or thrown on streets, alleys,
highways, or on adjoining property. The collector shall not permit receptacles
to be thrown from the truck to the pavement or parkway nor in any other way
permit damage to occur by rough or improper handling thereof. Private property,
public streets, alleys, or ways about the containers and the collection truck
shall be the responsibility of the collector to keep clean, and the collector
shall be responsible for the removal of such spillage, but shall not be
responsible for cleaning up conditions created by the residents around such
containers.
   C.   If containers are stored in unlocked, fenced yards, such containers
will be collected only if the containers are clearly visible to the collector
and not in excess of ten feet (10') from the side of the street or alley from
which collection is made. The producer may contract with the collector for
carry out collection services for other locations upon payment of additional
fees as determined by mutual agreement with the collector.
   D.   If there is an animal which appears to be unfriendly within a fenced
area, the collector shall not be required to enter the area, and the resident
or owner shall place the container outside the fence, clearly visible to the
collector and not in excess of ten feet (10') from the side of the street or
alley from which collection is made.
   E.   At other than commercial and alley pick up, all containers shall be
removed from public ways within twenty four (24) hours after collection is
completed. (Ord. 324, 10-28-2015)
4-3-11: HAZARDOUS MATERIALS:
   A.   Disposal Restrictions: The collector shall not collect or transport
hazardous or infectious materials to the disposal site, except as provided
herein. All requests for collection of such materials shall be referred
directly to the collector, who shall obtain such permits and licenses for such
transportation, collection and disposal as may be required by law. Certain
hazardous wastes may be disposed of during the periodic household hazardous
waste collection day(s), when such day(s) are announced by the collector.
   B.   Emergency: In case of a hazardous materials emergency, the Latah County
Emergency Operations Plan will be implemented.
      EMERGENCY CONTACT NOTIFICATION SYSTEM
      Moscow Fire Department/University of Idaho Hazardous Materials Team, 911.
      The emergency medical services dispatcher will notify the proper
responders.
(Ord. 324, 10-28-2015)
4-3-12: BULKY WASTE AND RECYCLING PROGRAMS:
   A.   Bulky Waste: Bulky waste will be controlled and sites will be open on a
schedule to be established by the Board. The bulky waste sites will also
provide a means of disposal for inert/demolition waste, passenger vehicle tires
or large household appliances like washers/dryers, refrigerators and freezers.
The sites may schedule special events or programs for Latah County residents.
The sites will not accept e-waste or hazardous waste. Commercial use of the
bulky waste sites is prohibited. Only waste produced from individual residences
and designated small businesses located in rural Latah County and rural cities
which have entered into an agreement with Latah County for the use of said
sites shall be permitted to dispose of waste at said sites. City of Moscow
residents are currently excluded from Latah County Bulky Waste Program. It
shall be unlawful for any person to dispose of solid waste at any bulky waste
site at any other time than during the established operating hours.
   B.   Rural Recycling Program: Rural Recycling Program shall consist of self-
serve rural recycling drop off boxes with twenty four (24) hour availability
throughout Latah County for deposit of specified recyclables only as the boxes
are labeled. The box locations and commodities accepted are subject to change.
The small box openings are to prevent garbage contamination. Guidelines for
recycling will be posted at the recycling site. Rinse containers and discard
all lids (unrecyclable). (Ord. 324, 10-28-2015)
4-3-13: LANDFILLS AND OTHER SOLID WASTE FACILITIES:
   A.   Designated County Landfills:
      1.   For the protection and preservation of the safety, health and
general welfare of the inhabitants of the County, there shall be established at
such places and locations as the Board may, from time to time, designate,
locations for the establishment and operation of designated County landfills.
      2.   All landfill sites shall be chosen with regard to Federal landfill
sighting criteria, State and County regulations, and in cooperation with the
North Central Health District and the Idaho Division of Environmental Quality.
      3.   The Board may make and enforce rules and regulations governing the
operation and maintenance of landfills.
      4.   Landfills shall be maintained and operated in accordance with
applicable Federal, State and local law.
   B.   Other Facilities: Other solid waste facilities, including transfer
stations, incinerators, commercial or community composting facilities,
recycling, and processing or treatment facilities must meet applicable
regulations promulgated by the State, North Central Health District, and the
County. (Ord. 324, 10-28-2015)
4-3-14: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
   A.   Misdemeanor; Penalty: Violation of any provision of this chapter shall
be a misdemeanor, punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code, in addition to restitution for the costs of recovery and
proper disposal of any wastes unlawfully disposed of. (Ord. 324, 10-28-2015;
amd. 2018 Code)
   B.   Community Service: Community service shall be the preferred alternative
punishment, in lieu of incarceration, for first offenders.
   C.   Continuing Violation Declared Nuisance: A continuing violation of any
such provision is hereby declared to be a public nuisance.
   D.   Action In Court: Latah County reserves the right to bring an action in
any court of competent jurisdiction to enjoin any acts or practices prohibited
by this chapter and to enforce compliance with this chapter, pursuant to Idaho
Code section 31-4406 or its successor. (Ord. 324, 10-28-2015)
ARTICLE A. MANDATORY USE OF SYSTEM; UNLAWFUL DISPOSAL
SECTION:
4-3A-1: Mandatory Use Of System
4-3A-2: Unlawful Disposal Or Transportation Of Solid Waste
4-3A-3: Land Spreading Disposal And Storage Piles
4-3A-4: Animal And Game Waste; Permit
4-3A-5: Open Burning; Permit
4-3A-1: MANDATORY USE OF SYSTEM:
   A.   Use Of County System: All solid waste generated in or transported to
Latah County must be disposed of in the County solid waste disposal system as
herein provided.
   B.   Disposal Requirements: Solid waste must be disposed of:
      1.   By depositing the solid waste at the designated rural container
sites, subject to the limitations on use of designated rural container sites
herein provided; or
      2.   By contracting with a collector for the collection and disposal of
the solid waste; or
      3.   By depositing solid waste at a designated landfill or waste
processing facility; or
      4.   By depositing the solid waste at a designated recycle resource
recovery center; or
      5.   By disposing of the solid waste pursuant to a special permit as
herein provided.
   C.   Industrial Waste And Bulky Items: Industrial waste and bulky items
shall be disposed of by dumping the same at a designated landfill or waste
processing facility.
   D.   Hazardous Materials: Hazardous materials shall be disposed of in
accordance with the rules, regulations and directives of the North Central
District Health Department of the Idaho Department of Health and Welfare, all
Federal and State hazardous waste regulations; the Federal Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) and the rules, regulations and directives
of the Idaho Department of Health and Welfare, Division of Environmental
Quality. (Ord. 324, 10-28-2015)
4-3A-2: UNLAWFUL DISPOSAL OR TRANSPORTATION OF SOLID WASTE:
   A.   Special Permit Required: It shall be unlawful for any person in Latah
County to bury, dump, throw, discard, deposit or in any other manner dispose of
solid waste other than into the Latah County solid waste disposal system
without first obtaining a permit under the specific provisions for special
permits, provided that nothing herein shall be constructed to prevent the
maintenance of a compost pile for fertilization purposes or the use of solid
waste for fuel in lawful stoves, furnaces or fireplaces or the use of solid
waste for feed for animals or the use of solid waste for fertilization, or the
use of outdoor fireplaces, barbecue pits, or grills, in preparing food, or for
recreational purposes, or giving or selling that portion of the solid waste
stream that is recyclable, provided the same does not contribute or result in
danger to public health, or the creation or existence of a nuisance or safety
hazard, or the pollution of water or air.
   B.   Persons Hauling To Sites: Nothing herein shall be deemed as prohibiting
any person from hauling solid waste or recyclable materials to sites designated
by the County for receiving such materials, and provided, further, that such
person shall not thereby be relieved of payment of any fees or charges required
therefor, and provided further that all solid waste or recyclable material
shall be secured in such manner that it will not litter any public or private
property.
   C.   Removal Of Waste From Containers: It shall be unlawful for any person,
other than a collector, to remove solid waste from rural containers or from
collection containers placed on individual or special collection routes.
   D.   Hauling Waste; Canvas Top Required: No person shall transport solid
waste over public highways or roads of Latah County unless such vehicle is
equipped with a canvas top or other device effective to prevent the waste from
being strewn or littered about the highway or roads.
   E.   Disposal From Outside County: No person, contractor, franchisee,
commercial business, unit of government or other agency or party shall dispose
of solid waste produced or generated outside of Latah County at the designated
Latah County landfill or landfills without prior written approval from the
Board.
   F.   Collector For Latah County: It shall be unlawful for any person to
engage in the business of collecting, handling, transporting, hauling,
conveying, or in any manner disposing of any solid waste in Latah County unless
and until such person is a collector for Latah County as herein defined, except
that portion of the waste stream that includes recyclables and resource
recovery materials.
   G.   Littering Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to throw,
discard, deposit or litter any solid waste upon any private or public property
or right-of-way in Latah County, or to allow any solid waste to become
deposited on or carried by wind, water or air upon any private or public
property or right-of-way in Latah County.
   H.   Endangering Public Health; Water Or Air Pollution: It shall be unlawful
for any person to discard, deposit or litter any solid waste on their property
that will contribute or result in danger to public health or the creation or
existence of a nuisance or safety hazard, or the pollution of water or air.
(Ord. 324, 10-28-2015)
4-3A-3: LAND SPREADING DISPOSAL AND STORAGE PILES:
Seasonal or temporary storage of agricultural or other solid wastes in piles
can be an acceptable practice, provided that the pile is adequately protected
from surface runoff, appropriate measures are taken to prevent odors, control
vermin and insects, and other measures are taken as may be specified by the
Solid Waste Department, North Central District Health Department of Idaho,
Health and Welfare Department and Division of Environmental Quality to protect
the public health. (Ord. 324, 10-28-2015)
4-3A-4: ANIMAL AND GAME WASTE; PERMIT:
Animal and game waste in Latah County are classified as MSW waste. It shall be
unlawful for any person in Latah County to bury, dump, throw, discard, deposit
or in any other manner dispose of animal and game waste other than into the
Latah County solid waste disposal system, hereby established, without first
obtaining a permit under the specific provisions for special permits herein.
(Ord. 324, 10-28-2015)
4-3A-5: OPEN BURNING; PERMIT:
The burning of natural material is the only burning allowed in Latah County. A
permit must be obtained from the appropriate forest protection district.
Burning is not permitted between May 10 and October 20. It shall be unlawful
for any person to burn the following materials in the open: garbage, wastes at
mills, demolition debris, oil, grease or asphalt, railroad ties, plastics, junk
motor vehicles, telephone poles, asphalt materials, commercial or industrial
waste, rubber materials, lumber or fence posts treated with any chemicals,
heavy petroleum products, dead animals, tar or tar paper, pathogenic wastes,
tires, paints, hazardous wastes, salvage or insulated wire. (Ord. 324, 10-28-
2015)
ARTICLE B. FUNDING OF MAINTENANCE AND OPERATION
SECTION:
4-3B-1: Establishment Of Rates And Fees
4-3B-2: Billing Procedures
4-3B-3: Payments
4-3B-4: Circuit Breakers
4-3B-5: Exemptions
4-3B-1: ESTABLISHMENT OF RATES AND FEES:
   A.   The Board shall have sole authority to establish rates and fees for the
collection, transportation, processing and disposal of all rural solid waste
and the solid waste of any incorporated entity that enters into contracts with
the County for solid waste services. At least annually, the Board of
Commissioners will adopt a resolution to include the upcoming year of all
residential fees, commercial fees, circuit breaker credits and any program or
billing changes.
   B.   The maintenance and operation of the rural solid waste collection
system and programs shall be funded by the assessment and collection of a fee
imposed upon each and every premises in Latah County, except those located
within the corporate limits of any city that is operating and maintaining a
solid waste disposal system in compliance with Idaho law. (Ord. 324, 10-28-
2015)
4-3B-2: BILLING PROCEDURES:
   A.   Payment Of Fees; Exception: All rural Latah County property owners are
required to pay solid waste fees, except those granted exemption pursuant to
the criteria set forth in subsection
4-3B-1B of this article. Failure to timely pay such fees may result in
discontinuance of collection services until such fees are paid at the
discretion of the Board of Commissioners.
   B.   Quarterly Billings: Service fees are billed quarterly and all payments
will be due on the fifteenth of the last month of each quarter being March,
June, September and December. Bills will be mailed or emailed the last two (2)
weeks of March, June, September and December. To avoid late fees, all fees due
must be paid by the fifteenth day of the last month of each quarter.
   C.   Delinquencies; Collection: If any account is more than ninety (90) days
delinquent on the first of August, the property owner will be notified that if
the balance owing is not paid by a certain date, the balance due will be
certified to the Treasurer for collection with the owner's Property Taxes,
pursuant to Idaho Code section 31-870. The Board of County Commissioners will
notify the County Treasurer of those accounts. The delinquent amounts owing for
past year(s) and for the calendar year with accumulated late fees and the
certified mailing fee will be attached to the Property Taxes. The upcoming year
will be directly billed to the rate payer. It will not be automatically billed
on the taxes. (Ord. 324, 10-28-2015)
4-3B-3: PAYMENTS:
   A.   Maintenance And Operation Fees: Payment of the fees for maintenance and
operation of the system shall be compulsory upon all premises within the County
excluding those located within the corporate limits of any city that is
operating and maintaining a solid waste disposal system in compliance with
Idaho law.
   B.   Solid Waste Fund: All fees collected shall be placed in a special fund
to be known as the Solid Waste Fund, and all expenses of the County in the
establishment and operation of the solid waste system shall be paid there so
long as funds are available. Any funds from fees collected for solid waste
service remaining therein at the end of each fiscal year shall be retained in
the Solid Waste Fund. In the event the funds in the Solid Waste Fund are at any
time insufficient to maintain and operate the system, such expenses may be paid
by order of the Board from current revenues of the County in accordance with
Idaho Code section 31-4404.
   C.   Payment Options: Payments may be submitted at any time by check, cash,
credit/debit card or automatic electronic payments as follows:
      1.   Checks/money orders may be received by mail or hand delivered to the
office or drop box located in the Latah County Courthouse parking lot.
      2.   Cash payments must be paid in the office to be receipted at the time
of payment.
      3.   Credit/debit card payments may be made online or paid in the office.
Credit/debit cards will be assessed a bank convenience fee.
      4.   Electronic payments will be processed on the 15th of each month or
on the next business day if the 15th is on a holiday or weekend. To be eligible
for electronic payments, customers must sign up with the Solid Waste
Department. (Ord. 324, 10-28-2015)
4-3B-4: CIRCUIT BREAKERS:
The reduction will not exceed the thirty five (35) gallon annual cart fee and
is applied to the service level provided. The fee schedule is adopted annually
by the Board of Latah County Commissioners. A sliding scale will be used for
adjustment of fees for persons qualifying for the circuit breaker Property Tax
exemption as set forth in Idaho Code sections 63-701 through 63-706. Annually a
scale will be established in conjunction with the annual setting of fees to be
assessed for solid waste services. If the property ownership changes, the
circuit breaker credit will be removed and the new owner will be billed for the
services provided. (Ord. 324, 10-28-2015)
4-3B-5: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Applying For Exemption; Approval: The Solid Waste Department or Board
shall have authority to grant exemptions to persons who apply, exempting such
persons from payment of all or a part of the fees imposed to fund the
maintenance and operation of the system, upon satisfactory proof that, because
of unusual circumstances which affect their ability to pay, such persons should
be relieved from paying such fees in order to avoid undue hardship, which undue
hardship must be determined by the Board. Such exemption shall be approved to
avoid future billings if applicable. The owner will still be responsible for
submitting payment to Latah County for past fees billed. The property owner is
required to notify the Latah County Solid Waste Department within thirty (30)
days of the home being sold or occupied to avoid billing of all fees previously
exempted.
      1.   The Solid Waste Department shall have the authority to grant or deny
applications for exemption.
      2.   The Solid Waste Department shall not have the authority to grant or
deny applications for exemption based on hardship or refunds. The authority to
grant or deny hardship exemptions and refunds will rest solely with the Board
of County Commissioners.
      3.   An applicant for exemption who wishes to challenge a decision of the
Solid Waste Department regarding an exemption may file a written request with
the Board of County Commissioners within thirty (30) days of the decision made
by the Solid Waste Department. Upon review, the Board of County Commissioners
can affirm or set aside the decision of the Solid Waste Department.
   B.   Criteria For Exemptions And Adjustments: The following are the criteria
for solid waste fee exemptions and adjustments. If you feel you qualify for any
of these, please obtain an application for the adjustment from the Latah County
Solid Waste Office or appendix A of the fee resolution.
All adjustment and/or exemption applications may be subject to the approval of
the Latah County Board of Commissioners. Additional documentation may be
required. (Ord. 324, 10-28-2015)
ARTICLE C. SOLID WASTE ACCUMULATIONS; SPECIAL PERMITS
SECTION:
4-3C-1: Unlawful Accumulation
4-3C-2: Accumulation Of Garbage (Putrescible Waste)
4-3C-3: Accumulation Of Other Solid Waste
4-3C-4: Special Permits
4-3C-5: Waste Reduction, Recycling And Composting
4-3C-1: UNLAWFUL ACCUMULATION:
It shall be unlawful for any person to accumulate or to permit or to cause the
accumulation in or about any premises or upon any road, street, alley, or
public way adjacent to such premises owned or occupied by such person, any
solid waste in any amount that could contribute to or result in danger to
public health, or the creation or existence of a nuisance or safety hazard, or
the pollution of water or air. (Ord. 324, 10-28-2015)
4-3C-2: ACCUMULATION OF GARBAGE (PUTRESCIBLE WASTE):
   A.   All garbage shall at all times be kept in a watertight sanitary
container which is not easily corrodible and is rodentproof and flyproof.
Sanitary containers must be metal, plastic or fiberglass receptacles or
disposable bags with gauge of not less than one and five-tenths (1.5) mills.
   B.   It shall be the duty of the resident or owner of any premises at all
times to keep, or cause to be kept, containers, as defined in subsection A of
this section, and to deposit or cause to be deposited therein all garbage.
   C.   All containers shall be equipped with close fitting covers, securely
tied, or otherwise closed to prevent the contents from being blown by the wind,
scattered by animals or otherwise littered.
   D.   All containers shall be kept in a reasonably clean condition with the
inside and outside washed at such times as to keep the same free and clean of
accumulating grease and decomposing material. (Ord. 324, 10-28-2015)
4-3C-3: ACCUMULATION OF OTHER SOLID WASTE:
   A.   All household waste except that described in subsection C of this
section shall be kept in sanitary containers or other containers approved by
the Board at all times.
   B.   Such containers shall have lids and shall be maintained in a clean and
sanitary condition.
   C.   Household waste consisting only of cardboard, or wooden boxes, brush,
leaves, weeds, and cuttings from trees, lawns, shrubs, and gardens, may be kept
separately, provided that this waste shall not be subject to being blown by the
wind or otherwise littered, and provided further that such waste shall not
cause or create an offensive odor, a rodent harborage, or a public nuisance.
(Ord. 324, 10-28-2015)
4-3C-4: SPECIAL PERMITS:
   A.   Permit And Fee To Dispose Of Solid Waste On Landowner's Property:
      1.   The Board of County Commissioners may issue special disposal permits
to persons owning land in Latah County who apply for such permit. The permit
will authorize the landowner to dispose of solid waste upon his property when
the Board determines that such disposal will not contribute to or result in a
danger to public health, the creation or existence of a nuisance or safety
hazard, the pollution of water or air.
      2.   There is an application fee required before the application is
processed. If the application is approved, an additional permit fee is
required. Also, if a permit is approved, Latah County will require that the
activity listed in the application form be recorded on the deed of the property
listed in the application.
   B.   Authority To Waive Fee: The Board shall have the authority to grant a
permit and waive the application and permit fee when the Board determines that
the disposal activity is very limited in scope and that the disposal will not
contribute to or result in danger to public health, the creation or existence
of a nuisance or safety hazard, or the pollution of water or air.
   C.   Compliance With State Rules And Regulations: The disposal of any waste
under this section must meet the rules and regulations of North Central
District Health Department of Idaho, Health and Welfare Department and Division
of Environmental Quality. (Ord. 324, 10-28-2015)
4-3C-5: WASTE REDUCTION, RECYCLING AND COMPOSTING:
   A.   Hauling Of Recyclables: The hauling of recyclables in Latah County is
permissible, provided that the same shall not be subject to being blown by the
wind or otherwise littered, and provided further that the same shall not cause
an offensive odor, a rodent harborage or a nuisance.
   B.   Composting: Private or individual household composting is acceptable
and encouraged on private property, provided that the same shall not cause an
offensive odor, a rodent harborage or a public nuisance.
   C.   Waste Reduction: Maximum reduction of the volume of the waste stream is
encouraged by the Latah County Board of Commissioners, provided that the
portion of the waste stream being diverted shall not be subject to being blown
by the wind or otherwise littered, and provided further that the same shall not
cause an offensive odor, a rodent harborage or a public nuisance. (Ord. 324,
10-28-2015)
ARTICLE D. WASTE TIRE MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
4-3D-1: Definitions
4-3D-2: Waste Tire Disposal
4-3D-3: Illegal Tire Piles
4-3D-4: Registered Tire Piles
4-3D-5: Waste Tire Facility Approval
4-3D-6: Enforcement
4-3D-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this article, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
ALTERED WASTE TIRE: A waste tire that is no longer whole, including waste tires
that have been chopped or shredded.
DEPARTMENT: North Central Health District Department.
DISTRICT: The North Central Health District, the jurisdiction of which
includes: Clearwater, Idaho, Latah, Lewis and Nez Perce Counties.
FACILITY APPROVAL: A written authorization issued by the department authorizing
a person or entity to construct, install, or operate facilities and conduct
specific activities subject to conditions.
ILLEGAL TIRE PILE (200 Tires 1 ): The storing, stockpiling, accumulation, or
disposing of more than two hundred (200) waste tires at one location without
facility approval or exemption by the County or the department.
PASSENGER AND LIGHT TRUCK TIRE: Any motor vehicle tire with a rim diameter of
twelve inches (12") to sixteen inches (16").
RECYCLABLE TIRE: A tire that is not a new tire, but which is free of permanent
physical damage and maintains sufficient material to permit its use through
retreading, repairing, or reconditioning for re-sale.
REGISTERED TIRE PILE, 200+ TIRES: A location where over two hundred (200) tires
are stored, dumped or have otherwise accumulated and which is registered with
Latah County under the procedures set forth herein.
RETREADER: A person who accepts passenger, light truck and truck tires and
retreads such tires and is registered with the department.
WASTE TIRE: A tire that is not on the wheel of a vehicle and is no longer
suitable for its original intended use due to wear, damage, or defect,
including all used tires, altered waste tires, recappable casings and scrap
tires.
WASTE TIRE FACILITY: A site where more than two hundred (200) waste tires are
stored, dumped or have otherwise accumulated and which is registered with and
approved by the department pursuant to regulations of the department. (Ord.
324, 10-28-2015; amd. 2018 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 39-6501(13).
4-3D-2: WASTE TIRE DISPOSAL:
   A.   Accepted Methods Of Disposal: The Board of Commissioners finds that the
accumulation of large amounts of waste tires constitutes a hazard to property,
the environment and the health of the citizens of Latah County. It shall be
unlawful for any person to dispose of waste tires, in any form, in landfills.
The open incineration of waste tires is also prohibited, except as permitted by
law. No person shall store or dispose of waste tires except at a solid waste
transfer station or authorized solid waste disposal site or by another approved
method as follows:
      1.   Retreading.
      2.   Construction of collision barriers.
      3.   Soil erosion control.
      4.   Chopping or shredding prior to reuse.
      5.   Grinding for use in asphalt or as a raw material for other products.
      6.   Use as playground equipment.
      7.   Incinerating for use as fuel, if permitted by law.
      8.   Hauling to lawful out of State collection or processing sites.
   B.   Authorizing Other Methods: The Board of Commissioners may authorize
other methods of management and/or disposal and end- uses of waste tires, with
the approval of the department. (Ord. 324, 10-28-2015)
4-3D-3: ILLEGAL TIRE PILES:
   A.   Disposal Required: Owners of property on which unapproved or
unauthorized tire piles are located shall dispose of the waste tires by an
approved method upon notification by the Board of County Commissioners or by
the department. This requirement shall apply to all illegal tire piles which
exist as of the effective date hereof or which may thereafter come into
existence.
   B.   Cleanup Of Sites Or Registration As Facility: The cleanup of said sites
shall be accomplished at the property owner's expense within the time frame
established by the Board of County Commissioners. Alternatively, such sites may
be registered with the County or may be approved by the department as a waste
tire facility, as set forth in this article. (Ord. 324, 10-28-2015)
4-3D-4: REGISTERED TIRE PILES:
   A.   Annual Registration: Annual registration of all tire piles in Latah
County containing more than two hundred (200) tires at any time is required.
Any person or business owning a tire pile above these limits must register and
state the long term plans for the pile.
   B.   Statement Of Long Term Plans; Compliance With Fire Code:
      1.   In order to obtain registered status, the owner must provide a
statement of the property owner's long term plans for the tire pile and end-use
of the waste tires.
      2.   The property owner most comply with the current edition of the Fire
Code and conditions supporting the increase in numbers and attraction of
potential vectors of disease shall not be permitted.
   C.   Limitation Of Access To Tire Piles: Owners of property where registered
tire piles are located shall limit access to these tire piles to prevent
further disposal of tires or other wastes. (Ord. 324, 10-28-2015)
4-3D-5: WASTE TIRE FACILITY APPROVAL:
Storing, stockpiling, accumulating, processing, or producing a commodity from
waste tires at sites containing more than two hundred (200) waste tires shall
be unlawful unless approval for such facilities is obtained from the department
pursuant to the department's regulations governing approval and maintenance of
such facilities. (Ord. 324, 10-28-2015; amd. 2018 Code)
4-3D-6: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Enforcement of the provisions of this article pertaining to waste tire
facilities shall be provided by the department.
   B.   Enforcement of all other provisions of this article shall be the
responsibility of Latah County. (Ord. 324, 10-28-2015)
TITLE 5
POLICE AND PUBLIC SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
DISASTER SERVICES
SECTION:
5-1-1: Authority And Purpose
5-1-2: Definitions
5-1-3: Disaster Services Department And Organization
5-1-4: Duties Of Board Of County Commissioners
5-1-5: Coordinator Of Disaster Services
5-1-6: Incident Commander
5-1-7: Immunity From Liability
5-1-8: Violation; Penalty
5-1-1: AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE:
   A.   The Latah County Department of Disaster Services is created to
administer the Disaster Policy of Latah County pursuant to the requirements of
Idaho Code section 46-1009.
   B.   The purposes of this chapter is to provide for the preparation and
carrying out of plans for the disaster services of persons and property within
this County in the event of a disaster or emergency and provide for the
coordination of the disaster services functions of the County with all other
public agencies and affected private persons, corporations, and organizations.
   C.   Any expenditures made in connection with such disaster services
activities, including mutual aid activities, shall be deemed conclusively to be
for the direct protection and benefit of the inhabitants and property of Latah
County. (Ord. 251, 7-7-2004, eff. 7-7-2004)
5-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
DISASTER: The occurrence or imminent threat or an event or condition
threatening life or property which requires State emergency assistance to
supplement local efforts to save lives and protect property, or to avert or
lessen the threat of a disaster.
DISASTER SERVICES: The preparation for and carrying out of all emergency
functions to prevent, minimize, and repair injury and damage resulting from a
disaster other than functions for which military forces are primarily
responsible or for search and rescue missions that are the responsibility of
the Sheriff. It shall not include nor does any provision of this chapter apply
to any condition relating to a labor controversy. (Ord. 251, 7-7-2004, eff. 7-
7-2004)
5-1-3: DISASTER SERVICES DEPARTMENT AND ORGANIZATION:
   A.   Department: There is hereby created the Latah County Disaster Services
Department. The department shall consist of the Disaster Services Coordinator
as its head, and such other personnel as may be authorized by the Latah County
Board of Commissioners.
   B.   Organization: All officers and employees of the County and the disaster
services operation staff, together with those volunteer forces enrolled to aid
them during a disaster, and all groups, organizations, and persons who by
agreement or operation of law, including persons commandeered under the
provisions of subsection 5-1-5C3 of this chapter, being charged with duties
incident to the protection of life and property in the County during such
disaster, shall constitute the Disaster Services Organization of Latah County.
(Ord. 251, 7-7-2004, eff. 7-7-2004)
5-1-4: DUTIES OF BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS:
   A.   In the event of the proclamation of a disaster by the Chairman of the
County Commissioners or a proclamation of a state of disaster by the Governor,
the Board of County Commissioners shall:
      1.   Make and issue rules and regulations on matters reasonably related
to the protection of life and property as affected by such disaster.
      2.   Obtain vital supplies, equipment and such other properties found
lacking and needed for the protection of life and property of the people and
bind the County for the fair market value thereof, and, if required
immediately, commandeer the same for public use.
      3.   Require emergency services of any County officer or employee and in
the event of the proclamation of a state of extreme emergency by the Governor
in the region in which the County is located, to command the aid of as many
citizens of the community as the Board thinks necessary in the execution of
these duties. Such persons shall be entitled to all privileges, benefits and
immunities as are provided by State law for registered disaster service workers
- volunteers.
      4.   Requisition necessary personnel or material of any County department
or agency.
      5.   Execute all of the special powers conferred upon it by this chapter
or by resolution adopted pursuant thereto, all powers conferred upon it by any
statute, agreement approved by the Board of County Commissioners; or by other
lawful authority.
   B.   The specific powers granted in this section shall not be construed to
limit the general emergency powers granted to the Chairman. (Ord. 251, 7-7-
2004, eff. 7-7-2004)
5-1-5: COORDINATOR OF DISASTER SERVICES:
   A.   Appointment: The "Coordinator of Disaster Services" means the
administrative head of the Latah County Office of Disaster Services, and shall
be appointed by the Board of County Commissioners. (Ord. 251, 7-7-2004, eff. 7-
7-2004)
   B.   General Powers And Duties: The Coordinator will provide primary
assistance to that Board and to the Mayors of cities in Latah County. The
Coordinator is empowered to: (Ord. 251, 7-7-2004, eff. 7-7-2004; amd. 2018
Code)
      1.   Coordinate and direct the effort of the Disaster Services
Organization of the County for the accomplishment of the purpose of this
chapter.
      2.   Establish and maintain an Emergency Operations Center for
controlling and directing emergency operations.
      3.   Represent the Disaster Services Organization of the County in all
dealings with public or private agencies pertaining to disaster services.
      4.   Coordinate the preparation and implementation of plans and programs
for emergency preparedness which are consistent with National and State plans
and programs.
      5.   Provide for updating and testing of the County Emergency Operations
Plan and training of County personnel for damage assessment, damage survey and
radiological monitoring.
   C.   Disaster And Emergency Powers:
      1.   Coordinate disaster services of all County agencies during any
natural, manmade, or enemy caused disaster.
      2.   Coordinate all requests from local governments for disaster
services.
      3.   Coordinate use of communications and warning in the County Emergency
Operations Center.
      4.   Execute all of the special powers conferred upon him or her by this
chapter or by resolution adopted pursuant thereto, all powers conferred upon
him by statute, agreement approved by the County Commissioners, or other lawful
authority.
   D.   Alternate Coordinator: In the event that the Coordinator of Disaster
Services is absent or unable to function in that capacity, the Chairman or
designated member of the Board of County Commissioners shall serve as or
appoint an Alternate Coordinator of Disaster Services. (Ord. 251, 7-7-2004,
eff. 7-7-2004)
5-1-6: INCIDENT COMMANDER:
   A.   The Incident Commander, as set forth in the Latah County Emergency
Operations Plan, is hereby designated as the on scene commander at the site of
any duly declared disaster emergency occurring in Latah County. The Latah
County Sheriff shall act as the EOC Operations Chief under the general
direction and control of the Latah Board of County Commissioners as set forth
in the County Emergency Operations Plan, and shall perform those direction and
control functions set forth in the Emergency Operations Plan, including
coordination and supervision of the operations of the "Annex Chief" designated
for each type of emergency pursuant to the Emergency Operations Plan.
   B.   In the event the disaster emergency is declared by the Governor, the
Incident Commander shall remain on scene until properly relieved by a duly
authorized Incident Commander appointed by the Governor, consistent with Idaho
Code section 46-1008. (Ord. 251, 7-7-2004, eff. 7-7-2004)
5-1-7: IMMUNITY FROM LIABILITY:
Authorized personnel engaged in disaster services activities and persons,
agencies, or any other entity providing building or premises designated by
proper authority as civil defense shelters have immunity from liability for
property damage, bodily injury, or death as cited in Idaho Code sections 46-
1016 and 46-1017 of the "Idaho Disaster Preparedness Act of 1975" and where
wilful misconduct on the part of the owner does not exist. (Ord. 251, 7-7-2004,
eff. 7-7-2004)
5-1-8: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
It shall be a misdemeanor, punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code, for any person during a disaster to wilfully do any of the
following: (Ord. 251, 7-7-2004, eff. 7-7-2004; amd. 2018 Code)
   A.   Hinder any member of the Disaster Services Organization in the
enforcement of any lawful rule or regulation issued pursuant to this chapter or
in the performance of any duty imposed upon him by virtue of this chapter.
   B.   Do any act forbidden by any rules or regulation issued pursuant to this
chapter.
   C.   Wear, carry, or display without authority any means of identification
specified by disaster services. (Ord. 251, 7-7-2004, eff. 7-7-2004)
CHAPTER 2
BURGLARY AND ROBBERY ALARMS
SECTION:
5-2-1: Definitions
5-2-2: Administration
5-2-3: New Systems
5-2-4: Right To Disconnect
5-2-5: Penalty For False Alarms
5-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
ALARM COMPANY: Any person or business that operates an "alarm system".
ALARM SYSTEM: Any device designed to detect an unauthorized entry to a
building, place or premises or to signal an attempted robbery or burglary at a
protected premises and which, when activated, emits a sound and/or transmits a
signal or alarm message to the Latah County Sheriff's Office Communications
Center either directly or through a third party ("alarm company"). Devices
which are designed solely to alert someone physically located within the
protected premises and which do not register alarms audible or visible on the
outside, are not included within this definition. Automatic telephone dialing
alarm devices are considered alarm systems and come within the purview of this
chapter.
ALARM USER: Any person or business utilizing the services of an "alarm system".
FALSE ALARM: An alarm signal or notification of an alarm indicating an
unauthorized entry or attempted entry on or into any building, place or
premises or a robbery/burglary or attempted robbery/burglary at protected
premises necessitating response by the Latah County Sheriff's Office when such
a circumstance has not in fact occurred. (Ord. 204, 6-1-1999, eff. 6-5-1999)
5-2-2: ADMINISTRATION:
The Latah County Sheriff's Office shall have the authority to require alarm
users and alarm companies to maintain information on file with the Latah County
Sheriff's Office so that proper persons may be notified in the event of any
alarm, be it false or otherwise. The Latah County Sheriff shall have the
authority to cause any alarm system which has a receiving head located in the
Latah County Sheriff's Office to be disconnected if the alarm user or alarm
company fails or refuses to provide the requested information. For alarm
systems that involve a third party ("alarm company") as opposed to a receiving
head located in the Latah County Sheriff's Office, the Sheriff shall have the
authority to request that the alarm company discontinue alarm messages to the
Latah County Sheriff's Office until the requested information is provided. Any
fees necessary to administer this chapter may be established by the Board of
County Commissioners in accordance with Idaho Code sections 63-1311 and 63-
1311A. (Ord. 204, 6-1-1999, eff. 6-5-1999)
5-2-3: NEW SYSTEMS:
New alarm systems shall have a thirty (30) day period after connection during
which alarms will not be credited as false alarms in order to permit initial
adjustments to the system. (Ord. 204, 6-1-1999, eff. 6-5-1999)
5-2-4: RIGHT TO DISCONNECT:
The Latah County Sheriff shall have the authority to cause any alarm system
which has a receiving head located in the Latah County Sheriff's Office to be
disconnected at such time as the alarm user or alarm company is thirty (30)
days' delinquent in the payment of any excessive false alarm penalty or fee or
other assessment imposed pursuant to this chapter. For alarm systems that
involve a third party ("alarm company") as opposed to a receiving head located
in the Latah County Sheriff's Office, the Sheriff shall have the authority to
request that the alarm company discontinue alarm messages to the Latah County
Sheriff's Office until the delinquency is cured or the alarm user and alarm
company are otherwise reinstated by the Sheriff. The alarm user and alarm
company shall be notified in writing five (5) days prior to disconnection or
discontinuation of his alarm system. Latah County reserves the right to pursue
any and all other remedies available to it at law, including suit to recover
penalties, fees and other damages. (Ord. 204, 6-1-1999, eff. 6-5-1999)
5-2-5: PENALTY FOR FALSE ALARMS:
A false alarm generated by any alarm system shall be considered an excessive
false alarm when that system generates a third false alarm within a three (3)
month period. The alarm user and alarm company shall be notified in writing of
each false alarm and shall be jointly and severally liable to pay a false alarm
penalty for each and every alarm received after the first two (2) false alarms
during any three (3) month period. Said penalty shall be in the amount of all
costs incurred by Latah County in receiving and responding to each false alarm
and shall include, without limitation, salary and/or wages for County
employees; actual mileage at such mileage rate as, from time to time, may be
established by the Board of County Commissioners; and any other expenses, costs
or damages actually incurred as a result of said false alarm. Additionally, the
Board of County Commissioners may, from time to time, set such further penalty
assessments as it deems appropriate through the resolution process. (Ord. 204,
6-1-1999, eff. 6-5-1999)
CHAPTER 3
GENERAL OFFENSES
SECTION:
5-3-1: Dangerous Weapons Possession At Courthouse And Jail
5-3-2: Inhaling Glue Or Other Intoxicants
5-3-1: DANGEROUS WEAPONS POSSESSION AT COURTHOUSE AND JAIL:
   A.   Authority: This section is enacted pursuant to the authority granted to
the Board of County Commissioners by article XII, section 2 of the Constitution
of the State of Idaho, and Idaho Code section 31-714.
   B.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to promote safety and security
within the Latah County Courthouse and Jail by prohibiting the possession of
dangerous weapons in the Latah County Courthouse and Jail, and by making such
possession a misdemeanor.
   C.   Definition: "Dangerous weapon" means a weapon, device, instrument,
bomb, destructive device, material or substance, animate or inanimate, that is
used for, or is readily capable of, causing death or serious bodily injury,
except that such term does not include a pocket knife with a blade of less than
two and one-half inches (21/2") in length. "Dangerous weapon" also includes
firearms which are defined as any deadly weapon capable of ejecting or
propelling one or more projectiles by the action of any explosive or
combustible propellant or compressed gas, and includes unloaded firearms and
firearms which are inoperable but which can readily be rendered operable.
"Dangerous weapon" also includes any fake or simulated weapon when possessed or
used with the intent that it be perceived as, or under such circumstances that
a reasonable person would perceive it to be, a "dangerous weapon" as defined
herein. (Ord. 224, 2-5-2001, eff. 2-5-2001)
   D.   Possession Prohibited; Penalty: Except as provided herein, it shall be
unlawful for any person to have in his or her possession a dangerous weapon
while said person is within the Latah County Courthouse, the Latah County Jail
or such facilities as may be designated as a jail by the Latah County Sheriff.
Any person convicted of a violation of this section shall be punished as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 224, 2-5-2001, eff. 2-5-2001; amd. 2018 Code)
   E.   Exceptions To Prohibition: This section does not apply to the following
persons:
      1.   Officials of a county, city, State of Idaho or the United States.
      2.   Peace officers, guards of any jail, court appointed attendants, or
any officer of any express company on duty.
      3.   Employees of the adjutant general and military division of the State
where military membership is a condition of employment when on duty.
      4.   Criminal investigators of the Attorney General's Office, criminal
investigators of a prosecuting attorney's office, prosecutors and their
deputies.
      5.   Any publicly elected Idaho official.
      6.   Court clerks, witnesses, jurors, attorneys, and other persons in
possession of an inoperable or appropriately secured dangerous weapon which has
been or is intended to be offered as a courtroom exhibit. Whether a dangerous
weapon is appropriately secured shall be determined by either the Latah County
Sheriff or the presiding Judge. The possession by a person of a valid permit to
carry a concealed weapon does not make that person exempt from this section.
(Ord. 224, 2-5-2001, eff. 2-5-2001)
5-3-2: INHALING GLUE OR OTHER INTOXICANTS:
   A.   Prohibition: It shall be unlawful for any person to inhale, breathe or
drink any compound, liquid, chemical, or any other substance known as glue,
adhesive, cement, mucilage, dope, or any other material or substance or
combination thereof with the intent of becoming intoxicated, elated, dazed,
irrational, or in any other manner changing, distorting or disturbing the
eyesight, thinking process, balance, or coordination of such person. For the
purpose of this section, any such condition so induced shall be deemed an
intoxicated condition. (Ord. 2, 3-24-1969)
   B.   Penalty: Any person violating any of the provisions or terms of this
section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 2, 3-24-1969; amd. 2018 Code)
CHAPTER 4
MINORS
SECTION:
5-4-1: Running Away
5-4-1: RUNNING AWAY:
   A.   Title: This section shall be known as the LATAH COUNTY RUNAWAY
ORDINANCE.
   B.   Prohibited Acts:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of eighteen (18)
years, residing or found in Latah County to be or to remain a person who has
run away from his or her parents, guardian, or other legal custodian, or is
absent from his or her residence for a period of more than twelve (12) hours
without the permission of his or her parents, guardian, or other legal
custodian.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to encourage, aid, or cause any
person under the age of eighteen (18) years to come within the purview of this
section.
   C.   Persons Excluded: A person in any of the following categories is not a
person within the purview of this section:
      1.   Any person who is under the age of eighteen (18), who is a member of
the Armed Forces of the United States and serving in an active status.
      2.   Any person under the age of eighteen (18) who is married and is
residing with his or her spouse, or is residing in a marital residence
maintained by such person and spouse.
      3.   Any person under the age of eighteen (18) who is in the custody of,
or residing with, or staying with, or under the control of, a natural or
adoptive parent who is not the legal custodian of that person. (Ord. 37, 9-29-
1980, eff. 10-5-1980)
   D.   Penalty:
      1.   Any person eighteen (18) years of age or older violating any of the
provisions or terms of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and
punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code.
      2.   Any person under eighteen (18) years of age violating any of the
provisions or terms of this section shall be petitioned and adjudicated
pursuant to Idaho Code section 20-501 et seq. (Ord. 37, 9-29-1980, eff. 10-5-
1980; amd. 2018 Code)
CHAPTER 5
LARGE GATHERINGS; ENTERTAINMENT ACTIVITIES
SECTION:
5-5-1: Intent Of Chapter
5-5-2: Permit Required And Classes Of Permits
5-5-3: Application For Permit
5-5-4: Applicant Fee
5-5-5: Attachments To Class A Permit Application
5-5-6: Attachments To Class B Permit Application
5-5-7: Hours And Conditions Of Operation
5-5-8: Neighboring Properties
5-5-9: Approval Or Disapproval Of The Application
5-5-10: Penalties
5-5-11: Public Nuisance
5-5-12: Applicability Of Other Laws, Ordinances And Regulations
5-5-1: INTENT OF CHAPTER:
That it is necessary for the protection of the health, safety, and welfare of
the general public to regulate the conduct of certain entertainment or
amusement activities which will, or can reasonably be expected to, disturb the
peace and quiet of the inhabitants of residences, dwelling houses, or other
ordinary places of human habitation, or which will, or can be reasonably
expected to, adversely affect the health, safety, or welfare of the general
public. (Ord. 250, 7-7-2004; amd. Ord. 378, 9-2-2020)
5-5-2: PERMIT REQUIRED AND CLASSES OF PERMITS:
It shall be unlawful for any person, persons, corporation, land owner, or
lessor to allow, conduct, permit, or cause to be conducted, permitted, or
advertised, any entertainment or amusement activity outside the municipal
boundaries of the incorporated cities within Latah County, Idaho, when the
activity attracts an outdoor gathering or assembly of three hundred (300) or
more persons at any one time (regardless of whether a charge or contribution is
required for admission) unless a valid county permit has first been obtained,
authorizing and permitting the conduct of such activity or activities;
provided, however, that no such permit shall be required for any such activity
or activities authorized under any valid conditional use permit, or under any
valid lease of real property owned by Latah County, the State of Idaho, or any
political subdivision thereof. A Class B permit is required where the activity
attracts three hundred (300) to six hundred (600) people. A Class A permit is
required where the activity attracts more than six hundred (600) people. (Ord.
250, 7-7-2004; amd. Ord. 378, 9-2-2020)
5-5-3: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT
Written application for any permit to conduct the activities regulated by this
chapter shall be made to the Board of County Commissioners for a Class A permit
not less than sixty (60) days prior to the date upon which the activities are
to commence, and for a Class B permit not less than fourteen (14) days prior to
the date upon which the activities are to commence. The Board of County
Commissioners may shorten this period of time in its sole discretion and for
good cause shown by applicant. Said application shall include the following:
   A.   The name and address of the person, persons, partnership, corporation,
or organization on whose behalf such application is made;
   B.   The names and addresses of all persons having any proprietary interest
in any such partnership, corporation, or organization;
   C.   The principal place of business of any such partnership, corporation,
or organization;
   D.   The legal description of land to be occupied or used by the activities,
together with the address and name of the owner and a verified consent by the
owner (if other than applicant) permitting the activity or activities upon the
real property and acknowledging the landowner's responsibility to ensure
compliance with this ordinance; additionally, a written consent by the owner(s)
of any easement or rights of way across the described property permitting the
activity or activities upon said real property on the dates for which
application is made;
   E.   A description of the type and nature of the entertainment or amusement
activity or activities for which a permit is sought;
   F.   The date or dates upon which and the hours during which the activity or
activities are proposed to be conducted, and the proposed frequency of the
activity or activities; and
   G.   The maximum number of people who will attend or participate in the
activity or activities on each date applied for. (Ord. 250, 7-7-2004; amd. Ord.
378, 9-2-2020)
5-5-4: APPLICANT FEE:
The permit fee which shall accompany the application shall be one hundred
dollars ($100.00) for a Class A permit and twenty-five dollars ($25.00) for a
Class B permit. The non-refundable fee shall be retained by the County as an
administrative processing fee for each application, regardless of whether a
permit is granted. (Ord. 378, 9-2-2020)
5-5-5: ATTACHMENTS TO CLASS A PERMIT APPLICATION:
Each Class A permit application shall be accompanied by the following
attachments:
   A.   Written approval of the North Central District Health Department, State
of Idaho, which shall verify that applicant has complied with all rules,
regulations, laws, and ordinances of the Idaho State Board of Health, the Latah
County Board of Health, the State of Idaho, appropriate infectious disease
control and any other applicable health and/or sanitation codes. The approval
shall specifically describe the type and adequacy of water supply to be
provided; toilet, waste collection and washing facilities to be provided;
health and medical facilities to be provided; and food and drink service and
facilities to be furnished (if there is to be food or drink served on the
premises).
   B.   Written approval of the fire protection district in which the proposed
activity or activities are to be held verifying that the applicant has complied
with all applicable fire prevention regulations, laws and requirements, and
describing the manner in which the applicant has complied therewith.
   C.   Scale drawing(s) demonstrating that adequate parking facilities have
been planned for the location for which the permit is requested, and such
parking facilities shall be entirely off of any public road or right of way.
The application shall also include approval of the Idaho Transportation
Department and any potentially affected local highway district, or written
verification from the Idaho Transportation Department and the potentially
affected local highway districts that approval is not required. Parking
facilities shall provide parking space for one vehicle for each four persons
attending or participating in the proposed activity or activities, along with
adequate ingress and egress between such parking areas and the public road(s)
or highway(s) regardless of weather conditions.
   D.   A comprehensive written plan for traffic control and crowd protection,
including verification that all traffic and crowd control personnel possess all
of the qualifications required by law for performing their functions. The
applicant may, but is not required to, contract with the Latah County Sheriff
for provision of these services. This plan must be approved by the Sheriff of
Latah County.
   E.   Full copy(ies) of any contracts, agreements, leases, memoranda, or
other written documentation, among or between any of the following: landowner
(s); promoter(s); vendor(s); entertainer(s); and other individual(s) or entity
(ies) involved in or to be involved in the activity for which a permit is
sought.
   F.   A written emergency evacuation and safety plan addressing all
reasonably foreseeable emergencies whether resulting from acts of man or
nature. This plan must be approved by the Sheriff of Latah County.
   G.   Full copy(ies) of any licenses or permits required by law for the sale,
dispensing, or consumption of alcoholic beverages if alcoholic beverages are to
be sold, dispensed, or consumed during the activity.
   H.   Proof of comprehensive liability insurance in the amount of not less
than one million dollars ($1,000,000). Such policy of insurance shall be
maintained in full force and effect throughout the proposed event and until
such time as any claims related thereto are resolved or otherwise extinguished
by operation of law. (Ord. 250, 7-7-2004; amd. Ord. 378, 9-2-2020)
5-5-6: ATTACHMENTS TO CLASS B PERMIT APPLICATION:
Each Class B permit application shall be accompanied by the following
attachments:
   A.   Written approval of the North Central District Health Department, State
of Idaho, which shall verify that applicant has complied with all rules,
regulations, laws, and ordinances of the Idaho State Board of Health, the Latah
County Board of Health, the State of Idaho, appropriate infectious disease
control and any other applicable health and/or sanitation codes. The approval
shall specifically describe the type and adequacy of water supply to be
provided; toilet, waste collection and washing facilities to be provided;
health and medical facilities to be provided; and food and drink service and
facilities to be furnished (if there is to be food or drink served on the
premises).
   B.   A description of the parking plan, which provides parking space for one
vehicle for every four persons attending or participating in the proposed
activity or activities.
   C.   Copies of any licenses or permits required by law for the sale,
dispensing, or consumption of alcoholic beverages, if alcoholic beverages are
to be sold, dispensed, or consumed during the activity.
   D.   Proof of comprehensive liability insurance in the amount of not less
than one million dollars ($1,000,000). Such policy of insurance shall be
maintained in full force and effect throughout the proposed event and until
such time as any claims related thereto are resolved or otherwise extinguished
by operation of law. (Ord. 250, 7-7-2004; amd. Ord. 378, 9-2-2020)
5-5-7: HOURS AND CONDITIONS OF OPERATION:
Absent specific prior authorization by the Board of County Commissioners, the
activity or activities shall not under any circumstances occur between the
hours of two o’clock (2:00) a.m. and seven o’clock (7:00) a.m. of any day.
(Ord. 378, 9-2-2020)
5-5-8: NEIGHBORING PROPERTIES:
No permit shall be issued under this chapter for activities which are proposed
to be held within one half (1/2) mile of any real property owned by any person
or entity other than the applicant unless written consent to such activity is
obtained from the record owners of all such real property and provided to the
Board of County Commissioners. Alternatively, the applicant may elect to
provide written notice of the application to the record owners of all such real
property, at the applicant's expense and in the form prescribed by the Board of
County Commissioners. The actual notice will be mailed by County staff
following pre-payment of the costs by applicant. The notice will specify the
nature of the proposed activity or activities, including times and dates, and
notify the recipients of the date by which they must provide written objections
or comment to the Board of County Commissioners. The notice and opportunity to
comment in writing shall not create any right to a public hearing. (Ord. 250,
7-7-2004; amd. Ord. 378, 9-2-2020)
5-5-9: APPROVAL OR DISAPPROVAL OF THE APPLICATION:
   A.   The Board of Commissioners shall review the application, attachments,
and any consent, objections, or comments by neighboring properties, and shall
grant the permit if it decides that the application complies with this chapter
and that the proposed activity or activities will not unduly impact any
neighboring property owner. Additionally, the Board may establish such
reasonable conditions as it deems appropriate and necessary to provide for the
health, safety and general welfare of participants, neighbors, and any other
members of the public. Such conditions may include maximum number of
participants, noise levels, traffic levels, hours of operation, or anything
else deemed necessary for the proper protection of the public health, safety
and welfare. The Board of Commissioners shall also review the proposed length
and frequency of the activity or activities to determine if they will have an
adverse effect on neighboring properties or the public and may limit the number
of days an activity can occur, limit the frequency of activities on a property,
or require the applicant to seek a permit (if available) through the land use
ordinance to accommodate their activities.
   B.   Written notice of approval or disapproval of the application shall be
given to the applicant no later than thirty (30) days after the application has
been filed for a Class A permit, and no later than ten (10) days after the
application has been filed for a Class B permit. Any notice of denial shall
state the basis for denial. Within ten (10) days after mailing a notice of
denial to the applicant, the applicant may show that non-compliance has been
remedied; upon failure of the applicant to do so, the denial shall be final and
conclusive. (Ord. 250, 7-7-2004; amd. Ord. 378, 9-2-2020)
5-5-10: PENALTIES:
Any person or other legal entity who shall violate or fail to comply with any
of the provisions of this ordinance; or who, having obtained a permit, shall
willfully fail to continue to comply with all the terms and conditions of the
permit, or fails to immediately desist all activities and comply with all
abatement directions upon any revocation of the permit; shall be deemed guilty
of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction shall be punished by a fine not to exceed
$300.00 or by imprisonment in the county jail for a period not exceeding six
(6) months, or by both such fine and imprisonment. Additionally, non-compliance
with the conditions of this ordinance or violation of any of the approvals,
licenses, or permits obtained from other persons or entities referred to
herein, shall constitute grounds for the immediate revocation of any permit
issued hereunder and, upon such revocation or withdrawal, the activity or
activities shall immediately cease. Furthermore, in the event of any such non-
compliance, the applicant shall reimburse the County for any and all costs
occasioned by such noncompliance, including law enforcement response, abatement
activities, damage or injury to persons or property, and such sums may be
recovered as restitution in any prosecution hereunder. (Ord. 378, 9-2-2020)
5-5-11: PUBLIC NUISANCE:
Non-compliance with the provisions of this ordinance is hereby declared to
constitute a public nuisance by reason of its threat to the ordinary peace and
quiet and the health, safety, and welfare of the general public, and the person
(s) or entity(ies) responsible therefore shall be subject to all criminal and
civil remedies for such nuisance. The County may summarily abate the nuisance
thus constituted by taking whatever action is necessary to preserve the peace,
protect public and private property, or protect the public health, safety and
welfare, and the person or other legal entity willfully or negligently
responsible for such nuisance shall be liable for the costs incurred by the
County or its authorized agencies in abating the same. The amount of such costs
may be recovered by civil action prosecuted in the name of Latah County and any
amounts recovered shall be paid to the Latah County Treasurer for reimbursement
to the County for such costs and/or orders as restitution in addition to any
criminal penalties as outlined in section 10 above. Such costs may include
costs incurred by other agencies whose assistance in the abatement process is
requested by the County or made necessary by the circumstances of the nuisance.
Civil liability provided for herein shall be exclusive of and in addition to
any criminal penalties otherwise provided. (Ord. 250, 7-7-2004; amd. Ord. 378,
9-2-2020)
5-5-12: APPLICABILITY OF OTHER LAWS, ORDINANCES AND REGULATIONS:
Nothing herein shall excuse an applicant from in all ways complying with all
applicable laws, regulations, and ordinances, including zoning and land use
restrictions. (Ord. 250, 7-7-2004; amd. Ord. 378, 9-2-2020)
CHAPTER 6
DOG CONTROL
SECTION:
5-6-1: Definitions
5-6-2: Impoundment And Redemption Procedures
5-6-3: Disposition Of Vicious Or Diseased Dogs
5-6-4: Prohibited Acts
5-6-5: Penalty; Additional Remedies
5-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise indicates, the following
words and terms shall mean:
ANIMAL SHELTER: Any premises designated by the County for the purpose of
impounding and caring for animals held under the authority of this chapter.
BITE: Any aggressive or voluntary closure by an animal's mouth causing a
redness, breaking or tearing of the skin of any person or which damages or
destroys the personal property of another.
DOG: Any member, male or female, of the family Canis familiaris.
DOG UNDER CONTROL: A dog secured by a leash and by a responsible person, or
confined within a vehicle or confined within the boundaries of its owner's real
property or, in the case of a vicious dog, a dog controlled as described in
Idaho Code section 25-2805(2) or its successor.
HARBORING: The keeping of any dog. The occupant of any premises on which a dog
remains, or to which it customarily returns daily for food and care, for three
(3) consecutive days or more is presumed to be harboring or keeping the dog for
the purposes of this chapter.
KENNEL: Any lot or premises or portion thereof, other than a veterinary office
or animal shelter, grooming facility, or pet shop on which four (4) or more
dogs are maintained, harbored, possessed, boarded, bred or cared for in return
for compensation or kept for sale.
LEASH: A cord, thong, leash or chain, not more than eight feet (8') in length,
by which a dog is controlled by the person accompanying it.
OFFICER: Any Deputy Sheriff or other person designated by the County Sheriff as
an animal control officer.
OWNER, CUSTODIAN OR KEEPER: Any person, including any firm, association,
partnership or corporation or their agents, or persons acting with their
permission, owning, keeping or harboring a dog.
PREMISES: All of the real property under a person's or persons' ownership,
lease or control inside the inner line of a sidewalk; or, if there is no
sidewalk, inside the curb, ditch or shoulder marking the edge of the traveled
or used portion of the public right-of-way. "Premises" also includes the inside
of a closed motor vehicle.
SHERIFF: The Sheriff of Latah County or any other person acting under his
orders or direction.
VETERINARY CLINIC OR HOSPITAL: Any establishment maintained and operated by a
licensed veterinarian for the boarding of animals or the diagnosis, treatment
and care of diseased or injured animals.
VICIOUS DOG: Any dog found to be vicious, as defined in Idaho Code section 25-
2805(2) or its successor, but not including dogs used in law enforcement. (Ord.
194, 6-30-1998, eff. 7-15-1998)
5-6-2: IMPOUNDMENT AND REDEMPTION PROCEDURES:
   A.   Impoundment Authorized:
      1.   Any dog found to be in violation of Idaho Code section 25-2805 or
its successor, or in violation of any other provision of this chapter, may be
impounded and placed in an animal shelter, kennel or veterinary clinic/
hospital.
      2.   Any officer taking such action or receiving an impounded dog shall
make a registry of such action, entering the breed, color and sex of such dog.
If the owner is known or may be determined, the officer may, as an alternative,
or in addition to impoundment, issue to the owner or keeper of the dog a
citation and complaint in the form and manner prescribed by law.
   B.   Notice Of Impoundment: Not later than forty eight (48) hours after the
impounding of any dog, the owner, keeper or lawful custodian of the dog, if
known, shall be notified in person of said impoundment. After notice, the
owner, keeper or lawful custodian of the dog shall have four (4) days to redeem
or file a notice of appeal, describing the animal and the place and time of
taking. If said dog is unclaimed, or an appeal is not filed after notice is
given, the dog will be subject to the provisions of subsection D of this
section. If the owner, keeper or lawful custodian of the dog is unknown,
written notice describing said dog shall be posted for not less than five (5)
calendar days at the place of impoundment and at the Latah County Courthouse.
Notice shall include whether the dog has been declared dangerous.
   C.   Redemption Of Impounded Dogs: The owner, keeper or lawful custodian of
any dog impounded under the provisions of this chapter may reclaim such dog
within six (6) days, or, if the dog is under quarantine restrictions, fifteen
(15) days; provided, that said dog shall be released only upon payment of such
usual and customary fees as may be determined by the operator of the place of
impoundment.
   D.   Disposition Of Unclaimed Dogs: All impounded dogs, if unclaimed, shall
be kept six (6) days. If, at the expiration of such time, such animal shall not
have been reclaimed, the animal may be placed in a suitable home, released to
the animal shelter or be humanely euthanized at the cost of the owner, if
known. Except in the case of dangerous or diseased dogs, dogs not reclaimed
after the expiration of six (6) days may be released to any person desiring to
take the dog and provide it with shelter and veterinary care and the payment of
fees and charges. If the dog is released to any person other than the owner,
the person to whom the dog is released shall be deemed a purchaser of such dog;
and all rights and interest of the former owner in said dog shall terminate.
   E.   Quarantine: Any dog which bites and breaks the skin of any person shall
be quarantined for fifteen (15) days at the place of impoundment. The owner
shall be responsible for all costs of quarantine. As an alternative to
impoundment of such dogs, the investigating officer may permit the dog's
retention in the custody of its owner, provided that a secure enclosure, as
defined in Idaho Code section 25-2805(2) is available, and the owner agrees in
writing to confine the dog to such an enclosure for the period of quarantine
and to arrange for examination of the dog by a licensed veterinarian, at the
owner's expense, within the period of quarantine. (Ord. 194, 6-30-1998, eff. 7-
15-1998)
5-6-3: DISPOSITION OF VICIOUS OR DISEASED DOGS:
   A.   Whenever it shall reasonably appear to an officer attempting to impound
a dog under the provisions of this chapter, that such dog is vicious or
dangerous to other persons and if capture cannot be effected safely and
promptly, said officer is authorized to destroy the dog in a humane manner.
   B.   Any vicious dog impounded under the provisions of this chapter and not
claimed by the owner, or any dog which has bitten a person and is found by a
veterinarian to have rabies or other disease rendering said animal dangerous to
persons shall be humanely destroyed. (Ord. 194, 6-30-1998, eff. 7-15-1998)
5-6-4: PROHIBITED ACTS:
In addition to the conduct prohibited by Idaho Code section 25-2805:
   A.   Training To Exhibit Vicious Behavior: It shall be unlawful for any
person to train any dog to exhibit vicious behavior as defined by this chapter,
except for dogs used for law enforcement purposes.
   B.   Interfering With Enforcement Officers: No person shall interfere with,
hinder, delay or impede a police officer or animal control officer in the
enforcement of the provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Barking Dogs; Noise: It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep,
control or harbor any dog which by continued barking, howling, whining, or
other noises causes unreasonable annoyance, disturbance or discomfort to
persons during the time between eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. and eight o'clock (8:
00) A.M., provided that no person shall be cited for violation of this
subsection unless a written notice has been served to the property owner or
person in possession of the property wherein the animal is kept or harbored
within sixty (60) days prior to the date of the violation set forth on the
complaint, and such behavior by the animal has been witnessed by a law
enforcement or animal control officer. (Ord. 194, 6-30-1998, eff. 7-15-1998)
5-6-5: PENALTY; ADDITIONAL REMEDIES:
   A.   Penalty Imposed: Any violation of the provisions of this chapter shall
be a misdemeanor, and the offender shall be subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 194, 6-30-1998, eff. 7-15-1998; amd. 2018 Code)
   B.   Additional Remedies: Any violation of this chapter which continues for
more than twenty four (24) hours is hereby declared to be a public nuisance;
and, in addition to any other civil or criminal remedies, the County may cause
such conditions to be abated in the manner provided by law. (Ord. 194, 6-30-
1998, eff. 7-15-1998)
TITLE 6
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
PARKS AND TRAILS
SECTION:
6-1-1: Authority
6-1-2: Rules And Regulations
6-1-3: Penalties
6-1-4: County Parks And Recreation Department Director
6-1-5: County Parks Board
6-1-6: User Fees
6-1-1: AUTHORITY:
This chapter is enacted and adopted pursuant to the authority granted to the
Board of Commissioners of Latah County, Idaho, by Article 12, Section 2, of the
Constitution of the State of Idaho and Idaho Code §§ 31-714 and 31-828. This
ordinance shall apply to all Latah County parks and recreation trails which are
now or hereafter owned, managed, leased, licensed or under easement by Latah
County for park and recreational purposes; including, but not limited to:
   A.   The Ed Corkill Trail, which is a bicycle-pedestrian path located along
state Highway 3 between Juliaetta and Kendrick, Idaho (specifically the portion
of the Ed Corkill Trail located between the jurisdictional limits of Juliaetta
and Kendrick, together with the trail right-of-way).
   B.   The Latah Trail, which is a bicycle-pedestrian path located along State
Highway 8 between Moscow and Troy, Idaho (specifically the portion of the Latah
Trail located between the jurisdictional limits of Moscow and Troy, together
with the trail right-of-way).
   C.   Bateson-Hylton Park, which is located in downtown Harvard (Hwy 6 and
Deary St.), Latah County, Idaho.
   D.   Moose Creek Campground and Recreational Area as set out in lease, which
is located three miles west of Bovill, Idaho off of State Highway 3 and 8, on
Moose Creek Road.
   E.   Phillips Farm Park, which is located five miles north of Moscow, Idaho
off of Highway 95 as set out in lease.
   F.   Robinson Park, which is located at 5168 Robinson Park Road, Moscow, ID
83843.
   G.   The "Camping Area" of Spring Valley Reservoir, as set out in lease,
which is located east of Troy, Idaho on State Highway 8, off Spring Valley
Road.
   H.   The Robert Edwin Lloyd Park, which is located at 2370 N. Polk, Moscow,
ID 83843. (Ord. 343, 8-1-2016; amd. Ord. 405, 4-29-2024)
6-1-2: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
For the purpose of this ordinance, the term ''park" shall refer to any Latah
County park or trail as defined above in Section
6-1-1.
   A.   Firearms: It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge any firearms
or other projectile firing devices within the limits of any Latah County park,
except in the lawful defense of persons or property. This section shall not
apply to peace officers in the discharge of their duties. Violation of this
paragraph shall be a misdemeanor.
   B.   Motor Vehicle Operation:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle,
including, but not limited to, tractors, motorcycles, and all-terrain vehicles,
as defined in Chapter 1, Title 49, Idaho Code, as well as gas-powered bicycles
and scooters, within the limits of any Latah County park. This section does not
awly to the operation of motor vehicles or gas-powered bicycles and scooters
upon established public roads and parking areas within the limits of any Latah
County park. This section shall also not apply to police vehicles or other
emergency vehicles, persons authorized in writing by the Parks and Recreation
director to perform necessary maintenance or protection of the parks, or
persons specifically authorized in writing by the Board of Commissioners to
operate motor vehicles for agricultural access to neighboring properties.
Violation of this paragraph shall be a misdemeanor.
      2.   All motor vehicles must have current registration, be in working
order and operated by a properly licensed driver. Any vehicles not meeting
these requirements will be required to leave the park. Violation of this
paragraph shall be charged according to Idaho State Statutes.
   C.   Camping:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to camp or park overnight in any
Latah County park, except in designated camping areas or by permission of the
Parks and Recreation Director. Latah County limits any person and/or
recreational vehicle (RV) to a maximum stay of fourteen (14) days within a
twenty-eight (28) day period within all Latah County parks. Camping beyond the
approved date range, or camping without prior authorization will subject the
offender to the normal costs of camping, as well as a surcharge as defined in
the fee schedule.
      2.   Maximum capacity limits on each campsite are subject to each site's
design and size. Unless otherwise specified, and provided the combined
equipment and people fit within the designated camping area of the site
selected, the maximum capacity will be one (1) family unit or a party of no
more than eight (8) persons, two (2) tents and two (2) motor vehicles. No more
than one (1) RV may occupy a site. Two (2) motorcycles are the equivalent of
one (1) motor vehicle when determining campsite capacity.
      3.   All motor vehicles and trailers must fit entirely within the
campsite parking pad area provided. All camping equipment and personal
belongings must be maintained within the assigned campsite. Any motor vehicles,
trailers, or equipment not fitting within the assigned campsite may require the
registered party to register a second campsite if available.
      4.   All gray water and sewage waste must be held in self-contained units
or collected in water-tight receptacles in compliance with state adopted
standards. No dumping of RV gray water or sewage on site including into vault
toilets.
      5.   Campsites must have the required fees paid and registration
completed by the occupant. Users must vacate site by one o’clock (1:00) p.m. on
the last day of stay. Saving or holding campsites or facilities for individuals
not physically present at the time of registration is prohibited. Unique
circumstances may arise but must be pre-approved by Park & Recreation Director.
      6.   All persons must keep campsite, facility, or other used areas clean
and follow rules and capacity limits available at latahcountyid.gov/parks rec
and posted at the campground. The individual registered for the campsite or
facility is responsible for ensuring compliance with the rules.
      7.   Violation of Section
6-1-2 C. shall be a misdemeanor.
         a.   Wood/Plant Cutting and Removal: It shall be unlawful for any
person to cut, injure, dig, or remove any crops, plants, trees, shrubs,
grasses, logs, or fuel wood from Latah County parks, including County
controlled property or public easements under County control, unless written
permission is first obtained from the Parks and Recreation Director. Violation
of this paragraph shall be a misdemeanor.
         b.   Hours of Operation: Hours of operation for Latah County parks
shall be established by resolution. It shall be unlawful for any person to be
present in or make use of any Latah County park at a time other than during
operating hours, except in designated camping areas or as permitted by the
Parks and Recreation Director. Violation of this paragraph shall be a
misdemeanor.
         c.   Abandoned Property: Property that is unattended for more than
twenty-four (24) hours at an unregistered site is deemed abandoned property and
subject to removal and disposal. Abandoned property will be tagged noting the
date and time the property will be removed if left unattended. Unattended
hazardous materials will be removed immediately upon discovery.
         d.   Quiet Hours: Users are restricted from the production of noise
that may be disturbing to other users from nine o’clock (9:00) p.m. to seven
o’clock (7:00) a.m. No generators or other motorized equipment emitting sound
and exhaust are permitted to be used during quiet hours. Violation of this
paragraph shall be an infraction.
         e.   Speed Limit: It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a
motor vehicle, as defined in Section
6-1-2 B. above, at a speed greater than fifteen (15) miles per hour within the
limits of any Latah County park. Trail users are expected to act responsibly
and courteously, and not to exceed a safe and prudent speed. It is prohibited
for cyclists, scooter riders, skateboarders, and roller skaters to use the
trails at such a speed as to endanger or injure other users. Violation of this
paragraph shall be an infraction.
   F.   Fires: It shall be unlawful for any person to start a fire in any Latah
County park, except in metal, concrete, or other designated fireplace areas
provided for that purpose by the County, or during periods when all fires are
prohibited due to extreme fire hazard as determined by the Latah County Board
of County Commissioners. Only untreated natural wood and debris may be burned.
All permitted fires must be kept under control at all times and must be
extinguished before the site is left unattended. Violation of this paragraph
shall be a misdemeanor.
      1.   Fireworks: It shall be unlawful for any person to possess or use
fireworks of any kind within the limits of any Latah County park, except with
written permission granted by the Latah County Board of Commissioners.
Violation of this paragraph shall be an infraction.
      2.   Paintballs: It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge a
paintball gun within the limits of any Latah County park. Violation ofthis
paragraph shall be amisdemeanor.
      3.   Golf Balls: It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or
otherwise hit golf balls within the limits of any Latah County park, unless
written permission is first obtained from the Parks and Recreation Director.
Violation of this paragraph shall be an infraction.
      4.   Amplified Sound: It shall be unlawful for any person to use any
device to produce amplified sound within the limits of any Latah County park,
unless written permission is first obtained from the Parks and Recreation
Director. Violation of this paragraph shall be an infraction.
      5.   Litter: It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit, leave, or
place any debris, paper, litter, glass bottle, glass, nails, tacks, hooks,
cans, barbed wire, boards, trash, garbage, lighted material, or other waste
substances within the limits of any Latah County park other than in designated
containers. Violation of this paragraph shall be an infraction.
      6.   Animals on Leash: Pet Clean-up Required: It shall be unlawful for
any person to allow or let a dog or other animal to run or remain at large
within any Latah County park. Dogs and other animals must be contained or kept
on a leash of no more than ten feet (10') in length. It shall be unlawful for
any person to allow an animal in that person's possession to discharge the
animal's solid excrement on Latah County park property, unless such person
immediately removes and cleans up the animal's solid excrement from the
property. Furthermore, it shall be unlawful to allow an animal in that person's
possession to dig or damage any property within Latah County park. Violation of
this paragraph shall be an infraction.
      7.   Equestrian Activities: Horses are not allowed within the limits of
any Latah County park except by written permission from the Parks and
Recreation Director. Violation of this paragraph shall be an infraction.
      8.   Digging: Digging is not allowed within the limits of any Latah
County park except by written permission from the Parks and Recreation
Director. Violation of this paragraph shall be an infraction.
In addition to the above, the Board of Commissioners of Latah County may adopt,
by resolution, rules regarding the administration, maintenance, operation, and
regulation of Latah County parks. (Ord. 343, 8-1-2016; amd. Ord. 405, 4-29-
2024)
6-1-3: PENALTIES:
   A.   Punishment of any misdemeanor offense shall be by fine not more than
one thousand dollars ($1,000) or by incarceration not to exceed six (6) months,
or by both such fine and incarceration. Punishment for any infraction shall be
as provided in the Idaho Infraction Rules, I.I.R. 9 as now or hereafter
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered.
   B.   Further, any person may be trespassed from individual or all Latah
County Parks at the discretion of the park official.
   C.   A surcharge may be added to all established fees when a responsible
party of a camping unit fails to pay all required fees when occupying a
campsite. If the surcharge is assessed, and the responsible party is not
present, all required fees in addition to the surcharge will be assessed
against the registered owner of the motor vehicle or camping unit. (Ord. 343,
8-1-2016; amd. 2018 Code; Ord. 405, 4-29-2024)
6-1-4: COUNTY PARKS AND RECREATION DEPARTMENT DIRECTOR:
The Latah County Board of Commissioners hereby continues the establishment of a
department known as the Latah County Parks and Recreation Department, whose
mission is as follows: to provide recreation facilities and programs in Latah
County to enhance quality of life while fostering an appreciation for the
natural environment. The Department shall be administered by a person known as
the Latah County Parks and Recreation Director. The Director shall plan,
manage, and implement programs for the County's Park and Recreation Department
and correspondingly operate and maintain such county parks and other
recreational facilities as may now exist or hereafter be established to serve
the recreational/educational needs of Latah County citizens. Further, the
Director shall discharge his duties and responsibilities, as described in
detail in the Director's job description, as a county employee under the
authority of the Latah County Board of Commissioners and the support and advice
of the Latah County Parks and Recreation Board. The Latah County Board of
Commissioners hereby continues the appointment of the current Director. (Ord.
405, 4-29-2024)
6-1-5: COUNTY PARKS BOARD:
   A.   Establishment: The Latah County Board of Commissioners hereby continues
the establishment of a Board known as the Latah County Parks and Recreation
Board. The Board shall serve in an advisory and support capacity to the Latah
County Commissioners and to the County Parks and Recreation Director.
   B.   Membership: The Board shall be composed of seven (7) members, appointed
by the Latah County Commissioners. Members to the Board must reside within
Latah County and shall be persons with an interest in the success of the Latah
County parks and recreation. The Board of County Commissioners may authorize
one or more youth representatives to serve on the Parks and Recreation board in
whatever capacity designated by the Board of Commissioners. The mission of the
Board shall be the same as the Parks and Recreation Department.
   C.   Terms of Service: The Board shall be appointed annually, within the
first two weeks of January. Unexplained absence at three (3) consecutive
meetings or a written letter of resignation shall constitute resignation from
the Board. The County Commissioners shall endeavor to appoint anew member from
the geographical area represented by the vacancy, i.e. Bovill, Deary, Genesee,
Juliaetta, Kendrick, Moscow, Potlatch, Troy, etc.
   D.   Duties and Responsibilities:
      1.   The Latah County Parks and Recreation Board shall have the
responsibility to support the Parks and Recreation Director and advise the
Director of the desires of county residents regarding the conception,
development, and implementation of programs to enhance the use and
accessibility of the parks; develop and implement programs that add
recreational opportunities for the people of Latah County, including expansion
or addition to park sites and facilities; and link recreational activities/
programs to the education and development of children and youth and the general
well-being of Latah County citizens.
      2.   The Board shall aid the Parks and Recreation Director in
coordinating the needs of the county's park system with the activities of other
federal, state, municipal, and other public agencies.
      3.   The Board shall aid in gaining citizen and civic group cooperation
in furthering development of parks and recreation opportunities throughout the
county.
      4.   The Board shall advise and assist the Parks and Recreation Director
in formulating and recommending regulations as deemed necessary for the
operation of county parks.
      5.   The Board shall perform other related advisory and support functions
as the Board of County Commissioners may request.
      6.   The Board of County Commissioners of Latah County shall, by
resolution, adopt any additional duties and responsibilities deemed necessary
by the Board of County Commissioners.
   E.   Organization: The County Parks and Recreation Board shall elect, among
themselves, a chairperson, vice-chairperson, and a secretary. Officers shall be
selected annually at the January meeting. A quorum shall consist of four (4)
members.
   F.   Continuation of Existing Membership: The membership of the Latah County
Parks and Recreation Board shall continue to be those members in office
immediately preceding the enactment of this chapter. The terms of such members
shall continue until their previously designated time. The enactment of this
Section shall have no affect on the business or membership of the Latah County
Parks and Recreation Board. (Ord. 405, 4-29-2024)
6-1-6: USER FEES:
The Latah County Board of County Commissioners shall, by resolution, establish
user fees for the use of Latah County parks. (Ord. 405, 4-29-2024)
CHAPTER 2
UNIFORM RURAL ADDRESSING SYSTEM
SECTION:
6-2-1: Authority And Purpose
6-2-2: Standards For Rural Addressing
6-2-3: Enforcement And Penalties
6-2-4: Non-Appealable Decisions
6-2-5: Fees
6-2-1: AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE:
Adopted under the authority of Idaho Code § 31-714, the purpose of this Chapter
is to set out a uniform addressing system for all of the unincorporated
portions of Latah County to maintain a consistent addressing system and
records, and to assist with emergency response and other services. (Ord. 382,
11-23-2020)
6-2-2: STANDARDS FOR RURAL ADDRESSING:
   A.   Department Duties: The Latah County Planning, Building and Geographic
Information Systems (G.I.S.) Departments ("Department") shall issue all
addresses in unincorporated Latah County and shall maintain an official rural
address list and map.
   B.   Address Standards:
      1.   Road Name and Signs: All public roads shall be named. No road names
shall duplicate existing road names within unincorporated Latah County or a
nearby incorporated area unless said county road is a natural extension of a
road named in an incorporated area. Any existing duplicated road names shall be
corrected by the Department. The responsible highway district or Idaho
Transportation Department shall install and maintain road name signs at each
intersection with another named road.
      2.   Address Requirements:
         a.   All residential, commercial and public structures, facilities,
such as commercial storage, RV parks, commercial telecommunications towers,
campgrounds and community sewage treatment facilities, and all accessory
structures where no primary structure is present, within unincorporated Latah
County, shall be assigned an address.
         b.   Addresses and sub-numbering shall be issued by the Department.
         c.   Addresses shall include the road name established by the
responsible highway district or Idaho Transportation Department or the "Lane"
name established by the Department.
         d.   Each address shall have a four (4) digit number and, when
applicable, sub-numbering as described under Section
6-2-2.B.4 of this ordinance or an "NS" as described under Section
6-2-2.B.5 of this ordinance.
         e.   Addresses shall not be issued to structures or properties which
are not in compliance with State and local laws, including, but not limited to,
the Latah County Building Code and/or Land Use ordinances.
      3.   Private Lanes: At the expense of the owner(s), private driveways
serving three (3) or more building sites, whether developed or undeveloped, and
regardless of existing addresses currently on the driveway, shall be assigned a
name as a "Lane" under the following circumstances and per the below standards:
         a.   An application for an address, non-standard address, building
permit, or land use permit, which results in a private driveway serving three
(3) or more building sites as noted above, shall trigger the requirement to
name the driveway as a "Lane".
         b.   The "Lane" shall be numbered when turning off the main road with
even numbers to the right and odd numbers to the left, starting at 1000 nearest
to the identified main road, with numbers increasing the farther you get from
the road. If in the interest of public safety, convenience, to keep existing
numbers, or for any other reason the Department sees as appropriate, "Lane"
numbering may vary from this, so long as the numbering follows this standard as
much as possible, is logical, and will not cause any confusion for emergency
service vehicles.
         c.   The Department has discretion to choose and issue a name for the
"Lane" without agreement from property owners along the "Lane". If the property
owners utilizing the "Lane" prefer to choose a name, they may submit to the
Department a proposed "Lane" name following these standards:
            i.   The name cannot be vulgar, profane, or violate any
intellectual property rights protected by law.
            ii.   The name cannot have more than sixteen (16) characters
including spaces.
            iii.   The name cannot match or be similar to any other named road
or "Lane" in Latah County in spelling or pronunciation. Use of direction or
preposition is not allowed to differentiate between "Lane" and road or "Lane"
names.
            iv.   The name must be easy to pronounce and spell and not
confusing to emergency services personnel.
            v.   At a minimum, sixty-six percent (66%) of owners of property
that will have an address issued on the "Lane" must agree, in writing, or on a
form provided to them by the Department, of the new name.
            vi.   A name must be provided to the Department in the time frame
given to the property owners by the Department.
            vii.   The Department reserves the right to reject any "Lane" name
proposed.
         d.   If a "Lane" has already been named and every current property
owner with an address on said "Lane" wants to rename it, they may make an
application on a form provided by the Department. All expenses to change such
name shall be incurred by the requestors. Fees for renaming the "Lane" shall be
charged and shall be paid at the time of the request. Every property owner with
an address on the ""Lane"" shall sign the application. They may request the
Department choose a new name or may submit a name to the Department following
the standards in section
6-2-2.C.3.c, except under
6-2-2.C.3.c.v. 100% of property owners with an address on the "Lane" must agree
to the new name.
         e.   To ensure that emergency vehicles can find structures and in the
interest of public safety, the Department may require, even when no address,
non-standard address, building permit, or land use permit is being requested,
that existing shared private driveways be named and the structures readdressed
in accordance with this Chapter. When this occurs, Latah County shall bear the
expense for the "Lane" sign and installation thereof. All individual property
owners on a "Lane" are responsible for and shall modify their address numbers
on their homes and their sub-driveways.
      4.   Multiple Homes with One Address Number: Manufactured home
developments, condominiums, townhouses, apartment buildings, accessory cottage
houses, RV parks and the like shall be individually sub-numbered using the
following standards:
         a.   An address sign shall be installed at the corner of the driveway/
internal road(s) with the road and meet the specifications of section
6-2-2.C of this Chapter for display of the 4-digit address number.
         b.   When there are multiple apartment buildings or attached townhouse
type structures, each building/group of buildings shall be designated and
clearly marked with a logical number or letter (such as "Building A" and
"Building B") and shall also be clearly signed along the road, "Lane", or
internal road or driveway.
         c.   Sub-number signs shall be placed on each trailer, condominium,
townhouse, apartment, house or the like or, when applicable, on each space.
         d.   Sub-numbers should generally start at 1, 10, 100 or A and
continue in a logical fashion, but shall not duplicate themselves for any
primary address.
         e.   Address signs and sub-numbering signs shall meet the standards of
subsection
6-2-2.C of this Chapter, except that on apartments, multi-family houses,
townhouses and the like the numbers/letters shall be located near the door of
the apartment and all numbers shall be clearly visible from the road (internal
or external) that provide access to the structures.
      5.   Non-Standard Addresses: Bare-land that is eligible for a building
permit or ineligible for a building permit but legally created may be assigned
an address, and accessory structures and structures exempt from building
permits that require a placement permit where no primary structure is present
shall be assigned an address, which consists of a road name and a four (4)
digit number with the letters "NS" (Non-Standard) on the end. These addresses
shall only be for emergency service purposes and shall not have mail delivery
or be used for voting, vehicle registration, or licensing. The address for
these properties will not be reported to the United States Postal Service by
Latah County. The application for an address for bare-land will include the
Latah County Code citation regarding temporary use of property or "permanent
living quarters" and information regarding the limits on building permits/
structures on unbuildable parcels.
      6.   Approach Approvals: Prior to assigning an address, a permanent
approach must be approved by the appropriate highway district or the Idaho
Transportation Department. Approaches for new bare-land addresses and multiple
access driveways must be constructed prior to issuance. Approaches for single
family residences and accessory structures must be constructed prior to a
certificate of occupancy/completion for the structure. If the approach is not
constructed at the time of addressing and the location of the approach changes,
an additional addressing fee shall be assessed and paid before an address is
issued.
      7.   Accessory Structures: Accessory structures using the same access
point as the primary structure shall have the same address as the primary
structure and shall not be assigned a separate address. Exception: Accessory
Cottage Houses may have their own address assigned under the requirements of
this ordinance at the request and payment of the owner, subject to section
6-2-2.B.3 when applicable.
      8.   Address Assignment: Four (4) digit address numbers shall be assigned
by the Department under the following criteria:
         a.   When traveling north or west on a named road, the odd numbers
will be on the left with even numbers on the right;
         b.   Address numbers shall begin with the lowest numbers on the south
end of a north-south road or the west end of an east-west road;
         c.   Where address points are established upon a roadway, any new
address shall be assigned by interpolation of the location of the approved
access approach between the access approaches/address points on both sides of
the new access approach along the road. When four (4) number address points are
no longer available on a roadway, if possible, the Department will assign the
next most logical address that may not entirely meet the requirements of this
Section.
         d.   If necessary, the Department, after notifying the Latah County
Board of County Commissioners, may readdress sections of road to accommodate
new addresses.
         e.   When necessary, especially when an existing road does not meet
the standards set forth in this Section, the Department can use the most
logical numbers to address new structures in lieu of the above.
      9.   Non-Standard "NS" Conversions: If a structure or use that requires a
standard address is going to be placed upon a property with a non-standard "NS"
address, the owner shall apply for a new address and pay a new address fee. Any
other legal conversions from a non-standard "NS" address to an address for a
structure shall also require a new application and fee.
   C.   Address Display:
      1.   Addresses shall be displayed along the named road or "Lane" at the
approved point of the constructed access/approach and on the structure.
      2.   The property owner shall install address signs at any new address
location in a manner that allows those signs to be easily seen from the named
road or "Lane".
      3.   The view of the address from the road, "Lane", and any primary
driveway (when there is one or more sub driveways) shall be easily visible,
kept free of obstructions and maintained by the property owner.
      4.   When a driveway or internal road accesses more than one residence
and there are sub-driveways, additional address signs that meet the
requirements of this section are required to be placed at the corner of the
primary driveway and the sub-driveway indicating the address assignment for the
structure located on each sub-driveway.
      5.   Signs shall contain numbers and letters that are three inches (3")
tall by two inches (2") wide and they shall be made of reflective material that
contrasts with the background color and are easy to see by emergency personnel,
day or night.
      6.   The top of the address numbers sign shall be no less than 4 feet and
no more than 5 feet off the ground, on a substantial, maintained support
structure.
      7.   The preferred addressing sign has the top of the sign located at
forty-eight inches (48") high and has a six inch wide by eighteen inch (6" x
18") long placard made of metallic blue reflective material with metallic white
reflective address numbers placed in the center with the first number of the
address near the top and the last number of the address near the bottom. See
diagram:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/be1a7649b362ad1768069ef201d8fc33b732c182/
IMAGES/0-0-0-807.png]
   D.   Installation and Maintenance of Rural Address Signs:
      1.    Maintaining and replacing address signs in accordance with the
standards of this Chapter shall be the responsibility of the property owner.
      2.   The Department may order a property owner to replace a damaged or
missing address sign at the property owner's expense. If an owner does not
correct the issue, the County, the Highway District, or the Idaho
Transportation Department may correct the issue and collect the money for
correction from the owner. (Ord. 382, 11-23-2020)
6-2-3: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
Any person intentionally altering, damaging, removing, erecting without
approval, installing without approval, or failing to install a road sign or an
address sign is acting in violation of this Chapter. A violation of any
provision of this Chapter is hereby declared to be a misdemeanor and is
punishable by up to six (6) months in jail or by a fine not exceeding one
thousand dollars ($1,000), or by both fine and imprisonment. Additionally, this
Chapter may be enforced by the filing of a civil suit seeking any lawful
remedy. (Ord. 382, 11-23-2020)
6-2-4: NON-APPEALABLE DECISIONS:
As the provisions of this Chapter do not affect a substantial or procedural due
process right of an owner, decisions by the Department in accordance with this
Chapter are non-appealable. (Ord. 382, 11-23-2020)
6-2-5: FEES:
As set by Latah County Resolution. (Ord. 382, 11-23-2020)
CHAPTER 3
PARKING LOTS
SECTION:
6-3-1: Authority
6-3-2: Portions Of State Traffic Code Adopted
6-3-3: Designation Of Restricted Parking Areas
6-3-4: Violation An Infraction
6-3-1: AUTHORITY:
This chapter is enacted pursuant to the authority granted to the Board of
County Commissioners by article XII, section 2 of the Constitution of the State
of Idaho, and Idaho Code sections 31-714, 31-807, and 49-208. (Ord. 185, 1-12-
1998, eff. 1-31-1998)
6-3-2: PORTIONS OF STATE TRAFFIC CODE ADOPTED:
Having determined that it is necessary to regulate the parking of motor
vehicles on property owned by Latah County which is open to the public for
vehicular travel and parking, the Board of County Commissioners hereby adopts,
by reference thereto, the provisions of Idaho Code sections 49-117(1), 49-209,
and 49-660. (Ord. 185, 1-12-1998, eff. 1-31-1998)
6-3-3: DESIGNATION OF RESTRICTED PARKING AREAS:
The Board of County Commissioners shall, by motion and order, designate those
areas that the Board deems necessary, for the convenience of the public and for
the orderly conduct of business at property and facilities owned by the County,
as restricted parking areas, and shall cause the appropriate traffic control
devices to be placed in or on said areas so as to give adequate notice of said
restrictions on the parking of motor vehicles thereon. (Ord. 185, 1-12-1998,
eff. 1-31-1998)
6-3-4: VIOLATION AN INFRACTION:
Violation of said parking restrictions shall constitute an infraction, the
penalty for which shall be as stated in the Idaho Infraction Rules. (Ord. 185,
1-12-1998, eff. 1-31-1998)
CHAPTER 4
PULLMAN-MOSCOW AIRPORT
SECTION:
6-4-1: Rules, Regulations And Standards Adopted
6-4-1: RULES, REGULATIONS AND STANDARDS ADOPTED:
   A.   The rules, regulations, and minimum standards adopted by the Airport
Board of the Pullman-Moscow Regional Airport on July 18, 1972, are hereby
ordered by the Latah County Commissioners, and Latah County hereby joins in
their adoption by the said Airport Board.
   B.   That certain document, three (3) copies of which are on file in the
Office of the Clerk of the Board of County Commissioners, being marked and
designated as "Rules and Regulations Pullman-Moscow Airport and Minimum
Standards For Commercial Aeronautical Activities", is hereby incorporated at
this point as though set out in "Haec Verba" and hereby is adopted. (Ord. 12,
11-26-1973)
TITLE 7
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODES AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Composition Of County Building Code
7-1-2: Codes Adopted
7-1-3: Amendments To Certain Adopted Codes
7-1-4: Amendments To Mechanical Code And Fuel Gas Code
7-1-5: Manufactured, Modular, And Mobile Homes
7-1-6: Use Of Home While Building Or Installing New Residence
7-1-7: Permanent Living Quarters
7-1-8: Permits Contrary To Law
7-1-9: Enforcement And Penalties
7-1-10: Snow Load
7-1-11: Fees
7-1-1: COMPOSITION OF COUNTY BUILDING CODE:
The codes as adopted in this chapter shall be designated as the Latah County
Building Code. These regulations apply to all structures and property in Latah
County. (Ord. 384, 12-14-2021; amd. Ord. 408, 6-24-2025)
7-1-2: CODES ADOPTED:
   A.   In accordance with Idaho Code Title 39 Chapter 41, Idaho Code Title 44
Chapters 21 and 22, and the Idaho Administrative Procedures Act Section 24.39
(7.03), the codes adopted for Latah County as amended herein and by the State
of Idaho, include:
      1.   The International Building Code, 2018 edition;
      2.   The International Residential Code, 2018 edition, parts I through
VI;
      3.   The International Mechanical Code, 2018 edition;
      4.   The International Fuel Gas Code, 2018 edition;
      5.   The International Energy Conservation Code, 2018 edition;
      6.   The International Existing Building Code, 2018 edition; and
      7.   The International Property Maintenance Code, 2018 edition.
   B.   The following appendices to the International Building Code, 2018
edition, are specifically adopted:
      1.   Appendix C, Group U Agricultural Buildings;
      2.   Appendix E, Supplementary Accessibility Requirements;
      3.   Appendix F, Rodent Proofing;
      4.   Appendix G, Flood Resistant Construction;
      5.   Appendix H, Signs;
      6.   Appendix I, Patio Covers; and
      7.   Appendix J, Grading.
   C.   The following appendices to the International Residential Code, 2018
edition, are specifically adopted:
      1.   Appendix A, Sizing and Capacities of Gas Piping;
      2.   Appendix B, Sizing of Venting Systems Serving Appliances with Draft
Hoods, Category I, Appliances, and Appliances Listed for Use and Type B Vents;
      3.   Appendix C, Exit Terminals of Mechanical Draft and Direct-Vent
Venting Systems;
      4.   Appendix D, Recommended Procedure for Safety Inspection of an
Existing Appliance Installation;
      5.   Appendix J, Existing Buildings and Structures;
      6.   Appendix M, Home Day Care-R-3 Occupancy;
      7.   Appendix H Patio Covers;
      8.   Appendix Q, Tiny Houses;
      9.   Appendix R, Light Straw-Clay Construction; and
      10.   Appendix S, Strawbale Construction.
   D.   The following appendices to the International Existing Building Code,
2018 edition, are specifically adopted:
      1.   Appendix A-1, Seismic Strengthening Provisions for Unreinforced
Masonry Bearing Wall Buildings;
      2.   Appendix A-2, Earthquake Hazard Reduction in Existing Reinforced
Concrete and Reinforced Masonry Wall Buildings with Flexible Diaphragms;
      3.   Appendix B, Supplementary Accessibility Requirements for Existing
Buildings and Facilities; and
      4.   Resource A, Guideline on Fire Ratings of Archaic Materials and
Assemblies. (Ord. 384, 12-14-2021; amd. Ord. 408, 6-24-2025)
7-1-3: AMENDMENTS TO CERTAIN ADOPTED CODES:
The following language is hereby added to or amends the adopted codes as
follows:
   A.   Section [A]105.2 of the International Building Code, 2018 edition,
Section R105.2 of the International Residential Code, 2018 edition, and Section
105.2 of the International Existing Building Code, 2018 edition, are hereby
amended as follows:
      105.2 Work exempt from permit [A]105.2 [R105.2] [105.2]
      Exemption from permit requirements of this code shall not be deemed to
grant authorization for any work to be done in any manner in violation of the
provisions of this code or any other laws or ordinances of this jurisdiction or
the State of Idaho. All exemptions from permits requirements of this code are
subject to the following:
      1.   While exempt items do not require a building permit, to be built or
placed, they must be listed in the property's designated zone as an allowed
use, an administrative zoning permit, or a conditional use permit by the Latah
County Land Use Regulations, comply with all other land use regulations, such
as floodplain development permits, driveway standards and/or industrial design
standards when applicable, and obtain all required zoning approvals. If an
exempt item is not allowed by the Latah County Land Use Regulations or doesn't
gain zoning approval, it cannot be constructed or placed.
      2.   Based on eligibility, either a zoning placement permit for non-
agricultural exempt structures or a zoning placement permit for agricultural
exempt structures must be obtained to construct or place an exempt item, except
items listed in Section
7-1-3(A)(4). The fee for such shall be as listed in Section
7-1-11. All zoning requirements must be met prior to the issuance of any zoning
placement permit.
      3.   Typically, one or more zoning inspections are required prior to any
construction or placement and after any construction or placement to ensure the
built item is in compliance with the zoning regulations, including but not
limited to setbacks.
      4.   The following exempt items do not require any zoning placement
permit:
         a.   Exempt fences
         b.   Exempt retaining walls
         c.   Exempt water tanks under 2,000 gallons
         d.   Exempt sidewalks and driveways
         e.   Painting, papering, tiling, carpeting, cabinets, countertops and
similar finish work
         f.   Prefabricated swimming pools that are less than 48" deep
         g.   Exempt swings and other playground equipment accessory to
detached one- and two-family dwellings
         h.   Exempt window awnings
         i.   Temporary motion picture, television and theater stage sets and
scenery
         j.   Exempt nonfixed and movable fixtures, cases, racks, counters and
partitions
         k.   Exempt electrical, gas, mechanical and plumbing items
      5.   No exempt tool and storage shed, or any exempt one-story detached
structure accessory to a residence (including but not limited to sheds and
playhouses) shall include any wood stove, mechanical, or fuel gas item.
      6.   Exempt playhouses shall be accessory to an existing residential use.
      7.   All exempt items that are allowed to include and do include
electrical, plumbing, mechanical, water use, waste disposal, or fuel gas are
required to obtain a valid permit and final approval for such and provide a
copy of that to the Department.
      8.   No exempt structure shall be used as a cabin, residence, tiny home,
office, studio, or other similar item.
      9.   Exempt structures are not allowed on parcels that, as per the Latah
County Land Use Regulations, are ineligible for building permits, except for
the following, when allowed by the Latah County Land Use Regulations:
         a.   Agricultural buildings that are accessory to a bona fide
agricultural operation on the property including and limited to open-sided (up
to three sides) machinery, feed/grain and plant sheds, grain silos, and grain
elevators that are approved under amended Sections [A]105.2.14;
         b.   One single story tool and/or storage shed with a floor area not
greater than 120 square feet used to support a commercial agricultural, animal
husbandry, or forestry operation.
         c.   Fences under 7 feet high
         d.   Retaining walls not over 4 feet in height measured from the
bottom of the footing to the top of the wall unless supporting a surcharge or
impounding Class I, II or III A liquids;
         e.   Water tanks supported directly on grade if the capacity is not
greater than 5000 gallons and the ratio of height to diameter or width is not
greater than 2:1;
         f.   Sidewalks and driveways not more than 30 inches above adjacent
grade;
         g.   Shade cloth structures constructed for nursery or agricultural
purposes (not including service systems)
      With respect to the above, building permits shall not be required for the
following:
      105.2 Work exempt from permit [A]105.2 [R105.2] [105.2]
      14. [11.] [7.] Agricultural buildings subject to Sections 39-4116(5) and
54-5002(b) Idaho Code.
         a.   A Zoning Placement Permit for Agricultural Exempt Buildings shall
be applied for, the required fee shall be paid, and the application shall
include:
         i.   Approval from the appropriate highway district or Idaho
Transportation Department for access;
            11.   Approval from the planning department that the exempt item/
use is allowed in that zoning designation and verification of compliance with
any other applicable zoning requirements or standards;
            iii.   The type of building specified and floor plan including
dimensions and uses of areas;
            iv.   A site plan including distances to property lines;
            v.   A copy of the approval of any other relevant zoning permit
(such as a floodplain development permit);
            vi.   A statement of use/affidavit limiting use to the uses as
defined in the codes and permission to inspect for continued use compliance to
ensure the structure is being used as allowed by code.
            vii.   A copy of any permit for items such as electrical, when
allowed in this structure by this code.
            The application must be complete to be considered. This permit
shall be approved prior to construction or placement. The fee for such shall be
as listed in Section 7-1-11.
         b.   When required by code, classification as an agricultural building
shall require that the structure be on agricultural zoned property and/or be
part of an agricultural operation. Such structure shall be designated and
constructed to house farm implements, hay, grain, poultry, livestock or other
horticultural products. Such structure cannot be a place of employment, used by
the public, a place where agricultural products are extracted, processed,
treated or packaged, or conditioned livestock housing.
         c.   No agricultural building shall act as a garage, residential shop,
home, rental unit, kitchen, bunk house, living room, place of employment, place
used by the public, place of recreation, or any other use not allowed by code.
Storage and maintenance structures for equipment and machinery and sheds used
exclusively in agricultural operations shall provide the following proof of
having an agricultural operation:
         i.   Proof of agricultural operation shall be proved by providing a
copy of the previous year's Federal Tax Form Schedule F, Federal Tax Form
Schedule C, or other relevant tax form that specifies the nature of the
agricultural operation and that there were gains/losses from farming or
verification of registration of the owner as a farm owner or operator with
Latah Farm Services Agency; and
         ii.   Classification of the property where the item is being built or
placed as category 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5 by the Latah County Assessor.
      15. [12.] [8.] Freestanding solar collectors not greater than 200 square
feet and no higher than 10 feet above grade.
      16. [13.] [9.] Commercially available membrane structures erected
according to the manufacturers' instructions intended to provide weather
protection for automobiles and recreational vehicles.
      17. [14.] [10.] Residential flagpoles, that are the height of the pole
plus 5% from a property line.
      18. [15.] [11.] Unlit signs less than 12 square feet on poles less than
7' high or attached to the side of a structure.
   B.   Section [A]105.3 of the International Building Code, 2018 edition, and
Section R105.3 of the International Residential Code, 2018 edition, Section
[A)105.3 of the International Existing Building Code are hereby amended as
follows:
      105.3 [R105.3] Application for permit.
      6.   Be signed by the applicant/owner. When allowed by office policy, the
applicant's authorized agent or contractor may sign the application with
permission of the property owner.
      8.   Written verification of septic/sewer approval from the North Central
District Health Department, appropriate sewer district, or municipality.
      Exemption: Permits for siding, window replacement, re-roofs, mechanical
installations including wood stoves, accessory structures without bedrooms or
bathrooms, and signs are exempt from this requirement, provided a 20' setback
from the drainfield and septic tank is maintained.
      9.   Written verification from the Idaho Transportation Department,
appropriate highway district, appropriate federal or state agency, or
appropriate municipality of approved vehicle access for the building site to a
public road.
      Exemption: Permits for siding, window replacement, re-roofs, signs
outside of the public right-of-way, mechanical installations including wood
stoves, additions to existing structures, or accessory structures to existing
single-family residences (not including accessory cottage houses) are exempt
from this requirement.
      10.   For structures that have electrical, the electrical permit number.
For structures that have plumbing, the plumbing permit number. If not available
at the time of application, these numbers shall be provided to the County as
soon as they are acquired.
      11.   Applications shall include all the information required on the
application. The items on the application must be substantially complete for
the application to be considered complete. Incomplete applications cannot be
considered. If an application is submitted that initially appears complete, but
is missing information, it will be deemed incomplete until the applicant
provides the information to the department. All timelines start over once the
missing information is submitted or an application is resubmitted.
Determination that an application is complete shall not constitute approval but
shall authorize the application to proceed to formal plan review. A complete
application does not guarantee that additional information will not be
required. There may be information upon detailed review that is required for
code compliance.
   C.   Section [A]105.5 of the International Building Code, 2018 edition,
Section R105.5 of the International Residential Code, 2018 edition, and Section
[A] 105.5 of the International Existing Building Code are hereby amended as
follows:
      [A]105.5 [R105.5] [A]105.5 Expiration. Every permit issued shall become
invalid unless the work authorized by such permit is commenced within 180 days
after its issuance, or if the work authorized by such permit is suspended or
abandoned for a period of 180 days after the time the work is commenced. The
Building Official is authorized to grant, in writing, not more than three
extensions of time, for periods not more than 180 days each. The party must
request an extension and pay the fee a shown in Section
7-1-11 .
      Renewal. When a permit has expired or is going to expire, a renewal
permit must be obtained. No work can be recommenced on an expired project until
a renewal permit has been issued. The fees for such renewal permits are
specified in Section
7-1-11 . At the discretion of the Building Official, and only when deemed
appropriate, in lieu of the fees specifically outlined, the applicant may be
charged the fees set out for remodels or may, if the project is substantially
close to being finished with approximately 90% or more of the project
completed, be charged for individual items or inspections needed to complete a
permit. A Certificate of Occupancy may be issued without all permitted elements
completed provided that these elements are not essential to the completion of
construction of the structure (i.e. garage or carport with a home, cover over a
deck) and so long as construction of the elements has not begun. If these will
be built at a future date, a new permit for these will be required at the time
of construction. All subsequent work, which was not previously approved, shall
adhere to the most current adopted code. No refund shall be given for partial
permit approval.
   D.   Section [A] 111.3 of the International Building Code, 2018 edition,
Section R110.4 of the International Residential Code, 2018 edition, and
[A]110.3 of the International Existing Building Code are hereby amended as
follows:
      [A] 111.3 [R110.4] [A] 110.3 Temporary Occupancy. The building official
is authorized to issue a Temporary Certificate of Occupancy before the
completion of the entire work covered by the permit, provided that such portion
or portions shall be occupied safely and the corresponding fee for a Temporary
Certificate of Occupancy has been paid. To occupy a structure safely, the
Building Official shall determine what items must be complete and pass
inspection prior to issuance.
      The Temporary Certificate of Occupancy, when issued, shall contain a list
of all items remaining for final approval and be signed by the applicant. It
shall be valid for a period of 180 days. An applicant can request and receive,
at the discretion of the Building Official, two (2) one-time 180 extensions of
their Temporary Certificate of Occupancy. The fees, as indicated in Section 7-
1-11, for a Temporary Certificate of Occupancy and Temporary Certificate of
Occupancy extension shall be paid prior to issuance or extension. This
Temporary Certificate of Occupancy may be recorded by the Building Department
and may be revoked at any time if a safety hazard is deemed to exist that was
not readily apparent at the time of the issuance.
      If a structure is not completed at the time of the expiration of the
Temporary Certificate of Occupancy, a renewal permit shall be required and a
Certificate of Non-Compliance shall be recorded against the structure and shall
not be removed until a valid Certificate of Occupancy has been issued.
Enforcement actions may be taken against the owners of any property when
occupying a structure that has no valid Certificate of Occupancy or Temporary
Certificate of Occupancy.
   E.   Section 107. 1 of the International Building Code is hereby amended as
follows:
      [A] 107.1.1 Design. An Engineer or Architect, licensed in the State of
Idaho, is required to submit all drawings for structures under this code.
Submittals shall include the structural and interior design for the appropriate
occupancy.
   F.   Section 109 of the International Building Code, 2018 edition, Section
R108 of the International Residential Code, 2018 edition, and Section 108 of
the International Existing Building Code are hereby amended as follows:
      [A] 109.3 [R108.3] [[A]108.3] Building permit valuations. Valuations are
set in Section
7-1-11 . When valuation data for certain projects is not available in Section
7-1-11 , the Building Official shall determine a valuation in accordance with
the policy established in Section
7-1-11 . The corresponding fee shall be paid.
      [A] 109.5.1 [R108.4.1] [[A]108.5.1] Plan Review Fees. When submittal
documents are required by Section 107 [R106], a plan review fee shall be paid.
Said plan review fee shall be as shown in Section 7-1-11 . A non-refundable fee
deposit, in an amount set forth in Section
7-1-11  , for commencement of the plan review shall be paid for projects
exceeding $30,000 in valuation.
      The plan review fees specified in this Section are separate fees from the
permit fees specified in Section 109 [R 108] and are in addition to the permit
fees. Any balance, after deducting the plan review fee from the deposit, shall
be credited to the amount due for the permit fee, or any amount owing after the
deduction of the deposit from the full plan review fee shall be added to the
amount due for the permit fee. Regardless of circumstance, plan review fees
shall not be reduced or waived.
      [A] 109.6 [R108.5] Refunds. Prior to plan review and permit issuance,
eighty percent [80%] of any fees paid shall be refunded if the application is
withdrawn prior to commencement of the project. Plan review fees are not
refundable after the plan review has been performed; however, eighty percent
[80%] of any permit fees paid shall be refunded if the application is withdrawn
prior to commencement of the project. No refunds shall be made after
commencement of any work on the project. No refunds shall be made any time
after a permit has expired, whether issued or not issued.
   G.   Section 113 of the International Building Code, 2018 edition, and
Section R112 of the International Residential Code, 2018 edition, and Section
112 of the International Existing Building Code, 2018 edition, and Section C109
of the International Energy Conservation Code, 2018 edition, are hereby amended
as follows; and that all of the Subsections of Section 111 - Means of Appeal in
the International Property Maintenance Code, 2018 edition are hereby deleted
and replaced as follows:
      [A] 113.1 [R11 2.1] [112.1] [111 .1] [C109.1] General. In order to hear
and decide appeals of orders, decisions or determinations made by the Building
Official relative to the application and interpretation of this code, there
shall be and is hereby created a Board of Appeals. The Building Official shall
be an ex-officio member of said board but shall have no vote on any matter
before the Board. This Board shall have three members, not including the
Building Official. The Board of Appeals shall be appointed by the Board of
Latah County Commissioners and shall hold office at its pleasure. Staff shall
take minutes of the proceedings. The Board of Appeals shall conform to the
Latah County Hearing Procedures Ordinance, and shall render all decisions and
findings in writing to the appellant with a duplicate copy to the Building
Official.
      [A] 113.2 [R112.2] [112.2] [111.2] [C109.2] Limitations on authority. An
application for appeal shall be based on a claim that the true intent of this
code or the rules legally adopted thereunder have been incorrectly interpreted,
the provisions of this code do not fully apply, or an equally good or better
form of construction is proposed.
      Any affected person may file an appeal from any notice or action of the
Building Official. A fee, as specified in Section
7-1-11, and written appeal describing the specific issues being appealed, must
be submitted to the Latah County Planning and Building Department within
fifteen (15) days of the date of the notice or action of the Building Official.
After receiving the written appeal, the Board of Appeals shall be appointed by
the Latah County Commissioners within thirty (30) days and the Board of
Appeals, once appointed, shall first fix a date, time and place for hearing the
appeal. The Board of Appeals shall hear the appeal within forty-five (45) days
after the appointment by the Boarcl of Latah County Commissioners. Written
notice of the time and place of the hearing shall be given at least fifteen
(15) days prior to the date of the hearing to each appellant and to the
Building Official. The Board of Appeals must render a decision within thirty
(30) days of the hearing of such appeal. Every decision of the Board of Appeals
must be based upon findings of fact and every finding must be supported in the
record of the proceedings of the Board of Appeals.
      The Board of Appeals shall have no authority to waive any requirement of
this code.
      111.3 [C109.3] Qualifications. The Board of Appeals shall consist of
members who are qualified by experience and training to pass on matters
pertaining to building construction and property maintenance and are not
employees of the jurisdiction.
   H.   Section 112.4, Failure to Comply, of the International Property
Maintenance Code, 2018 edition, shall be amended as follows:
      112.4 Failure to comply. Any person who shall continue any work after
having been served with a stop work order, except such work as that person is
directed to perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be liable
to a fine of not less than $300 for each day the work continues.
   I.   Section R202, Definitions, of the International Residential Code, 2018
edition, shall be amended as follows:
      Structure. That which is built or constructed, including roll-off
containers, shipping containers or similar items.
   J.   Table R301.2(1), Climatic and Geographic Design Criteria, of the
International Residential Code, 2018 edition, shall be completed as follows:
      Ground/Roof Snow Load: The ground snow loads, as determined by the study,
"Ground and Roof Snow Loads for Idaho", Ronald L. Sack, et al, University Press
of Idaho, 1976, shall be used to calculate all roof snow loads. All elevations
above 3300 feet shall have an additional 20 pounds of snowload above the base
snowload. The Latah County Basic Roof Snow Loads map shall be incorporated into
this Ordinance as Section 7-1-10.
      Wind Speed: 90 mph IRC; IBC 115 mph or design using 1609IBC or Chapter
26-30 ASCE 7
      Seismic Design Category: B
      Subject to Damage from weathering: Severe
      Subject to damage from frost line depth: Frost Depth 30 inches
      Subject to damage from termite: Slight to moderate
      Winter Design Temp: 10 Degrees F
      Ice Shield Underlayment Required: Yes
      Flood Hazards: Date of entry into the National Flood Insurance Program,
May 31, 1980; Date of current Flood Insurance Rate Map Index: April 15, 2002
      Air Freezing Index: 1500 or less
      Mean Annual Temperature: 47.3 Degrees F
   K.   Section R304 of the International Residential Code, 2018 edition, shall
be amended as follows:
      R304.5 Minimum area of a dwelling unit. A dwelling unit shall have at
least 255 square feet, with a separate bathroom containing a water closet,
lavatory and bathtub or shower with a minimum floor area of 35 square feet, an
additional 100 square feet for each occupant in excess of two, and must be on a
permanent foundation. Dwelling units that do not meet these requirements are
considered temporary and are subject to Subsection 7-1-7 of this Code.
   L.   Section 302.1 of the International Building Code, 2018 edition, shall
be amended as follows:
      11.   Office and Studio Accessory to Residential (see section 313): Group
OSA
   M.   Section 312 of the International Building Code 2018 edition, shall be
amended as follows:
      Section 312.1.2 Utility Occupancy and Pole Structures with Utility
Occupancy. Utility occupancy or pole structures with utility occupancy that are
not exempt from building permits may contain a bathroom but cannot contain a
kitchen or a bar. Any bathroom shall be considered a utility occupancy (not
pole) and shall be charged as such. Kitchens and bars shall be considered R-
3 and shall be charged as such and shall also be subject to required zoning
permits for primary or secondary residential structure.
   N.   Chapter 3, Occupancy and Use, of the International Building Code, 2018
edition, shall be amended as follows:
      SECTION 313
         OFFICE AND STUDIO ACCESSORY TO RESIDENTIAL GROUP OSA
      313.1 General. Buildings and structures that are accessory to a built
residential use not classified in a different occupancy shall be constructed,
equipped and maintained to conform to the requirements of this code
commensurate with the fire and life hazard incidental to the Utility occupancy
(Group U) and must meet the following requirements: a permanent foundation
regardless of size, windows/doors that meet egress requirements, insulation and
u4 fact,or windows when a heating or cooling source is implemented, and smoke
detector (when applicable a carbon monoxide detector{'}'}. Group CSA
structures, when plumbed, shall be permitted as a Group R-3. Group CSA shall
include the following:
         Home pool cabana
         Home office
         Home artist studio
         Home recording studio
         People sheds
      Similar structures at the discretion of the Building Official
   O.   Section R403 of the International Residential Code, 2018 edition, shall
be amended as follows:
      R403.1.1 Minimum size. The footing width for light frame construction
shall be 16" for 1- and 2-story with soil bearing value of 1500 p.s.f., and 23"
for 3-story with soil bearing value of 1500 psf. Spread footings shall be a
minimum of 8 inches (200 mm) in thickness, or thicker where required by design
loads. Footing projections shall be at least 2 inches (51 mm) and shall not
exceed the thickness of the footing. The size of footings supporting piers and
columns shall be based on the tributary load and allowable soil pressure in
accordance with Table R401.4.1.
      All footings shall have a minimum of two (2) No. 4 (½ inch) or larger
reinforcement rods laid continuously in the footing. Lap splices shall be a
minimum of 40 bar diameters.
   P.   Section R404.1.3 of the International Residential Code, 2018 edition,
shall be amended as follows:
      R404.1.3 Concrete foundation walls. Concrete foundation waifs shall be
constructed as follows or using the appropriate tables associated with Chapter
4 of this Code: For walls less than 48 inches in height from the top of the
footing, horizontal rebar, #4, shall be spaced at intervals of a maximum of 18
inches and vertical rebar, #4, shall be spaced at intervals of a maximum of 48
inches. For walls more than 48 inches in height from the top of the footing,
horizontal and vertical rebar, #4, shall be spaced at intervals of a maximum of
18 inches. The horizontal rebar shall be placed not greater than 9 inches from
the top of the wall. Openings up to 6 feet in concrete walls shall have a
lintel above with two #5 rebar or equivalent on the top and bottom, extending 2
feet past the opening on either side and within 1.5 to 3 inches of the opening.
Openings greater than 6 feet shall be engineered. The minimum thickness shall
be 8 inches for walls which support 2 or 3 stories above grade, all basement
walls, and all supported and unsupported walls over 6 feet with unbalanced
backfill of 4 feet or more. Foundation walls in excess of 10 feet in height or
retaining waits in excess of 8 feet of unbalanced backfill shall be engineered.
(Ord. 384, 12-14-2021; amd. Ord. 408, 6-24-2025)
7-1-4: AMENDMENTS TO MECHANICAL CODE AND FUEL GAS CODE:
   A.   Section 106.5.2 of the International Mechanical Code, 2018 edition, and
Section 106.6.2 of the International Fuel Gas Code, 2018 edition, are hereby
amended as follows:
      106.5.2 [106.6.2 IFGC] Permit Fees. The fees for each permit shall be as
set forth in Section
7-1-11 . Mechanical fees for new residences shall be considered to be included
in the building permit fee for the new residence, and no separate mechanical
permit shall be issued. All other mechanical installations shall require a
separate permit with attendant fees to be issued.
      106.5.3 [106.6.3 IFGC] Fee refunds.
      2.   Not more than eighty percent [80%{'}'} of the permit fee paid shall
be refunded when no work has been done under a permit issued in accordance with
this code.
      3.   Not more than eighty percent [80%] of the plan review fee paid shall
be refunded when an application for a permit for which a plan review fee has
been paid is withdrawn or canceled before any plan review effort has been
expended.
   B.   Section 109 of the International Mechanical Code, 2018 edition, and
International Fuel Gas Code, 2018 edition, are hl3reby amended as follows:
      109.1 Application for appeal. An application for appeal shall be based on
a claim that the true intent of this code or the rules legally adopted
thereunder have been incorrectly interpreted, the provisions of this code do
not fully apply, or an equally good or better form of construction is proposed.
      Any affected person may file an appeal from any notice or action of the
Building Official. A fee as specified in Section
7-1-11 and written appeal describing the specific issues being appealed must be
submitted to the Latah County Planning and Building Department within fifteen
(15) days of the date of the notice or action of the Building Official. After
receiving the appeal, the Board of Appeals shall be appointed by the Latah
County Commissioners within thirty (30) days and the Board of Appeals, once
appointed, shall first fix a date, time and place for hearing the appeal. The
Board of Appeals shall hear the appeal within forty-five (45) days after the
appointment by the Board of Latah County Commissioners. Written notice of the
time and place of the hearing shall be given at least fifteen (15) days prior
to the date of the hearing to each appellant and to the Building Official. The
Board of Appeals must render a decision within thirty (30) days of the hearing
of such appeal. Every decision of the Board of Appeals must be based upon
findings of fact and every finding must be supported in the record of the
proceedings of the Board of Appeals.
      The Board of Appeals shall have no authority to waive any requirement of
this code.
      109.2 Membership of board. DELETED
      109.2.1 Qualifications. In order to hear and decide appeals of orders,
decisions or determinations made by the Building Official relative to the
application and interpretation of this code, there shall be and is hereby
created a Board of Appeals. The Building Official shall be an ex-officio member
of said board but shall have no vote on any matter before the board. This board
shall have three members, not including the Building Official. The Board of
Appeals shall be appointed by the Board of Latah County Commissioners and shall
hold office at its pleasure. A member of the Board of Appeals shall act as
Secretary and shall take minutes of the proceedings. The Board of Appeals shall
conform to the Latah County Hearing Procedures Ordinance and shall render all
decisions and findings in writing to the appellant with a duplicate copy to the
Building Official. The Board of Appeals shall consist of members who are
qualified by experience and training to pass on matters pertaining to building
construction and are not employees of the jurisdiction.
      109.2.2 Alternate members. DELETED
      109.2.3 Chairman. DELETED
      109.2.5 Secretary. DELETED
      109.3 Notice of meeting. DELETED
      109.4.1 Procedure. DELETED
      109.5 Postponed hearing. DELETED
      109.6 Board decision. DELETED
      109.6.1 Resolution. DELETED (Ord. 384, 12-14-2021; amd. Ord. 408, 6-24-
2025)
7-1-5: MANUFACTURED, MODULAR, AND MOBILE HOMES:
All H.U.D. approved manufactured or modular homes, or mobile homes manufactured
before June 15, 1976 with a valid rehabilitation certificate (pre-H.U.D.), that
are in compliance with the requirements of Idaho Code and any rules and
regulations promulgated thereunder, and that bear an insignia of approval by
the state where they were constructed, are considered to be single family
dwellings and shall be treated as such in this code and under any other Latah
County code, including the Latah County Land Use Ordinance. In order for any of
these manufactured buildings to be installed and occupied within the
unincorporated areas of Latah County a valid installation permit (and
foundation or other permits when applicable) must be issued by the Department
of Planning and Building, inspections must be passed, and a certificate of
occupancy must be obtained under the same requirements as any other single
family dwelling, with the following additional requirements:
   A.   If the building site is an approved space within a legal manufactured
home park, the manufactured home park development plans for setbacks shall
prevail along with the setback and separation distances for structures
contained in the Building Codes.
   B.   Applications for installation permits shall also contain the license
number and name of the contractor and licensed installer;
   C.   All installations shall meet the minimum requirements as set forth in
the State-approved installation instruction for the specific unit or model, or
in the current Idaho Manufactured Home Installation Standard.
   D.   Every installation requires a permit, including but not limited to
moving from one space to another in a legally approved manufactured home park
or placing a different home in a space that had a previous home in a legally
approved manufactured home park.
   E.   A building permit is required and must be obtained for any remodel or
change to the interior of a manufactured building before any work may be
performed. No structural changes or additions can be constructed on a
manufactured building without submittal of plans stamped by an engineer
licensed in the State of Idaho. Manufactured buildings cannot change occupancy.
(Ord. 384, 12-14-2021; amd. Ord. 408, 6-24-2025)
7-1-6: USE OF HOME WHILE BUILDING OR INSTALLING NEW RESIDENCE:
Any person may remain in a legally existing residence while obtaining a
building or installation permit to build or install a new home on the same
property, so long as they have successfully and legally converted the existing
home into an accessory cottage house or a second residence per the Latah County
Land Use Ordinance or applied for and successfully obtained a land division so
the existing home will be on its own legal parcel. Alternatively, if a person
does not want to or cannot legally keep the existing residence, the owner shall
file an affidavit (provided by the Building Department) with the Building
Department. The affidavit shall state that the owner will remove the existing
home prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy and prior to any
occupancy of the new structure. The owner shall comply with the conditions
agreed to in the affidavit. (Ord. 384, 12-14-2021; amd. Ord. 408, 6-24-2025)
7-1-7: PERMANENT LIVING QUARTERS:
Nothing within this chapter shall be construed to allow a camping trailer,
licensed vehicle or trailer, tent, yurt, recreational vehicle (including park
models), or any other vehicle, accessory structure, or item as a permanent
dwelling. No parcel can be used for temporary living quarters for a period of
more than six (6) months in a twelve (12) month period, unless permitted for
use as specified under a conditional use permit for a campground or
recreational vehicle park. When a valid permit has been issued to construct a
residence for a property, an owner may apply to live in temporary living
quarters on the same property for periods of six (6) months at a time, up to a
total of two (2) years. Other than the building permit, all the same approvals
as a residential building permit are required. The fee shall be as shown in
Section 7-1-11 . (Ord. 384, 12-14-2021; amd. Ord. 408, 6-24-2025)
7-1-8: PERMITS CONTRARY TO LAW:
Any permit issued contrary to law under authority of this chapter for
construction or any use contrary to law or any other ordinance of Latah County
shall be void. (Ord. 384, 12-14-2021; amd. Ord. 408, 6-24-2025)
7-1-9: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
When the Building Official or designee has inspected or caused to be inspected
any building or structure or property and has found that such building or
structure or property is noncompliant, or the Building Official or designee is
unable to verify compliance because the required inspections have not been
requested and performed, the Building Official or designee shall commence
proceedings to cause the repair or inspection of the building or structure. The
following are available to enforce compliance with the provisions of this
chapter. Nothing herein shall prevent the Board of County Commissioners or any
other public official or private citizen from taking such other lawful action
as is necessary to prevent or correct any violation of this chapter or of the
Idaho Code.
   A.   Injunction: The County may obtain from a District Court having
jurisdiction, an injunction enjoining the construction or installation of
buildings or structures on any building site upon affidavit of the County that
such building or structure does not conform to the requirements of this
chapter. The affidavit must set forth such violations in detail. The injunction
may be made permanent, at the discretion of the court.
   B.   Stop work order: Upon notice from the code official that work is being
performed contrary to the provisions of this code or in a dangerous or unsafe
manner, such work shall immediately cease. Such notice can be in the form of a
letter or placed upon any structure or property where the violation is
occurring. Any person who shall continue any work on the item after having been
served with a stop work order, except such work as that person is directed to
perform by the Department to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be
liable for a fine of not less than three hundred dollars ($300.00) for each day
the work continues.
   C.   Violation Penalties: Any person who willfully violates or fails to
comply with any provisions of this chapter or any provisions of the codes
enumerated in this chapter or rules promulgated by the Administrator of this
chapter or the Board pursuant to this chapter or the codes enumerated in this
chapter, or who, having obtained a permit hereunder, shall willfully fail to
continue to comply with the conditions as set forth herein, is guilty of a
misdemeanor, and upon conviction, shall be fined not more than three hundred
dollars ($300.00), or imprisoned for not more than ninety (90) days, or by both
fine and imprisonment. A separate violation is deemed to have occurred with
respect to each building or structure not in compliance with this chapter.
Further, each day such violation continues constitutes a separate offense.
   D.   Work commencing before permit issuance: In addition to any penalties
assessed under Section
7-1-8 of this ordinance, any work which is started or proceeded prior to
obtaining a permit or approval to include plan or system approval, which is
required by these rules and/or the codes enumerated in Title 39, Chapter 41 ,
Idaho Code, where any enforcement action has begun, shall be subject to a fee,
as set forth in Section
7-1-9. Such fee shall be in addition to the required permit and/or approval
fees. The fee for work commenced prior to obtaining any required permit or
approvals shall be double the permit fee for any second or additional offenses
by any person, company, contractor, individual, property owner or the like and
is not dependent on any enforcement action. The payment of such fees shall not
relieve any persons from fully complying with the requirements of Title 39,
Chapters 40 or 41, or both, Idaho Code, or these rules in the execution of the
work, nor from any other penalties as prescribed by law.
   E.   Civil Action: Notwithstanding any other remedies available, any person
damaged as a result of a violation of this chapter or the codes enumerated
herein or promulgated pursuant to this chapter has a cause of action in any
court of competent jurisdiction against the person who committed the violation,
and if such damaged person prevails, they shall be entitled to a reasonable
attorney's fees to be determined by the court, together with court costs.
Further, each day such violation continues constitutes a separate offense.
   F.   Withholding Of Permits: The Building Official may withhold permits,
including building permits and certificates of occupancy, on lots or parcels of
land where a violation of any provision of this Code or the Latah County Land
Use Ordinance exists, unless the permit being requested is to resolve the
violation(s). The Building Official may also suspend issuance of permits,
including building permits and certificates of occupancy to applicants who have
demonstrated a record of unresolved noncompliance with provisions of this Code.
If a permit is withheld, the Building Official shall refer to the notice and
order that details the violations or any letter sent regarding the Latah County
Land Use Ordinance. If a notice and order or letter of violation has not been
issued, the Building Official, within thirty (30) days of the denial of a
permit, shall issue a notice and order in accordance with Subsection F of this
Section; or in the case of a violation of the Latah County Land Use Ordinance,
the planner shall issue a letter detailing the violations in accordance with
the procedures set out in Latah County Land Use Ordinance.
   G.   Recordation Of Noncompliance: Notwithstanding any other remedies
available, the Building Official may, to ensure that future owners of
properties are put on notice of noncompliance, record with the Latah County
Auditor any letter, document, or item that describes the matter of
noncompliance on a property. This may be done any time after the issue of
noncompliance is discovered.
   H.   Notice Of Noncompliant Building Or Structure Or Other Code Violation:
      1.   Notice And Order, and Appeal Process: At the discretion of the
Building Official and typically after other remedies in this section have not
succeeded in compliance, the Building Official shall issue a notice and order
directed to the record owner of the building or structure. The notice and
oro'er shall contain:
         a.   The street address, if issued, and/or a legal description or
Assessor's parcel number sufficient for identification of the premises upon
which the building or structure is located.
         b.   A statement that the Building Official has found the building or
structure to be noncom pliant with a brief and concise description of the
conditions found to render the building or structure noncompliant under the
applicable provisions of the applicable code.
         c.   A statement of the action required to be taken as determined by
the Building Official and that any person having any record title or legal
interest in the building or structure may appeal from the notice and order or
any action of the Building Official to the Board of Appeals, in accordance with
Section 113 of the International Building Code, 2018 edition, and Section R 112
of the International Residential Code, 2018 edition; and that failure to appeal
will constitute a waiver of all right to an administrative hearing and
determination of the matter.
      2.   Service of Notice and Order: The notice and order shall be mailed by
regular mail, or by any other method of service or delivery at the discretion
to the Building Official, to the owner of the property as shown on the tax
record of the property. The failure of the Building Official to serve any
person having an interest in the property that is not shown on the tax records
of the County shall not invalidate any proceeding. Is hereunder as to any other
person duly served or relieve any such person from any duty or obligation
imposed by the provisions of this Section. The failure of any person to receive
notice as set out in this Subsection F.3. shall not affect the validity of any
proceedings taken under this Section.
      3.   Proof of Service: The Building Official shall keep a copy of the
notice and order sent with the records of the noncompliance for the property.
      4.   Recordation of Noncompliance: Except as specified in Section
7-1-9(G), if compliance is not had with the order within the time specified
therein, and no appeal has been properly and timely filed, the Building
Official shall file in the Office of the County Recorder a certificate
describing the property and certifying:
         a.   That the building or structure is noncompliant; and
         b.   That the owner has been so notified.
         Whenever the corrections ordered shall them after have been completed
or the building or structure demolished so that it no longer exists on the
property described in the certificate, the Building Official shall file a new
certificate with the County Recorder certifying that the building or structure
has been demolished or all required corrections have been made so that the
building or structure is no longer noncompliant, whichever is appropriate.
   I.   Referral for Further Action: The Building Official shall notify the
County Prosecutor's Office of completion of any of the above and, when the
County Prosecutor has not already taken action, refer the matter to the County
Prosecutor's Office for further action. (Ord. 384, 12-14-2021; amd. Ord. 408,
6-24-2025)
7-1-10: SNOW LOAD:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/be1a7649b362ad1768069ef201d8fc33b732c182/
IMAGES/0-0-0-895.jpg]
(Ord. 384, 12-14-2021; amd. Ord. 408, 6-24-2025)
7-1-11: FEES:
Building valuation and fees are as set by separate resolution. (Ord. 384, 12-
14-2021; amd. Ord. 408, 6-24-2025)
TITLE 8
AREAS OF CITY IMPACT
CHAPTER 1
BOVILL AREA OF CITY IMPACT
SECTION:
8-1-1: Area
8-1-2: Governing Plan And Ordinances
8-1-3: Administration Of Area
8-1-4: Renegotiation
8-1-1: AREA:
This chapter shall be in effect for the following unincorporated areas of Latah
County: The S1/2 of Sections 23 and 24, all of Sections 25, 26, 35, and 36 in
Township 41 North, Range 1 West, B.M.; the S1/2 of Section 19, the SW1/4 of
Section 20, the W1/2 of Sections 29 and 32, and all of Sections 30 and 31 in
Township 41 North, Range 1 East, B.M.; the NW1/4 of Section 5, and all of
Section 6 in Township 40 North, Range 1 East; and all of Sections 1 and 2, in
Township 40 North, Range 1 West, B.M.; as provided in the Bovill Area of City
Impact Map Ordinance, Latah County Ordinance 328. (Ord. 327, 3-16-2016)
8-1-2: GOVERNING PLAN AND ORDINANCES:
Latah County's Comprehensive Plan (resolution 2010-32), land use ordinance
(ordinance 269 as amended), and fee schedule (resolution 2013-19), and
subsequent amendments thereto and/or new versions thereof, are hereby adopted
by the County for the Bovill area of impact (area). All other applicable County
ordinances and resolutions are still in effect for the area. (Ord. 327, 3-16-
2016)
8-1-3: ADMINISTRATION OF AREA:
   A.   The County shall administer the applicable ordinances and resolutions
for the area, as identified in section
8-1-2 of this chapter.
   B.   The County shall provide the City a period of fifteen (15) days prior
to a hearing to consider the request and submit a reply or comment to the
County. If the City needs additional time to consider the request and no
regular Council meeting has been scheduled within this fifteen (15) day period,
the City may request that the County extend the time period and the County
shall extend it to the day after the next regularly scheduled City Council
meeting to accommodate the City. If the City submits comment or a letter
stating it has no comment prior to the fifteen (15) day time period, the period
shall terminate upon the date of receipt by the County.
   C.   The County shall consider any comment or reply from the City as part of
its hearing process. (Ord. 327, 3-16-2016)
8-1-4: RENEGOTIATION:
   A.   The agreement from which this chapter is derived shall be renegotiated
at any time upon written request of either party in accordance with Idaho Code
section 67-6526(d).
   B.   Pursuant to Idaho Code section 67-6526(d), it is the intent of the
parties that the City and the County will, at least every ten (10) years,
review the Area of City Impact Plan and ordinance requirements to determine
whether renegotiation is in the best interest of the citizenry. (Ord. 327, 3-
16-2016)
CHAPTER 2
DEARY AREA OF CITY IMPACT
SECTION:
8-2-1: Area
8-2-2: Governing Plan And Ordinances
8-2-3: Administration Of Area
8-2-4: Renegotiation
8-2-1: AREA:
This chapter shall be in effect for the following unincorporated areas of Latah
County: The SE1/4 of the SE1/4 of Section 9, and the S1/2 of the S1/2 of
Sections 10, 11, and 12, the E1/2 of the E1/2 of Sections 16 and 21, all of
Sections 13, 14, 15, 22, 23 and 24, the E1/2 of the NE1/4 of Section 28, the
N1/2 of Sections 25, 26, and 27 all in Township 40 North, Range 2 West; and the
NW1/4 of Section 30 and the W1/2 of Section 19 of Township 40 North, Range 1
West, B.M.; as provided in the Deary Area of City Impact Map Ordinance, Latah
County Ordinance 330. (Ord. 329, 3-16-2016)
8-2-2: GOVERNING PLAN AND ORDINANCES:
Latah County's Comprehensive Plan (resolution 2010-32), land use ordinance
(ordinance 269 as amended), and fee schedule (resolution 2013-19), and
subsequent amendments thereto and/or new versions thereof, are hereby adopted
by the County for the Deary area of impact (area). All other applicable County
ordinances and resolutions are still in effect for the area. (Ord. 329, 3-16-
2016)
8-2-3: ADMINISTRATION OF AREA:
   A.   The County shall administer the applicable ordinances and resolutions
for the area, as identified in section
8-2-2 of this chapter.
   B.   The County shall provide the City a period of fifteen (15) days prior
to a hearing to consider the request and submit a reply or comment to the
County. If the City needs additional time to consider the request and no
regular Council meeting has been scheduled within this fifteen (15) day period,
the City may request that the County extend the time period and the County
shall extend it to the day after the next regularly scheduled City Council
meeting to accommodate the City. If the City submits comment or a letter
stating it has no comment prior to the fifteen (15) day time period, the period
shall terminate upon the date of receipt by the County.
   C.   The County shall consider any comment or reply from the City as part of
its hearing process. (Ord. 329, 3-16-2016)
8-2-4: RENEGOTIATION:
   A.   The agreement from which this chapter is derived shall be renegotiated
at any time upon written request of either party in accordance with Idaho Code
section 67-6526(d).
   B.   Pursuant to Idaho Code section 67-6526(d), it is the intent of the
parties that the City and the County will, at least every ten (10) years,
review the Area of City Impact Plan and ordinance requirements to determine
whether renegotiation is in the best interest of the citizenry. (Ord. 329, 3-
16-2016)
CHAPTER 3
GENESEE AREA OF CITY IMPACT
SECTION:
8-3-1: Area
8-3-2: Definitions
8-3-3: Governing Plan And Ordinances
8-3-4: Administration Of Area
8-3-5: Appeals Process
8-3-6: Enforcement
8-3-7: Renegotiation
8-3-1: AREA:
This chapter shall affect the unincorporated area of Latah County within the
following sections: 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, Township 37 North, Range 05 West,
B.M., as depicted on the map, and as provided in Latah County Ordinance 309 and
Genesee City Ordinance 389, which have been adopted pursuant to the provisions
of Idaho Code section 67-6526(a). (Ord. 307, 1-17-2012)
8-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and terms when used herein shall have these meanings:
ADMINISTRATIVE REQUESTS: Applications, requests, determinations, or
interpretations other than quasi-judicial and legislative actions as defined
herein, such as land divisions, zoning determinations, floodplain
determinations, zoning interpretations of the Zoning Administrator or designee,
and other administrative actions.
AREA: The City of Genesee's area of City impact.
BOARD: The Board of Latah County Commissioners.
CITY: The City of Genesee.
COMPLAINTS: Written requests for enforcement under the ordinances adopted
pursuant to section
8-3-3 of this chapter.
COUNTY: Latah County.
LEGISLATIVE ACTIONS: Amendments to the zoning map or ordinances, and other
similar decisions by a Governing Board sitting in a legislative capacity, where
its decision produces a general rule or policy applicable to an open class of
individuals, interests, or situations.
QUASI-JUDICIAL APPLICATIONS: Applications for decisions or determinations
regarding property located within the area, which are made by a Governing Board
or its designee sitting in a quasi-judicial capacity, where its decision
involves the application of a general rule or policy to specific individuals,
interests, or situations, including, but not limited to, conditional use
permits, special use permits, planned unit developments, subdivisions,
variances, rezones, and other quasi-judicial proceedings. (Ord. 307, 1-17-2012)
8-3-3: GOVERNING PLAN AND ORDINANCES:
   A.   The County's Comprehensive Plan (resolution 2010-32), land use
ordinance (ordinance 269 as amended), and fee schedule (resolution 2002-15),
and subsequent amendments thereto, are hereby adopted by the County for the
area. All other applicable County ordinances and resolutions are still in
effect for the area.
   B.   The County will adopt or has adopted the agreement from which this
chapter is derived in Latah County ordinance 307 and the City will adopt said
agreement in Genesee City ordinance 388.
   C.   The agreement from which this chapter is derived supersedes and
replaces the prior Genesee Area of City Impact Agreement between the parties
hereto which was approved by the parties in June 1977. (Ord. 307, 1-17-2012)
8-3-4: ADMINISTRATION OF AREA:
   A.   County To Administer: The County shall administer the applicable
ordinances and resolutions for the area, as identified in subsection 8-3-3A of
this chapter.
   B.   Applications Made To County: All applications, requests for permits,
and inquiries regarding property located within the area, which are made
pursuant to the ordinances adopted under subsection 8-3-3A of this chapter
shall be made to the County. The County shall charge and collect a fee based
upon the adopted County fee schedule, as identified in subsection 8-3-3A of
this chapter.
   C.   Administrative Requests: The County shall process administrative
requests in the area without input from the City; however, the County will
notify the City of administrative requests, such as building permits or land
divisions, within ten (10) days of receipt of such request. The City and County
recognize that some administrative requests, such as zoning interpretations or
buildable parcel determinations, are informal and can be addressed by County
staff without the need to notify the City.
   D.   Quasi-Judicial Applications:
      1.   Quasi-judicial applications shall be reviewed by the County staff
and scheduled for the required public hearing(s) before the Latah County Zoning
Commission and/or the Board of County Commissioners, as specified by the Latah
County land use ordinance.
      2.   The County shall provide the City a period of forty (40) days prior
to the hearing to consider the request and submit a reply or comment to the
County. If the City submits comment or a letter stating they have no comment
prior to the forty (40) day time period, the period shall commence upon the
date of receipt by the County. After public testimony has been closed for the
final hearing on an application, the City forfeits its right to comment on the
application. Following the receipt by the County of an application or request
for property in the area, a joint application conference may be held with the
applicant and staff from the City and County to review and discuss the
application or request.
      3.   The County shall consider seriously any comment or reply from the
City as part of its hearing process.
   E.   Inspections; Building And Installation Permits; Certificates Of
Occupancy: Development or establishment of a land use resulting from approval
of a permit application in the area shall be inspected by the County when
required. The County shall continue to issue all building permits and mobile
home installation permits in the area. The County shall continue to retain
authority over recognizing the approval of all inspections and certificates of
occupancy.
   F.   Complaints: Complaints that have been received in writing by the County
shall be investigated by the County.
   G.   Annexation: If an application for a zoning district amendment,
Comprehensive Plan amendment, or subdivision plat for land located within the
area is received in conjunction with a request for annexation, the application
shall be presented, by the applicant, directly to the City, not the County. The
City shall collect the appropriate fee(s) in accordance with their adopted fee
schedule. In the event the property which is the subject of the application is
annexed by the City while the application is pending before the City, the City
can thereafter make a final determination on the application as though the
property had been within the City at the time the application was made. In the
event that the annexation is not executed prior to the City's final
determination on the application, that decision shall be void. Afterward, the
applicant may wait for the City to annex their property to make a new
application to the City or make application to the County, which will collect
County fees and process the application. (Ord. 307, 1-17-2012)
8-3-5: APPEALS PROCESS:
   A.   There shall be no appeal of City recommendations offered pursuant to
subsection 8-3-4D2 of this chapter because such recommendations are not final
determinations. Appeals from County actions shall be governed by the appeal
provisions of the relevant County ordinances, the Idaho Code, the Idaho Rules
of Civil Procedure, and any other applicable statute or regulation.
   B.   Final decisions by the County made under this chapter may be subject to
appeal or judicial review. (Ord. 307, 1-17-2012)
8-3-6: ENFORCEMENT:
The Latah County Planning and Building Department and/or the County Prosecuting
Attorney may take legal action to enforce land use regulations within the area.
(Ord. 307, 1-17-2012)
8-3-7: RENEGOTIATION:
   A.   The agreement from which this chapter is derived shall be renegotiated
at any time upon written request of either party in accordance with Idaho Code
section 67-6526(d).
   B.   Pursuant to Idaho Code section 67-6526(d), it is the intent of the
parties that the Governing Boards shall, at least every ten (10) years,
undertake a review of the Area of City Impact Plan and ordinance requirements
to determine whether renegotiations are in the best interests of the citizenry.
(Ord. 307, 1-17-2012)
CHAPTER 4
JULIAETTA AREA OF CITY IMPACT
SECTION:
8-4-1: Area
8-4-2: Governing Plan And Ordinances
8-4-3: Administration Of Area
8-4-4: Renegotiation
8-4-1: AREA:
This chapter shall be in effect for the following unincorporated areas of Latah
County: All of Sections 3 and 10, and Sections 4, 9, and 16 excepting the W1/
2 of the W1/2 of said Sections 4, 9, and 16, Township 37 North, Range 3 West,
B.M.; the S1/2 of the S1/2 of Sections 33 and 34, Township 38 North, Range 3
West, B.M.; as provided in the Juliaetta Area of City Impact Map Ordinance,
Latah County Ordinance 336. (Ord. 335, 3-16-2016)
8-4-2: GOVERNING PLAN AND ORDINANCES:
Latah County's Comprehensive Plan (resolution 2010-32), land use ordinance
(ordinance 269 as amended), and fee schedule (resolution 2013-19), and
subsequent amendments thereto and/or new versions thereof, are hereby adopted
by the County for the Juliaetta area of impact (area). All other applicable
County ordinances and resolutions are still in effect for the area. (Ord. 335,
3-16-2016)
8-4-3: ADMINISTRATION OF AREA:
   A.   The County shall administer the applicable ordinances and resolutions
for the area, as identified in section
8-4-2 of this chapter.
   B.   The County shall provide the City a period of fifteen (15) days prior
to a hearing to consider the request and submit a reply or comment to the
County. If the City needs additional time to consider the request and no
regular Council meeting has been scheduled within this fifteen (15) day period,
the City may request that the County extend the time period and the County
shall extend it to the day after the next regularly scheduled City Council
meeting to accommodate the City. If the City submits comment or a letter
stating it has no comment prior to the fifteen (15) day time period, the period
shall terminate upon the date of receipt by the County.
   C.   The County shall consider any comment or reply from the City as part of
its hearing process. (Ord. 335, 3-16-2016)
8-4-4: RENEGOTIATION:
   A.   The agreement from which this chapter is derived shall be renegotiated
at any time upon written request of either party in accordance with Idaho Code
section 67-6526(d).
   B.   Pursuant to Idaho Code section 67-6526(d), it is the intent of the
parties that the City and the County will, at least every ten (10) years,
review the Area of City Impact Plan and ordinance requirements to determine
whether renegotiation is in the best interest of the citizenry. (Ord. 335, 3-
16-2016)
CHAPTER 5
KENDRICK AREA OF CITY IMPACT
SECTION:
8-5-1: Area
8-5-2: Governing Plan And Ordinances
8-5-3: Administration Of Area
8-5-4: Renegotiation
8-5-1: AREA:
This chapter shall be in effect for the following unincorporated areas of Latah
County: The E1/2 of Section 13, the S1/2 of Section 23, and all of Sections 24,
25, 26, and 35, Township 38 North, Range 3 West, B.M.; the S1/2 of Section 17,
the S1/2 of Section 18 and all of Sections 19, 20, and 30, Township 38 North,
Range 2 West, B.M.; as provided in the Kendrick Area of City Impact Map
Ordinance, Latah County Ordinance 334. (Ord. 333, 3-16-2016)
8-5-2: GOVERNING PLAN AND ORDINANCES:
Latah County's Comprehensive Plan (resolution 2010-32), land use ordinance
(ordinance 269 as amended), and fee schedule (resolution 2013-19), and
subsequent amendments thereto and/or new versions thereof, are hereby adopted
by the County for the Kendrick area of impact (area). All other applicable
County ordinances and resolutions are still in effect for the area. (Ord. 333,
3-16-2016)
8-5-3: ADMINISTRATION OF AREA:
   A.   The County shall administer the applicable ordinances and resolutions
for the area, as identified in section
8-5-2 of this chapter.
   B.   The County shall provide the City a period of fifteen (15) days prior
to a hearing to consider the request and submit a reply or comment to the
County. If the City needs additional time to consider the request and no
regular Council meeting has been scheduled within this fifteen (15) day period,
the City may request that the County extend the time period and the County
shall extend it to the day after the next regularly scheduled City Council
meeting to accommodate the City. If the City submits comment or a letter
stating it has no comment prior to the fifteen (15) day time period, the period
shall terminate upon the date of receipt by the County.
   C.   The County shall consider any comment or reply from the City as part of
its hearing process. (Ord. 333, 3-16-2016)
8-5-4: RENEGOTIATION:
   A.   The agreement from which this chapter is derived shall be renegotiated
at any time upon written request of either party in accordance with Idaho Code
section 67-6526(d).
   B.   Pursuant to Idaho Code section 67-6526(d), it is the intent of the
parties that the City and the County will, at least every ten (10) years,
review the Area of City Impact Plan and ordinance requirements to determine
whether renegotiation is in the best interest of the citizenry. (Ord. 333, 3-
16-2016)
CHAPTER 6
MOSCOW AREA OF CITY IMPACT
SECTION:
8-6-1: Area
8-6-2: Definitions
8-6-3: Governing Plan And Ordinances
8-6-4: Administration Of Area
8-6-5: Appeals Process
8-6-6: Enforcement
8-6-7: Conflicts With Other Ordinances
8-6-8: Renegotiation
8-6-1: AREA:
This chapter shall affect the unincorporated area of Latah County within the
following sections: Sections 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 16, 19, 20, and 21, Township 39
North, Range 5 West, B.M.; Sections 12 and 13, Township 39 North, Range 6 West,
B.M.; and Section 32, Township 40 North, Range 5 West, B.M., as depicted on the
map on file in the County, and as provided in Latah County Ordinance 247 and
Moscow City Ordinance No. 2004-02, which have been adopted pursuant to the
provisions of Idaho Code section 67-6526(a). (Ord. 365, 12-17-2018)
8-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following words when used herein shall have
these meanings:
ADMINISTRATIVE REQUESTS: Shall mean applications, requests, determinations, or
interpretations other than quasi- judicial and legislative actions as defined
herein, such as land or lot divisions, zoning determinations, floodplain
determinations, zoning interpretations of the Zoning Administrator or designee,
recreational vehicle design reviews, mobile home park design reviews and other
administrative actions.
AREA: Shall mean the City of Moscow's Area of City Impact as legally described
within section
8-6-1 of this chapter.
BOARD: Shall mean the Board of Latah County Commissioners.
CITY: Shall mean the City of Moscow.
COMPLAINTS: Shall mean written requests for enforcement under the ordinances
adopted pursuant to section
8-6-3 of this chapter.
COUNTY: Shall mean Latah County.
LEGISLATIVE ACTIONS: Shall mean amendments to the zoning map or ordinances, and
other similar decisions by a Governing Board sitting in a legislative capacity,
where its decision produces a general rule or policy applicable to an open
class of individuals, interests, or situations.
NON-AREA COUNTY ORDINANCES: Shall mean all other Latah County ordinances, such
as the Latah County Land Use Ordinance, the Latah County Hearing Procedures
Ordinance, and any other ordinance hereafter adopted which supersedes or
replaces any of those ordinances, but not such ordinances specifically adopted
by this chapter for the area.
QUASI-JUDICIAL APPLICATIONS: Shall mean applications for decisions or
determinations regarding property located within the area, which are made by a
Governing Board or its designee sitting in a quasi-judicial capacity, where its
decision involves the application of a general rule or policy to specific
individuals, interests, or situations, including, but not limited to,
conditional use permits, special use permits, planned unit developments,
subdivisions, variances, rezones, and other quasi-judicial proceedings. (Ord.
365, 12-17-2018)
8-6-3: GOVERNING PLAN AND ORDINANCES:
   A.   The following ordinances and plans shall be adopted, as set forth
herein, for the area:
      1.   City's Comprehensive Plan as adopted on December 7, 2009, excepting
the land use map; adopting the land use map on file in the County as attachment
1 and incorporated herein by reference.
      2.   City's Subdivision, and Mobile Home and RV Park Ordinances in place
on December 1, 2018 as modified herein:
No fee-in-lieu provisions shall be available in the area.
      3.   City's Zoning Ordinance, under title 4 of the Moscow City Code, in
place on December 1, 2018 as modified herein:
         a.   Title 4, chapter 1, section 7, "Nonconformities", is hereby
deleted.
         b.   Title 4, chapter 5, "Flood Hazard Areas", is hereby deleted.
         c.   Title 4, chapter 7, "Planned Unit Development", is hereby
deleted.
         d.   Title 4, chapter 6, section 7, "Moscow Sign Code", is amended as
follows:
In title 4, chapter 6, section 7, delete subsections A.5; A.6.; C.2.; D.1.a
through d and replace all with "Signs installed by the Idaho Transportation
Department, local highway district, or other governmental agency for purpose of
directing the safe and convenient flow of traffic are exempt from these
restrictions"; the phrase "noticing the lot on which the sign is posted for
sale or lease" in all subsections D; G; H; I; K; L; N.1; and, in subsections N
and O, replace the phrase "permitted institutional, public service, or utility
facility" with the phrase "permitted use".
      4.   City's "Animals and Fowl" regulations, title 10, chapter 4, section
12, for use in all of the zoning designations, except for the Agriculture
Forest Zone.
      5.   County's Land Use Ordinance, chapter 3, article A; chapter 4,
article A; chapter 5, article A; section
9-8A-12; chapter 9, articles A and C, as modified herein:
         a.   Subsection
9-3A-4O is hereby deleted.
         b.   Subsections
9-3A-2B and
9-3A-4B are modified to fifty (50) animal units.
         c.   Delete the current language under section
9-3A-5, "Size And Setback Requirements", and replace with the following:
            (1)   The minimum parcel size for all existing parcels, defined as
all parcels of land recorded or approved by the Latah County Planning
Department or the Moscow City Council on or before January 1, 1997 (and as
further defined within the Latah County Land Use Ordinance), shall be one acre.
The minimum parcel size for any new parcels shall be forty (40) acres subject
to the following small parcel division exception as described herein.
            (2)   Small parcel division exception. No more than one parcel of
land may be divided from an existing parcel of forty (40) acres or more in
accordance with the standards contained herein. Any small parcel division shall
be submitted to the Latah County Planning Department who shall forward the
proposed small parcel division to the City of Moscow Community Development
Department to provide any recommendations upon the request. The City of Moscow
Community Development Department shall provide any comments within ten (10)
days of receipt of the request. Upon receipt of any recommendations from the
City of Moscow Community Development Department, or the expiration of the ten
(10) day comment period if no comments are received, the Latah County Planning
Department shall proceed to take final action upon the request in accordance
with the standards contained herein and the Latah County Land Use Ordinance,
including:
               (A)   The small parcel shall be at least one acre in area.
               (B)   The small parcel and remnant parcel shall have a
designated building site that is no larger than two (2) acres where all
residential structures shall be placed. The building site and all structures
shall be placed in a manner to preserve productive farm land, streams, riparian
areas, and other unique natural features, allow for the logical extension of
existing and planned roadways, to ensure that natural resources are protected
and the City of Moscow can grow in an efficient, logical and orderly manner.
               (C)   The applicant shall submit a site plan for each parcel,
drawn to scale. The site plan shall include the size, dimensions, and location
of each parcel and building site, the potential or actual location and plans
for the wells or water system, septic systems, residences, other structures,
easements, driveways and regulatory setbacks. Each two (2) acre building site
shall be placed so it will accommodate all regulatory setbacks, the septic
system, a residence, any accessory structures related to the residential use.
               (D)   All properties, access roads, and driveways shall comply
with all applicable County standards.
            (3)   All accessory structures shall be a minimum of ten feet (10')
from any property line. All other structures shall be a minimum of thirty five
feet (35') from any property line not abutting a public right-of-way. All
structures shall be a minimum of twenty feet (20') from the boundaries of any
public right-of-way or sixty feet (60') from the center line of any road placed
within the boundaries of a public right-of-way, whichever is greater. When the
setback distance is disputed, the Latah County Planning Department may require
the property owner to have the property line established by a professional
surveyor licensed in the State of Idaho. A detached accessory building may be
built to the side or rear lot lines provided a written mutual agreement of the
abutting property owners on the property lines affected be recorded in the
Latah County Recorder's Office. Fences, bridges, retaining walls, roads,
driveways, in-ground scales, poles, signs, access ramps, and mailboxes
(respecting rights-of-way and easements) are exempt from setback requirements.
         d.   Section
9-8A-12, "Noncontiguous Same Ownership Parcels" shall apply as written, but
shall only allow transfers of eligibilities as specified from eligible parcels
within the area to eligible parcels outside of the area. This section shall not
allow any transfers into the area or within the area.
   B.   The ordinance and plans adopted above shall be applied in the following
manner:
      1.   All ordinances and plans shall be applied as adopted and as further
clarified in this section.
      2.   The design standards set forth by City and County ordinances shall
apply, but may sometimes be duplicative, as determined by staff. County shall
ensure that when the regulations are duplicative, that the most relevant
regulation applies.
      3.   County's Agriculture/Forest zoning designation and ordinance, as
adopted above (Latah County Land Use Ordinance chapter 3, article A), shall
apply in the sections of the area that are zoned Agriculture/Forest. When
referenced, any uses in this zoning designation shall be further subject to
regulations, policies and definitions as stated in the Latah County Land Use
Ordinance. City's zoning designations and associated ordinance shall apply in
all other zoning districts within the area. All other sections of City's Code,
as adopted, shall apply within the area, other than as specified herein.
      4.   County's non-conforming uses as described in chapter 4, article A,
and flood hazard areas as defined in chapter 5, article A of the Latah County
Land Use Ordinance, shall apply within the area.
      5.   Processes for applications and hearings are as specified herein.
Additionally, processes as set forth in Moscow City Code title 4, chapter 10,
sections 3, 4, and 5, and in the Latah County Hearings Procedures Ordinance,
Latah County Ordinance #253, shall also apply as required.
      6.   City's "Animals and Fowl" regulations, pursuant to title 10, chapter
4, section 12, shall be used in all of the zoning designations except
Agriculture/Forest, which shall use County's Agriculture/Forest animal limits
as amended by this chapter.
   C.   No amendments to the Comprehensive Plan or the Zoning, Subdivision,
Mobile Home and RV Park Ordinances, shall be effective in the area until such
amendments are adopted by City and, thereafter, adopted by County.
   D.   County has adopted this chapter via Latah County ordinance. (Ord. 365,
12-17-2018)
8-6-4: ADMINISTRATION OF AREA:
   A.   Board authorizes City to administer the Comprehensive Plan and
ordinances for the area, as identified in subsection 8-6-3A of this chapter,
and to initially review and make recommendations regarding applications,
requests for permits, and inquiries made regarding property within the area.
   B.   All applications and requests for quasi-judicial permits within three-
quarters (3/4) mile of the boundaries of City at the time of application, but
not located within the area, shall be forwarded to City no less than fifteen
(15) days prior to County's hearing to consider the application or request to
allow City the opportunity to provide comment upon the matter to County. For
variances, the time period shall be seven (7) days. County shall consider any
comment or reply from City as part of its hearing process.
   C.   All applications, requests for permits, and inquiries regarding
property located within the area, which are made pursuant to the ordinances
adopted under section
8-6-3 of this chapter, shall be made to County. County shall charge and collect
a fee based upon the fee schedule on file in the County. The completed
application, request, or inquiry shall be forwarded to City within seven (7)
days of receipt. County shall also forward fifty percent (50%) of each
collected fee to City without unreasonable delay.
   D.   Following the receipt by County of an application, request, or inquiry
for property in the area, a joint application conference may be held with the
applicant and staff from City and County to review and discuss the application,
request or inquiry.
   E.   Applications, requests, and inquiries shall be processed as follows:
      1.   Administrative Requests:
         a.   Within fifteen (15) days of receipt of an administrative request,
City shall make a recommendation and shall forward that recommendation, along
with all relevant supporting documentation, to the County, which shall render a
final determination.
         b.   City and County recognize that some administrative requests are
informal and can be addressed by City without the need of the referral
procedure described in subsections C and E1a of this section. In such
situations, City agrees that it will advise the requestor that City's
interpretation is not final and that, if the person wishes to receive a final
determination, City will refer the matter to County.
      2.   Quasi-Judicial Applications:
         a.   Quasi-judicial applications shall be reviewed by City and
scheduled for a single public hearing before City's Board of Adjustment,
Planning and Zoning Commission, or Council.
         b.   City's public hearing shall be video-recorded. Any failure of the
recording shall not require that the public hearing be repeated, provided that
a transcribable record has been otherwise preserved as required by law.
         c.   The hearing body shall provide a written recommendation which
shall be forwarded, with the record and all supporting materials, to County
within twenty three (23) days of the close of the hearing.
         d.   County may accept, reject, or modify City's recommendation in
whole or in part. In doing so, County may rely on the record of City's public
hearing, or may hold its own public hearing before County's Zoning Commission
or Board of Commissioners. No new testimony will be taken unless a duly noticed
public hearing is held. Any public hearing before County shall be conducted in
accordance with the applicable non-area County ordinance and other relevant
legal provisions. In the event County intends to modify City's recommended
conditions, County agrees that it will hold a public hearing before doing so,
unless the Board or County Zoning Commission unanimously agrees that a public
hearing is not necessary.
         e.   Appeals of final decisions by County Zoning Commission, regarding
conditional and special use permits, may be made to the Board pursuant to the
appeal procedures contained within section
8-6-5 of this chapter.
      3.   Inspections: Development or establishment of a land use, resulting
from approval of a permit application in the area, shall be inspected. City and
County shall work cooperatively in performing inspections to verify compliance
with applicable development standards and special conditions of approval.
Unless otherwise mutually agreed, County shall inspect, as part of the building
permit inspection process, compliance with building related standards of the
Zoning and Mobile Home Codes, such as setbacks, building height, and building
size. Further, unless otherwise mutually agreed, City shall inspect for
compliance with other standards of the Zoning, Subdivision, Mobile Home, and
Recreational Vehicle Park Codes, or any conditions of approval of an associated
quasi-judicial permit application that are not directly related to building
construction. Examples of such standards include, but are not limited to,
landscaping, open space, fencing, parking, paving, outdoor lighting, curbing,
sidewalks, floodplain, and trash dumpsters. When a technical inspection of such
improvement is needed, City may conduct the inspection or require the applicant
to provide a written statement of compliance from an engineer certified in the
State of Idaho. Public improvements shall be inspected by the respective public
agency which permits or oversees such improvements. County retains authority
over recognizing the approval of all inspections and certificates of occupancy.
      4.   Complaints: Complaints shall be received in writing by County.
County shall forward the complaint to City within seven (7) days of receipt.
City shall conduct an initial investigation and forward the relevant
information collected, with an enforcement recommendation, to County within
thirty (30) days of receipt of the complaint from County. All recommendations
regarding complaints shall be forwarded to County, even if City recommends no
enforcement.
   F.   County shall issue building permits and mobile home installation
permits in the area and shall forward copies of these applications to City
prior to issuance. City shall review these applications for compliance with the
applicable ordinances. City shall indicate compliance or non-compliance to
County within seven (7) days from receipt of the permit application.
   G.   If an application for a zoning district amendment, Comprehensive Plan
amendment, or subdivision plat for land located within in the area is received
in conjunction with a request for annexation, the application shall be
presented, by the applicant, directly to City. City shall collect the current
applicable City fee as adopted within City Fee Resolution in effect at the time
of receipt of the application. Once City approves annexation of the subject
property, City may proceed to take final action upon the associated application
as though the property had been within the City at the time the application was
made. In the event that the annexation is not approved by City, City shall take
no further action upon the associated applications and such applications shall
be considered null and void. (Ord. 365, 12-17-2018)
8-6-5: APPEALS PROCESS:
   A.   There shall be no appeal of City recommendations, determinations, or
interpretations, because such recommendations are not final determinations.
Appeals from County actions shall be governed by the appeal provisions of non-
area County ordinances. Appeals from special use permits shall follow the same
appeal process and procedures contained in non-area County ordinances related
to conditional use permits.
   B.   Final decisions by County made under this chapter may be subject to
judicial review. (Ord. 365, 12-17-2018)
8-6-6: ENFORCEMENT:
The County Prosecuting Attorney may take legal action to enforce land use
regulations within the area. City will make its staff available and will fully
cooperate with County's enforcement efforts. In certain circumstances, the
County Prosecuting Attorney may, upon consent of the City Attorney, appoint the
City Attorney to take enforcement action in the area. Any enforcement action
taken by the City Attorney shall be on behalf of, and pursuant to the direction
of, County. (Ord. 365, 12-17-2018)
8-6-7: CONFLICT WITH OTHER ORDINANCES:
To the extent that the processes contained in this chapter conflict with
processes contained in City ordinances or in non-area County ordinances, the
processes contained in this chapter shall control. To the extent that the
adopted codes have duplicate regulations, other than as specified in a
different section of this chapter, whichever is more restrictive shall control.
(Ord. 365, 12-17-2018)
8-6-8: RENEGOTIATION:
   A.   The agreement from which this chapter is derived shall be renegotiated
at any time upon written request of either party in accordance with Idaho Code
section 67-6526(d).
   B.   It is the intent of the parties that the Governing Boards shall, at
least every ten (10) years, undertake a review of this chapter to determine
whether renegotiations are in the best interests of the citizenry. (Ord. 365,
12-17-2018)
CHAPTER 7
ONAWAY AREA OF CITY IMPACT
SECTION:
8-7-1: Area
8-7-2: Governing Plan And Ordinances
8-7-3: Administration Of Area
8-7-4: Renegotiation
8-7-1: AREA:
This chapter shall be in effect for the following unincorporated areas of Latah
County: The S1/2 of the S1/2 of Section 31, Township 42 North, Range 4 West,
B.M.; and the N1/2 of Section 6, Township 41 North, Range 4 West, B.M.; as
provided in the Onaway Area of City Impact Map Ordinance, Latah County
Ordinance 338. (Ord. 337, 3-16-2016)
8-7-2: GOVERNING PLAN AND ORDINANCES:
Latah County's Comprehensive Plan (resolution 2010-32), land use ordinance
(ordinance 269 as amended), and fee schedule (resolution 2013-19), and
subsequent amendments thereto and/or new versions thereof, are hereby adopted
by the County for the Onaway area of impact (area). All other applicable County
ordinances and resolutions are still in effect for the area. (Ord. 337, 3-16-
2016)
8-7-3: ADMINISTRATION OF AREA:
   A.   The County shall administer the applicable ordinances and resolutions
for the area, as identified in section
8-7-2 of this chapter.
   B.   The County shall provide the City a period of fifteen (15) days prior
to a hearing to consider the request and submit a reply or comment to the
County. If the City needs additional time to consider the request and no
regular Council meeting has been scheduled within this fifteen (15) day period,
the City may request that the County extend the time period and the County
shall extend it to the day after the next regularly scheduled City Council
meeting to accommodate the City. If the City submits comment or a letter
stating it has no comment prior to the fifteen (15) day time period, the period
shall terminate upon the date of receipt by the County.
   C.   The County shall consider any comment or reply from the City as part of
its hearing process. (Ord. 337, 3-16-2016)
8-7-4: RENEGOTIATION:
   A.   The agreement from which this chapter is derived shall be renegotiated
at any time upon written request of either party in accordance with Idaho Code
section 67-6526(d).
   B.   Pursuant to Idaho Code section 67-6526(d), it is the intent of the
parties that the City and the County will, at least every ten (10) years,
review the Area of City Impact Plan and ordinance requirements to determine
whether renegotiation is in the best interest of the citizenry. (Ord. 337, 3-
16-2016)
CHAPTER 8
POTLATCH AREA OF CITY IMPACT
SECTION:
8-8-1: Area
8-8-2: Governing Plan And Ordinances
8-8-3: Administration Of Area
8-8-4: Renegotiation
8-8-1: AREA:
This chapter shall be in effect for the following unincorporated areas of Latah
County: Section 1, the NE1/4 of the NE1/4 of Section 2 and also all of Section
2 lying East of Flannigan Creek Road, the N1/2 of the NE1/4 of Section 12, and
the NE1/4 of the NW1/4 of Section 12, Township 41 North, Range 5 West, B.M.;
and the S1/2 of Section 6, and the NW1/4 of the NW1/4 excepting the E1/2 of the
E1/2 of the NW1/4 of the NW1/4 of Section 7, Township 41 North, Range 4 West,
B.M.; and the S1/2 of the S1/2 of Section 36, and the SE1/4 of the SE1/4 of
Section 35, Township 42 North, Range 5 West, B.M.; as provided in the Potlatch
Area of City Impact Map Ordinance, Latah County Ordinance 340. (Ord. 339, 3-16-
2016)
8-8-2: GOVERNING PLAN AND ORDINANCES:
Latah County's Comprehensive Plan (resolution 2010-32), land use ordinance
(ordinance 269 as amended), and fee schedule (resolution 2013-19), and
subsequent amendments thereto and/or new versions thereof, are hereby adopted
by the County for the Potlatch area of impact (area). All other applicable
County ordinances and resolutions are still in effect for the area. (Ord. 339,
3-16-2016)
8-8-3: ADMINISTRATION OF AREA:
   A.   The County shall administer the applicable ordinances and resolutions
for the area, as identified in section
8-8-2 of this chapter.
   B.   The County shall provide the City a period of fifteen (15) days prior
to a hearing to consider the request and submit a reply or comment to the
County. If the City needs additional time to consider the request and no
regular Council meeting has been scheduled within this fifteen (15) day period,
the City may request that the County extend the time period and the County
shall extend it to the day after the next regularly scheduled City Council
meeting to accommodate the City. If the City submits comment or a letter
stating it has no comment prior to the fifteen (15) day time period, the period
shall terminate upon the date of receipt by the County.
   C.   The County shall consider any comment or reply from the City as part of
its hearing process. (Ord. 339, 3-16-2016)
8-8-4: RENEGOTIATION:
   A.   The agreement from which this chapter is derived shall be renegotiated
at any time upon written request of either party in accordance with Idaho Code
section 67-6526(d).
   B.   Pursuant to Idaho Code section 67-6526(d), it is the intent of the
parties that the City and the County will, at least every ten (10) years,
review the Area of City Impact Plan and ordinance requirements to determine
whether renegotiation is in the best interest of the citizenry. (Ord. 339, 3-
16-2016)
CHAPTER 9
TROY AREA OF CITY IMPACT
SECTION:
8-9-1: Area
8-9-2: Governing Plan And Ordinances
8-9-3: Administration Of Area
8-9-4: Renegotiation
8-9-1: AREA:
This chapter shall be in effect for the following unincorporated areas of Latah
County: All of Section 7 and the S1/2 of Section 6, Township 39 North, Range 3
West, B.M.; and all of Section 12 and the S1/2 of Section 1, Township 39 North,
Range 4 West, B.M., as provided in the Troy Area of City Impact Map Ordinance,
Latah County Ordinance 332. (Ord. 331, 3-16-2016)
8-9-2: GOVERNING PLAN AND ORDINANCES:
Latah County's Comprehensive Plan (resolution 2010-32), land use ordinance
(ordinance 269 as amended), and fee schedule (resolution 2013-19), and
subsequent amendments thereto and/or new versions thereof, are hereby adopted
by the County for the Troy area of impact (area). All other applicable County
ordinances and resolutions are still in effect for the area. (Ord. 331, 3-16-
2016)
8-9-3: ADMINISTRATION OF AREA:
   A.   The County shall administer the applicable ordinances and resolutions
for the area, as identified in section
8-9-2 of this chapter.
   B.   The County shall provide the City a period of fifteen (15) days prior
to a hearing to consider the request and submit a reply or comment to the
County. If the City needs additional time to consider the request and no
regular Council meeting has been scheduled within this fifteen (15) day period,
the City may request that the County extend the time period and the County
shall extend it to the day after the next regularly scheduled City Council
meeting to accommodate the City. If the City submits comment or a letter
stating it has no comment prior to the fifteen (15) day time period, the period
shall terminate upon the date of receipt by the County.
   C.   The County shall consider any comment or reply from the City as part of
its hearing process. (Ord. 331, 3-16-2016)
8-9-4: RENEGOTIATION:
   A.   The agreement from which this chapter is derived shall be renegotiated
at any time upon written request of either party in accordance with Idaho Code
section 67-6526(d).
   B.   Pursuant to Idaho Code section 67-6526(d), it is the intent of the
parties that the City and the County will, at least every ten (10) years,
review the Area of City Impact Plan and ordinance requirements to determine
whether renegotiation is in the best interest of the citizenry. (Ord. 331, 3-
16-2016)
TITLE 9
LAND USE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
9-1-1: Purpose And Authority
9-1-2: Planning Department Established
9-1-3: Land Use Regulations Established
9-1-4: Severability
9-1-5: Conflicts
9-1-6: Establishment Of Zones And Sub-Zones By Map
9-1-7: Establishment Of Fees
9-1-8: Enforcement Of Land Use Regulations And Penalties
9-1-9: Planning Commission
9-1-10: Zoning Commission
9-1-11: Appeals
9-1-12: Reconsideration
9-1-13: Mediation
9-1-14: Planning Department Review Of Building Permits
9-1-1: PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY:
The purpose of this title is to promote the health, safety, and general welfare
of the people of Latah County by establishing regulations and standards in
accordance with the Latah County Comprehensive Plan. This title is authorized
by the provisions of Idaho Code Title 67, Chapter 65, the "Local Land Use
Planning Act" and Article XII, Section 2 of the Idaho Constitution. (Ord. 392,
8-16-2021)
9-1-2: PLANNING DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED:
There shall be a Latah County Planning and Building Department (also referred
to as Planning Department throughout this title) and the Board of Latah County
Commissioners shall appoint a Director to administer the provisions of this
title. The department, in the execution of its administrative duties, may
establish procedures and rules it deems necessary for compliance with this
title. (Ord. 392, 8-16-2021)
9-1-3: LAND USE REGULATIONS ESTABLISHED:
To achieve the purpose of this title and comply with the provisions of the
Latah County Comprehensive Plan and the Local Land Use Planning Act, the County
shall establish land use zones, regulations, and development standards. The
regulations developed to implement these zones and standards shall be
administered and enforced by the Planning Department and shall apply to all
property subject to the authority of the Board of Latah County Commissioners as
provided by Idaho Code Title 67, Chapter 65. (Ord. 392, 8-16-2021)
9-1-4: SEVERABILITY:
If any part or provision of this title or the application of this title to any
person or circumstance is declared to be invalid by any court of competent
jurisdiction, the judgment shall be confined in its operation to the part,
provision, or application deemed invalid and it shall not affect or impair the
validity of the remainder of this title or the application thereof to other
persons or circumstances. (Ord. 392, 8-16-2021)
9-1-5: CONFLICTS:
Where any provision of this title imposes restrictions different from those
imposed by any other provision of this title or any other ordinance, rule or
regulation, or other provision of law, the provision which is more restrictive
or imposes higher standards shall apply. (Ord. 392, 8-16-2021)
9-1-6: ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONES AND SUB-ZONES BY MAP:
The boundaries of the zones are hereby established as shown on the map(s)
entitled "Official Zoning Map of Latah County, Idaho", and said map(s), or
copies thereof, with all explanatory material, are hereby adopted by reference
as part of this title. The "Official Zoning Map of Latah County, Idaho" shall
be kept by the Planning and Building Department.
The zoning map shall be in electronic format available for public viewing on
the County website. The Official Zoning Map shall be continuously updated as
changes in zoning are approved by the Board of Latah County Commissioners.
Physical reproductions of the Official Zoning Map may be acquired at the
Planning Department. Any such reproductions shall not be considered official.
(Ord. 392, 8-16-2021; amd. Ord. 399, 7-11-2023)
9-1-7: ESTABLISHMENT OF FEES:
The Board of Latah County Commissioners shall adopt by resolution a fee
schedule to establish application or service fees used to administer the
requirements of this title. (Ord. 392, 8-16-2021)
9-1-8: ENFORCEMENT OF LAND USE REGULATIONS AND PENALTIES:
   A.   A violation of any provision of this title is hereby declared to be a
misdemeanor and is punishable as provided in chapter 1-4 of this Code. Every
day a property or person is found in violation of this title is considered a
separate punishable offense. The following are available to enforce compliance
with the provisions of this chapter. Nothing herein shall prevent the Board of
County Commissioners or any other public official or private citizen from
taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or correct any
violation of this chapter or of Idaho Code.
      1.   Injunction: The County may obtain from a District Court having
jurisdiction, an injunction enjoining the use, item, activity, or the like upon
affidavit of the County that such use, item, activity or the like does not
conform to the requirements of this chapter. The affidavit must set forth such
violations in detail. The injunction may be made permanent, at the discretion
of the court.
      2.   Stop Work Order: Upon notice from the Planning Department that a
violation is occurring, any continuance of the violation shall immediately
cease. Such notice can be in the form of a letter or placed upon any structure
or property where the violation is occurring. Any person who shall continue
after having been served with a stop work order, except such work as that
person is directed to perform by the Planning Department to remove the
violation or unsafe condition, shall be liable for penalties as set forth in
chapter 1-4 of this Code.
      3.   Work Commencing Before Permit Issuance: In addition to any penalties
assessed under any other section of this code, any work which is started or
proceeded prior to obtaining a permit or approval which is required by these
rules and/or in Idaho Code, shall be subject to a fee, as set forth in the fee
schedule. Such fee shall be in addition to the required permit and/or approval
fees. The payment of such fees shall not relieve any persons from fully
complying with the requirements of Idaho Code or these rules in the execution
of the work, nor from any other penalties as prescribed by law.
      4.   Civil Action: Notwithstanding any other remedies available, any
person damaged as a result of a violation of this chapter or the codes
enumerated herein or promulgated pursuant to this chapter has a cause of action
in any court of competent jurisdiction against the person who committed the
violation, and if such damaged person prevails, they shall be entitled to a
reasonable attorney's fees to be determined by the court, together with court
costs. Further, each day such violation continues constitutes a separate
offense.
      5.   Withholding Of Other Permits: The Planning Department may withhold
permits or application approvals, including but not limited to land divisions,
conditional use permits, rezones, subdivisions, building permits and
certificates of occupancy, on lots or parcels of land where a violation of any
provision of the Building Code or the Latah County Land Use Ordinance exists,
unless the permit being requested is to resolve the violation(s). If a permit
is withheld, the Planning Department shall refer to the order that details the
violations or any letter sent or if an order or letter has not been issued,
shall issue an order or letter detailing the violations within thirty (30) days
of the withholding.
      6.   Recordation Of Noncompliance: Notwithstanding any other remedies
available, the Planning Department may record with the Latah County Auditor any
letter, document, or item that describes the matter of noncompliance on a
property. This may be done any time after the issue of noncompliance is
discovered.
      7.   Referral For Further Action: The Planning Department shall notify
the County Prosecutor's Office of completion of any of the above and, when the
County Prosecutor has not already taken action, refer the matter to the County
Prosecutor's Office for further action. The Prosecuting Attorney may enforce
this title and the provisions of Title 67, Chapter 65 of the Idaho Code by
taking whatever criminal and/or civil action is deemed appropriate.
Additionally, this title may be enforced by the filing of a civil suit seeking
any lawful remedy. Prior to the Prosecuting Attorney filing a civil action, the
Board of Latah County Commissioners shall approve the filing of the civil
action.
   B.   Failure of the Planning Department to follow these procedures shall not
limit the remedies available to the Prosecuting Attorney in enforcing this
title and shall not be used as a defense in any enforcement proceeding, whether
criminal or civil.
   C.   Any use that is listed as a permitted use in one zone, but is not
listed as a permitted use in another zone, is not a permitted use in the latter
zone. Any use that is listed as a conditional use in one zone, but is not
listed as a conditional use in another zone, is not a conditional use in the
latter zone. (Ord. 392, 8-16-2021)
9-1-9: PLANNING COMMISSION:
   A.   Establishment: The Latah County Planning Commission is hereby
established as provided for by Idaho Code section 67-6504. This commission
shall be composed of seven (7) members assigned to positions A through G.
   B.   Organization: The Planning Commission shall elect a Chairman, Vice
Chairman, and Secretary. This commission shall abide by the provisions of this
title, the Local Land Use Planning Act, and shall also adopt bylaws as
required.
   C.   Terms Of Office: Positions A, B, and C shall first expire December 31,
2009, and then every six (6) years thereafter. Positions D and E shall expire
December 31, 2011, and every six (6) years thereafter. Positions F and G shall
expire December 31, 2007, and every six (6) years thereafter. Appointment to
complete the term of a vacated position or appointment to a new term shall be
done by motion and order of the Board of Latah County Commissioners.
   D.   Jurisdiction: The Planning Commission shall be responsible for
recommending amendments of the Latah County Comprehensive Plan and land use
ordinances to the Board of Latah County Commissioners. The Planning Commission
shall not consider amendments which are deemed to be quasi-judicial
proceedings. (Ord. 392, 8-16-2021)
9-1-10: ZONING COMMISSION:
   A.   Establishment: The Latah County Zoning Commission is hereby established
as provided for by Idaho Code section 67-6504. This commission shall be
composed of five (5) members assigned to positions A through E.
   B.   Organization: The Zoning Commission shall elect a Chairman, Vice
Chairman, and Secretary. This commission shall abide by the provisions of this
title, the Local Land Use Planning Act, and shall also adopt bylaws as
required.
   C.   Terms Of Office: Position A shall first expire December 31, 2009, and
then every six (6) years thereafter. Positions B and C shall expire December
31, 2011, and every six (6) years thereafter. Positions D and E shall expire
December 31, 2007, and every six (6) years thereafter. Appointment to complete
the term of a vacated position or appointment to a new term shall be done by
motion and order of the Board of Latah County Commissioners.
   D.   Jurisdiction: The Zoning Commission shall be responsible for holding
quasi-judicial hearings required by this title and Idaho Code for applicant
initiated land use requests. When requested by staff, by a majority of the
Zoning Commission members, or by the Board of Latah County Commissioners, the
Zoning Commission or Board of Latah County Commissioners may appoint a hearings
examiner in accordance with Idaho Code section 67-6520 upon approval by the
Board of Latah County Commissioners. (Ord. 392, 8-16-2021)
9-1-11: APPEALS:
   A.   Establishment: The Latah County Zoning Commission shall serve as the
Land Use Board of Appeals. All organization, rules and procedures of the Zoning
Commission shall apply to the Land Use Board of Appeals.
   B.   Jurisdiction: The Land Use Board of Appeals shall hear appeals of any
written decision of the Planning Department regarding the department's
interpretation or administration of the provisions of this title. The Land Use
Board of Appeals may affirm, modify, or reverse the decision of the Planning
Department. The Land Use Board of Appeals shall not have the authority to waive
the requirements of this title or take any action that is contrary to the
specific provisions of this title.
   C.   If an applicant wishes to appeal a decision made by the Planning
Department, the applicant must first appeal to the Land Use Board of Appeals in
accordance with this section. If the applicant then wishes to appeal the
decision of the Land Use Board of Appeals, the applicant may request
reconsideration by the Board of Latah County Commissioners in accordance with
section
9-1-12 of this chapter. An applicant may not bypass the appeal process required
by this section.
      1.   Appeal Procedure:
         a.   An appeal period of fourteen (14) days will begin upon the date
of the Planning Department's written decision. Any affected person may appeal a
decision of the Planning Department.
         b.   The appellant must specify the issues on appeal and shall submit
the written appeal and fee to the Planning Department within the fourteen (14)
day period described in subsection C1a of this section. The written appeal must
specify which portions of the decision the appellant finds to be in error and
explain the appellant's reasons for determining that the decision is in error
and contrary to the provisions of this title. The Planning Department shall
provide a report to the Land Use Board of Appeals that provides any additional
explanation as to the decision it made, which shall also be made available to
the appellant upon completion.
         c.   The Land Use Board of Appeals shall hold a meeting on the request
for appeal and provide a written decision to the applicant or affected person
within sixty (60) days of receipt of the request for appeal. This meeting shall
be limited to consideration of the issues on appeal. The appellant and Planning
Department may submit additional evidence during the meeting, if permitted by
the Land Use Board of Appeals.
      2.   Reconsideration Of Board Decisions: Pursuant to Idaho Code section
67-6535, decisions of the Land Use Board of Appeals may be reconsidered by the
Board of Latah County Commissioners, as set forth in section
9-1-12 of this chapter.
      3.   Effective Date: No Land Use Board of Appeals' decision shall become
effective and, if applicable, no building or installation permit shall be
issued, until the fourteen (14) day reconsideration period (subsection
9-1-12C1a of this chapter) has elapsed or until the Board of Latah County
Commissioners has made a decision upon reconsideration. (Ord. 392, 8-16-2021)
9-1-12: RECONSIDERATION:
   A.   Reconsideration: An applicant or affected person may seek
reconsideration to the Board of Latah County Commissioners, in accordance with
Idaho Code section 67-6535, of any decision made by the Zoning Commission, the
Land Use Board of Appeals, or the Board of Latah County Commissioners.
   B.   Submitting Written Request: An applicant or affected person must submit
a written request for reconsideration and fee to the Planning Department within
fourteen (14) days after the service date of the underlying decision.
   C.   Contents Of Request; Time Limit: A written request for reconsideration
must identify and explain the specific deficiencies in the decision for which
reconsideration is sought. Once a written request for reconsideration is timely
submitted, any other affected person may submit a written statement in regard
to the request for reconsideration. Such written statement must be submitted to
the Planning Department within fourteen (14) days after a request for
reconsideration is submitted.
   D.   Hearing:
      1.   The Board of Latah County Commissioners shall hold a hearing on the
request for reconsideration and provide a written decision to the applicant or
affected person within sixty (60) days of receipt of the request for
reconsideration. If a written decision is not issued within sixty (60) days,
the request shall be deemed denied.
      2.   The hearing shall be limited to consideration of the issues included
in the request for reconsideration. The Board of Latah County Commissioners
shall only consider the underlying record; the written request for
reconsideration; and written statements submitted by affected persons, if any.
The Board of Latah County Commissioners may, but is not required to, allow oral
argument by the appellant, any affected person, the Planning Department, the
Zoning Commission, the Land Use Board of Appeals, or the Board of Latah County
Commissioners. Such oral argument shall be limited to facts that were
previously established and are contained in the underlying record.
      3.   Presenting Additional Evidence: Additional evidence may be presented
only if the Board of Latah County Commissioners remands the decision back to
the Zoning Commission, or the Land Use Board of Appeals, or the Board of Latah
County Commissioners. The Board of Latah County Commissioners may only remand
once. The Board of Latah County Commissioners may remand the decision when the
appellant or respondent requests leave to present additional evidence. To
remand a decision, the Board of Latah County Commissioners must find, in
writing, that the additional evidence is material, relates to the validity of
the underlying decision, and there was good reason for failure to present the
additional evidence before the original decision making body. The order
remanding the matter shall describe the nature of the additional evidence to be
presented, and presentation of additional evidence on remand shall be limited
to the evidence described in the remand order. The additional evidence shall be
presented at a duly noticed public hearing. An appellant or affected person may
seek reconsideration of the resulting decision in accordance with the
procedures set forth in this section.
      4.   Decision Of Board of County Commissioners: Upon reconsideration, the
Board of Latah County Commissioners may affirm, reverse, or modify the
underlying decision. The Board of Latah County Commissioners may reverse or
modify the underlying decision only if: 1) the Board finds that the substantial
rights of the appellant have been prejudiced; and 2) the underlying decision is
in violation or excess of constitutional or statutory authority; made upon
unlawful procedure; not supported by substantial evidence; or arbitrary,
capricious, or an abuse of discretion. The Board of Latah County Commissioners
shall not have the authority to waive any requirement of this title or to take
any action that is contrary to the specific provisions of this title.
   E.   Following Process: Pursuant to Idaho Code section 67-6535, a decision
shall not be deemed final for purposes of judicial review unless the process
required in this subsection has been followed. The twenty-eight (28) day time
frame for seeking judicial review is tolled until the date of the written
decision regarding reconsideration or the expiration of the sixty (60) day
reconsideration period, whichever occurs first. (Ord. 392, 8-16-2021)
9-1-13: MEDIATION:
As per Idaho Code section 67-6510, mediation may be utilized for land use
permits. The mediation can occur between an applicant and any other affected
person objecting to the application. The Board of Latah County Commissioners,
the Latah County Zoning Commission, and the Latah County Planning Department
cannot be a party to mediation. The Board of Latah County Commissioners or
Zoning Commission is not required to force mediation. Any person can decline
mediation; however, the Board of Latah County Commissioners may mandate one
session of mediation so long as the Board of Latah County Commissioners pays
for that session. The Board of Latah County Commissioners or the Zoning
Commission is not required to change a decision based on the results of
mediation and is not bound by any agreement reached as a result of the
mediation. If the Board of Latah County Commissioners or the Zoning Commission
wants to consider such potential agreements made upon mediation between parties
so they can change their decision, they must have a public hearing before
making any changes to the application, findings, conditions, or decision.
Furthermore, before the Board of Latah County Commissioners or the Zoning
Commission can make any changes to findings, conditions or decisions they make,
they must still show that the revised application, conditions, findings or
decision either meets or does not meet the criteria required to approve or deny
an application. (Ord. 392, 8-16-2021)
9-1-14: PLANNING DEPARTMENT REVIEW OF BUILDING PERMITS:
The Latah County Planning and Building Department, under the authority of the
adopted Building Code ordinance, issues building permits. All building permit
applications for new structures or which change the location, shape, size, or
use of an existing structure shall be reviewed and approved by the department
prior to issuance of a building permit. Department approval shall be based upon
compliance with the provisions of this title. The Planning Department shall
review Zoning and Agricultural Placement permits. (Ord. 392, 8-16-2021)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
9-2-1: Definitions
9-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this title, certain words and terms used herein are defined
as follows:
                                    A subordinate building or use, the use
ACCESSORY BUILDING/ ACCESSORY USE:  of which is incidental to the primary
                                    use or principal building on the same
                                    parcel.
                                    One having an interest in real property
AFFECTED PERSON:                    which may be adversely affected by the
                                    issuance or denial of a permit under
                                    this title.
                                    Any property that is located in the
AGRICULTURAL LAND:                  Agriculture/Forest or Industrial zoning
                                    designations.
AGRICULTURAL OR FOREST SERVICE      Industries that provide services
INDUSTRY:                           directly linked to agricultural or
                                    forestry practices.
                                    Practices directly linked to the
                                    production of crops and the rearing and
AGRICULTURAL OR FORESTRY PRACTICES: management of livestock, aquaculture,
                                    and bee keeping, or to the science and
                                    art of cultivating, maintaining, and
                                    developing forests.
                                    The art or science of cultivating the
AGRICULTURE:                        ground, including the harvesting of
                                    crops, and the rearing and management of
                                    livestock.
                                    The application of soil and plant
AGRONOMY:                           sciences to land management and crop
                                    production.
                                    One or more landing strips equipped with
AIRPORT:                            control tower and hangars or maintenance
                                    facilities as well as accommodations for
                                    passengers and cargo.
                                    The public land survey system shows that
                                    each township/range intersection
                                    includes thirty six (36) one-mile
                                    squares known as sections; sections can
                                    be described in more detail, using
ALIQUOT DESCRIPTION/                quarter sections, quarter-quarter
ALIQUOT PARTS:                      sections, and smaller; aliquot parts are
                                    a way to describe legal subdivisions of
                                    a section by division into halves or
                                    fourths ad infinitum; "aliquot" means
                                    "contained in something else an exact
                                    number of times".
                                    A commercially operated park having
AMUSEMENT/                          various devices for entertainment (such
THEME PARK:                         as a roller coaster or water slide) and
                                    usually booths for the sale of food and
                                    drink.
                                    Animals kept in a confined space such as
                                    a building or area that does not sustain
ANIMAL CONTAINMENT:                 crops, vegetation, forage growth or
                                    postharvest residues in the normal
                                    growing season.
                                    The branch of agriculture, commercial or
                                    noncommercial, concerned with the care,
                                    raising or breeding of animals such as
                                    fish, bees, poultry, dogs, cattle, hogs,
ANIMAL HUSBANDRY:                   sheep, and horses, subject to subsection
                                    9-3A-2C of this title; for the purposes
                                    of this title, dog activities and
                                    facilities as listed in subsection
                                    9-3A-4I of this title, are not
                                    considered animal husbandry.
                                    A unit of measurement for any animal
                                    feeding operation calculated by adding
                                    the following numbers: the number of
                                    slaughter and feeder cattle multiplied
                                    by one, plus the number of young
                                    slaughter or feeder cattle less than
                                    twelve (12) months of age multiplied by
                                    six-tenths (0.6), plus the number of
                                    mature dairy cattle multiplied by one
                                    and four-tenths (1.4), plus the number
                                    of young dairy cattle multiplied by six-
                                    tenths (0.6), plus the number of swine
ANIMAL UNIT:                        weighing over twenty five kilograms (25
                                    kg), approximately fifty five (55)
                                    pounds, multiplied by four-tenths (0.4),
                                    plus the number of weaned swine weighing
                                    under twenty five kilograms (25 kg)
                                    multiplied by one-tenth (0.1), plus the
                                    number of sheep multiplied by one-tenth
                                    (0.1), plus the number of horses
                                    multiplied by two (2), plus the number
                                    of chickens multiplied by one-hundredth
                                    (0.01). Animals not listed can be
                                    calculated based on their weight
                                    interpolated in comparison to the weight
                                    of slaughter/feeder cattle.
 
ANIMAL UNIT EQUIVALENTS
ANIMAL UNIT EQUIVALENTS
Slaughter/feeder cattle                     1.0
Slaughter/feeder cattle less than 12 months 0.6
Dairy cattle - mature                       1.4
Dairy cattle - young                        0.6
Swine greater than 25 kilograms (55 pounds) 0.4
Swine weaned less than 25 kilograms         0.1
Sheep                                       0.1
Horse                                       2.0
Chickens                                    0.01
 
                The land in the floodplain within a community subject to a 1 percent or greater
AREA OF SPECIAL chance of flooding in any given year. It is shown on the Flood Insurance Rate Map
FLOOD HAZARD:   (FIRM) as Zone A and A1-30. "Special flood hazard area" is synonymous in meaning
                with the phrase "area of special flood hazard".
BASE FLOOD:     A flood that has a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given
                year.
BASE FLOOD      The elevation of the crest of the base flood.
ELEVATION:
                That portion of a building which is wholly or partly below grade. For floodplain
BASEMENT:       management purposes, a "basement" is any area of the building having its floor sub-
                grade (i.e., below ground level) on all sides.
BED AND         A place where people live as their primary residence and operate overnight
BREAKFAST:      accommodations for individuals, consisting of no more than four (4) single or double
                guest rooms.
BLOCK:          A group of lots or tracts within a subdivision.
BOARDED/        The act of housing animals or people for remuneration, including rooms for rent.
BOARDING:
BOUNDARY LINE   The adjustment of a property boundary between two (2) adjacent parcels that
ADJUSTMENT:     typically changes the size or shape of the parcels, subject to section
                9-8D-2 of this title.
                Any structure designed to house people or property, having a roof, but excluding all
BUILDING:       forms of vehicles, even if immobilized. For floodplain management purposes, see
                "Structure".
BUILDING        Distance that a building must be located away from property lines, structures,
SETBACK:        public or private road rights-of-way, or the like.
                As regulated by a conditional use permit under subsection
                9-3A-4C of this title, a site with recreational cabins with no kitchens or a site
                where a limited number of people can pitch a tent, that may or may not have other
CAMPGROUND:     separate facilities such as showers, bathrooms, or a single kitchen facility;
                campgrounds are not allowed to have recreational vehicle parking unless the owner
                receives permission for both a campground and a recreational vehicle park through
                the conditional use permit process.
CATEGORY 19     Property, as defined by the Latah County Assessor's Office, to be roads, ditches,
PROPERTY:       canals, or public rights-of-way; this property is typically tax exempt.
CEMETERY:       A place or ground set apart for the burial of the dead; a graveyard; a necropolis.
CHURCH:         A building set apart for religious activities.
CLUB:           A facility that provides services to social, recreational, fraternal, civic or other
                groups.
COMMERCIAL:     Any activity where there is remuneration customarily received, exchanged, or paid
                for goods, merchandise or services.
COMMERCIAL
FRUIT AND       Cultivation of flowers, vegetables, herbs, or fruit to be sold, typically as a
VEGETABLE       residential accessory use, including summertime fruit stands.
GARDENING:
COMPREHENSIVE   The officially adopted Latah County Comprehensive Plan.
PLAN:
                A use permitted in one or more zones as defined by this title but which, because of
                characteristics peculiar to such use, or because of size, technological processes or
CONDITIONAL     equipment, or because of the exact location with reference to surroundings, street,
(SPECIAL) USE:  and existing improvements or demands upon public facilities, requires a special
                degree of control to make such uses consistent with and compatible to other existing
                or permissible uses in the same zone or zones.
DAIRY:          A farm with dairy animals where dairy products are produced, including the place,
                room, or house where milk is kept, and/or converted into butter or cheese.
DAYCARE         A facility that provides care for six (6) or more children that are not related by
FACILITY:       blood or marriage to the persons providing the care, in a place other than the
                child's or children's own home.
                For floodplain management purposes, any man made change to improved or unimproved
DEVELOPMENT:    real estate, including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining,
                dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, storage of
                equipment or materials, or sewage lagoons.
DRINKING        A bar, pub, tavern, nightclub, or other place that serves alcoholic drinks such as
ESTABLISHMENT:  liquor, beer, or wine on the premises.
DRIVEWAY:       A private road giving access from a public right-of- way to a building on abutting
                grounds subject to chapter 9 of this title.
DUPLEX:         A house divided into two (2) living units or residences.
DWELLING:       One residence, a house or manufactured home, in which one family lives, built or
                installed in accordance with this title and the adopted Building Code ordinance.
DWELLING UNIT:  One house or manufactured home.
DWELLING UNIT,  A house, manufactured building, apartment building, duplex, or other similar living
MULTI-FAMILY:   unit that contains two (2) or more living units or that serves more than one family.
                An "existing parcel", as defined in section
                9-8A-2 of this title, or a "new parcel" or "lot" created and approved under the
                current or previous land division process, short plat process or full plat process
                of Latah County; parcels of land must be "eligible parcels" to be eligible for one
                residential building permit or commercial building permits, as allowed by their
ELIGIBLE        zoning designation; if a residence exists on an eligible parcel, no building permits
PARCEL:         for additional dwellings can be issued for this parcel except under the provisions
                of subsections
                9-3A-3A,
                9-3A-3B,
                9-3A-4A, and section
                9-4C-3 of this title.
ENCLOSED        Pool halls, bars, ice rinks, adult entertainment facilities, roller rinks, and
ENTERTAINMENT   similar types of operations.
FACILITY:
ENLARGEMENT/    A change in use such that it is larger, more expansive, or broader in scope or
EXPANSION:      nature from what was originally approved.
EXISTING
NATURAL MINERAL Any natural mineral resource development that was considered to be in existence as a
RESOURCE        nonconforming use upon the effective date hereof.
DEVELOPMENT:
EXISTING        As defined in section
PARCEL:         9-8A-2 of this title.
EXISTING
RESIDENTIAL     A building that was legally built prior to the effective date hereof that may be a
ACCESSORY       conforming or a nonconforming use.
STRUCTURE/
BUILDING:
                An area where outdoor and indoor fairs, circuses, or exhibitions are held, and all
                buildings associated with such activities; if approved as part of a conditional use
FAIRGROUNDS:    permit, fairgrounds may include indoor or outdoor arenas, exhibit and food booths,
                stalls and buildings for animals, exhibit buildings, areas for fairs and circuses,
                park areas, camping and recreational vehicle areas, and outdoor exhibit areas.
                A plot of land where animals are confined to be fattened that exceeds the
FEEDLOT:        requirements set forth in subsection
                9-3A-2C of this title.
                A.   A general or temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of normally
                dry land areas from the:
                   1.   Overflow of inland waters; and/or
                   2.   Unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source;
                and/or
                   3.   Mudslides (i.e., mudflows) which are proximately caused by flooding as
                defined in A2 of this definition and are akin to a river of liquid and flowing mud
FLOOD/FLOODING: on the surfaces of normally dry land areas, as when earth is carried by a current of
                water and deposited along the path of the current.
                B.   The collapse or subsidence of land along the shore of a lake or other body of
                water as a result of erosion or undermining caused by waves or currents of water
                exceeding anticipated cyclical levels or suddenly caused by an unusually high water
                level in a natural body of water, accompanied by a severe storm, or by an
                unanticipated force of nature, such as flash flood or an abnormal tidal surge, or by
                some similarly unusual and unforeseeable event which results in flooding as defined
                in A1 of this definition.
FLOOD HAZARD    An official map of a community, issued by the Administrator, where the boundaries of
BOUNDARY MAP    the flood, mudslide (i.e., mudflow) related erosion areas having special hazards
(FHBM):         have been designated as Zones A, M, and/or E that may include floodway boundaries.
FLOOD INSURANCE The official map on which the Federal Insurance Administrator has delineated both
RATE MAP:       the areas of special flood hazard and the risk premium zones applicable to the
                County (located at the Planning Department).
FLOOD INSURANCE An examination, evaluation and determination of flood hazards and, if appropriate,
STUDY:          corresponding water surface elevations, or an examination, evaluation and
                determination of mudslide (i.e., mudflow) and/or flood-related erosion hazards.
FLOODPLAIN:     Any land that is susceptible to being inundated by water from any source. See "Flood
                or flooding".
FLOODPLAIN      The community official designated by title to administer and enforce the floodplain
ADMINISTRATOR:  management regulations or their designee.
FLOODPLAIN      The operation of an overall program of corrective and preventive measures for
MANAGEMENT:     reducing flood damage, including but not limited to emergency preparedness plans,
                flood control works, and floodplain management regulations.
                Zoning ordinances, subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations,
FLOODPLAIN      special purpose ordinances (such as floodplain ordinance, grading ordinance and
MANAGEMENT      erosion control ordinance) and other application of police power. The term describes
REGULATIONS:    such federal, state or local regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide
                standards for the purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.
                Any combination of structural and non-structural additions, changes or adjustments
FLOODPROOFING:  to structures which reduce or eliminate risk of flood damage to real estate or
                improved real property, water and sanitary facilities, structures, and their
                contents.
                The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land areas that must be
FLOODWAY:       reserved in order to discharge the base flood without cumulatively increasing the
                water surface elevation more than a designated height.
FORESTRY:       The science and art of cultivating, maintaining, and developing forests.
FULL TIME       Forty (40) hours per week or two thousand eighty (2,080) hours per year of
EQUIVALENT:     employment.
GUN CLUB:       Private, commercial or public firing ranges.
HIGHEST         The highest natural elevation of the ground surface prior to construction next to
ADJACENT GRADE: the proposed walls of a structure.
HIGHWAY:        A road owned, operated, or managed by the Idaho Transportation Department.
HIGHWAY         The North Latah County Highway District or South Latah Highway District, or the
DISTRICT:       governmental authority having jurisdiction over public roads or streets.
                For floodplain management purposes, any structure that is:
                A.   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a listing
                maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined by the
                Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual listing on the
                National Register;
                B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as
                contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic district or a
                district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as a registered
HISTORIC        historic district;
STRUCTURE:      C.   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in states with
                historic preservation programs which have been approved by the Secretary of
                Interior; or
                D.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in communities with
                historic preservation programs that have been certified either:
                   1.   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of the Interior;
                or
                   2.   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without approved
                programs.
HORTICULTURE:   The science or art of cultivating fruits, vegetables, flowers, trees, shrubs or
                ornamental plants.
HOTEL:          An establishment that provides lodging and sometimes meals or other services for
                travelers and other paying guests.
HYDRODYNAMIC
LOADS/          The forces on a structure from current, waves, ice, etc.
HYDRODYNAMIC
FORCES:
HYDROSTATIC
LOADS/          The pressure that standing water places on the walls and floor of a structure.
HYDROSTATIC
PRESSURE:
LANDING STRIP:  A place where aircraft land and take off.
                A piece of land having specific boundaries that are described and drawn in its
LOT:            approved platted subdivision or approved mobile home park development, or approved
                division under chapter 8, article B of this title.
LOT AREA:       The size, in square feet, of a lot.
                The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including basement or crawl space) of
                a structure. An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking
LOWEST FLOOR:   of vehicles, building access or limited storage in an area other than a basement
                area is not considered a building's lowest floor, provided that such enclosure is
                not built so as to render the structure in violation of the applicable non-elevation
                design requirements of this title.
                A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is built on a permanent
MANUFACTURED    chassis and is designed for use with or without a permanent foundation when attached
HOME:           to the required utilities. The term "manufactured home" does not include a
                "recreational vehicle" that also meets the requirements of Idaho Code.
                A development that consists of a high density of manufactured homes with the land
MANUFACTURED    being owned, undivided, by a person(s) and with the homes being owned by either the
HOME PARK/      owner of the land or by other individuals as personal property. For floodplain
DEVELOPMENT:    management purposes, a parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land divided into two (2)
                or more manufactured home lots for rent.
MANUFACTURING:  To make or process a raw material into a finished product, especially with the use
                of industrial machines.
                For purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program, the National Geodetic Vertical
MEAN SEA LEVEL: Datum (NGVD) of 1929 or other datum, to which Base Flood Elevations shown on a
                community's Flood Insurance Rate Map are referenced.
MINISTORAGE:    Individual spaces in a building to rent for storing goods.
MONUMENT:       Any permanent marker used for survey purposes as specified in Idaho Code Title 50,
                Chapter 13.
MOTEL:          An establishment that provides lodging for motorists in rooms having direct access
                to an open parking area.
                For the purposes of determining insurance rates, structures for which the "start of
                construction" commenced on or after the effective date of an initial Flood Insurance
NEW             Rate Map or after December 31, 1974, whichever is later, and includes any subsequent
CONSTRUCTION:   improvements to such structures. For floodplain management purposes, "new
                construction" means structures for which the "start of construction" commenced on or
                after the effective date of a floodplain management regulation adopted by a
                community and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
NEW PARCEL:     As defined in section
                9-8A-2 of this title.
NONCONFORMING   As defined by subsection
PARCEL:         9-4C-1F of this title.
NONCONFORMING   A parcel, use, or structure which was legal when commenced or built, but which does
USE:            not conform to subsequently enacted or amended regulations.
OFF-STREET      Parking spaces located on property exclusive of rights-of-way or easements.
PARKING:
OFFICE:         A place in which business, clerical, medical or professional activities are
                conducted.
                A contiguous quantity of land recorded as the property of persons or entities, each
                of which is named in a single instrument conveying ownership thereof, and which has
                been separately conveyed from any adjoining quantity of land, whose boundaries are
PARCEL:         defined in the last recorded instrument of conveyance of such parcel; a parcel of
                land may or may not be an "eligible parcel", a "new parcel", or an "existing parcel"
                as defined by this title; this definition shall not apply to transfers of property
                as boundary line adjustments as set forth in section
                9-8D-2 of this title.
PERFORMANCE     A bond issued by an insurance company to guarantee satisfactory completion of a
BOND/BOND:      project by a contractor.
PERMANENT
DWELLING/       One house or manufactured home built or installed in accordance with this title and
PERMANENT       the adopted Building Code ordinance.
LIVING
QUARTERS:
PERMIT:         A license; a permission granted in writing, such as a building permit or a
                conditional use permit.
PLANT NURSERY:  A place where plants are grown for sale.
                The drawing, map or plan of an approved subdivision as regulated by chapter 9-8C of
PLAT:           this title, an approved division of property under chapter 9-8B of this title, an
                approved cemetery, townsite or other tract of land, or a replatting of such,
                including certifications, description and approvals.
PRIMARY         A place in which a person or family lives for more than fifty percent (50%) of the
RESIDENCE:      year.
PRIMARY USE:    The principal or predominant use to which the property is or may be devoted, and to
                which all other uses on the premises are accessory.
PROFESSIONAL    A facility comprised of one or more professional offices.
CLINIC:
PROPERTY LINE:  The boundary line between two (2) parcels.
PUBLIC          A building used by the public; a building used for public purposes; a building owned
BUILDING:       by the public or a public agency.
                An area for play, outdoor recreation or other leisure activities or the protection
PUBLIC PARK:    of natural, cultural or historical resources that is operated by a public or quasi-
                public organization and is dedicated to public use.
                A decision or proceeding which entails the application of a general rule or policy
QUASI-JUDICIAL: to specific individuals, interests, or situations. Typical quasi-judicial
                proceedings include hearings on applications for permits.
REAL PROPERTY:  All property not considered to be personal property.
RECREATIONAL    A hotel, motel, or other overnight accommodation that offers recreational
RESORT:         activities.
                A vehicle, camper, manufactured structure or similar which is:
                A.   Built on a single chassis;
                B.   Four hundred eight (408) square feet or less when measured at the largest
                horizontal projection, not including pull-outs, tip-outs or similar;
RECREATIONAL    C.   Designed to be self propelled or permanently towable by a light duty truck;
VEHICLE:        D.   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary living
                quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
                E.   Any recreational vehicle listed as a "Park Model" or manufactured housing unit
                that does not meet the standards set by the State of Idaho or the Latah County
                Building Codes and Regulation to be a manufactured housing unit.
RECREATIONAL    A location where there are parking spaces for recreational vehicles where water, a
VEHICLE PARK:   sewage dump station, electricity and other services may be provided.
RECREATIONAL
VEHICLE STORAGE A place where recreational vehicles are stored, but not lived in.
FACILITY:
REMNANT PARCEL: The parcel that is remaining after one or more new parcels are created from an
                eligible parcel via a land division under chapter 8, article A of this title.
REPAIR SHOP:    A building where repairs are made to items typically brought to the building by the
                public.
RESTAURANT:     A business establishment where meals or refreshments may be purchased.
RETAIL STORE:   A store to provide the sale of commodities or goods to consumers.
                A right of passage, an easement; the right of one person, of several persons, or of
RIGHT-OF-WAY:   the community at large, to pass over the land of another; any property deemed a
                category 19 by the Latah County Assessor.
                A legal right for a public agency, an agency providing a public service, or the
RIGHT-OF-WAY,   public at large for passage over another person's ground; the area over which a
PUBLIC:         right-of-way exists for a public road, a public utility, a private utility or
                similar public facilities or structures.
SALVAGE,        A commercial or private place where waste, discarded or salvaged materials are
WRECKING, AND   customarily bought, sold, stored or exchanged and are handled, disassembled, crushed
JUNK YARDS:     or stored.
                A place for learned intercourse and instruction; an institution for learning; an
SCHOOL:         educational establishment; a place for acquiring knowledge and mental or physical
                training.
SERVICE LOT:    A place where vehicles or other machinery or equipment are maintained.
SERVICE USE:    An activity that supports and is integral to permitted or conditionally permitted
                uses in its zone.
SETBACK:        The distance a structure must be located away from property lines, structures,
                public or private road rights-of-way, or the like.
                Any device for visual communication that is used for the purpose of bringing the
SIGN:           subject thereof to the attention of the public, including, but not limited to,
                outdoor advertising displays and billboards.
SINGLE-FAMILY   A house or manufactured home installed in accordance with this title and the adopted
DWELLING:       Building Code ordinance, that is for use by one family or that meets the
                requirements in Idaho Code section 67-6531.
SLAUGHTERHOUSE: A building where animals are killed, butchered and/or otherwise processed.
SOLID WASTE     A landfill, transfer station, composting area, recycling center or similar facility,
DISPOSAL        not including personal composting.
FACILITY:
                The zoning of a small land area for a use that differs measurably from the zoned
                land uses surrounding the area, usually giving privileges not generally extended to
                properties similarly located in the area and generally is an arbitrary departure
SPOT ZONE:      from the Comprehensive Plan, the other adjacent zoning, the other adjacent land
                uses, and the other adjacent eligible parcel sizes; typically, a spot zone is for
                private gain designed to favor or benefit a particular individual or group and not
                the welfare of the community as a whole.
                For floodplain management purposes, includes substantial improvement and means the
                date the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
                repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, placement, or other improvement
                was within one hundred eighty (180) days from the date of the permit. The actual
                start means either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a
                site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
                construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the
START OF        placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not
CONSTRUCTION:   include land preparation, such as clearing, grading, and filling; nor does it
                include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation
                for a basement, footings, piers, or foundations or the erection of temporary forms;
                nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as
                garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure.
                For a substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first
                alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
                whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
                Anything which is built or constructed, including, but not limited to, buildings,
STRUCTURE:      decks, foundations, towers, poles, gas or liquid storage tanks. For floodplain
                management purposes, a walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage
                tank, that is principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home.
                As regulated by chapter 9-8C of this title, a tract of land divided into five (5) or
SUBDIVISION:    more lots for the purpose of sale or development; this definition shall not include
                any parcels divided under chapters 9-8A or 9-8B of this title.
                For floodplain management purposes, damage of any origin sustained by a structure
SUBSTANTIAL     whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would
DAMAGE:         equal or exceed fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the
                damage occurred.
                For floodplain management purposes, any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
                other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent
                (50%) of the market value of the structure before the "start of construction" of the
                improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred "substantial damage,"
                regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not, however, include
SUBSTANTIAL     either:
IMPROVEMENT:    A.   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing violations of
                state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been
                identified by the local code enforcement official and which are the minimum
                necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
                B.   Any alteration of a "historic structure," provided that the alteration will not
                preclude the structure's continued designation as a "historic structure."
TEMPORARY       Not having and not requiring permanent attachment to the ground or sewer or water
LIVING          utilities or systems.
QUARTERS:
                Any structure or device designed, constructed and/or erected and used to attach or
                otherwise affix an antenna(s) that exceeds twenty feet (20') in height from the base
TOWER:          of the structure; residential, commercial, agricultural, or utility buildings and
                utility poles shall not be considered towers; however, "towers" shall include
                structures or devices erected on or attached to such buildings, poles, or structures
                which increase the total height by more than twenty feet (20').
UTILITY         An easement provided for utilities and utility structures.
EASEMENT:
UTILITY         Dams, power plants, power substations, storage yards for public roadway maintenance,
STRUCTURE:      and similar facilities which provide a service, such as light, power, water, or
                sewage disposal by a public or private utility or for personal use.
                Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may be transported
VEHICLE:        or drawn upon a highway, including, but not limited to, automobiles, buses, trucks,
                recreational vehicles, and commercial coaches.
VETERINARY      A medical facility that determines and treats the diseases of domestic animals, such
CLINIC:         as horses, sheep, cattle, various pets, etc.
WAREHOUSE:      A storehouse for wares or goods.
WASTEWATER
TREATMENT       A facility that collects and treats sewage that is not an underground septic system.
FACILITY:
WATER SURFACE   For floodplain management purposes, the height, in relation to the National Geodetic
ELEVATION:      Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929, or other datum, of floods of various magnitudes and
                frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine areas.
WATER TREATMENT A facility that collects, treats, and/or distributes drinking water that is not a
FACILITY:       private well.
WIND POWERED
ELECTRICAL      A mill operated by the power of the wind, usually by the action of the wind upon
GENERATING      oblique vanes or sails which radiate from a horizontal shaft; a generator that
EQUIPMENT/      extracts usable energy from winds.
WINDMILL:
WIND TURBINE:   A device for converting the flow of air into mechanical motion that can be utilized.
                (Ord. 392, 8-16-2021)
 
CHAPTER 3
LAND USE ZONES
ARTICLE A. AGRICULTURE/FOREST ZONE
SECTION:
9-3A-1: Purposes And Goals
9-3A-2: Permitted Uses
9-3A-3: Permitted Uses Requiring Administrative Zoning Permit
9-3A-4: Conditional Uses
9-3A-5: Size And Setback Requirements
9-3A-6: Sign Restrictions
9-3A-1: PURPOSES AND GOALS:
The Agriculture/Forest Zone is shown on the "Official Zoning Map of Latah
County". This zone is established to achieve the purposes of this title and the
goals and policies of the Latah County Comprehensive Plan by accommodating,
providing opportunities for, and the continuation of agricultural and forest
land uses. Uses allowed in this zone include those that are integral to
agriculture and forestry, uses which will not conflict with accepted farm and
forest practices, and uses which will not result in the excessive conversion of
productive farm and forest land to uses which can be more appropriately located
in other zoning designations. (Ord. 392, 8-16-2021)
9-3A-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following uses are permitted in this zone as a right of property ownership:
   A.   Accessory buildings and uses required to conduct, and normally
associated with, the uses permitted in this zone (but not including commercial
or industrial uses such as commercial storage, processing facilities, dairies,
feedlots, production facilities, slaughterhouses, or agricultural or forestry
service industries with more than five (5) full time equivalent employees).
   B.   Agronomy and all uses normally associated with raising, harvesting, and
selling of crops, including trees and other plants.
   C.   Animal husbandry and all of the uses normally associated with raising,
feeding, and selling of livestock. Feedlots, dairies, continuous confined
animal management operations, or other types of similar facilities that operate
for six (6) or more months out of any twelve (12) month period, with fewer than
two hundred fifty (250) animal units.
   D.   Forestry and all uses normally associated with raising, harvesting, and
selling of timber and other forest products.
   E.   Home occupations as provided by section
9-4C-2 of this title.
   F.   One single-family dwelling for each eligible parcel. Approved single-
family dwellings shall have no more than two (2) rooms for rent or remuneration
and these rooms shall not exceed an average occupancy of two (2) persons per
room.
   G.   Veterinary clinics. (Ord. 392, 8-16-2021)
9-3A-3: PERMITTED USES REQUIRING ADMINISTRATIVE ZONING PERMIT:
The following uses require an "administrative zoning permit" prior to being
allowed. All such uses shall conform to the conditions set by this Code and set
in the permit. The application must be approved and inspection(s) shall be
conducted to ensure any use listed conforms to the conditions of the permit
prior to the use being enacted.
   A.   Accessory Cottage Housing: The intent of this use is to enable the
placement of one accessory housing unit, either attached or separate from an
existing principal dwelling, on parcels that are not eligible for additional
building permits. The accessory cottage house shall meet all of the following
requirements:
      1.   Any new structure must meet all other zoning requirements, the owner
of such property must obtain a valid building permit prior to any construction,
the building must pass all inspections, and the building must receive a
certificate of occupancy.
      2.   Any existing structure must be brought into compliance with all
current zoning requirements, Building Codes, and occupancy ratings for a
residence, the owner of such property must obtain a valid building permit prior
to making any changes or commencing construction, the building must pass all
inspections, and the building must receive a certificate of occupancy.
      3.   Accessory cottage housing roofs shall comply with snowload
requirements in the area in which they are constructed.
      4.   Minimum constructed roof pitch shall be of a 3:12 rise to run ratio.
Constructed roof pitch in excess of rise to run ratio of 5:12 shall be credited
for snowload construction requirements. The attached roof shall meet the Latah
County snowload requirements (as set forth in the Latah County Building Code
ordinance) for the area in which they are constructed or placed. In the event
there is a conflict with any other adopted codes, such as the Building Code,
the more restrictive shall apply.
      5.   Accessory cottage housing shall be installed as real property with a
permanent foundation.
      6.   Septic system for accessory cottage housing shall be inspected and
approved by the North Central District Health Department.
      7.   A plan for a water supply system or a statement that individual
wells will be used shall be submitted to the Planning Department. If individual
wells are used, their location shall be shown on a map submitted to the
Planning Department.
      8.   The square footage for accessory cottage housing shall be the
minimum allowed by the Building Code and a maximum of nine hundred (900) square
feet, and the square footage of the accessory cottage housing unit shall not
exceed fifty percent (50%) of the total square footage of the principal
dwelling.
      9.   The maximum separation between the principal dwelling and the
accessory cottage housing shall be one hundred feet (100') unless it is
physically impractical to do so, in which case it must be located as close as
is physically practical to the principal dwelling.
      10.   A deed restriction shall be recorded prior to issuance of a
building permit indicating that the accessory cottage housing unit shall
forevermore be tied to the principal building and shall not be separated or put
on its own parcel for sale or any other purpose. If the parcel becomes eligible
for a land division as per chapter 9-8A of this title, so long as the accessory
dwelling and the primary residence can meet the setback requirements, the owner
of the property may apply for a land division and, as part of the approval, can
create a parcel that includes the accessory dwelling. Once the land division
has been approved, the Planning Department shall record a document that
indicates that the division of the accessory cottage house is allowed by the
regulation and approved by the department.
      11.   Unless impossible, accessory cottage housing shall use the same
driveway as the primary residence. In addition to meeting the requirements of
subsection
9-9-2D of this title, the shared private driveway shall have a graveled or
paved surface of at least twenty feet (20') wide. A driveway map must be
submitted to the Planning Department.
   B.   Additional Single-Family Dwelling Units For Parcels That Have Existing
Residences: The additional dwelling units may be located on any site within the
parcel, but shall not exceed a total density of one unit per forty (40) acres
(i.e., a parcel must have eighty (80) acres to be eligible for a second
dwelling or one hundred twenty (120) acres for a third dwelling, etc.). All
second dwelling units are subject to the following conditions.
      1.   Each second dwelling shall be located outside of a designated
special flood hazard area unless there is no other place on the parcel that
will accommodate this or unless there is a need for the second dwelling to be
located close to the home site and all available areas that are close to the
primary residence are in the special flood hazard area.
      2.   The applicant must obtain approval for a septic system.
      3.   The applicant must submit plans for a water system or a statement
that individual wells will be used.
      4.   A shared driveway and access point is required unless the new
residence is far from the primary dwelling and is near a different road where
access approval is obtained. No new access points will be made onto State
highways. A driveway map must be submitted to the Planning Department.
      5.   In addition to meeting the requirements of subsection
9-9-2D of this title, all shared private driveways shall have a graveled or
paved surface of at least twenty feet (20') wide.
      6.   Access approval is required from the appropriate agency overseeing
the roadway.
      7.   The applicant shall provide to the Planning Department a site plan.
The site plan shall include the location of the building site, the potential or
actual location and plans for the wells or water system, septic systems, other
structures, easements, driveways and regulatory setbacks.
      8.   All new dwellings shall meet setback requirements.
      9.   If the second dwelling is more than one hundred feet (100') from the
primary residence, in addition to the above, it and all accessory structures
related to the residential use shall be required to be placed in a manner to
preserve productive farm land, commercial timber stands, streams, riparian
areas, and other unique natural features to ensure the rural nature of Latah
County is preserved, that agriculture and forest industries are protected from
residential growth, and to ensure that natural resources are protected.
   C.   Bed and breakfasts with no more than four (4) single or double guest
rooms that will be conducted outside of the primary residence and/or that will
be beyond the scope of the home occupation provisions as provided in section
9-4C-2 of this title or the provisions set forth in subsection
9-3A-2F of this article. Guest rooms outside of the primary residence shall
only have a bed (beds) and/or a bathroom, and shall not have a kitchen. Guest
rooms outside of the primary residence must be within one hundred feet (100')
of the primary residence or a conditional use permit will be required. One
common hall/room may be used for entry/exit into the guest rooms, but such
common hall/room shall not have any kitchen facilities.
   D.   Public Buildings Subject To The Following Requirements:
      1.   Hours of operation anywhere between the hours of seven o'clock (7:
00) A.M. to ten o'clock (10:00) P.M.
      2.   No outdoor events or activities.
      3.   Submittal of a plan for parking. Parking plan must include enough
parking spots to accommodate an event that is of a maximum number; parking plan
must include a landscape buffer; parking areas must be built prior to occupancy
of the structure.
      4.   Submittal of a plan for lighting; lighting must be directed away
from nearby residences and must be of a full cut off fixture.
      5.   Submittal of a plan for noise; plan must include information that
shows that no event will be a nuisance to neighboring residential properties.
   E.   Public Parks Subject To The Following Requirements:
      1.   Daytime hours of operation only, five o'clock (5:00) A.M. to ten
o'clock (10:00) P.M.
      2.   The applicant must submit a site plan showing locations of
playgrounds, bathrooms, paths, parking, campground areas, picnic shelters,
events areas.
      3.   The applicant must submit a playground safety plan if a playground
is proposed.
      4.   If any of the following are proposed, the applicant must submit a
facilities plan that includes bathrooms (or porta potties), sewage system
location and approval, and the well site and water distribution system
(including fountains).
      5.   The applicant must submit a parking plan that shows adequate off-
street parking.
      6.   The applicant must submit a plan for lighting. Lighting must not
interfere with neighboring properties, must be full cut off fixtures, and, when
feasible, be shut off at night.
      7.   All structures, including signs and fences, are subject to building
permit requirements.
      8.   Structures, parking, and other features of the park may be subject
to the accessibility requirements of the Building Code.
      9.   Any public parks that have overnight accommodations, want to operate
outside of the prescribed hours of operation, that rent space for events, or
that charge for admissions require a conditional use permit.
   F.   Unlit communication towers and transmission facilities lower than fifty
feet (50') high subject to the following requirements:
      1.   Towers are subject to chapter 9-4A of this title, changing
"conditional use permit" to "administrative zoning permit" and changing "Zoning
Commission" to "Planning Department".
      2.   Towers shall not be lit.
      3.   Towers shall not be higher than fifty feet (50') high.
   G.   Utility structures and uses, not including dams, power plants, or very
similar structures.
      1.   Submittal of approval from the agency in charge of approval of the
facility.
      2.   Submittal of a plan for chemical storage and handling.
      3.   If in a special flood hazard area, the facility must meet all of the
requirements of chapter 9-5A of this title that are applicable, including
subsection 9-5A-4H of this title.
      4.   Submittal of a map of power, gas and other utility plans for the
facility.
      5.   Building permits must be obtained for any structures as prescribed
by code.
      6.   If a facility for workers is proposed, plans for that structure must
be submitted.
      7.   When applicable, the facility must have an odor control plan.
      8.   Landscape buffers shall be provided for utility structures that are
a visual nuisance. Fencing shall be provided for utility structures that are a
hazard to public health. A plan shall be submitted, and once approved, the
landscaping and fencing shall be installed prior to occupancy.
      9.   Submittal of a stormwater drainage plan.
      10.   Submittal of plan for lighting if any lighting is proposed. All
lighting must be directed away from neighboring residences and must be full cut
off fixtures.
      11.   Submittal of a plan for parking.
   H.   Water treatment facilities subject to the following requirements:
      1.   Submittal of approval from the agency in charge of approval of the
facility.
      2.   Submittal of a plan for chemical storage and handling.
      3.   If in a designated special flood hazard area, the facility must meet
all of the requirements of chapter 9-5A of this title that are applicable,
including subsection 9-5A-4H of this title.
      4.   Submittal of a map of power, gas and other utility plans for the
facility.
      5.   Building permits for all structures as prescribed by code.
      6.   If a facility for workers is proposed, plans for that structure must
be submitted.
      7.   Submittal of plan for lighting if any lighting is proposed. All
lighting must be directed away from neighboring residences and must be full cut
off fixtures.
      8.   Submittal of plan for fencing and buffering. Fencing may be required
to ensure that the public's safety is not compromised.
      9.   Submittal of a plan for parking. (Ord. 392, 8-16-2021)
9-3A-4: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following uses may be permitted by the Zoning Commission upon the issuance
of a conditional use permit as provided by chapter 9-7A of this title:
   A.   Accessory Cottage Housing: The intent of this use is to enable the
placement of one accessory housing unit, either attached or separate from an
existing principal dwelling, on parcels that are not eligible for additional
building permits that exceeds the size allowed in subsection
9-3A-3A of this article. The Zoning Commission shall, as a minimum, place the
following requirements upon any accessory cottage housing conditional use
permit:
      1.   Any new structure must meet all other zoning requirements, the owner
of such property must obtain a valid building permit prior to any construction,
the building must pass all inspections, and the building must receive a
certificate of occupancy.
      2.   Any existing structure must be brought into compliance with all
current zoning requirements, Building Codes, and occupancy ratings for a
residence, the owner of such property must obtain a valid building permit prior
to making any changes or commencing construction, the building must pass all
inspections, and the building must receive a certificate of occupancy.
      3.   Accessory cottage housing roofs shall comply with snowload
requirements in the area in which they are constructed.
      4.   Minimum constructed roof pitch shall be of a 3:12 rise to run ratio.
Constructed roof pitch in excess of rise to run ratio of 5:12 shall be credited
for snowload construction requirements. The attached roof shall meet the Latah
County snowload requirements (as set forth in the Latah County Building Code
ordinance) for the area in which they are constructed or placed. In the event
there is a conflict with any other adopted codes, such as the Building Code,
the more restrictive shall apply.
      5.   Accessory cottage housing shall be installed as real property with a
permanent foundation.
      6.   Septic system for accessory cottage housing shall be inspected and
approved by the North Central District Health Department.
      7.   A plan for a water supply system or a statement that individual
wells will be used shall be submitted to the Planning Department. If individual
wells are used, their location shall be shown on a map submitted to the
Planning Department.
      8.   The square footage for accessory cottage housing shall be a maximum
of one thousand five hundred (1,500) square feet, and the square footage of the
accessory cottage housing unit shall not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the
total square footage of the principal dwelling.
      9.   The maximum separation between the principal dwelling and the
accessory cottage housing shall be one hundred feet (100') unless it is
physically impractical to do so, in which case it must be located as close as
is physically practical to the principal dwelling.
      10.   A deed restriction shall be recorded prior to issuance of a
building permit indicating that the accessory cottage housing shall forevermore
be tied to the principal building and shall not be separated or put on its own
parcel for sale or any other purpose. If the parcel becomes eligible for a land
division as per chapter 9-8A of this title, so long as the accessory dwelling
and the primary residence can meet the setback requirements, the owner of the
property may apply for a land division and, as part of the approval, can create
a parcel that includes the accessory dwelling. Once the land division has been
approved, the Planning Department shall record a document that indicates that
the division of the accessory cottage house is allowed by the regulation and
approved by the department.
      11.   The applicant shall work with the Planning Department to ensure the
best placement of the accessory cottage housing. The applicant shall try to
minimize the impacts the accessory cottage house has on any nearby residences.
      12.   The accessory cottage housing shall be of a similar character of
the primary residence or of a typical accessory structure seen in this zoning
designation. Preliminary plans for the structure shall be submitted prior to
the public hearing. The Planning Department shall review these plans and make
recommendations, if necessary, to the Zoning Commission regarding changes that
would need to be made to the residence to meet this requirement.
      13.   Unless impossible, the accessory cottage housing shall use the same
driveway as the primary dwelling. In addition to meeting the requirements of
subsection
9-9-2D of this title, the shared private driveway shall have a graveled or
paved surface of at least twenty feet (20') wide. A driveway map must be
submitted to the Planning Department.
   B.   Agricultural or forestry related commercial or industrial business or
service uses with more than five (5) full time equivalent employees. Regardless
of number of employees, all natural mineral resource developments that are
related to or used for agriculture or forestry uses shall be subject to
subsection M of this section.
   C.   Campgrounds and recreational vehicle parks (subject, at a minimum, to
the requirements set forth in subsection
9-3D-3B of this chapter and subsection
9-3D-3C7 of this chapter), golf courses, recreational fields, gun clubs,
meeting halls, concert and event venues, outdoor sports training centers, and
fairgrounds (subject, at a minimum, to the requirements set forth in subsection
9-3D-3B of this chapter).
   D.   Cemeteries, mortuaries, crematoriums, churches, museums, child daycare
facilities and schools.
   E.   Commercial kitchens no larger than three thousand (3,000) square feet
in size not related to agriculture or forestry as set forth in subsection B of
this section.
   F.   Commercial, multiple residential, or other wind turbine.
      1.   The following documents must be attached and submitted along with
the application:
         a.   A survey of the parcel of land on which the proposed wind turbine
(s) is to be located. This survey shall include all real property described on
the deed of conveyance most recently recorded for that parcel that complies
with this title.
         b.   A detailed drawing of each wind turbine with the height and
location specified.
         c.   If monopole towers are to be used, information on noise reduction
methods that will be used to reduce the noise.
         d.   The amount of energy to be produced by each wind turbine.
         e.   Documents demonstrating to the satisfaction of the Zoning
Commission that the necessary easements have been obtained, as well as plans
showing how vehicle access will be provided.
         f.   If any proposed wind turbine is less than two thousand feet
(2,000') from any residence or commercial or public building, and/or less than
three hundred percent (300%) the height of the wind turbine to any property
line, the applicant shall submit a signed notarized form, approved by the
Planning Department, from all owners of record of such residential, commercial,
or public structures and all owners of record of such property consenting to
the location of the wind turbine. Each form shall be recorded in the Latah
County Recorder's Office prior to submission to the Planning Department.
Setbacks from any public road or public right-of-way shall not be waived.
         g.   All property owners of record located within two thousand feet
(2,000') of any proposed wind turbine, as well as all adjacent property owners,
shall be notified by regular mail at the last address listed in the Latah
County Assessor's Office records by the Planning Department fifteen (15) days
prior to the hearing.
      2.   Each wind turbine and any repairs require a building permit.
      3.   The following are required conditions for any wind turbine and for
the approval of the construction of such and shall appear in any CUP approved
for such use. These in no way limit the Zoning Commission from setting
additional conditions to ensure that the wind turbine(s) is (are) in compliance
with the criteria.
         a.   Any proposed wind turbine shall be set back a minimum of three
hundred percent (300%) the height of the wind turbine from any public road,
public right-of-way, property line, residential, public, or commercial
structure. At a minimum, the wind turbine shall be at least one thousand feet
(1,000') away from any residential, public, or commercial structures. The
Zoning Commission may waive such setbacks if it deems such to be appropriate.
To request to waive such setbacks, the applicant must file with the Planning
Department a signed notarized form, approved by the Planning Department, from
all owners of record of all such property or structures consenting to the
location of the wind turbine. For property line waivers, this form shall be
accompanied by a current survey approved by the Latah County Surveyor of the
property line relevant to the setback. This form shall be recorded in the Latah
County Recorder's Office by the Planning Department. Setbacks from any public
road or public right-of-way shall not be waived.
         b.   Vibrations shall not be produced that will be humanly perceptible
beyond the property boundary.
         c.   If equipment enclosures will be located on the ground, a six foot
(6') to seven foot (7') high fence of wood, masonry or privacy slats completely
surrounding the equipment enclosure is required to secure and screen the
equipment and structure.
         d.   A warning sign no larger than three (3) square feet and no
smaller than two (2) square feet must be placed on the fencing access/gate. It
must contain the name of the owner and operator of the facility, and a phone
number for cases of emergency as well as any other information required by law.
         e.   Any wind turbine/structure shall be finished in a nonreflective
neutral color or as otherwise specified by the Zoning Commission.
         f.   No ladder rungs or climbing pegs on any wind turbine shall be
allowed within twenty feet (20') of the ground.
         g.   The maximum wind turbine lighting is a low intensity red light as
defined by the Federal Aviation Administration. No wind turbine shall be higher
than can accommodate a low intensity red light.
         h.   Wind turbines and all accompanying equipment enclosures or
ancillary facilities shall be camouflaged to fit into their immediate
surroundings at the discretion of the Zoning Commission.
         i.   Compliance at all times with any applicable laws or regulations
including this title and the Latah County Building Code ordinance.
         j.   All wind turbines must have an approval by the Idaho Department
of Fish and Game (IDFG), based on a determination of the impact the proposed
wind turbine will have on local and migratory birds. If the IDFG does not
provide a written response to the Planning Department within forty-five (45)
days of the IDFG receipt of the request for review, then IDFG approval of the
site will be assumed by the Planning Department.
         k.   Wind turbines shall be designed and installed to have an
automatic and a manually powered shutoff that is available at ground level in
the event the wind turbine becomes defective, makes noise, or there is a high
wind event.
         l.   Building permits are required for each wind turbine and
associated structure and any replacements or repairs.
         m.   When applicable, all new wind energy conversion systems shall
comply with Sections 21-515, 21-515A and 21-515B, Idaho Code.
      4.   In addition to the conditional use permit criteria set out in
chapter 9-7A of this title, the Zoning Commission shall take the following
considerations into account when deciding whether to grant a conditional use
permit for wind turbine:
         a.   Whether the height, design, and any proposed future modification
of the wind turbine will reduce or eliminate visual obtrusiveness to the
greatest extent feasible and practical;
         b.   Whether it has been demonstrated the wind turbine will have a
negative impact on nearby property;
         c.   Whether the existing land use of the proposed site is unique to
that land; and
         d.   Whether any aspect of the wind energy operation may pose an
unreasonable nuisance at the proposed site, including, but not limited to,
lighting and noise.
      5.   Removal Or Repair Of Defective Wind Turbine: Any wind turbine found
by the building official to be unsafe, abandoned, defective or causing an undue
amount of noise heard on any nearby property shall be repaired by the landowner
to meet Federal, State and local safety standards, the Latah County Building
Code, and to not create nuisance noise. Such wind turbine shall be shut off
immediately upon notification of the building official to the owner of the
property and shall remain off until the building official has verified the
structure has been repaired and is no longer unsafe, defective, or a nuisance.
If the wind turbine is not legally repaired within one hundred twenty (120)
days, it will be considered to be abandoned. At the end of the one hundred
twenty (120) days, the owner shall immediately take down the wind turbine. If
the owner does not immediately take down the wind turbine, legal proceedings as
set forth in subsection F6 of this section shall commence to ensure the wind
turbine is taken down.
      6.   Abandoned Wind Turbine:
         a.   In addition to the provisions set forth in subsection F5 of this
section, any wind turbine that has been turned off or not working for a period
of one hundred twenty (120) days shall be considered abandoned. The wind
turbine owner or landowner thereof shall take down any such wind turbine(s) and
any accompanying equipment enclosure within sixty (60) days.
         b.   The Planning Department, upon determining that wind turbine has
been abandoned, shall serve notice by certified mail of its determination of
abandonment upon the owner of the system and to the landowner, to the address
on file with the Latah County Assessor's Office. The notice shall contain the
reasons why the wind turbine has been deemed abandoned, the owner's obligation
to remove the wind turbine pursuant to this section, and the owner's right to
appeal the determination of abandonment.
         c.   The wind turbine owner or landowner may, during the sixty (60)
days, apply, and for good cause shown, have granted, an extension of time on
such terms as the Planning Department shall determine.
         d.   If such structure and equipment enclosure are not so removed
within said sixty (60) days or any extension thereof, then the County has the
right without further notice to enter upon the land and remove and abate such
structures at the expense of the wind turbine owner or landowner by any remedy
available at law or in equity. In the event Latah County exercises its right
hereunder, any and all salvage rights shall inure to, and become property of
Latah County at the County's sole option.
         e.   The Planning Department's determination of abandonment may be
appealed pursuant to subsection
9-1-11 of this title.
   G.   Communication towers and transmission facilities that are lit and/or
that are over fifty feet (50') high, subject to chapter 9-4A of this title.
   H.   Dams and power plants, and other very similar utility structures.
   I.   Dog boarding operations with four (4) or more dogs.
   J.   Feedlots, dairies, continuous confined animal management operations, or
other types of similar facilities that operate for six (6) or more months out
of any twelve (12) month period, with more than two hundred fifty (250) animal
units.
      1.   Any containment of animals must be situated at least thirty-five
feet (35') from any perennial stream shown on a USGS 7.5 minute map.
      2.   At the time of application, the applicant shall show proof that
plans and permits for water, nutrient management, and odor management will be
approved by the relevant regulatory agency such as the Idaho Department of
Water Resources, the Idaho Department of Agriculture, and/or the Idaho
Department of Environmental Quality, and shall name the agency and contact
person, or the applicant shall show proof that no such permit is required.
Copies of these permit approvals must be provided to the Planning Department
prior to any commencement of activities on the permitted property. The Board of
Latah County Commissioners may request a review as per Idaho Code section 67-
6529E, the results of which shall be in the possession of the County prior to
the public hearing being held.
      3.   Anyone, regardless of their property's distance from the site of the
permit or regardless of whether they own property, may testify at the required
public hearings.
   K.   Food processing operations, regardless of number of employees,
operating outside of the provisions for home occupations, that retail on site.
   L.   Landing strips, heliports, and airports.
   M.   Mineral resource developments subject to chapter 9-4B of this title.
   N.   Ministorage units, recreational vehicle storage facilities, and boat
storage facilities. One recreational vehicle storage location, in conjunction
with and on the same parcel as a single-family residence, for use by the
occupants of the residence in accordance with section
9-4C-4 of this title, does not require a conditional use permit.
   O.   Public buildings that operate outside of the provisions of subsection
9-3A-3D of this article.
   P.   Public parks that have overnight accommodations, that have hours of
operation outside of the prescribed hours of operation, that rent space for
events, or that charge for admissions. Subject to subsections 9-3A-3E2 through
E9 of this article as well as any other conditions as set in an approved
conditional use permit.
   Q.   Salvage, wrecking, and junk yards occurring outside of a fully enclosed
building.
   R.   Single Residential Wind Turbine:
      1.   The applicant shall place the wind turbine in a location that will
have the least negative effect upon neighboring properties.
      2.   A maximum of one per each residence. Each wind turbine and any
repairs require a building permit.
      3.   The proposed wind turbine shall be set back a minimum of one hundred
fifty percent (150%) the height of the wind turbine from any public road,
public right-of-way, or property line. The proposed wind turbine shall be set
back a minimum of three hundred percent (300%) the height of the wind turbine
from any residential public or commercial structure. The Zoning Commission may
waive such setbacks if it deems such to be appropriate and if the following
criteria are met:
         a.   The applicant must file with the Planning Department a signed
notarized form, approved by the Planning Department, from all owners of record
of all such property and structures consenting to the location of the wind
turbine;
         b.   Each form shall be recorded in the Latah County Recorder's Office
prior to submission to the Planning Department; and
         c.   For property line waivers, the form(s) shall be accompanied by a
current legal survey of the property line(s) relevant to the setback.
      Setbacks from any public road or public right-of-way shall not be waived.
      4.   Residential wind turbines shall not be lit.
      5.   Wind turbines shall not be operated from five thirty o'clock (5:30)
P.M. to ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. Monday through Friday. Wind turbines shall not
be operated from seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. to ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. on
Saturday and Sunday.
      6.   Wind turbines shall be no higher than fifty feet (50') high unless
otherwise authorized by the Zoning Commission.
      7.   Wind turbines shall have a blade size no larger than four feet (4').
      8.   Wind turbines shall be designed and installed to have an automatic
and a manually powered shutoff that is available at ground level in the event
the wind turbine becomes defective or there is a high wind event.
      9.   Any wind turbine found by the building official to be unsafe,
abandoned, or defective shall be repaired by the landowner to meet Federal,
State and local safety standards and the Latah County Building Code. Such wind
turbine shall be shut off immediately upon notification of the building
official to the owner of the property and shall remain off until the building
official has verified the structure has been repaired and is no longer unsafe
or defective. The County shall have the authority to pursue legal action if
necessary.
   S.   Small scale retail sales and rental shops, no larger than six hundred
(600) square feet in size, directly related to recreation in Latah County that
are in proximity to recreational sites.
   T.   Solid waste disposal facilities.
   U.   Wastewater treatment facility subject to the following minimum
conditions:
      1.   Submittal of approval from the State agency in charge of approval of
the facility.
      2.   Submittal of a plan for chemical storage and handling.
      3.   If in a special flood hazard area, the facility must meet all of the
requirements of chapter 9-5A of this title that are applicable, including
subsection
9-5A-4H of this title.
      4.   Submittal of a map of power, gas and other utility plans for the
facility.
      5.   Building permits must be obtained for any structures as prescribed
by code.
      6.   If a facility for workers is proposed, plans for that structure must
be submitted.
      7.   Must submit an odor control plan.
      8.   Must submit plans for a landscape buffer around the facility and
after approval, install the landscaping. The buffer should adequately shield
any nearby uses that involve people from the facility.
      9.   Must submit a stormwater drainage plan for the wastewater treatment
facilities.
      10.   Must submit a plan for any locations for any composting areas.
Composting areas shall have a landscape buffer that shall meet the requirements
of subsection U8 of this section.
      11.   Submittal of plan for lighting if any lighting is proposed. All
lighting must be directed away from neighboring residences and must be full cut
off fixtures.
      12.   Submittal of plan for fencing. All wastewater treatment plants that
have open sewage pits shall have a protective fence ensuring the safety of the
public.
      13.   Submittal of a plan for parking. All parking lots must be
constructed prior to occupancy. (Ord. 392, 8-16-2021; amd. Ord. 407, 6-24-2025)
9-3A-5: SIZE AND SETBACK REQUIREMENTS:
Minimum eligible parcel size is one acre. All accessory structures shall be a
minimum of ten feet (10') from any property line. All other structures shall be
a minimum of thirty-five feet (35') from any property line not abutting a
public right-of-way. All structures shall be a minimum of twenty feet (20')
from the boundaries of any public right-of-way or sixty feet (60') from the
centerline of any road placed within the boundaries of a public right-of-way,
whichever is greater. When the setback distance is disputed, the Planning
Department may require the property owner to have the property line established
by a professional surveyor licensed in the State of Idaho. A detached accessory
building can be built to the side or rear lot lines, provided a written mutual
agreement of the abutting property owners on the property lines affected be
recorded in the Latah County Recorder's Office. Fences, bridges, retaining
walls, roads, driveways, in ground scales, poles, signs, access ramps, and
mailboxes (respecting rights-of-way and easements) are exempt from setback
requirements. (Ord. 392, 8-16-2021)
9-3A-6: SIGN RESTRICTIONS:
No sign shall exceed sixty-four (64) square feet in display area and no sign
for commercial purposes shall be allowed unless it pertains only to a permitted
use engaged on the property. No sign or item used to post a sign may impair the
sight of drivers traveling on public roads. No sign greater than two (2) square
feet shall be lighted and such lighting shall be directed onto the sign, shall
be of a full cut-off fixture, and shall not impair the sight of drivers. Signs
installed by the Idaho Transportation Department, local highway district, or
other governmental agency for purposes of directing the safe and convenient
flow of traffic are exempt from these restrictions. (Ord. 392, 8-16-2021)
ARTICLE B. RURAL RESIDENTIAL ZONE
SECTION:
9-3B-1: Purposes And Goals
9-3B-2: Permitted Uses
9-3B-3: Permitted Uses Requiring Administrative Zoning Permit
9-3B-4: Conditional Uses
9-3B-5: Size And Setback Requirements
9-3B-6: Sign Restrictions
9-3B-1: PURPOSES AND GOALS:
The Rural Residential Zone is shown on the "Official Zoning Map of Latah
County". This zone is established to achieve the purposes of this title and the
goals and policies of the Latah County Comprehensive Plan by providing
opportunities for residential development in areas appropriate for limited low
density housing. Uses allowed in this zone include low density residential,
limited horticultural and animal husbandry, and uses which will not conflict
with a rural residential neighborhood. (Ord. 392, 8-16-2021)
9-3B-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following uses are permitted in this zone as a right of property ownership:
   A.   Accessory buildings and uses required to conduct, and normally
associated with, the uses permitted in this zone.
   B.   Agronomy, orchards, commercial fruit and vegetable gardening, plant
nurseries and related horticultural operations, not including any processing or
year round sales facilities related to the primary use of the property.
   C.   Animal husbandry not to exceed ten (10) animal units, not including the
uses permitted under subsection
9-3B-4C of this article.
   D.   Home occupations, as provided by section
9-4C-2 of this title.
   E.   One single-family dwelling for each eligible parcel. Approved single-
family dwellings shall have no more than two (2) rooms for rent or remuneration
and these rooms shall not exceed an occupancy of two (2) persons per room.
(Ord. 392, 8-16-2021)
9-3B-3: PERMITTED USES REQUIRING ADMINISTRATIVE ZONING PERMIT:
The following uses require an "administrative zoning permit" prior to being
allowed. All such uses shall conform to the conditions set by this title and
set in the permit. The application must be approved and inspection(s) shall be
conducted to ensure any use listed conforms to the conditions of the permit
prior to the use being enacted.
   A.   One duplex or single-family home converted into no more than two (2)
separate dwelling units subject to the following conditions:
      1.   The two (2) residences shall utilize a shared driveway and access
point off the roadway. In addition to meeting the requirements of subsection
9-9-2D of this title, the private driveway shall have a graveled or paved
surface of at least twenty feet (20') wide. A driveway map must be submitted to
the Planning Department.
      2.   All units shall use a single approved access point onto the roadway.
   B.   Public parks subject to the following requirements:
      1.   Daytime hours of operation only five o'clock (5:00) A.M. to ten
o'clock (10:00) P.M.
      2.   The applicant must submit a site plan showing locations of
playgrounds, bathrooms, paths, parking, campground areas, picnic shelters,
events areas.
      3.   The applicant must submit a playground safety plan if a playground
is proposed.
      4.   If any of the following are proposed, the applicant must submit a
facilities plan that includes bathrooms (or porta potties), sewage system
location and approval, and the well site and water distribution system
(including fountains).
      5.   The applicant must submit a parking plan that shows adequate off-
street parking.
      6.   The applicant must submit a plan for lighting. Lighting must not
interfere with neighboring properties, must be full cut off fixtures, and, when
feasible, be shut off at night.
      7.   All structures, including signs and fences, are subject to building
permit requirements.
      8.   Structures, parking, and other features of the park may be subject
to the accessibility requirements of the Building Code.
      9.   Any public parks that have overnight accommodations, want to operate
outside of the prescribed hours of operation, that rent space for events, or
that charge for admissions require a conditional use permit.
   C.   Water treatment facilities subject to the following requirements:
      1.   Submittal of approval from the agency in charge of approval of the
facility.
      2.   Submittal of a plan for chemical storage and handling.
      3.   If in a designated special flood hazard area, the facility must meet
all of the requirements of chapter 9-5A of this title that are applicable,
including subsection
9-5A-4H of this title.
      4.   Submittal of a map of power, gas and other utility plans for the
facility.
      5.   Building permits for all structures as prescribed by code.
      6.   If a facility for workers is proposed, plans for that structure must
be submitted.
      7.   Submittal of plan for lighting if any lighting is proposed. All
lighting must be directed away from neighboring residences and must be full cut
off fixtures.
      8.   Submittal of plan for fencing and buffering. Fencing may be required
to ensure that the public's safety is not compromised.
      9.   Submittal of a plan for parking. (Ord. 392, 8-16-2021)
9-3B-4: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following uses may be permitted by the Zoning Commission upon the issuance
of a conditional use permit as provided by chapter 9-7A of this title.
   A.   A single building office or professional clinic with less than two
thousand (2,000) square feet.
   B.   Accessory Cottage Housing: The intent of this use is to enable the
placement of one accessory housing unit, either attached or separate from an
existing principal dwelling, on parcels that are not eligible for additional
building permits. The Zoning Commission shall, as a minimum, place the
following requirements upon any accessory cottage housing conditional use
permit:
      1.   Any new structure must meet all other zoning requirements, the owner
of such property must obtain a valid building permit prior to any construction,
the building must pass all inspections, and the building must receive a
certificate of occupancy.
      2.   Any existing structure must be brought into compliance with all
current zoning requirements, Building Codes, and occupancy ratings for a
residence, the owner of such property must obtain a valid building permit prior
to making any changes or commencing construction, the building must pass all
inspections, and the building must receive a certificate of occupancy.
      3.   Accessory cottage housing roofs shall comply with snowload
requirements in the area in which they are constructed.
      4.   Minimum constructed roof pitch shall be of a 3:12 rise to run ratio.
Constructed roof pitch in excess of rise to run ratio of 5:12 shall be credited
for snowload construction requirements. The attached roof shall meet the Latah
County snowload requirements (as set forth in the Latah County Building Code
ordinance) for the area in which they are constructed or placed. In the event
there is a conflict with any other adopted codes, such as the Building Code,
the more restrictive shall apply.
      5.   Accessory cottage housing shall be installed as real property with a
permanent foundation.
      6.   Septic system and domestic water supply for accessory cottage
housing shall be inspected and approved by the North Central District Health
Department.
      7.   The square footage for accessory cottage housing shall be the
minimum allowed by the Building Code and a maximum of nine hundred (900) square
feet, and the square footage of the accessory cottage housing unit shall not
exceed fifty percent (50%) of the total square footage of the principal
dwelling.
      8.   The maximum separation between the principal dwelling and the
accessory cottage housing shall be one hundred feet (100') unless it is
physically impractical to do so, in which case it must be located as close as
is physically practical to the principal dwelling. All accessory cottage
housing in this zoning designation shall be at least two hundred feet (200')
away from any existing residence on any neighboring property, unless attached
by a wall to the primary dwelling (duplex) or unless the neighboring residence
is owned by the same person as the location of the request.
      9.   A deed restriction shall be recorded prior to issuance of a building
permit indicating that the accessory cottage housing shall forevermore be tied
to the principal building and shall not be separated or put on its own parcel
for sale or any other purpose. If the parcel becomes eligible for a land
division as per chapter 9-8A of this title, so long as the accessory dwelling
and the primary residence can meet the setback requirements, the owner of the
property may apply for a land division and, as part of the approval, can create
a parcel that includes the accessory dwelling. Once the land division has been
approved, the Planning Department shall record a document that indicates that
the division of the accessory cottage house is allowed by the regulation and
approved by the department.
      10.   The applicant shall work with the Planning Department to ensure the
best placement of the accessory cottage housing. The applicant shall try to
minimize the impacts the accessory cottage house has on any nearby residences.
      11.   The accessory cottage housing shall be of a similar character of
the primary residence or of a typical accessory structure seen in this zoning
designation. Preliminary plans for the structure shall be submitted prior to
the public hearing. The Planning Department shall review these plans and make
recommendations, if necessary, to the Zoning Commission regarding changes that
would need to be made to the residence to meet this requirement.
      12.   Unless impossible, the accessory cottage housing shall use the same
driveway as the primary dwelling. In addition to meeting the requirements of
subsection
9-9-2D of this title, the shared private driveway shall have a graveled or
paved surface of at least twenty feet (20') wide. A driveway map must be
submitted to the Planning Department.
   C.   Animal husbandry, dairies and feedlots with more than ten (10) animal
units subject to the following:
      1.   Any containment of animals must be situated at least thirty-five
feet (35') from any perennial stream shown on a USGS 7.5 minute map;
      2.   At a minimum, the Zoning Commission shall consider the effects of
lighting, noise, aesthetics, water, nutrient management, and odor management;
and
      3.   Anyone, regardless of their property's distance from the site of the
permit or regardless of whether they own property, may testify at the required
public hearings.
   D.   Bed and breakfasts with no more than four (4) single or double guest
rooms that will be conducted outside of the primary residence and/or that will
be beyond the scope of the home occupation provisions as provided in section 9-
4C-2 of this title or the provisions set forth in subsection
9-3B-2E of this article.
   E.   Cemeteries, mortuaries, crematoriums, churches, museums, and schools.
   F.   Child daycare facilities.
   G.   Dog boarding operations with four (4) or more dogs.
   H.   Full plats subject to chapter 9-8C of this title.
   I.   Golf courses, recreational fields, meeting halls, and public parks that
have overnight accommodations, that have hours of operation outside of the
prescribed hours of operation, that rent space for events, or that charge for
admissions. Public parks are subject to subsections
9-3B-3B2 through
9-3B-3B9 of this article as well as any other conditions as set in an approved
conditional use permit.
   J.   Ministorage or recreational vehicle storage facilities. A recreational
vehicle storage location, in conjunction with and on the same parcel as a
single-family residence, for use by the occupants of the residence, does not
require a conditional use permit.
   K.   Processing and year round sales facilities for agronomy and
horticulture not to exceed three thousand five hundred (3,500) square feet in
size.
   L.   Public buildings and utility structures and uses.
   M.   Single Residential Wind Turbine:
      1.   The applicant shall place the wind turbine in a location that will
have the least negative effect upon neighboring properties.
      2.   A maximum of one per each residence. Each wind turbine and any
repairs require a building permit.
      3.   The proposed wind turbine shall be set back a minimum of one hundred
fifty percent (150%) the height of the wind turbine from any public road,
public right-of-way, or property line. The proposed wind turbine shall be set
back a minimum of three hundred percent (300%) the height of the wind turbine
from any residential public or commercial structure. The Zoning Commission may
waive such setbacks if it deems such to be appropriate and if the following
criteria are met:
         a.   The applicant must file with the Planning Department a signed
notarized form, approved by the Planning Department, from all owners of record
of all such property and structures consenting to the location of the wind
turbine;
         b.   Each form shall be recorded in the Latah County Recorder's Office
prior to submission to the Planning Department; and
         c.   For property line waivers, the form(s) shall be accompanied by a
current legal survey of the property line(s) relevant to the setback.
Setbacks from any public road or public right-of-way shall not be waived.
      4.   Residential wind turbines shall not be lit.
      5.   Wind turbines shall not be operated from five thirty o'clock (5:30)
P.M. to ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. Monday through Friday. Wind turbines shall not
be operated from seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. to ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. on
Saturday and Sunday.
      6.   Wind turbines shall be no higher than fifty feet (50') high unless
otherwise authorized by the Zoning Commission.
      7.   Wind turbines shall have a blade size no larger than four feet (4').
      8.   Wind turbines shall be designed and installed to have an automatic
and a manually powered shutoff that is available at ground level in the event
the wind turbine becomes defective or there is a high wind event.
      9.   Any wind turbine found by the building official to be unsafe,
abandoned, or defective shall be repaired by the landowner to meet Federal,
State and local safety standards and the Latah County Building Code. Such wind
turbine shall be shut off immediately upon notification of the building
official to the owner of the property and shall remain off until the building
official has verified the structure has been repaired and is no longer unsafe
or defective. The County shall have the authority to pursue legal action if
necessary.
   N.   Solid waste disposal facilities and wastewater treatment facilities.
   O.   Veterinary clinics with associated boarding facilities. (Ord. 392, 8-
16-2021)
9-3B-5: SIZE AND SETBACK REQUIREMENTS:
Minimum eligible parcel size is one acre. All accessory structures shall be a
minimum of ten feet (10') from any property line. All other structures shall be
a minimum of thirty-five feet (35') from any property line not abutting a
public right-of-way. All structures shall be a minimum of twenty feet (20')
from the boundaries of any public right-of- way or sixty feet (60') from the
centerline of any road placed within the boundaries of a public right-of-way,
whichever is greater. When the setback distance is disputed, the Planning
Department may require the property owner to have the property line established
by a professional surveyor licensed in the State of Idaho. A detached accessory
building can be built to the side or rear lot lines, provided a written mutual
agreement of the abutting property owners on the property lines affected be
recorded in the Latah County Recorder's Office. Fences, bridges, retaining
walls, roads, driveways, in ground scales, poles, signs, access ramps, and
mailboxes (respecting rights-of-way and easements) are exempt from setback
requirements. (Ord. 392, 8-16-2021)
9-3B-6: SIGN RESTRICTIONS:
No sign shall exceed thirty-two (32) square feet in display area and no sign
for commercial purposes shall be allowed unless it pertains only to a permitted
use engaged on the property. No sign or item used to post a sign may impair the
sight of drivers traveling on public roads. No sign greater than two (2) square
feet shall be lighted and such lighting shall be directed onto the sign, shall
be of a full cut-off fixture, and shall not impair the sight of drivers. Signs
installed by the Idaho Transportation Department, local highway district, or
other governmental agency for purposes of directing the safe and convenient
flow of traffic are exempt from these restrictions. (Ord. 392, 8-16-2021)
ARTICLE C. SUBURBAN RESIDENTIAL ZONE
SECTION:
9-3C-1: Purposes And Goals
9-3C-2: Permitted Uses
9-3C-3: Permitted Uses Requiring Administrative Zoning Permit
9-3C-4: Conditional Uses
9-3C-5: Size And Setback Requirements
9-3C-6: Sign Restrictions
9-3C-1: PURPOSES AND GOALS:
The Suburban Residential Zone is shown on the "Official Zoning Map of Latah
County". This zone is established to achieve the purposes of this title and the
goals and policies of the Latah County Comprehensive Plan by providing
opportunities for residential development in areas appropriate for higher
density single-family housing. Uses allowed in this zone include residential
subdivisions, limited service and commercial activity, and uses which will not
conflict with a suburban residential neighborhood. (Ord. 392, 8-16-2021)
9-3C-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following uses are permitted in this zone as a right of property ownership:
   A.   Accessory buildings and uses required to conduct, and normally
associated with, the uses permitted in this zone.
   B.   Duplexes or single family homes converted into two (2) or more separate
dwelling units or dwelling units with four (4) or fewer rooms for rent so long
as setbacks can be met without a variance.
   C.   Home occupations, as provided by section
9-4C-2 of this title.
   D.   Multi-family apartment buildings no more than three (3) stories high on
each eligible parcel at a density of one dwelling unit per acre if on private
water and septic or one dwelling unit per five thousand (5,000) square feet if
approval is given by a district or municipality to connect to water and sewer,
so long as setbacks can be met without a variance.
   E.   One single family dwelling for each eligible parcel; plus one
additional single family dwelling per additional acre if on private water and
septic or one additional single family dwelling per additional five thousand
(5,000) square feet if approval is given by a district or municipality to
connect to water and sewer, so long as setbacks can be met without a variance.
   F.   Subdivisions and manufactured home parks as regulated by this title.
(Ord. 392, 8-16-2021)
9-3C-3: PERMITTED USES REQUIRING ADMINISTRATIVE ZONING PERMIT:
The following uses require an "administrative zoning permit" prior to being
allowed. All such uses shall conform to the conditions set by this title and
set in the permit. The application must be approved and inspection(s) shall be
conducted to ensure any use listed conforms to the conditions of the permit
prior to the use being enacted.
   A.   Public parks subject to the following requirements:
      1.   Daytime hours of operation only five o'clock (5:00) A.M. to ten
o'clock (10:00) P.M.
      2.   The applicant must submit a site plan showing locations of
playgrounds, bathrooms, paths, parking, campground areas, picnic shelters,
events areas.
      3.   The applicant must submit a playground safety plan if a playground
is proposed.
      4.   If any of the following are proposed, the applicant must submit a
facilities plan that includes bathrooms (or porta potties), sewage system
location and approval, and the well site and water distribution system
(including fountains).
      5.   The applicant must submit a parking plan that shows adequate off-
street parking.
      6.   The applicant must submit a plan for lighting. Lighting must not
interfere with neighboring properties, must be full cut off fixtures, and, when
feasible, be shut off at night.
      7.   All structures, including signs and fences, are subject to building
permit requirements.
      8.   Structures, parking, and other features of the park may be subject
to the accessibility requirements of the Building Code.
      9.   Any public parks that have overnight accommodations, want to operate
outside of the prescribed hours of operation, that rent space for events, or
that charge for admissions require a conditional use permit.
   B.   Water treatment facilities subject to the following requirements:
      1.   Submittal of approval from the agency in charge of approval of the
facility.
      2.   Submittal of a plan for chemical storage and handling.
      3.   If in a designated special flood hazard area, the facility must meet
all of the requirements of chapter 9-5A of this title that are applicable,
including subsection
9-5A-4H of this title.
      4.   Submittal of a map of power, gas and other utility plans for the
facility.
      5.   Building permits for all structures as prescribed by code.
      6.   If a facility for workers is proposed, plans for that structure must
be submitted.
      7.   Submittal of plan for lighting if any lighting is proposed. All
lighting must be directed away from neighboring residences and must be full cut
off fixtures.
      8.   Submittal of plan for fencing and buffering. Fencing may be required
to ensure that the public's safety is not compromised.
      9.   Submittal of a plan for parking. (Ord. 392, 8-16-2021)
9-3C-4: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following uses may be permitted by the Zoning Commission upon the issuance
of a conditional use permit as provided by chapter 9-7A of this title:
   A.   A single building office or professional clinic with less than two
thousand (2,000) square feet.
   B.   Cemeteries, churches, museums, and schools.
   C.   Child day care facilities.
   D.   Golf courses, recreational fields, meeting halls, recreational vehicle
parks (subject, at a minimum, to the requirements set forth in subsection
9-3D-3B of this chapter, and subsection
9-3D-3C7 of this chapter), and public parks that have overnight accommodations,
that have hours of operation outside of the prescribed hours of operation, that
rent space for events, or that charge for admissions. Public parks are subject
to subsections
9-3C-3A2 through
9-3C-3A9 of this article as well as any other conditions as set in an approved
conditional use permit.
   E.   Public buildings and utility structures and uses.
   F.   Retail stores with less than two thousand (2,000) square feet of
inventory display space.
   G.   Single Residential Wind Turbine:
      1.   The applicant shall place the wind turbine in a location that will
have the least negative effect upon neighboring properties.
      2.   A maximum of one per each residence. Each wind turbine and any
repairs require a building permit.
      3.   The proposed wind turbine shall be set back a minimum of one hundred
fifty percent (150%) the height of the wind turbine from any public road,
public right-of-way, or property line. The proposed wind turbine shall be set
back a minimum of three hundred percent (300%) the height of the wind turbine
from any residential, public or commercial structure. The Zoning Commission may
waive such setbacks if it deems such to be appropriate and if the following
criteria are met:
         a.   The applicant must file with the Planning Department a signed
notarized form, approved by the Planning Department, from all owners of record
of all such property and structures consenting to the location of the wind
turbine;
         b.   Each form shall be recorded in the Latah County Recorder's Office
prior to submission to the Planning Department; and
         c.   For property line waivers, the form(s) shall be accompanied by a
current legal survey of the property line(s) relevant to the setback.
Setbacks from any public road or public right-of-way shall not be waived.
      4.   Residential wind turbines shall not be lit.
      5.   Wind turbines shall not be operated from five thirty o'clock (5:30)
P.M. to ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. Monday through Friday. Wind turbines shall not
be operated from seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. to ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. on
Saturday and Sunday.
      6.   Wind turbines shall be no higher than fifty feet (50') high unless
otherwise authorized by the Zoning Commission.
      7.   Wind turbines shall have a blade size no larger than four feet (4').
      8.   Wind turbines shall be designed and installed to have an automatic
and a manually powered shutoff that is available at ground level in the event
the wind turbine becomes defective or there is a high wind event.
      9.   Any wind turbine found by the building official to be unsafe,
abandoned, or defective shall be repaired by the landowner to meet Federal,
State and local safety standards and the Latah County Building Code. Such wind
turbine shall be shut off immediately upon notification of the building
official to the owner of the property and shall remain off until the building
official has verified the structure has been repaired and is no longer unsafe
or defective. The County shall have the authority to pursue legal action if
necessary.
   H.   Veterinary clinics with associated boarding facilities.
   I.   Wastewater treatment facilities. (Ord. 392, 8-16-2021)
9-3C-5: SIZE AND SETBACK REQUIREMENTS:
Minimum eligible parcel size is twelve thousand (12,000) square feet. When a
public water system and a public sewer system are provided, the minimum
eligible parcel size is nine thousand six hundred (9,600) square feet. Each
eligible parcel shall have at least seventy feet (70') of continuous frontage
on a dedicated public right-of-way. All structures shall be a minimum of ten
feet (10') from any property line and shall be a minimum of ten feet (10') from
the boundaries of any public right-of-way or sixty feet (60') from the center
line of any road placed within the boundaries of a public right-of-way,
whichever is greater. When the setback distance is disputed, the Planning
Department may require the property owner to have the property line established
by a professional surveyor licensed in the State of Idaho. Fences, bridges,
retaining walls, roads, driveways, in ground scales, poles, signs, access
ramps, and mailboxes (respecting rights-of-way and easements) are exempt from
setback requirements. (Ord. 392, 8-16-2021)
9-3C-6: SIGN RESTRICTIONS:
No sign shall exceed ten (10) square feet in display area and no sign for
commercial purposes shall be allowed unless it pertains only to a permitted use
engaged on the property. No sign or item used to post a sign may impair the
sight of drivers traveling on public roads. No sign greater than two (2) square
feet shall be lighted and such lighting shall be directed onto the sign, shall
be of a full cut-off fixture, and shall not impair the sight of drivers. Signs
installed by the Idaho Transportation Department, local highway district, or
other governmental agency for purposes of directing the safe and convenient
flow of traffic are exempt from these restrictions. (Ord. 392, 8-16-2021)
ARTICLE D. COMMERCIAL ZONE
SECTION:
9-3D-1: Purposes And Goals
9-3D-2: Permitted Uses
9-3D-3: Permitted Uses Requiring Administrative Zoning Permit
9-3D-4: Conditional Uses
9-3D-5: Size And Setback Requirements
9-3D-6: Sign Restrictions
9-3D-1: PURPOSES AND GOALS:
The Commercial Zone is shown on the "Official Zoning Map of Latah County". This
zone is established to achieve the purposes of this title and the goals and
policies of the Latah County Comprehensive Plan by providing opportunities for
commercial development in areas appropriate for business activity. Uses allowed
in this zone include service, retail, professional offices and other commercial
activity, limited residential, and uses which will not conflict with other
commercial operations. (Ord. 392, 8-16-2021)
9-3D-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following uses are permitted in this zone as a right of property ownership:
   A.   Accessory buildings and uses required to conduct, and normally
associated with, the uses permitted in this zone.
   B.   Home occupations, as provided by section
9-4C-2 of this title.
   C.   Subdivisions as regulated in chapters 9-8 and 9-9 of this title
(residential development requires a conditional use permit as specified by
subsection
9-3D-4D of this article). (Ord. 392, 8-16-2021)
9-3D-3: PERMITTED USES REQUIRING ADMINISTRATIVE ZONING PERMIT:
   A.   The following uses require an "administrative zoning permit" prior to
being allowed. All such uses shall conform to the conditions set by this title
and set in the permit. The application must be approved and inspection(s) shall
be conducted to ensure any use listed conforms to the conditions of the permit
prior to the use being enacted.
   B.   In addition to the requirements listed below, all of the following uses
must submit the following documents/information as part of their permit
application when applicable (applicability is determined as having the item or
needing the item because of other items on the parcel):
      1.   Building permit.
      2.   Fire protection.
      3.   Hours of operation.
      4.   Landscaping for shading and buffering.
      5.   Lighting (lighting must be a full cutoff fixture and shall be
directed away from existing residences).
      6.   Outdoor storage.
      7.   Parking including spaces, accessibility, approach points.
      8.   Sewer system (the applicant shall provide approval from the Health
Department for any new septic system, any connection or modification to an
existing septic system, and approval from any city or sewer district showing an
approved connection for the proposed use).
      9.   Stormwater runoff.
      10.   Wastewater management.
      11.   Water system (public when required, water right when required; the
Planning Department shall check to ensure necessary permits have been issued
for the water source).
   C.   Uses:
      1.   Hotels and motels, recreational resorts, concert and event venues
and amusement/theme parks.
      2.   Ministorage facilities.
      3.   Mortuaries and crematoriums.
      4.   Motor vehicle, recreational vehicle, boat, motorcycle, farm
equipment and other similar sales and service facilities.
      5.   Public buildings, not including warehouses and service yards, and
museums.
      6.   Public or private off-street parking (not including sales lots) no
more than three (3) stories not to exceed thirty-nine feet (39') in height.
      7.   RV parks subject to the following requirements:
         a.   Construction plans designed by an engineer registered in the
State of Idaho are required that indicate the following. The Planning
Department can waive the requirement for engineering if the park is small
enough or environmental conditions do not pose any problems for the site.
            (1)   Location of all existing and proposed structures within the
development.
            (2)   Location and precise nature of landscaping and its contents
and a statement regarding the proposed maintenance program.
            (3)   Location of lots or spaces subject to the following
requirements:
               (A)   Minimum space size shall be forty feet by twenty feet (40'
x 20'); however, up to forty percent (40%) of the spaces may be a minimum of
twenty-five feet by twenty feet (25' x 20').
               (B)   Design of spaces shall be such that minimum space between
recreational vehicles is ten feet (10').
            (4)   Location of toilet facilities. Toilet facilities and potable
water shall be provided in all parks that allow recreational vehicles which are
not self-contained.
            (5)   Location of solid waste receptacles. Solid waste receptacles
shall be provided and shall be located no farther than one hundred fifty feet
(150') away from any recreational vehicle or campground space.
            (6)   Alignment and grade for any storm sewer and streets.
            (7)   Space numbering.
            (8)   Location and specific nature of open areas and playground
equipment, if any.
      8.   Retail businesses, restaurants and drinking establishments, catering
facilities, enclosed entertainment facilities, clubs, public or private
clinics, offices, banks, repair shops, other retail or service uses not listed
and not including manufacturing and other service related businesses and
activities.
      9.   Small scale manufacturing conducted in a fully enclosed structure
that is no larger than five thousand (5,000) square feet.
      10.   Unlit communication towers and transmission facilities lower than
fifty feet (50') high subject to the following requirements:
         a.   Towers are subject to chapter 9-4A of this title, changing
"conditional use permit" to "administrative zoning permit" and changing "Zoning
Commission" to "Planning Department".
         b.   Towers shall not be lit.
         c.   Towers shall not be higher than fifty feet (50') high.
      11.   Veterinary clinics with associated boarding facilities.
      12.   Warehouses and service yards.
      13.   Water treatment facilities subject to the following requirements:
         a.   Submittal of approval from the agency in charge of approval of
the facility.
         b.   Submittal of a plan for chemical storage and handling.
         c.   If in a designated special flood hazard area, the facility must
meet all of the requirements of chapter 9-5A of this title that are applicable,
including subsection 9-5A-4H of this title.
         d.   Submittal of a map of power, gas and other utility plans for the
facility.
         e.   Building permits for all structures as prescribed by code.
         f.   If a facility for workers is proposed, plans for that structure
must be submitted.
         g.   Submittal of plan for fencing and buffering. Fencing may be
required to ensure that the public's safety is not compromised. (Ord. 392, 8-
16-2021)
9-3D-4: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following uses may be permitted by the Zoning Commission upon the issuance
of a conditional use permit as provided by chapter 9-7A of this title. When
applicable to the use, at a minimum, the following uses must meet the
requirements set forth in subsection
9-3D-3B of this article:
   A.   Churches and schools.
   B.   Dams and power plants, and other utility structures and uses.
   C.   Manufacturing conducted in a fully enclosed structure that is larger
than five thousand (5,000) square feet but smaller than ten thousand (10,000)
square feet.
   D.   Single- and multi-family residential dwellings.
   E.   Wastewater treatment facilities subject to, at a minimum, the
requirements set forth in wastewater treatment facility in section
9-3A-4 of this chapter.
   F.   Wind Turbines:
      1.   The following documents must be attached and submitted along with
the application:
         a.   A survey of the parcel of land on which the proposed wind turbine
(s) is to be located. This survey shall include all real property described on
the deed of conveyance most recently recorded for that parcel that complies
with this title.
         b.   A detailed drawing of each wind turbine with the height and
location specified.
         c.   If monopole towers are to be used, information on noise reduction
methods that will be used to reduce the noise.
         d.   The amount of energy to be produced by each wind turbine.
         e.   Documents demonstrating to the satisfaction of the Zoning
Commission that the necessary easements have been obtained, as well as plans
showing how vehicle access will be provided.
         f.   If any proposed wind turbine is less than two thousand feet
(2,000') from any residence or commercial or public building, and/or less than
three hundred percent (300%) the height of the wind turbine to any property
line, the applicant shall submit a signed notarized form, approved by the
Planning Department, from all owners of record of such residential, commercial,
or public structures and all owners of record of such property consenting to
the location of the wind turbine. Each form shall be recorded in the Latah
County Recorder's Office prior to submission to the Planning Department.
Setbacks from any public road or public right-of-way shall not be waived.
         g.   All property owners of record located within two thousand feet
(2,000') of any proposed wind turbine, as well as all adjacent property owners,
shall be notified by regular mail at the last address listed in the Latah
County Assessor's Office records by the Planning Department fifteen (15) days
prior to the hearing.
      2.   Each wind turbine and any repairs require a building permit.
      3.   The following are required conditions for any wind turbine and for
the approval of the construction of such and shall appear in any CUP approved
for such use. These in no way limit the Zoning Commission from setting
additional conditions to ensure that the wind turbine(s) is (are) in compliance
with the criteria.
         a.   Any proposed wind turbine shall be set back a minimum of three
hundred percent (300%) the height of the wind turbine from any public road,
public right-of-way, property line, residential, public, or commercial
structure. At a minimum, the wind turbine shall be at least one thousand feet
(1,000') away from any residential, public, or commercial structures. The
Zoning Commission may waive such setbacks if it deems such to be appropriate.
To request to waive such setbacks, the applicant must file with the Planning
Department a signed notarized form, approved by the Planning Department, from
all owners of record of all such property or structures consenting to the
location of the wind turbine. For property line waivers, this form shall be
accompanied by a current survey approved by the Latah County Surveyor of the
property line relevant to the setback. This form shall be recorded in the Latah
County Recorder's Office by the Planning Department. Setbacks from any public
road or public right-of-way shall not be waived.
         b.   Vibrations shall not be produced that will be humanly perceptible
beyond the property boundary.
         c.   If equipment enclosures will be located on the ground, a six foot
(6') to seven foot (7') high fence of wood, masonry or privacy slats completely
surrounding the equipment enclosure is required to secure and screen the
equipment and structure.
         d.   A warning sign no larger than three (3) square feet and no
smaller than two (2) square feet must be placed on the fencing access/gate. It
must contain the name of the owner and operator of the facility, and a phone
number for cases of emergency as well as any other information required by law.
         e.   Any wind turbine/structure shall be finished in a nonreflective
neutral color or as otherwise specified by the Zoning Commission.
         f.   No ladder rungs or climbing pegs on any wind turbine shall be
allowed within twenty feet (20') of the ground.
         g.   The maximum wind turbine lighting is a low intensity red light as
defined by the Federal Aviation Administration. No wind turbine shall be higher
than can accommodate a low intensity red light.
         h.   Wind turbines and all accompanying equipment enclosures or
ancillary facilities shall be camouflaged to fit into their immediate
surroundings at the discretion of the Zoning Commission.
         i.   Compliance at all times with any applicable laws or regulations
including this title and the Latah County Building Code ordinance.
         j.   All wind turbines must have an approval by the Idaho Department
of Fish and Game (IDFG), based on a determination of the impact the proposed
wind turbine will have on local and migratory birds. If the IDFG does not
provide a written response to the Planning Department within forty-five (45)
days of the IDFG receipt of the request for review, then IDFG approval of the
site will be assumed by the Planning Department.
         k.   Wind turbines shall be designed and installed to have an
automatic and a manually powered shut off that is available at ground level in
the event the wind turbine becomes defective, makes noise, or there is a high
wind event.
         l.   Building permits are required for each wind turbine and
associated structure and any replacements or repairs.
         m.   When applicable, all new wind energy conversion systems shall
comply with Sections 21-515, 21-51SA and 21-515B, Idaho Code.
      4.   In addition to the conditional use permit criteria set out in
chapter 9-7A of this title, the Zoning Commission shall take the following
considerations into account when deciding whether to grant a conditional use
permit for wind turbine:
         a.   Whether the height, design, and any proposed future modification
of the wind turbine will reduce or eliminate visual obtrusiveness to the
greatest extent feasible and practical;
         b.   Whether it has been demonstrated the wind turbine will have a
negative impact on nearby property;
         c.   Whether the existing land use of the proposed site is unique to
that land; and
         d.   Whether any aspect of the wind energy operation may pose an
unreasonable nuisance at the proposed site, including, but not limited to,
lighting and noise.
      5.   Removal or repair of defective wind turbine. Any wind turbine found
by the building official to be unsafe, abandoned, defective or causing an undue
amount of noise heard on any nearby property shall be repaired by the landowner
to meet Federal, State and local safety standards, the Latah County Building
Code, and to not create nuisance noise. Such wind turbine shall be shut off
immediately upon notification of the building official to the owner of the
property and shall remain off until the building official has verified the
structure has been repaired and is no longer unsafe, defective, or a nuisance.
If the wind turbine is not legally repaired within one hundred twenty (120)
days, it will be considered to be abandoned. At the end of the one hundred
twenty (120) days, the owner shall immediately take down the wind turbine. If
the owner does not immediately take down the wind turbine, legal proceedings as
set forth in subsection F6 of this section, shall commence to ensure the wind
turbine is taken down.
      6.   Abandoned Wind Turbine:
         a.   In addition to the provisions set forth in subsection F5 of this
section, any wind turbine that has been turned off or is not working for a
period of one hundred twenty (120) days shall be considered abandoned. The wind
turbine owner or landowner thereof shall take down any such wind turbine(s) and
any accompanying equipment enclosure within sixty (60) days.
         b.   The Planning Department, upon determining that wind turbine has
been abandoned, shall serve notice by certified mail of its determination of
abandonment upon the owner of the system and to the landowner, to the address
on file with the Latah County Assessor's Office. The notice shall contain the
reasons why the wind turbine has been deemed abandoned, the owner's obligation
to remove the wind turbine pursuant to this section, and the owner's right to
appeal the determination of abandonment.
         c.   The wind turbine owner or landowner may, during the sixty (60)
days, apply, and for good cause shown, have granted, an extension of time on
such terms as the Planning Department shall determine.
         d.   If such structure and equipment enclosure are not so removed
within said sixty (60) days or any extension thereof, then the County has the
right without further notice to enter upon the land and remove and abate such
structures at the expense of the wind turbine owner or landowner by any remedy
available at law or in equity. In the event Latah County exercises its right
hereunder, any and all salvage rights shall inure to, and become property of,
Latah County at the County's sole option.
         e.   The Planning Department's determination of abandonment may be
appealed pursuant to subsection
9-1-11 of this title. (Ord. 392, 8-16-2021; amd. Ord. 407, 6-24-2025)
9-3D-5: SIZE AND SETBACK REQUIREMENTS:
Minimum eligible parcel size is twelve thousand (12,000) square feet. All
structures shall be a minimum of ten feet (10') from any property line not
zoned Commercial and a minimum of ten feet (10') from any public right-of-way.
When the setback distance is disputed, the Planning Department may require the
property owner to have the property line established by a professional surveyor
licensed in the State of Idaho. If a building is built within three feet (3')
of the property line, it must meet the opening protection and fire resistance
ratings of the adopted Building Code. If a building is built within six feet
(6') of another building, both buildings must meet the most current opening
protection and fire resistance ratings of the adopted Building Code. Fences,
bridges, retaining walls, roads, driveways, in ground scales, poles, signs,
access ramps, and mailboxes (respecting rights-of-way and easements) are exempt
from setback requirements. (Ord. 392, 8-16-2021)
9-3D-6: SIGN RESTRICTIONS:
No sign shall exceed one hundred (100) square feet in display area or impair
the sight of drivers traveling on public roads. Signs may be lighted, but not
blinking, flashing, or moving. Signs installed by the Idaho Transportation
Department, local highway district, or other government jurisdiction for
purposes of directing the safe and convenient flow of traffic are exempt from
these restrictions. (Ord. 392, 8-16-2021)
ARTICLE E. INDUSTRIAL ZONE
SECTION:
9-3E-1: Purposes And Goals
9-3E-2: Permitted Uses
9-3E-3: Permitted Uses Requiring Administrative Zoning Permit
9-3E-4: Conditional Uses
9-3E-5: Size And Setback Requirements
9-3E-6: Sign Restrictions
9-3E-1: PURPOSES AND GOALS:
The Industrial Zone is shown on the "Official Zoning Map of Latah County". This
zone is established to achieve the purposes of this title and the goals and
policies of the Latah County Comprehensive Plan by providing opportunities for
industrial development in areas appropriate for manufacturing activity. Uses
allowed in this zone include manufacturing and processing facilities, and uses
which will not conflict with other commercial manufacturing operations. All
uses in this zoning designation are subject to the requirements set forth in
section
9-9-4 of this title. (Ord. 392, 8-16-2021)
9-3E-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following uses are permitted in this zone as a right of property ownership:
   A.   Accessory buildings and uses required to conduct, and normally
associated with, the uses permitted in this zone and accessory retail/wholesale
sales for the products manufactured on site.
   B.   Agricultural or forestry related commercial or industrial business
uses. All natural mineral resource developments that are related to or used for
agriculture or forestry uses shall be subject to subsection
9-3E-4G of this article.
   C.   Agronomy and all uses normally associated with raising, harvesting, and
selling of crops, including trees and other plants.
   D.   Forestry and all uses normally associated with raising, harvesting, and
selling of timber and other forest products.
   E.   Manufacturing with all phases.
   F.   Service yards and stations.
   G.   Warehousing and storage. (Ord. 392, 8-16-2021)
9-3E-3: PERMITTED USES REQUIRING ADMINISTRATIVE ZONING PERMIT:
The following uses require an "administrative zoning permit" prior to being
allowed. All such uses shall conform to the conditions set by this title and
set in the permit. The application must be approved and inspection(s) shall be
conducted to ensure any use listed conforms to the conditions of the permit
prior to the use being enacted.
   A.   Caretaker Housing: The intent of this use is to enable the placement of
one accessory housing unit, for use as a caretaker residence for industrial
uses, provided that such accessory housing is not rented or occupied for gain.
At a minimum, the accessory housing unit shall have the following conditions
placed upon it:
      1.   Any new structure must meet all other zoning requirements, the owner
of such property must obtain a valid building permit prior to any construction,
the building must pass all inspections, and the building must receive a
certificate of occupancy. Park model RVs and other recreational vehicles can be
used as a caretaker residence if it is not the primary residence of the
caretaker.
      2.   Any existing structure must be brought into compliance with all
current zoning requirements, Building Codes, and occupancy ratings for a
residence, the owner of such property must obtain a valid building permit prior
to making any changes or commencing construction, the building must pass all
inspections, and the building must receive a certificate of occupancy.
      3.   When appropriate, septic system and domestic water supply for
accessory cottage housing shall be inspected and approved by the North Central
District Health Department.
      4.   The square footage for caretaker housing shall be the minimum
allowed by the Building Code and a maximum of nine hundred (900) square feet.
      5.   The maximum separation between the principal structure and the
accessory caretaker housing shall be one hundred feet (100') unless it is
physically impractical to do so, in which case it must be located as close as
is physically practical to the principal structure.
      6.   A deed restriction shall be recorded prior to issuance of a building
permit indicating that the accessory caretaker housing is not to be a leasehold
interest or be rented. This restriction shall also state that this accessory
housing unit shall forevermore be tied to the principal building and shall not
be separated or put on its own parcel for sale or any other purpose.
   B.   Retail of product being made on-site and accessory items that are
related to the on-site product sales subject, at a minimum, to the requirements
set forth in subsection
9-3D-3B of this chapter.
      1.   Off-street parking for customers must be provided in addition to
employee parking.
      2.   Retail activities shall be separated from industrial activities to
protect the public.
      3.   Retail activities shall be limited to the hours of seven o'clock (7:
00) A.M. to eight o'clock (8:00) P.M.
      4.   Submittal of a plan for lighting. No exterior lights for the retail
establishment shall be kept on past eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. and shall not be
turned on until seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. Interior lighting kept on overnight
shall not be a nuisance to neighbors.
      5.   If outside, noise shall be kept to a minimum.
   C.   Unlit communication towers and transmission facilities lower than fifty
feet (50') high subject to the following requirements:
      1.   Towers are subject to chapter 9-4A of this title, changing
"conditional use permit" to "administrative zoning permit" and changing "Zoning
Commission" to "Planning Department".
      2.   Towers shall not be lit.
      3.   Towers shall not be higher than fifty feet (50') high.
   D.   Utility structures and uses, not including dams, power plants, or very
similar structures.
      1.   Submittal of approval from the agency in charge of approval of the
facility.
      2.   Submittal of a plan for chemical storage and handling.
      3.   If in a special flood hazard area, the facility must meet all of the
requirements of chapter 9-5A of this title that are applicable, including
subsection 9-5A-4H of this title.
      4.   Submittal of a map of power, gas and other utility plans for the
facility.
      5.   Building permits must be obtained for any structures as prescribed
by code.
      6.   If a facility for workers is proposed, plans for that structure must
be submitted.
      7.   When applicable, the facility must have an odor control plan.
      8.   Landscape buffers shall be provided for utility structures that are
a visual nuisance. Fencing shall be provided for utility structures that are a
hazard to public health. A plan shall be submitted, and once approved, the
landscaping and fencing shall be installed prior to occupancy.
      9.   Submittal of a stormwater drainage plan.
      10.   Submittal of plan for lighting if any lighting is proposed. All
lighting must be directed away from neighboring residences and must be full cut
off fixtures.
      11.   Submittal of a plan for parking.
   E.   Wastewater Treatment Facility:
      1.   Submittal of approval from the State agency in charge of approval of
the facility.
      2.   Submittal of a plan for chemical storage and handling.
      3.   If in a special flood hazard area, the facility must meet all of the
requirements of chapter 9-5A of this title that are applicable, including
subsection
9-5A-4H of this title.
      4.   Submittal of a map of power, gas and other utility plans for the
facility.
      5.   Building permits must be obtained for any structures as prescribed
by code.
      6.   If a facility for workers is proposed, plans for that structure must
be submitted.
      7.   Must submit an odor control plan.
      8.   Must submit plans for a landscape buffer around the facility and
after approval, install the landscaping. The buffer should adequately shield
any nearby uses that involve people from the facility.
      9.   Must submit a stormwater drainage plan for the wastewater treatment
facilities.
      10.   Must submit a plan for any locations for any composting areas.
Composting areas shall have a landscape buffer that shall meet the requirements
of subsection E8 of this use.
      11.   Submittal of plan for lighting if any lighting is proposed. All
lighting must be directed away from neighboring residences and must be full cut
off fixtures.
      12.   Submittal of plan for fencing. All wastewater treatment plants that
have open sources of water or sewage shall have a protective fence ensuring the
safety of the public.
      13.   Submittal of a plan for parking. All parking lots must be
constructed prior to occupancy.
   F.   Water treatment facilities subject to the following requirements:
      1.   Submittal of approval from the agency in charge of approval of the
facility.
      2.   Submittal of a plan for chemical storage and handling.
      3.   If in a designated special flood hazard area, the facility must meet
all of the requirements of chapter 9-5A of this title that are applicable,
including subsection
9-5A-4H of this title.
      4.   Submittal of a map of power, gas and other utility plans for the
facility.
      5.   Building permits for all structures as prescribed by code.
      6.   If a facility for workers is proposed, plans for that structure must
be submitted.
      7.   Submittal of plan for lighting if any lighting is proposed. All
lighting must be directed away from neighboring residences and must be full cut
off fixtures.
      8.   Submittal of plan for fencing and buffering. Fencing may be required
to ensure that the public's safety is not compromised.
      9.   Submittal of a plan for parking. (Ord. 392, 8-16-2021)
9-3E-4: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following uses may be permitted by the Zoning Commission upon the issuance
of a conditional use permit as provided by chapter 9-7A of this title:
   A.   Agricultural or forestry processing or production facilities and
slaughterhouses with more than twenty-five (25) full time equivalent employees.
   B.   Chemical storage and manufacture.
   C.   Communication towers and transmission facilities that are lit and/or
that are over fifty feet (50') high, subject to chapter 9-4A of this title.
   D.   Dams and power plants, and other very similar utility structures.
   E.   Feedlots, animal husbandry and all of the uses normally associated with
the raising, feeding, and selling of livestock, dairies, continuous confined
animal management operations or other types of similar facilities with more
than two hundred fifty (250) animal units.
      1.   Any containment of animals must be situated at least thirty-five
feet (35') from any perennial stream shown on a USGS 7.5 minute map.
      2.   At the time of application, the applicant shall show proof that
plans and permits for water, nutrient management, and odor management will be
approved by the relevant regulatory or permitting agency such as the Idaho
Department of Water Resources, the Idaho Department of Agriculture, and/or the
Idaho Department of Environmental Quality, and shall name the agency and
contact person, or the applicant shall show proof that no such permit is
required. Copies of these permit approvals must be provided to the Planning
Department prior to any commencement of activities on the permitted property.
The Board of Latah County Commissioners may request a review as per Idaho Code
section 67-6529E, the results of which shall be in the possession of the County
prior to the public hearing being held.
      3.   Anyone, regardless of their property's distance from the site of the
permit or regardless of whether they own property, may testify at the required
public hearings.
   F.   Landing strips, heliports, and airports.
   G.   Mineral resource developments subject to chapter 9-4B of this title.
   H.   Other retail.
   I.   Salvage yards, wrecking yards, and junkyards.
   J.   Solid waste disposal facilities.
   K.   Wind Turbine:
      1.   The following documents must be attached and submitted along with
the application:
         a.   A survey of the parcel of land on which the proposed wind turbine
(s) is to be located. This survey shall include all real property described on
the deed of conveyance most recently recorded for that parcel that complies
with this title.
         b.   A detailed drawing of each wind turbine with the height and
location specified.
         c.   If monopole towers are to be used, information on noise reduction
methods that will be used to reduce the noise.
         d.   The amount of energy to be produced by each wind turbine.
         e.   Documents demonstrating to the satisfaction of the Zoning
Commission that the necessary easements have been obtained, as well as plans
showing how vehicle access will be provided.
         f.   If any proposed wind turbine is less than two thousand feet
(2,000') from any residence or commercial or public building, and/or less than
three hundred percent (300%) the height of the wind turbine to any property
line, the applicant shall submit a signed notarized form, approved by the
Planning Department, from all owners of record of such residential, commercial,
or public structures and all owners of record of such property consenting to
the location of the wind turbine. Each form shall be recorded in the Latah
County Recorder's Office prior to submission to the Planning Department.
Setbacks from any public road or public right-of-way shall not be waived.
         g.   All property owners of record located within two thousand feet
(2,000') of any proposed wind turbine, as well as all adjacent property owners,
shall be notified by regular mail at the last address listed in the Latah
County Assessor's Office records by the Planning Department fifteen (15) days
prior to the hearing.
      2.   Each wind turbine and any repairs require a building permit.
      3.   The following are required conditions for any wind turbine and for
the approval of the construction of such and shall appear in any CUP approved
for such use. These in no way limit the Zoning Commission from setting
additional conditions to ensure that the wind turbine(s) is (are) in compliance
with the criteria.
         a.   Any proposed wind turbine shall be set back a minimum of three
hundred percent (300%) the height of the wind turbine from any public road,
public right-of-way, property line, residential, public, or commercial
structure. At a minimum, the wind turbine shall be at least one thousand feet
(1,000') away from any residential, public, or commercial structures. The
Zoning Commission may waive such setbacks if it deems such to be appropriate.
To request to waive such setbacks, the applicant must file with the Planning
Department a signed notarized form, approved by the Planning Department, from
all owners of record of all such property or structures consenting to the
location of the wind turbine. For property line waivers, this form shall be
accompanied by a current survey approved by the Latah County Surveyor of the
property line relevant to the setback. This form shall be recorded in the Latah
County Recorder's Office by the Planning Department. Setbacks from any public
road or public right-of-way shall not be waived.
         b.   Vibrations shall not be produced that will be humanly perceptible
beyond the property boundary.
         c.   If equipment enclosures will be located on the ground, a six foot
(6') to seven foot (7') high fence of wood, masonry or privacy slats completely
surrounding the equipment enclosure is required to secure and screen the
equipment and structure.
         d.   A warning sign no larger than three (3) square feet and no
smaller than two (2) square feet must be placed on the fencing access/gate. It
must contain the name of the owner and operator of the facility, and a phone
number for cases of emergency as well as any other information required by law.
         e.   Any wind turbine/structure shall be finished in a nonreflective
neutral color or as otherwise specified by the Zoning Commission.
         f.   No ladder rungs or climbing pegs on any wind turbine shall be
allowed within twenty feet (20') of the ground.
         g.   The maximum wind turbine lighting is a low intensity red light as
defined by the Federal Aviation Administration. No wind turbine shall be higher
than can accommodate a low intensity red light.
         h.   Wind turbines and all accompanying equipment enclosures or
ancillary facilities shall be camouflaged to fit into their immediate
surroundings at the discretion of the Zoning Commission.
         i.   Compliance at all times with any applicable laws or regulations
including this title and the Latah County Building Code ordinance.
         j.   All wind turbines must have an approval by the Idaho Department
of Fish and Game (IDFG), based on a determination of the impact the proposed
wind turbine will have on local and migratory birds. If the IDFG does not
provide a written response to the Planning Department within forty-five (45)
days of the IDFG receipt of the request for review, then IDFG approval of the
site will be assumed by the Planning Department.
         k.   Wind turbines shall be designed and installed to have an
automatic and a manually powered shut off that is available at ground level in
the event the wind turbine becomes defective, makes noise, or there is a high
wind event.
         l.   Building permits are required for each wind turbine and
associated structure and any replacements or repairs.
         m.   When applicable, all new wind energy conversion systems shall
comply with Sections 21-515, 21-51 SA and 21-51 SB, Idaho Code.
      4.   In addition to the conditional use permit criteria set out in
chapter 9-7A of this title, the Zoning Commission shall take the following
considerations into account when deciding whether to grant a conditional use
permit for wind turbine:
         a.   Whether the height, design, and any proposed future modification
of the wind turbine, will reduce or eliminate visual obtrusiveness to the
greatest extent feasible and practical;
         b.   Whether it has been demonstrated the wind turbine will have a
negative impact on nearby property;
         c.   Whether the existing land use of the proposed site is unique to
that land; and
         d.   Whether any aspect of the wind energy operation may pose an
unreasonable nuisance at the proposed site, including, but not limited to,
lighting and noise.
      5.   Removal or repair of defective wind turbine. Any wind turbine found
by the building official to be unsafe, abandoned, defective or causing an undue
amount of noise heard on any nearby property shall be repaired by the landowner
to meet Federal, State and local safety standards, the Latah County Building
Code, and to not create nuisance noise. Such wind turbine shall be shut off
immediately upon notification of the building official to the owner of the
property and shall remain off until the building official has verified the
structure has been repaired and is no longer unsafe, defective, or a nuisance.
If the wind turbine is not legally repaired within one hundred twenty (120)
days, it will be considered to be abandoned. At the end of the one hundred
twenty (120) days, the owner shall immediately take down the wind turbine. If
the owner does not immediately take down the wind turbine, legal proceedings as
set forth in subsection K6 of this section shall commence to ensure the wind
turbine is taken down.
      6.   Abandoned Wind Turbine:
         a.   In addition to the provisions set forth in subsection K5 of this
section, any wind turbine that has been turned off or not working for a period
of one hundred twenty (120) days shall be considered abandoned. The wind
turbine owner or landowner thereof shall take down any such wind turbine(s) and
any accompanying equipment enclosure within sixty (60) days.
         b.   The Planning Department, upon determining that wind turbine has
been abandoned, shall serve notice by certified mail of its determination of
abandonment upon the owner of the system and to the landowner, to the address
on file with the Latah County Assessor's Office. The notice shall contain the
reasons why the wind turbine has been deemed abandoned, the owner's obligation
to remove the wind turbine pursuant to this subsection, and the owner's right
to appeal the determination of abandonment.
         c.   The wind turbine owner or landowner may, during the sixty (60)
days, apply, and for good cause shown, have granted, an extension of time on
such terms as the Planning Department shall determine.
         d.   If such structure and equipment enclosure are not so removed
within said sixty (60) days or any extension thereof, then the County has the
right without further notice to enter upon the land and remove and abate such
structures at the expense of the wind turbine owner or landowner by any remedy
available at law or in equity. In the event Latah County exercises its right
hereunder, any and all salvage rights shall inure to, and become property of
Latah County at the County's sole option.
         e.   The Planning Department's determination of abandonment may be
appealed pursuant to subsection
9-1-11 of this title. (Ord. 392, 8-16-2021; amd. Ord. 407, 6-24-2025)
9-3E-5: SIZE AND SETBACK REQUIREMENTS:
Minimum eligible parcel size is one acre. All structures, exterior storage, and
exterior activities shall be a minimum of fifty feet (50') from any property
line not zoned industrial and a minimum of fifty feet (50') from any public
right-of-way. When the setback distance is disputed, the Planning Department
may require the property owner to have the property line established by a
professional surveyor licensed in the State of Idaho. If a building is built
within three feet (3') of the property line, it must meet the opening
protection and fire resistance ratings of the adopted Building Code. If a
building is built within six feet (6') of another building, both buildings must
meet the most current opening protection and fire resistance ratings of the
adopted Building Code. Fences, bridges, retaining walls, roads, driveways, in
ground scales, poles, signs, access ramps, and mailboxes (respecting rights-of-
way and easements) are exempt from setback requirements. (Ord. 392, 8-16-2021)
9-3E-6: SIGN RESTRICTIONS:
No sign shall exceed one hundred (100) square feet in display area or impair
the sight of drivers traveling on public roads. Signs may be lighted, but not
blinking, flashing, or moving. Signs installed by the Idaho Transportation
Department, local highway district, or other government jurisdiction for
purposes of directing the safe and convenient flow of traffic are exempt from
these restrictions. (Ord. 392, 8-16-2021)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL LAND USE REGULATIONS
ARTICLE A. WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION TOWER AND TRANSMISSION FACILITIES
SECTION:
9-4A-1: Purpose
9-4A-2: Definitions
9-4A-3: Duties Of Wireless Telecommunication Providers
9-4A-4: Use Of Existing Structures
9-4A-5: Verification That Use Of Existing Structures Not Possible
9-4A-6: Construction Of New Towers
9-4A-7: Factors To Be Considered By Zoning Commission
9-4A-8: Required Conditions For Towers
9-4A-9: Automatic Lien
9-4A-10: Abandonment And Removal
9-4A-11: Failure To Comply With All Conditions
9-4A-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article is to regulate the placement of wireless
telecommunication facilities in a manner consistent with the provisions of
applicable law and the Latah County Comprehensive Plan. (Ord. 392, 8-16-2021)
9-4A-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this article, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
ANTENNA:                             A device used in the sending and receiving
                                     of electromagnetic waves.
                                     The use of a single wireless
CO-LOCATION:                         telecommunication tower or other support
                                     structure by more than one wireless
                                     telecommunication service provider.
                                     A small structure, shelter, cabinet, box
                                     or vault designed for or used to house or
                                     protect the electronic equipment necessary
EQUIPMENT ENCLOSURE:                 and/or desirable for processing wireless
                                     telecommunication signals and data,
                                     including any provisions for air
                                     conditioning, ventilation, or auxiliary
                                     electricity generators.
                                     Any structure designed or used to support
SUPPORT STRUCTURES:                  wireless telecommunication transmission or
                                     reception devices, including "towers" as
                                     further defined herein.
                                     Any structure or device designed,
                                     constructed and/or erected and used to
                                     attach or otherwise affix an antenna(s)
                                     that exceeds twenty feet (20') in height
                                     from the base of the structure.
                                     Residential, commercial, agricultural, or
TOWER:                               utility buildings and utility poles shall
                                     not be considered towers; however,
                                     "towers" shall include structures or
                                     devices erected on or attached to such
                                     buildings, poles, or structures which
                                     increase the total height by more than
                                     twenty feet (20').
                                     A facility for the transmission and/or
                                     reception of radio frequency signals,
                                     usually composed of an equipment
WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITY: structure, a support structure,
                                     transmission and/or reception devices
                                     consisting of linear or parabolic or other
                                     antennas, and related equipment.
                                     Any person or entity that provides
                                     wireless telecommunication service through
WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION PROVIDER: the use of wireless telecommunication
                                     facilities, whether or not such facilities
                                     are owned by or under the control of such
                                     provider.
                                     The providing of transmittal and reception
                                     of voice, data, image, graphic, and other
                                     information by the use of wireless
                                     telecommunication facilities. This term
                                     includes any personal wireless
                                     telecommunication services as defined in
                                     the Telecommunications Act of 1996, which
WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION SERVICE:  includes FCC licensed commercial wireless
                                     telecommunication services including
                                     cellular, personal communication services
                                     (PCS), specialized mobile radio (SMR),
                                     enhanced specialized mobile radio (ESMR),
                                     paging, and similar services that
                                     currently exist or that may in the future
                                     be developed. (Ord. 392, 8-16-2021)
 
9-4A-3: DUTIES OF WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION PROVIDERS:
All wireless telecommunication providers operating or using wireless
telecommunication facilities in Latah County shall file a statement with the
Latah County Planning Department by December 31 of each year. The report shall
state whether the wireless telecommunication provider is continuing to use its
facilities and, if so, verify that it remains in compliance with all applicable
Federal/State rules and conditions set forth in any applicable conditional use
permit. This annual report shall also include the number of antennas and the
location of each antenna in Latah County, and documentation demonstrating that
the provider is licensed in good standing by the Federal Communications
Commission (FCC). Failure to comply with these duties shall be subject to the
provisions of section
9-4A-11 of this article for any uses subject to a conditional use permit issued
after February 25, 2001. (Ord. 392, 8-16-2021)
9-4A-4: USE OF EXISTING STRUCTURES:
   A.   All wireless telecommunication providers shall make reasonable attempts
to co-locate on legally existing support structures before applying for a
conditional use permit to build a tower. The installation or location of
antennas on legally existing support structures shall be considered a permitted
use in the Agricultural/Forest Zone, provided that:
      1.   The use of the equipment does not exceed radio frequency emission
(RF) standards as set by the FCC;
      2.   The installation does not exceed twenty feet (20') in height above
the existing support structure; and
      3.   The antenna(s) and/or support structure does not require additional
lighting by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), and will not be
illuminated or have any lights thereon.
   B.   Placement of transmission or reception devices on legally existing
support structures shall comply with the following:
Prior to installation or operation of the equipment, the applicant must
complete and return the application form provided by the Planning Department
along with the required application fee and the following documents:
      1.   Documents demonstrating that landowner authorization and necessary
easements have been obtained;
      2.   Plans showing how vehicle access will be provided;
      3.   Documentation demonstrating that no additional lighting is required
by the FAA; and
      4.   Map showing the area of coverage that will be provided by the
transmission of the proposed antenna(s).
   C.   Prior to use of the antenna(s):
      1.   Documentation demonstrating the provider is licensed in good
standing by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) must be provided to the
Planning Department;
      2.   If equipment enclosures will be located on the ground, a six foot
(6') to seven foot (7') high fence constructed of wood, masonry or privacy
slats shall completely surround the equipment enclosure to secure and screen
the equipment and structure; and
      3.   A warning sign no larger than three (3) square feet and no smaller
than two (2) square feet must be placed on the fence or the access/gate. It
must contain the name of the owner and operator of the facility, a phone number
for cases of emergency and any other information required by law. (Ord. 392, 8-
16-2021)
9-4A-5: VERIFICATION THAT USE OF EXISTING STRUCTURES NOT POSSIBLE:
No new tower shall be permitted unless the applicant demonstrates to the
reasonable satisfaction of the Zoning Commission that no legally existing
support structure is available or can accommodate the proposed antenna(s) based
on testimony or written verification:
   A.   By a professional engineer licensed in the State of Idaho that the
legally existing support structures located within the geographic area are not
of sufficient size or structural strength to meet applicant's reasonable
engineering requirements;
   B.   That no legally existing support structure is located within the
geographic area which meets the applicant's reasonable engineering
requirements;
   C.   That use of the legally existing structure would cause electromagnetic
interference with the existing antennas or the proposed antenna(s);
   D.   That co-locating on a legally existing support structure would violate
the RF emissions set by the FCC;
   E.   That there are other limiting factors that render legally existing
support structures unsuitable; or
   F.   That the fees, costs, or contractual provisions required by the owner
of an existing support structure are unreasonable. (Ord. 392, 8-16-2021)
9-4A-6: CONSTRUCTION OF NEW TOWERS:
   A.   A conditional use permit is required for the following:
      1.   The construction of a tower.
      2.   The installation of an antenna that would require lighting by the
FAA.
   B.   Conditional use permits for wireless telecommunication towers or
support structures are subject to the provisions of chapter 9-7A of this title
and the following standards and requirements:
      1.   All applicants must complete a conditional use permit application
for the construction of a wireless telecommunication tower as provided by
chapter 9-7A of this title. The application must be signed by all legal
landowners of the property, the applicant, and proposed tower owner.
      2.   The following documents must be attached and submitted along with
the application:
         a.   A legal description of the parcel of land on which the proposed
tower is to be located. This legal description shall include all real property
described on the deed of conveyance most recently recorded for that parcel that
complies with this title.
         b.   A detailed drawing of the tower with the height specified.
         c.   The general capacity of the tower in terms of the number and type
of antennas it is designed to accommodate.
         d.   A signed agreement with Latah County stating that the applicant
will allow co-location with other users and that any future owners or operators
will allow co-location on the tower. This agreement will be recorded in the
Latah County Recorder's Office by the Planning Department.
         e.   Documents demonstrating to the satisfaction of the Zoning
Commission that the necessary easements have been obtained, as well as plans
showing how vehicle access will be provided.
         f.   FAA form 7460-1 as well as a diagram showing the placement and
type of lighting that will be used if required by the FAA, or documentation
demonstrating that the applicant has complied with FAA requirements that no
lighting is required and verifying that none will be used.
         g.   Evidence satisfactorily demonstrating to the Zoning Commission
that use of an existing support structure is not possible pursuant to section
9-4A-5 of this article.
         h.   A map showing the area of coverage provided by the transmission
of the proposed antenna(s).
         i.   If the proposed tower is less than one thousand feet (1,000')
from any residence or commercial building, and/or less than one hundred fifty
percent (150%) the height of the tower to any property line, the applicant
shall submit a signed notarized form, approved by the Planning Department, from
all owners of record of such residential or commercial buildings and all owners
of record of such property consenting to the location of the tower. This form
shall be recorded in the Latah County Recorder's Office by the Planning
Department. Setbacks from any public road or public right-of-way shall not be
waived.
   C.   Notification shall follow the requirements of Idaho Code section 67-
6512, and all property owners of record located within one thousand feet
(1,000') of the proposed tower shall be notified by regular mail at the last
address listed in the Latah County Assessor's Office records by the Planning
Department fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing. (Ord. 392, 8-16-2021)
9-4A-7: FACTORS TO BE CONSIDERED BY ZONING COMMISSION:
In addition to the conditional use permit criteria set out in chapter 9-7A of
this title, the Zoning Commission shall take the following considerations into
account when deciding whether to grant a conditional use permit for a wireless
telecommunication tower:
   A.   Whether the wireless telecommunication provider has attempted in good
faith to co-locate or use an existing structure in the County;
   C.   Whether it has been demonstrated the tower will have a negative impact
on nearby property;
   D.   Whether the existing land use of the proposed site is unique to that
land; and
   E.   Whether any lighting required by law may pose an unreasonable nuisance
at the proposed site. (Ord. 392, 8-16-2021)
9-4A-8: REQUIRED CONDITIONS FOR TOWERS:
The following are required conditions for the approval of the construction of
towers and shall appear in any CUP approved for such use:
   A.   All towers must be built so as to allow for a total of at least three
(3) wireless telecommunication providers on the tower. The Zoning Commission
may waive this requirement if greater consistency with the Latah County
Comprehensive Plan may be achieved thereby.
   B.   All towers must be set back a minimum of one hundred fifty percent
(150%) the height of the tower from any public road, public right-of-way or
property line, and a minimum of one thousand feet (1,000') from any residence
or commercial building. If consents pursuant to subsection
9-4A-6B2i of this article are filed with the Planning Department, the Zoning
Commission may waive such setbacks. Setbacks from any public road or public
right-of-way shall not be waived.
   C.   If equipment enclosures will be located on the ground, a six foot (6')
to seven foot (7') high fence of wood, masonry or privacy slats completely
surrounding the equipment enclosure is required to secure and screen the
equipment and structure.
   D.   A warning sign no larger than three (3) square feet and no smaller than
two (2) square feet must be placed on the fencing access/gate. It must contain
the name of the owner and operator of the facility, and a phone number for
cases of emergency as well as any other information required by law.
   E.   Any tower/structure shall be finished in a nonreflective neutral color
or as otherwise specified by the Zoning Commission.
   F.   No ladder rungs or climbing pegs on towers shall be allowed within
twenty feet (20') of the ground.
   G.   No towers with guy wires are allowed.
   H.   No lighting of antennas or antenna support structures except as
required by the Federal Aviation Administration. The maximum tower lighting is
a low intensity red light as defined by the Federal Aviation Administration.
   I.   Transmission towers and all accompanying equipment enclosures or
ancillary facilities shall be camouflaged to fit into their immediate
surroundings at the discretion of the Zoning Commission.
   J.   Prior to turning on or using the antenna(s), the applicant must submit
documentation demonstrating the provider is licensed in good standing by the
Federal Communications Commission (FCC).
   K.   Compliance at all times with any applicable laws or regulations
including this title.
   L.   All applicants granted a permit under this article shall cooperate and
negotiate in good faith with other providers or tower owners in efforts to co-
locate. Such good faith shall include sharing technical information to evaluate
the feasibility of co-location. Such technical information is limited to
necessary information to evaluate the feasibility of co-location.
      1.   If a provider is denied the opportunity to co-locate by a tower
owner or operator with a conditional use permit granted under this article, the
denied party shall obtain a technical study showing whether co-location is
possible from an independent third party prior to consideration for a permit.
If the study concludes co-location may occur without impairment to the existing
operator(s), the tower owner shall be charged the expense of the study and co-
location shall be permitted at a reasonable fee.
      2.   In the event that the parties are unable to agree as to what is fair
market value, the parties shall notify the Planning Department of such in
writing and shall then select a certified general appraiser in the State of
Idaho to determine the fair market value and notify the County of the same
within thirty (30) days. If the parties do not agree on the selection of an
appraiser and so notify the Planning Department, the Planning Department may
arrange for an appraiser, at the expense of both parties. The determination of
fair market value by any such appraiser shall be binding on the parties.
      3.   Failure of a tower owner to allow colocation at a reasonable fee and
on reasonable terms shall result in the immediate revocation of the owner's
conditional use permit. (Ord. 392, 8-16-2021)
9-4A-9: AUTOMATIC LIEN:
In order to enable Latah County to better enforce the provisions of section
9-4A-10 of this article, relating to the abandonment and removal of towers, an
automatic lien in favor of Latah County may be created for a conditional use
permit pursuant to this article. By filing an application for a conditional use
permit pursuant to this article, the property owner consents to the creation of
this lien. The lien created by this article shall be perfected upon recording
in the Latah County Recorder's Office and such lien shall have a priority date
as of the date of the issuance of the conditional use permit. Enforcement by
lien is nonexclusive and in addition to any and all other remedies available at
law or in equity. (Ord. 392, 8-16-2021)
9-4A-10: ABANDONMENT AND REMOVAL:
   A.   Any tower that has had no antenna mounted upon it for a period of one
hundred twenty (120) consecutive days, or if the antennas mounted thereon are
not operated for a period of one hundred twenty (120) successive days, shall be
considered abandoned. The tower owner or landowner thereof shall:
      1.   Remove any such tower and any accompanying equipment enclosure
within ninety (90) days of abandonment; and
      2.   Bring the location of the removed facility back to its original
state, or better.
   B.   The Planning Department, upon determining that a tower has been
abandoned, shall serve notice by certified mail of its determination of
abandonment upon the owner of the tower, to the address contained in the most
recent statement required to be filed with the Planning Department, pursuant to
section
9-4A-3 of this article, and to the landowner, to the address on file with the
Latah County Assessor's Office. The notice shall contain the reasons why the
tower has been deemed abandoned, the owner's obligation to remove the tower
pursuant to this article, and the owner's right to appeal the determination of
abandonment.
   C.   The tower owner or landowner may, during the ninety (90) days, apply,
and for good cause shown, have granted, an extension of time on such terms as
the Planning Department shall determine.
   D.   If such structure and equipment enclosure are not so removed within
said ninety (90) days or any extension thereof, then the County has the right
without further notice to enter upon the land and remove and abate such
structures at the expense of the tower owner or landowner, which may be
collected through any automatic lien created in section
9-4A-9 of this article and/or by any other remedy available at law or in
equity. In the event Latah County exercises its right hereunder, any and all
salvage rights shall inure to, and become property of Latah County at the
County's sole option.
   E.   The Planning Department's determination of abandonment may be appealed
pursuant to subsection
9-1-11 of this title.
   F.   In the event that more than one wireless telecommunication provider is
using the support structure, then this provision shall not become effective
until all users cease transmitting from the structure. (Ord. 392, 8-16-2021)
9-4A-11: FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH ALL CONDITIONS:
In addition to any other enforcement proceedings available under this title,
failure to comply with any conditions set forth in this article, all applicable
sections, or Federal and State laws will result in immediate revocation of the
wireless telecommunication provider's conditional use permit and require
removal of their antennas, tower, and/or related equipment if applicable in
accordance with section
9-4A-10 of this article. Procedures for appeals are set out in subsection
9-1-11 of this title. (Ord. 392, 8-16-2021)
ARTICLE B. MINERAL RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT
SECTION:
9-4B-1: Mineral Resource Development
9-4B-1: MINERAL RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT:
   A.   Definition And Purpose:
      1.   Mineral resource development is any land use related to the
excavation, crushing, washing, sizing and screening, asphalt batching, cement
and concrete processing, other processing, and surface stockpiling (excavated
on site) of topsoil, peat, sand, gravel, rock, clay, aggregate, metallic,
nonmetallic and industrial minerals, gemstones, or other mineral resource.
      2.   The purpose of this section is to regulate the operation of these
developments to minimize their impact on surrounding property and to provide
definitions and standards to existing mineral resource developments, new
mineral resource developments, and exempt uses of mineral resources.
   B.   Existing Mineral Resource Developments: All existing mineral resource
developments without current conditional use permits that do not meet the
exemptions set forth in subsection D of this section shall comply with the
following requirements:
      1.   Hours of operation are limited to eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. to six
o'clock (6:00) P.M. daily. An operator may vary from this requirement by
applying for a conditional use permit under the provisions of chapter 9-7A of
this title.
      2.   Written verification of compliance with the Idaho Surface Mining
Act, including filing of any reclamation plan required by the Idaho Surface
Mining Act.
      3.   The excavation site, any overburden and stockpiles, and a fifty foot
(50') buffer strip surrounding these areas shall be maintained so that they are
continuously free of all noxious weeds as determined by the Latah County
Noxious Weed Control Superintendent.
      4.   The operator shall provide, by certified mail, written notification
to all residences within one mile of any blasting. The notification shall be
distributed and in the possession of the occupants of these residences at least
seventy-two (72) hours prior to any blasting. The notification shall give the
date and time of the planned blast.
      5.   Blasting shall be restricted to the hours of nine thirty o'clock (9:
30) A.M. to four thirty o'clock (4:30) P.M., Monday through Friday. No blasting
shall occur on Saturdays, Sundays, or the following holidays: January 1,
Memorial Day, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day, and December 25.
      6.   An owner or operator may request, and the Director may grant, an
exception to provide for additional hours of operation for a mineral resource
development when additional hours of operation are needed to alleviate a public
emergency. Public emergencies include the following:
         a.   Damage to public roads or structures that require immediate
repair.
         b.   Road construction or repair that is scheduled during nighttime
hours to reduce traffic conflicts.
      7.   Signs, upon approval of the signs by the Planning Department,
warning of truck entrances shall be posted within one-fourth (1/4) mile of the
site's entrance onto a public road.
      8.   The mineral resource development shall be marked by warning signs
posted two hundred feet (200') from mine operations.
      9.   A plan to retain stormwater runoff within the mineral resource
development boundaries.
   C.   New Mineral Resource Developments: Any mineral development which is not
registered as an existing development or does not qualify to be registered as
an existing development, not exempt as per subsection D of this section, or
does not have an existing conditional use permit, shall be considered a new
development. Prior to operation, all new developments must obtain a conditional
use permit under the provisions of chapter 9-7A of this title. In addition, the
Zoning Commission shall, as a minimum, place the requirements of subsection B
of this section upon any newly permitted mineral development, unless making
specific findings supporting the omission or alteration of the requirements of
subsection B of this section. Mineral resource developments which have been
granted a valid conditional use permit prior to one year after the effective
date hereof shall be considered permitted and shall observe all conditions
previously established. New mineral resource developments shall be exempt from
the provisions of section
9-7A-8 of this title. The following are requirements for operation of all new
mineral resource developments:
      1.   Activity associated with a mineral resource development shall be at
least one thousand feet (1,000') from any home existing at the time of
application for conditional use permit, unless a lesser distance is approved by
the Zoning Commission. A lesser distance shall not be approved unless the
applicant submits a signed notarized form, approved by the Planning Department,
from all owners of record of any residential building within one thousand feet
(1,000') of the development consenting to the location of the mineral resource
development. Each form shall be recorded in the Latah County Recorder's Office
by the Planning Department. Approval of a distance less than one thousand feet
(1,000') shall be within the discretion of the Zoning Commission, even if all
owners of residential buildings within one thousand feet (1,000') approve of
the location of the development.
      2.   The operator of a mineral resource development must provide at least
a seventy-five foot (75') undisturbed or natural buffer on the perimeter of
mineral resource development operations. The buffer and the area of mineral
resource development operations shall be maintained so that they are
continuously free of all noxious weeds as determined by the Latah County
Noxious Weed Control Superintendent. Frontage on a public road does not require
a buffer. Activities associated with a mineral resource development shall not
be allowed within the seventy-five foot (75') buffer area. Location and
specifications for access road(s) shall be determined by the Zoning Commission.
      3.   To protect aquatic and terrestrial habitat and other biological
resources, all mineral resource developments and mineral resource development
operations shall be set back at least seventy five feet (75') from perennial
streams and thirty feet (30') from any intermittent streams shown on USGS 7.5
minute maps; except for stream crossings that are regulated by a State or
Federal regulatory system and those activities permitted under the Idaho Placer
and Dredge Mining Protection Act from the Idaho Department of Lands, a stream
channel alteration permit from the Idaho Department of Water Resources, a
dredge and fill permit from the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, a development
permit from the Latah County Planning Department, and/or a national pollution
discharge elimination system permit from the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency. Applicable permit documentation shall be provided to the Zoning
Administrator prior to onset of mineral resource development.
      4.   The applicant shall prepare and submit the following plans with the
application for a conditional use permit:
         a.   Dust abatement plan to include mineral resource development
operations and all access roads.
         b.   A plan for coordination with County response units for hazardous
materials transport and use and emergency spill response.
         c.   A plan for procedures and protocols for spill containment and
storage of oil, fuels, and/or chemicals; and documentation of compliance with
the State and Federal laws or documentation of exemption from requirements.
         d.   A plan for fire suppression and response, including an inventory
of tools stored on site to implement planned suppression and response.
      5.   The applicant may be required to post a bond with the Latah County
Planning Department to assure full compliance with the proposed plans and
provisions of this section. The amount of the bond shall be determined by the
Latah County Zoning Commission.
   D.   Uses Exempt From Conditional Use Permits: Mineral resources excavated
from or stockpiled on the parcel by the property owner for construction uses,
excavation for residential and accessory building construction for which a
valid building permit has been issued; construction and maintenance of
driveways, roadways, and rights-of-way; grading; landscaping; leveling; ponds
and shallow water areas for wildlife; and cemetery operations are exempt from
conditional use permits under this section, provided one of the following
applies. No product produced by an exempt use may be sold, bartered, or traded.
      1.   The mineral resource is less than one thousand feet (1,000') from
adjacent property boundary, use of the mineral resource disturbs one acre or
less, and the mineral resource and associated use are located on the same
parcel or adjacent parcels under the same ownership. Blasting, crushing or any
other processing is not allowed on site.
      2.   The mineral resource is greater than one thousand feet (1,000') but
less than one mile from adjacent property boundary or structures on State or
Federal lands (when applicable), and use of the mineral resource disturbs one
acre or less. The mineral resource may be transported for use off site to a
different parcel owned by the same landowner. Blasting, crushing or any other
processing is not allowed on site.
      3.   The mineral resource is greater than one mile from adjacent property
boundary and the mineral resource development disturbs less than five (5)
acres. The mineral resource may be transported for use off site to a different
parcel owned by the same landowner. Blasting, crushing, and processing are
allowed on site. (Ord. 392, 8-16-2021)
ARTICLE C. OTHER USES
SECTION:
9-4C-1: Nonconforming Uses
9-4C-2: Home Occupations
9-4C-3: Temporary Dwelling For Dependent Persons
9-4C-4: Permanent Living Quarters
9-4C-5: Manufactured Home Developments (Parks)
9-4C-6: Agricultural Protection Area
9-4C-1: NONCONFORMING USES:
   A.   Definition And Purpose:
      1.   A "nonconforming use" is a parcel, use, or structure which was legal
when commenced or built, but which does not conform to subsequently enacted or
amended regulations.
      2.   It is the purpose of this section to allow, but not encourage, the
continuation of nonconforming uses. Nonconforming uses shall not be allowed to
expand in size or increase in intensity except as provided by this chapter.
   B.   Continuation And Expansion of Use: A nonconforming use may be continued
indefinitely. Unless they become a conforming building or use, nonconforming
buildings or uses shall not be enlarged or expanded except as permitted under
subsection E of this section or as follows: Non-conforming buildings may be
expanded or enlarged so long as the expansion or enlargement does not encroach
into any setback. Enlargement or expansion includes, but is not limited to, any
alteration to the original building or use which would increase its size or
intensity of use. The existence of a nonconforming use shall not be adequate
justification for permitting other uses prohibited by this title.
   C.   Discontinuance Of Use: Property with nonconforming uses discontinued
for more than one year shall thereafter only be used for conforming uses. An
intent to resume operation of a nonconforming use without actual operation of
the nonconforming use shall not be sufficient by itself to allow resumption of
a nonconforming use after one year of nonuse of the nonconforming use. Evidence
must be provided by the individual of the last date the use occurred prior to
an interrupted use being allowed to resume. If an illegal intervening use
occurs, the nonconforming use will not be allowed to continue at any time.
Legally built unused buildings or improvements designed for a purpose which
subsequently became nonconforming are subject to the provisions of Idaho Code
section 67-6538. Nonconforming uses may not be converted to other illegal or
nonconforming uses at any time.
   D.   Repair And Restoration: After obtaining the proper building permits,
ordinary repair work is permitted on any nonconforming structure, provided that
the size of the structure is not increased and that the repair work does not
result in an increase in the nonconformity of the building or use, subject to
chapter 9-5 of this title. After obtaining the proper building permits, a
nonconforming building or building containing a nonconforming use which has
been damaged or destroyed by natural causes may be restored to its former size
and use, provided such restoration work is started within one year of damage
and the building permit is not subsequently abandoned or does not expire prior
to completion, subject to chapter 9-5 of this title. A nonconforming building
or building containing a nonconforming use that is intentionally moved or torn
down cannot be replaced; except nonconforming dwellings may be replaced as
provided by subsection E of this section, subject to chapter 9-5 of this title.
   E.   Replacement Of Nonconforming Dwellings: Nonconforming single-family
dwellings that exceed the permitted residential density may be expanded or
replaced, regardless of size, if the new or enlarged single-family dwelling
unit conforms to all other provisions of this title. A residence may only be
replaced or expanded if it has been permanently occupied for at least one year
immediately prior to replacement or if the residence meets the standards for a
residential building under the provisions of the Latah County Building Code
adopted by Latah County.
   F.   Dwellings On Nonconforming Parcels And Lots: Existing parcels, as
defined in section
9-8A-2 of this title, or lots platted and approved by the Board of Latah County
Commissioners prior to the effective date of this title which do not meet the
size or frontage requirements for their present zoning designation shall be
considered nonconforming parcels. Single-family dwellings may be placed on
nonconforming eligible parcels, provided that the new residence meets the
zone's setback requirements. Adjacent parcels in the same ownership may be
combined to provide adequate setbacks for new residences. Single-family
dwellings may be placed on nonconforming eligible parcels, where setbacks
cannot initially be met, provided that the owner of the nonconforming parcel
completes one or more boundary line adjustments in accordance with section
9-8D-2 of this title to make the parcel meet the size, setback, and frontage
requirements of its zoning designation. A single-family dwelling on a
nonconforming parcel shall not be considered a nonconforming building, provided
it meets all setback requirements of the zone. (Ord. 392, 8-16-2021)
9-4C-2: HOME OCCUPATIONS:
   A.   Definition And Purpose:
      1.   Home occupations are commercial or business uses conducted in a
residence or residential accessory building. For a use to be permitted as a
home occupation, the commercial or business activity shall meet the standards
of subsection B of this section.
      2.   It is the purpose of this section to accommodate the needs of small
scale businesses which could not be initiated if separate facilities were
required. As a small business expands beyond the scope of the home occupation
standards, it is the intent of this section to have the operations moved to a
suitably zoned location.
   B.   Standards: Upon written request of the operator or other affected
person, the Planning Department shall determine if commercial or business
activity located within a residence or existing residential accessory building
conforms to the following standards:
      1.   The enclosed floor space required for the commercial or business
activity, if located in a residence, shall not exceed fifty percent (50%) of
the living space of the residence or, if located in an accessory structure,
shall not exceed the floor space of the residence.
      2.   The building shall retain the character of a residence or
residential accessory building. One sign to identify the business, unlighted
and no larger than four (4) square feet, shall be permitted. No additional
outside signs, displays or other decorations shall be used to indicate that the
residence is used for commercial or business purposes.
      3.   No outside commercial or business activity or outside storage of
materials related to the home occupation shall be permitted. All parking
associated with the activity shall be off the public right-of-way.
      4.   The commercial or business use shall be operated by the person(s)
occupying the residence, and this residence must be their primary residence,
and no more than six (6) persons, not residing on the property, may be employed
at a home occupation.
If the activities do not conform to these standards, the Planning Department
shall order the activity to cease immediately. (Ord. 392, 8-16-2021)
9-4C-3: TEMPORARY DWELLING FOR DEPENDENT PERSONS:
Upon written request of the owner of the affected property and for which this
is a request for their personal situation, the Board of Latah County
Commissioners may permit the placement of one temporary dwelling in excess of
that permitted within the property's zoning designation. The applicant's
request must explain why the existing dwelling on the property is inadequate
for the care of a dependent person, must establish that the dependency is the
result of the physical or health needs of the dependent, and that other
provisions of this title will not allow the placement of the additional
dwelling on the affected property. If the Board of Latah County Commissioners
finds that the request meets these standards and the dwelling is required to
provide regular care for the dependent person, the Board of Latah County
Commissioners may grant the applicant's request upon the condition that the
approval must be reconsidered annually. For annual renewal of the temporary
dwelling, the Board of Latah County Commissioners must find that the facts
supporting original approval still exist. Building or installation permits and
compliance with setbacks are required for temporary dwellings. Dwellings
approved under the provisions of this section shall be no farther than one
hundred feet (100') from the existing residence. If it is physically
impractical to locate the home within one hundred feet (100') of the existing
residence and the applicant can provide proof of this to the Planning
Department, the distance to the new temporary home may exceed the one hundred
foot (100') limit, but the new home must be located as close as is physically
practical to the existing residence. (Ord. 392, 8-16-2021)
9-4C-4: PERMANENT LIVING QUARTERS:
Nothing within this title shall be construed to allow a camping trailer, tent,
yurt, licensed vehicle or trailer, recreational vehicle, or any other vehicle,
accessory structure, or item as a permanent dwelling. No parcel can be used for
temporary living quarters for a period of more than six (6) months in a twelve
(12) month period, unless permitted for use as specified under a conditional
use permit for a campground or recreational vehicle park. (Ord. 392, 8-16-2021)
9-4C-5: MANUFACTURED HOME DEVELOPMENTS (PARKS):
   A.   New Manufactured Home Developments:
      1.   Manufactured home developments must be located in the Suburban
Residential Zone (see chapter 9-3C of this title).
      2.   Those that have four (4) or fewer lots are subject to chapter 9-8B
of this title and those that have five (5) or more lots are subject to chapter
9-8C of this title. In lieu of a plat, manufactured home developments must
submit a scaled drawing/map by an engineer or surveyor licensed in the State of
Idaho of the manufactured home development showing all easements, numbered
lots, lengths of boundaries of each lot, exterior property boundaries, internal
streets, alleys, and drives with widths and courses clearly shown, and all of
the other required attributes, such as the water system or the buffer yards,
set forth in either chapter 9-8B or 9-8C of this title.
      3.   Manufactured home developments subject to chapter 9-8C of this title
that have all manufactured buildings smaller than one thousand six hundred
(1,600) square feet will be allowed to develop sites that are sized at seven
thousand two hundred sixty (7,260) square feet of land or more exclusive of
easements.
   B.   Existing Manufactured Home Developments:
      1.   Existing manufactured home developments must be brought into
compliance with chapter 9-8C of this title if they wish to alter or expand,
including moving spaces or adding new spaces.
      2.   All spaces or manufactured homes must be permanently numbered
meeting the standards set forth in the Latah County uniform rural addressing
ordinance and must be clearly visible from the driveway/road/lane.
      3.   All roadways internal to the development (park) must be kept in good
repair. No parking or placement of other items is allowed on roadways internal
to the development (park) to ensure at least twenty feet (20') of width for
emergency vehicle access.
      4.   Existing space conversion into RV spot:
         a.   An administrative zoning permit is required.
         b.   Existing spaces must be in previously approved spaces in the
manufactured home development. The number of new RV spaces shall reduce the
number of permanent trailer spots in the park by an equal amount.
         c.   No more than one space conversion per ten (10) spaces in the
development.
         d.   Solid waste receptacles shall be permanent and paid for by the
park.
         e.   Each RV space must be permanently numbered on a post.
         f.   A six foot (6') buffer must be provided between any RV space and
any adjacent property not owned by the development/park owner.
         g.   If the adjacent property is in a different zoning designation, a
six foot (6') high fence or other permanent buffer, either of which provides a
visual and a safety barrier, as approved by the Planning Department, must be
installed.
         h.   All septic hook ups must be of a quick disconnect variety and
must be approved by the appropriate regulatory agency.
         i.   All water hook ups must be a quick disconnect and may not be
permanently connected to the water system via plumbing. All quick disconnect
connections must have a vacuum breaker or a backflow valve installed. If any
changes are made to water lines to accommodate an RV they must be permitted and
approved by the appropriate regulatory agency.
         j.   All electrical hookups must be a quick disconnect plug and must
be approved by the State electrical inspector.
         k.   Two (2) parking spaces for a vehicle shall be provided per unit.
         l.   Any existing RV spaces in the park shall also come into
compliance with the above, but shall not be counted in the total.
         m.   RVs shall retain the character of an RV by maintaining wheels,
not having skirting or skirting being easy break-away, and generally being
ready to move at any time. (Ord. 392, 8-16-2021)
9-4C-6: AGRICULTURAL PROTECTION AREA:
This section of code is required by Idaho Code Title 67, Chapter 97 to provide
a voluntary application process to allow agricultural and timber producers to
commit lands actively devoted to agriculture or forestry uses for those same
uses. This designation aims to protect productive farmland, rangeland, and
forest land; promote farm viability; support the local agricultural economy;
and provide for long-term planning stability.
   A.   Definitions - For The Purposes Of This Section Only:
      1.   Agriculture Production: Activities or conditions conducted on land
actively devoted to agriculture as defined in section 63-604, Idaho Code, or on
forest land as defined in section 63-1701, Idaho Code.
      2.   Agriculture Protection Area: Specific parcels of land in a
designated geographic area voluntarily created under the authority of this
chapter for the purpose of protecting and preserving agricultural land.
      3.   Agriculture Protection Area Commission: The advisory board to the
governing body created pursuant to section 67-9705, Idaho Code and Section
9-4C-6.B of this regulation.
      4.   Applicant: Anyone who owns five (5) contiguous acres or more of land
that has been in active agricultural or forest production for the previous
three (3) consecutive years, consistent with the provisions of sections 63-604
and 63-1701, Idaho Code, and who voluntarily applies for that land to be part
of an agricultural protection area.
      5.   Area Of City Impact (AOI): Area designated by county ordinance where
city growth and development are expected to occur.
      6.   Farm Structure: A structure designed to be used on a farm. These
structures require a zoning placement permit, an agricultural building permit,
or a regular building permit depending on what they are used for and their size
and nothing in this section of code exempts them from obtaining the required
permits.
      7.   Hardship: A situation or circumstance over which a landowner in an
Agricultural Protection Area has no control and can then petition for removal
for reasons that include but are not limited to an adverse result in litigation
against the farm or landowner, death of a close family member that would lead
to unanticipated financial hardships, significant tax liabilities, bankruptcy
due to another person's fraud, or any other illegal activity.
      8.   Proposal: Written documents submitted to a governing body or
agricultural protection area commission from a landowner regarding their
property.
      9.   "Regulation that would restrict a farm structure or farming
practice" as specified in Idaho Code 67-9710: any complete prohibition of a
farm structure (as defined above) or farming practice in Latah County
regulations on property designated as an agricultural protection area.
Regulations requiring permit(s) or other regulations or requirements that don't
outright prohibit a farm structure or a farming practice are not considered to
be "regulations that would restrict a farm structure or farming practice," even
if the permit is denied because it did not meet code requirements.
   B.   Agricultural Protection Area Commission: An agricultural protection
area commission is hereby created and when convened shall consist of three (3)
members. Up to five (5) people actively appointed to the Latah County zoning
commission and/or the Latah County planning commission that meet the criteria
set forth in Idaho Code 67-9705 shall be automatically appointed to serve on
the three (3) member agricultural protection area commission for Latah County.
If there are more than five (5) members that meet the criteria, the board of
commissioners shall choose which five (5) shall serve. Their terms shall run
with their appointment to the planning or the zoning commission which are six
(6) year cycles. If there are fewer than three (3) people that meet the
criteria, the board of commissioners shall find volunteers that meet the
criteria to fill the spots and those terms shall be for three (3) years. Staff
from the Latah County planning department shall poll eligible members prior to
any consideration and, of the individuals that are available, establish who
will sit as the three (3) members for any given consideration. The board of
commissioners reserves the right to dismiss anyone from this commission.
   C.   Application:
      1.   To qualify to apply for an agricultural protection area designation,
the land must be:
         a.   At least five (5) contiguous acres;
         b.   Actively devoted to an agricultural or forest purpose;
         c.   Assessed as agriculture or forest land (assessor's categories 1,
2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7);
         d.   Located in the "agriculture/forestry" zoning designation on the
Latah County zoning map;
         e.   At least one (1) mile outside of the boundaries of any city;
         f.   Located in the "productive" or "rural" land use designation in
the Latah County comprehensive plan;
         g.   Located outside of any current or planned public right-of-ways or
transportation corridors;
         h.   Without any residential, commercial, industrial or other non-
agricultural related structures or activities on it; and
         i.   Located outside of any areas that have been subdivided as defined
in Section
9-2-1 of this regulation.
      2.   Landowners wishing to establish an Agricultural Protection Area must
submit an application to the Planning Department on a form provided by the
Department. In addition to anything required within the application, the
following must also be submitted: a. Name, phone number, email, and mailing
address of the landowner;
         a.   Proof of land ownership;
         b.   A legal description of the parcels, and a description of the
structures and facilities and uses proposed to be included in the agricultural
protection area;
         c.   A map showing the boundaries of the proposed agricultural
protection area;
         d.   A statement outlining the current contiguous acreages of land,
land use, agricultural productivity, and other relevant characteristics of the
land to be included in the agricultural protection area;
         e.   The number of years the land has been in agricultural or forest
production, the types of agricultural or forest commodities produced, and the
applicant's plan to continue using the land for agricultural or forest
purposes;
         f.   The stated reasons for seeking an agricultural protection area
designation;
         g.   A copy of any easements on the property;
         h.   A statement from any nearby city that this will not conflict with
any existing city annexation, areas important to the city and their
infrastructure, or development plans or agreements;
         i.   A statement from any nearby city of any affect this designation
may have on annexation, areas important to the city and their infrastructure,
the city's area of city impact, or development plans or agreements; and
         j.   A statement from any Highway District, Forest Service, private
owner(s), or Idaho Transportation Department for any roadway, driveway or
easement that crosses the property that approval will not have a negative
impact on future transportation plans or their current rights of way or
easement; and
         k.   A copy of any transportation corridors considered for the
designated area or a statement from the relevant highway agency that states
there are none; and
         l.   Soil information, water rights, or any other relevant
environmental assessments on the property.
      3.   An application fee in compliance with Idaho Code 67-97 is set by
separate resolution and shall be required. This fee shall apply to new
applications, expansions, modifications, removals and terminations. A separate
fee shall be charged for any appeal allowed under Idaho Code 67-97 and shall be
set by separate resolution.
      4.   If an application is determined by Planning Department staff to be
incomplete, it cannot be accepted by the Planning Department.
   D.   Agricultural Protection Area Process And Criteria:
      1.   Upon receipt of a completed application, the Agricultural Protection
Area Commission shall review the proposal and make a recommendation to the
Planning Department within sixty (60) days of receiving the application.
      2.   The following criteria shall be used to determine if a property
qualifies for an agricultural protection area.
         a.   If there will be any negative impact or possible conflicts with
any nearby city, an area of city impact, with city annexation or development
plans, or agreements;
         b.   If the designation will have any negative effect or proximity to
existing public rights-of-way, planned transportation corridors, future public
rights-of- way, and considered public rights of way including public trails;
         c.   If the designation will have any negative effect or will have any
proximity to any airport expansion or development;
         d.   Proximity to planned development with existing entitlements;
         e.   Agricultural production of the land within the proposed
agricultural protection area;
         f.   The impact the proposal will have on any areas likely to be
annexed by a city that are outside of the prohibited areas; and
         g.   Other local impacts relevant to the proposed agricultural
protection area.
      3.   Notwithstanding the criteria and review process outlined in this
code, the Planning Department may place additional conditions on lands
designated as an Agricultural Protection Area, including, but not limited to,
setbacks from existing public rights of way, setbacks from existing public
structures, and a review of the land's Agricultural Protection Area designation
prior to expiration of the designation.
      4.   Once the Agricultural Protection Area commission makes its
recommendation to the Planning Department, the Planning Department shall review
the recommendation and criteria and issue its decision within sixty (60) days.
Failure to make a decision shall render the Agricultural Protection Area
commission's recommendation final. The written decision shall comply with Idaho
Code 67-9706(2). Said decision is appealable to the Board of County
Commissioners within the timeframes set forth in Idaho Code 67-97. The
processes set for appeal within Idaho Code 67-97 shall be followed by the Board
of County Commissioners.
      5.   Upon the final decision, the Planning Department shall:
         a.   Record the designation of an Agricultural Protection Area
including the date of creation, modification or dissolution, a legal
description of the area, and the findings/reasoned statement with the county
recorder within ten (10) days of the creation of the Area; and
         b.   Amend relevant county maps to reflect the boundaries of the
Agricultural Protection Area.
   E.   Expansion, Modification, Termination, And Duration Of An Agricultural
Protection Area:
      1.   An expansion of an existing agricultural protection area shall
follow the same application, review, and hearing procedures outlined in this
code. Any expansion of an agricultural protection area shall be contiguous to
the agricultural protection area.
      2.   A modification, removal or termination of an Agricultural Protection
Area shall follow the process set forth in Idaho Code 67-9709 and shall follow
the same application, review, and procedures outlined in this code and the
following:
         a.   Proof of hardship as set forth in this code when applicable;
         b.   Early termination of the Agricultural Protection Area shall only
occur upon the proving by the landowner of an undue hardship as defined in this
code. The landowner seeking to terminate an Agricultural Protection Area bears
the burden of proof in demonstrating the hardship. Early termination of an
Agricultural Protection Area is not taken lightly and will be carefully
considered. The application will be considered by the Agricultural Protection
Area Committee and a recommendation forwarded to the Board of County
Commissioners who will make a final decision.
      3.   Lands designated as an agricultural protection area will remain so
designated for a period of twenty (20) years. A landowner wishing to end an
approved agricultural protection area designation after twenty (20) years must
notify the board of county commissioners in writing of their desire not to
renew the land's agricultural protection area designation at least ninety (90)
days prior to the expiration as specified in Idaho Code 67-9708. Failure of the
landowner to notify the county, or failure of the county to review the
agricultural protection area terms, will result in the agricultural protection
area designation continuing for another twenty (20) years.
   F.   Enforcement, Prohibitions, And Penalties:
      1.   Unless otherwise approved by the board of county commissioners, the
following land uses are not allowed within an agricultural protection area:
         a.   The siting of large, confined animal feeding operations (CAFO);
         b.   The siting of residential, commercial, manufacturing, industrial,
solar energy, wind energy, or battery storage structures; or
         c.   Any other nonagricultural land uses.
      2.   Enforcement of this section shall be as set forth in this code.
(Ord. 402, 12-10-2024; amd. Ord. 407, 6-24-2025)
CHAPTER 5
OVERLAY ZONES
SECTION:
9-5-1: Creation Of Overlay Zone
9-5-1: CREATION OF OVERLAY ZONE:
An overlay zone is created by superimposing the overlay zone's lines on the
zoning map for a hazard area, a special resource area, or a development area
that has provisions that apply in the overlay area in addition to all other
provisions of this title. Overlay zones create a framework for protection of
persons and property, conservation, or development of special geographical
areas. (Ord. 392, 8-16-2021)
ARTICLE A. FLOOD HAZARD AREAS
SECTION:
9-5A-1: Authority And Purpose
9-5A-2: General Provisions For Flood Hazard Area Regulations
9-5A-3: Floodplain Development Permit
9-5A-4: Floodplain Management Standards
9-5A-5: Appeals
9-5A-1: AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE:
   A.   Idaho Code Sections 46-1020, 46-1022 and 46-1023 authorizes local
governments to adopt floodplain management regulations designed to promote the
public health, safety and general welfare of its citizens, to ensure the
residents of Latah County will be eligible for federal flood insurance, and to
minimize the threat of flood damage in Latah County.
   B.   The purpose of this article is to:
      1.   Protect human life, health, and property;
      2.   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
      3.   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
      4.   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
      5.   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone, sewer lines, roads and bridges located in flood
hazard areas;
      6.   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood hazard areas so as to minimize future flood blight areas;
      7.   Provide that developers are notified that property is in a flood
hazard area; and
      8.   Ensure that those who occupy the flood hazard areas assume
responsibility for their actions. (Ord. 392, 8-16-2021)
9-5A-2: GENERAL PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD AREA REGULATIONS:
   A.   Basis For Establishing Flood Hazard Areas: This article shall apply to
all special flood hazard areas within unincorporated Latah County. The special
flood hazard areas identified by the Federal Insurance Administrator in a
scientific and engineering report entitled "The Flood Insurance Study, Latah
County, Idaho (Unincorporated Areas)" dated February 1980, and revised
September 1, 1983 and April 15, 2002 with accompanying Flood Insurance Rate
Maps and the Flood Boundary-Floodway Maps dated August 15, 1980, April 13,
1982, and April 15, 2002, and any revisions thereto, are hereby adopted by
reference and declared to be a part of this title. The Flood Insurance Study
and accompanying maps are available for review by contacting the Latah County
Planning and Building Department.
   B.   Noncompliance: No structure in a special flood hazard area shall
hereafter be constructed, located, or altered and no land shall be excavated or
filled without full compliance with the terms of this title. In addition to any
other enforcement remedies available under this title, any violation of this
article shall result in notification being sent to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency.
   C.   Warning And Disclaimer of Liability: The degree of flood protection
required by this article is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and
is based on scientific and engineering considerations. Larger floods can and
will occur. This article does not imply that land outside the special flood
hazard area or uses within such areas will be free from flooding or flood
damages. This article shall not create liability on the part of Latah County,
any officer or employee thereof, or the Federal Emergency Management Agency,
for any flood damages that result from reliance on this article or any
administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
   D.   Administration: The Director of the Planning and Building Department
shall act as the Floodplain Administrator but may assign designees to implement
these provisions. The Floodplain Administrator or their designee(s) shall
administer, implement, and enforce this article by granting or denying
floodplain development permits in accordance with its provisions. In accordance
with Idaho Code, the Planning and Building Department shall maintain records
pertaining to the provisions of this title for public inspection.
   E.   Prohibition On New Activities: There shall be no new construction of
dwellings or placement of manufactured housing in the special flood hazard area
or floodway, or new construction or placement of accessory buildings in the
floodway, unless an applicant can show that there is no other portion of their
parcel available for their intended purpose that is outside of the special
flood hazard area. Parcels created after the effective date hereof shall only
be allowed to develop on portions of these parcels that are outside of the
designated special flood hazard area. If an act of nature destroys a residence,
and the infrastructure for that residence is still useable, the residence may
be replaced at that location so long as the remaining portions of the old
structure, the new structure, and any additional improvements that need to be
made are brought into compliance with this title, and so long as its location
is not in the floodway.
   F.   Development: For the purposes of this article, "development" is defined
as any man made change to improved or unimproved real estate, including but not
limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading,
paving, excavation or drilling operations, storage of equipment or materials,
or sewage lagoons. (Ord. 392, 8-16-2021)
9-5A-3: FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
   A.   Establishment And Purpose of Permit: A floodplain development permit
and fee is hereby established and required for all construction and other
development to be undertaken in areas of special flood hazard in Latah County.
It shall be a violation of this title to undertake any development in a special
flood hazard area, as shown on the maps identified in subsection
9-5A-2A of this article, without a valid floodplain development permit.
Application for a permit shall be made on forms furnished by the Planning and
Building Department and may require reports and drawings which the Floodplain
Administrator or designee deems necessary to issue the permit.
   B.   Application For Floodplain Development Permit: The applicant shall
provide the following information when applicable:
      1.   The proposed elevation, in relation to mean sea level, of the lowest
floor (including basement) of any new or substantially improved structure to be
located in special flood hazard areas. Upon completion of the lowest floor, the
permittee shall submit to the Floodplain Administrator or designee the as built
elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) certified by a professional
surveyor or professional engineer licensed in the State of Idaho. If no base
flood elevation data are available the permittee shall submit to the Floodplain
Administrator or designee verification that the as built elevation of the
lowest floor is three feet (3') above the highest adjacent ground elevation.
      2.   The proposed elevation, in relation to mean sea level, to which any
new or substantially improved nonresidential structure will be floodproofed.
Upon completion of the floodproofed portion of the structure, the permittee
shall submit to the Floodplain Administrator or designee the as built
floodproofed elevation, certified by a professional surveyor or a professional
engineer licensed in the State of Idaho. If no base flood elevation data are
available, the permittee shall submit to the Floodplain Administrator or
designee verification, certified by a professional surveyor or professional
engineer licensed in the State of Idaho, that the elevation of floodproofing is
three feet (3') above the highest adjacent ground elevation.
      3.   A certificate from a professional engineer licensed in the State of
Idaho that any nonresidential floodproofed structure will meet the criteria of
section
9-5A-4 of this article.
      4.   A technical analysis, by a professional engineer licensed in the
State of Idaho, which shows whether a proposed development to be located in a
special flood hazard area may result in physical damage to any property.
      5.   In Flood Zone A, when no base flood elevation data are available,
base flood elevation data from a professional engineer licensed in the State of
Idaho shall be provided by the permit applicant for development proposals,
including subdivisions or manufactured home parks greater than five (5) acres
or fifty (50) lots, whichever is the lesser.
      6.   A description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development. Computations by a
professional engineer licensed in the State of Idaho must be submitted that
demonstrate that the altered or relocated segment will provide equal or greater
conveyance than the original stream segment. The applicant must provide legally
binding commitments that the conveyance capacity of the altered or relocated
stream segment will be maintained. The applicant must also provide the Federal
Emergency Management Agency with all documentation it deems necessary to revise
the documents listed in subsection
9-5A-2A of this article.
      7.   The applicant shall notify adjacent communities, the Army Corps of
Engineers, the Idaho Department of Environmental Quality, and the Idaho
Department of Water Resources prior to any alteration or relocation of a
watercourse, and submit evidence of such notification to the Floodplain
Administrator or designee and to the Federal Insurance Administrator through
appropriate notification means .
      8.   When base flood elevation data have not been provided by the study
or maps listed above, the Floodplain Administrator or designee, in order to
administer this article, may review and reasonably utilize information
presented from the applicant that has been verified by a professional engineer
licensed in the State of Idaho regarding any base flood elevation and floodway
data available from a Federal, State, or other qualified source.
   C.   Permit Application Review And Issuance: Prior to issuance of a
development permit, the Floodplain Administrator or designee shall review each
application to ensure the permit requirements of this article have been
satisfied and to verify the completeness of information required by subsection
B of this section and submission of plans indicating compliance with the
standards of this title as provided in section
9-5A-4 of this article. As a condition of development permit issuance, the
permittee shall receive all necessary permits from those Federal, State, or
local governmental agencies from which approval is required. The Floodplain
Administrator or designee shall also notify the Idaho Department of Water
Resources and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers for their determination if any
additional permits are necessary.
   D.   Permit Administration: Upon issuance of a development permit, the
Floodplain Administrator or designee may make periodic inspections of the site
to monitor compliance with permit conditions and shall issue stop work orders
for any floodplain development found ongoing without a permit or noncompliant
with the provisions of this title or the conditions of the development permit.
(Ord. 392, 8-16-2021)
9-5A-4: FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   Encroachments:
      1.   Within special flood hazard areas Zone A1-30, where the base flood
elevation has been determined but the floodway has not been determined, no new
construction, substantial improvement, or other development (including fill)
shall be permitted unless a technical evaluation by a professional engineer
licensed in the State of Idaho demonstrates that the proposed development along
with existing development will not increase the base flood elevation more than
one foot (1') above the base flood elevation at any point in the community.
      2.   Within a regulatory floodway, no new construction, substantial
improvements or other development (including fill) shall be permitted unless it
has been demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic analysis performed in
accordance with standard engineering practice (including a no rise
certification that includes both a step backwater analysis and a conveyance
compensation computation) by a professional engineer licensed in the State of
Idaho demonstrates that the proposed development will not result in any
increase in base flood elevation.
      3.   All residential and nonresidential structures in the special flood
hazard area and all development in the floodway shall be designed or reviewed
and approved by a professional engineer licensed in the State of Idaho who
shall ensure that all elevations, structural design, and other requirements of
this title and the Building Code ordinances are met and who shall also certify
that the completed construction is in compliance with their approved plans.
      4.   At the discretion of the Floodplain Administrator or designee, the
Floodplain Administrator or designee can require an elevation certificate, a
letter of map amendment or revision be sent to FEMA, or an as-built
verification for any development permit in the special flood hazard area.
   B.   Standards For Residential Structures:
      1.   If base flood elevation data are given, new construction and
substantial improvements, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, shall have the lowest floor elevated one foot (1') above base flood
elevation. If no base flood elevation data are given, new and substantially
improved structures shall have the lowest floor elevated at least three feet
(3') above the highest adjacent ground elevation. Basements for residences are
not permitted in special flood hazard areas.
   C.   Standards For Nonresidential Structures:
      1.   For a nonresidential structure to be eligible for wet floodproofing,
the structure must be used solely for limited storage, parking, or access and
must meet the criteria for wet floodproofing set forth in subsection E of this
section, as well as other criteria for building in a floodplain as set forth in
this title.
      2.   If base flood elevation data are given, new construction and
substantial improvements, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, shall have the lowest floor (including basements) elevated one foot
(1') above base flood elevation or shall be floodproofed so that the structure
is watertight up to one foot (1') above the base flood elevation. All
structural components located below the floodproofed level must be capable of
resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and the effects of buoyancy.
      3.   If no base flood elevation data are given, new and substantially
improved structures shall have the lowest floor (including basements) elevated
three feet (3') above the highest adjacent grade or shall be floodproofed so
that the structure is watertight up to three feet (3') above the highest
adjacent grade. All structural components located below the floodproofed level
must be capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and the effects
of buoyancy.
   D.   Manufactured Homes And Recreational Vehicles:
      1.   Recreational vehicles may be placed in a special flood hazard area
if the vehicle is fully licensed and ready for immediate highway use, subject
to section
9-4C-4 of this title. A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is
on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick
disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently attached
additions, decks, or structures.
      2.   Manufactured homes placed or substantially improved in a special
flood hazard area shall be elevated on a permanent foundation such that the
lowest floor is elevated at least one foot (1') above the base flood elevation
or, if no base flood elevation is given, three feet (3') above the highest
adjacent grade. The home shall be securely anchored to a permanent, adequately
anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement.
      3.   Manufactured homes placed in existing spaces in a previously
established manufactured home park shall be elevated as specified above and
attached to and supported by reinforced piers which are adequately anchored to
resist flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the manufactured home.
   E.   Standards For All Construction in Special Flood Hazard Areas:
      1.   All new construction and substantial improvements (including
manufactured homes) in special flood hazard areas shall be anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse, or lateral movement during the base flood event resulting
from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy. All
new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed with
materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage, as well as using
methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
      2.   Spaces below the lowest floor of all new or substantially improved
structures shall be used solely for parking of vehicles, building access, or
storage. These spaces shall be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic
flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit of
floodwaters. Designs must meet the following minimum criteria:
         a.   A minimum of two (2) openings having a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding; and
         b.   The bottom of all such openings no higher than one foot (1')
above the lowest adjacent finished grade.
   F.   Standards For Utilities In Special Flood Hazard Areas:
      1.   All mechanical, electrical, heating, ventilation, air conditioning
equipment, plumbing, other utilities, and other service facilities shall be
designed so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding and shall be elevated one foot (1')
above base flood elevation.
      2.   When located below the base flood elevation or if base flood
elevation data is not available, all utilities shall be designed or reviewed
and approved by a professional engineer licensed in the State of Idaho who
shall ensure that all elevations, structural design, and other requirements of
this title, the Building Code ordinance, or other State or local regulations
are met and who shall also certify that the completed construction is in
compliance with their approved plans.
      3.   New and replacement water supply and sanitary sewage systems shall
be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the
system. On site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding.
      4.   Sanitary sewer and storm drainage systems for buildings that have
openings below the base flood elevation shall be provided with automatic
backflow valves or other automatic backflow devices that are installed in each
discharge line passing through a building's exterior wall.
   G.   Subdivision Proposals:
      1.   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage;
      2.   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage;
      3.   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood damage; and
      4.   Where base flood elevation data has not been provided or is not
available from another authorized source, it shall be generated for subdivision
proposals and other proposed developments where floodplain exists which contain
at least fifty (50) lots or five (5) acres (whichever is less).
   H.   Critical Facilities:
      1.   Critical facilities constructed within the floodplain or special
flood hazard area shall have the lowest floor elevated three feet (3') or more
above the level of the 100-year base flood elevation at the site. When base
flood elevations have not been provided, they shall be generated. Floodproofing
and sealing measures are required to be taken to ensure that toxic substances
will not be displaced by or released into floodwaters. Access routes to all
critical facilities shall be elevated to or above the level of the base flood
to the extent possible.
      2.   Critical facilities include, but are not limited to, emergency
service facilities and equipment (fire stations, police stations, rescue
squads, public works facilities, custodial facilities such as jails and
juvenile detention centers, hospitals, and other health care facilities, etc.),
communications networks (telephones, emergency service radio systems, repeater
sites and base stations, television and radio stations, etc.), water supply
system/facilities, wastewater treatment facilities, public utilities (power
plants, substations, power lines, etc.), transportation networks (roads,
bridges, airports, rail terminals), public facilities, or any other similar
facilities the Planning Department deems to be a critical facility. (Ord. 392,
8-16-2021)
9-5A-5: APPEALS:
Any decision made by the Latah County Planning and Building Department
regarding this article, may be appealed to the Land Use Board of Appeals as per
subsection
9-1-11 of this title. Such appeal shall be guided by and shall not violate any
provision of the Federal regulations that govern the Flood Insurance Program.
(Ord. 392, 8-16-2021)
CHAPTER 6
ZONING MAP AMENDMENTS
ARTICLE A. QUASI-JUDICIAL AMENDMENTS (REZONES RECOMMENDED BY ZONING COMMISSION)
SECTION:
9-6A-1: Consideration Of Requests
9-6A-2: Application
9-6A-3: Rezone Criteria
9-6A-4: Public Hearings And Procedures
9-6A-1: CONSIDERATION OF REQUESTS:
To allow changes in permitted land uses which are in accordance with the
Comprehensive Plan, requests from the owner of the affected property to amend
the Zoning Map may be considered. Overlay zones are not eligible for rezone
under this chapter. These requests for rezoning of property must be reviewed by
the Zoning Commission and a recommendation forwarded to the Board of Latah
County Commissioners for a final decision. This review shall determine the
extent and nature of the requested amendment, including any effects of the zone
change upon the delivery of services by entities providing public services,
including school, road, public safety, sewer, water, and other relevant
services. (Ord. 392, 8-16-2021)
9-6A-2: APPLICATION:
Application for rezoning shall be made by the owner of the affected property.
The completed application form, fee, and any other information required by the
Planning Department shall be submitted to the department prior to scheduling a
public hearing. The applicant shall supply the Planning Department with a
surveyed boundary legal description or with a legal description of the proposal
in aliquot parts as part of the application. The department may, after
discussion with the County Surveyor, accept an alternate legal description if
it is adequate to ensure accurate boundaries on the Official Zoning Map of
Latah County. (Ord. 392, 8-16-2021)
9-6A-3: REZONE CRITERIA:
   A.   The Zoning Commission may recommend the Board of Latah County
Commissioners approval of a rezone application if the Zoning Commission finds
that the proposed rezone conforms to each of the following criteria:
      1.   The rezone is in accordance with the goals and policies of the
Comprehensive Plan.
      2.   The rezone, and the uses it permits, shall not be detrimental to or
incompatible with the surrounding area, and the uses permitted in that area.
      3.   The rezone must provide some public benefit that exceeds any costs
imposed upon the public.
      4.   The rezone shall not impose a significant burden to any public
services.
      5.   The rezone shall not be a spot zone.
   B.   The Zoning Commission may recommend approval for rezone proposals that
do not initially meet these criteria, if the applicant can provide substantial
mitigation through a written development agreement as provided by subsection
9-6A-4D of this article. The Zoning Commission may also recommend approval for
applications not meeting the criteria listed above if the Zoning Commission
finds that the rezone is essential to the public health, safety, or welfare.
(Ord. 392, 8-16-2021)
9-6A-4: PUBLIC HEARINGS AND PROCEDURES:
   A.   A public hearing before the Zoning Commission shall be held on each
complete application received by the Planning Department within six (6) months
of receiving the complete application. In the event that the applicant does not
want a hearing to be held within this six (6) month period, at the end of the
six (6) month period the application will be returned to the applicant, with a
refund of eighty percent (80%) of the application fee if the hearing has not
been noticed. The applicant can withdraw an application at any time, with a
refund of eighty percent (80%) of the application fee if the hearing has not
been noticed.
   B.   Notice for the public hearing shall be given as set forth in Idaho Code
section 67-6511, or when notice is required to two hundred (200) or more
property owners, notice shall be given as set forth in section
9-6B-2 of this chapter.
   C.   The Zoning Commission shall determine whether the proposal conforms to
the rezone criteria set forth in section 9-6A-3 of this article. Based on its
determination, the Zoning Commission shall recommend the Board of Latah County
Commissioners approve or deny the application for rezone.
   D.   The Zoning Commission may recommend, as a condition of approval, that
the Board of Latah County Commissioners require the owner or developer to make
a written development agreement concerning the use or development of the
subject parcel as provided by Idaho Code section 67-6511A. The creation, form,
recording, modification, enforcement, and termination of conditional
commitments are governed as follows:
      1.   The Board of Latah County Commissioners may require the developer to
make a written commitment regarding the specific use and development of the
subject property. If required by the Board of Latah County Commissioners, these
commitments or conditions shall be considered part of the basis for approval.
      2.   The terms of the written agreement shall be specified in the Board
of Latah County Commissioners' written decision. If the Board of Latah County
Commissioners adopts the decision of the Zoning Commission, it shall also adopt
the Zoning Commission's recommended conditions for approval. The conditions
imposed shall be limited to requirements necessary to ensure that the
application meets the criteria of section
9-6A-3 of this article.
      3.   Prior to adoption of the zoning map amendment, the agreement shall
be submitted to the Board of Latah County Commissioners as a written
development agreement that enumerates and describes the conditions for
approval. This agreement must include the following:
         a.   The responsibility of current and subsequent property owners to
comply with the terms and conditions.
         b.   The statement that failure to meet those terms will result in
enforcement proceedings against the applicant and/or reversion of the property
to its former designation.
         c.   The statement that this agreement shall be deemed written consent
that upon determination by the County that the conditions of approval are not
being met, the property be reverted to its original zoning designation and all
uses not consistent with that designation shall be considered a violation of
this title.
         d.   Notarized signatures of the applicant and the property owner(s).
         e.   Notarized signature of the Chairperson of the Board of Latah
County Commissioners. The Board of Latah County Commissioners shall only
authorize the Chairman to sign the document if it is determined that the
document meets the terms specified for the written agreement as well as the
requirements specified in this subsection.
      4.   Once signed by all parties, the applicant shall have the document
recorded in the Latah County Recorder's Office. The Board of Latah County
Commissioners shall not adopt the zoning map amendment until the document has
been recorded by the applicant. Once recorded, the Board of Latah County
Commissioners shall adopt, by ordinance, an amendment to the zoning map. This
amendment shall reference the development agreement and shall provide that the
zoning map be designated in a manner that indicates that the new zoning
designation has been assigned specific conditions.
      5.   The agreement shall remain in effect until formally modified or
terminated by the Board of Latah County Commissioners, or the property is
rezoned. The agreement may be terminated or modified by the Board of Latah
County Commissioners with the written permission of the current property owner.
Prior to termination or modification, at least one public hearing shall be
conducted in accordance with the notice and procedural provisions for a rezone
application. Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the Board of Latah County
Commissioners from rezoning a property subject to these agreements after four
(4) years from the date of approval, or under the restrictions set forth in
Idaho Code Title 67, Chapter 65.
   E.   The Zoning Commission shall announce its decision and approve findings
of fact and conclusions of law within forty (40) days of closing the public
hearing. Once the Zoning Commission has approved its written findings of fact
and conclusions of law, the Board of Latah County Commissioners may adopt the
Zoning Commission's written findings and conclusions or conduct its own public
hearing regarding the application. If the Board of Latah County Commissioners
chooses to conduct its own hearing, the Board of Latah County Commissioners
shall follow the same criteria and procedures as the Zoning Commission, except
that the Board of Latah County Commissioners' decision shall be considered
final. If the Board of Latah County Commissioners chooses to make a material
change in the recommendation, it shall conduct its own public hearing. If the
Board of Latah County Commissioners adopts the Zoning Commission's
recommendation for approval or otherwise approves the request for rezone, the
Board of Latah County Commissioners shall also adopt by ordinance the approved
amendments to the Latah County Zoning Map. If an ordinance is not adopted
within one year after the rezone approval because the applicant does not
provide adequate information to complete the rezone, the rezone shall be void.
(Ord. 392, 8-16-2021)
ARTICLE B. LEGISLATIVE AMENDMENTS (REZONES RECOMMENDED BY PLANNING COMMISSION)
SECTION:
9-6B-1: Review By Planning Commission
9-6B-2: Legislative Zoning Map Amendments
9-6B-1: REVIEW BY PLANNING COMMISSION:
Legislative amendments to this title which are in accordance with the Latah
County Comprehensive Plan may be made after review by the Planning Commission.
The Planning Commission shall conduct a public hearing prior to any
recommendation for amendment to the Board of Latah County Commissioners. The
Board of Latah County Commissioners shall conduct its own public hearing upon
receipt of the Planning Commission's recommendation and prior to adoption of
any legislative amendment to this title. (Ord. 392, 8-16-2021)
9-6B-2: LEGISLATIVE ZONING MAP AMENDMENTS:
The Planning Commission shall conduct public hearings for amendments to the
Zoning Map when that rezone is not initiated by an applicant. The Planning
Commission, Zoning Commission, or Planning Department may propose Zoning Map
amendments. Notification for a legislative amendment to the Zoning Map shall be
advertised as provided for by Idaho Code section 67-6511. Individual notice
shall also be mailed to property owners of the land being considered or
property owners within three hundred feet (300') of the external boundaries of
the affected property. Notice shall also be posted on the property being
considered for rezone one week prior to the public hearing. However, when
notice is required for more than two hundred (200) property owners, in lieu of
the individual notice and the notice posted on the property, the County shall
place one advertisement in the official newspaper or newspaper of general
circulation. This advertisement shall appear in the newspaper one week prior to
each public hearing related to the rezone and shall be in a different format
than the legal notice which preceded it. The advertisement shall be titled
"Attention Property Owners of Latah County" and shall include a general
description of the affected property, the phone number and address of the
Planning Department and the time and place of the public hearing. To recommend
approval or approve a legislative amendment to the Zoning Map, the Planning
Commission and Board of Latah County Commissioners shall find that the proposed
amendment is in accordance with the Latah County Comprehensive Plan. (Ord. 392,
8-16-2021)
CHAPTER 7
CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS AND VARIANCES
ARTICLE A. CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS
SECTION:
9-7A-1: Review And Approval Of Conditional Uses
9-7A-2: Application
9-7A-3: Permit Criteria
9-7A-4: Public Hearings And Procedures
9-7A-5: Reconsideration Procedure
9-7A-6: Effective Date Of Permit
9-7A-7: Expansion Of Conditional Uses
9-7A-8: Expiration Of Conditional Use Permit
9-7A-9: Failure To Comply
9-7A-1: REVIEW AND APPROVAL OF CONDITIONAL USES:
To comply with the purposes of this title, specific land uses within a
particular zone require special consideration prior to their being permitted in
that zone. These conditional uses must be reviewed and approved by the Zoning
Commission prior to initiation or development. This review shall determine the
compatibility of the proposed use with the surrounding area and particularly
with permitted uses in that zone. The approval may provide specific conditions
which ensure that the proposed use will be compatible with the permitted uses.
The listing of a particular use as a conditionally permitted use does not give
the property owner a property right in that use. (Ord. 392, 8-16-2021)
9-7A-2: APPLICATION:
Application for a conditional use permit shall be made by the owner of the
affected property. The completed application form, fee, and any other
information required by the Planning Department shall be submitted to the
department prior to scheduling a public hearing. (Ord. 392, 8-16-2021)
9-7A-3: PERMIT CRITERIA:
   A.   A conditional use permit shall be granted if the Zoning Commission
finds that the proposed use conforms to each of the following criteria:
      1.   The use is not detrimental to the health or safety of those in the
surrounding area.
      2.   The use will not otherwise adversely affect permitted uses or the
enjoyment of such uses in that zone to any greater extent than a permitted use
in that zone.
      3.   The use will not require facilities or services with excessive costs
to the public.
   B.   If the Zoning Commission finds that a proposed use is essential to the
public health, safety, or welfare, such use may be permitted even if the use is
not found to meet the criteria listed above.
   C.   The Zoning Commission shall have the authority to set an expiration
date for any conditional use permit so long as the reasons for such are
included in their findings of fact and conclusions of law. (Ord. 392, 8-16-
2021)
9-7A-4: PUBLIC HEARINGS AND PROCEDURES:
   A.   A public hearing before the Zoning Commission shall be held on each
complete application received by the Planning Department within six (6) months
of receiving the complete application. In the event that the applicant does not
want a hearing to be held within this six (6) month period, at the end of the
six (6) month period the application will be returned to the applicant, with a
refund of eighty percent (80%) of the application fee if the hearing has not
been noticed. The applicant can withdraw an application at any time, with a
refund of eighty percent (80%) of the application fee if the hearing has not
been noticed.
   B.   Notice for the public hearing shall be given as set forth in Idaho Code
section 67-6512(b), or when notice is required to two hundred (200) or more
property owners, notice shall be given as set forth in section
9-6B-2 of this title.
   C.   The Zoning Commission shall determine whether the proposal conforms to
the permit criteria set forth in section
9-7A-3 of this article. Based on its determination, the Zoning Commission may
approve or deny the application for the permit.
   D.   The Zoning Commission may require such changes or impose such
reasonable conditions for the proposed use which are in its judgment necessary
to ensure conformity with section
9-7A-3 of this article. Each approved permit shall conform to the
specifications of the proposal except as explicitly modified by the Zoning
Commission. Conditional use permits may be temporary so that the period of
approval for a particular use is limited.
   E.   The Zoning Commission shall approve findings of fact and conclusions of
law and notify the applicant of its decision within forty (40) days of closing
the public hearing. (Ord. 392, 8-16-2021)
9-7A-5: RECONSIDERATION PROCEDURE:
All final decisions of the Zoning Commission may be reconsidered, as set forth
in section
9-1-12 of this title. (Ord. 392, 8-16-2021)
9-7A-6: EFFECTIVE DATE OF PERMIT:
No conditional use permit shall become effective nor shall any building or
installation permit be issued until the reconsideration period has elapsed or
until the Board of Latah County Commissioners has made a decision upon
reconsideration. (Ord. 392, 8-16-2021)
9-7A-7: EXPANSION OF CONDITIONAL USES:
Expansion, enlargement, or alteration of an approved conditional use shall be
reviewed by the Planning Department upon written request by the permit holder.
If the department determines that the alteration, expansion, or enlargement is
beyond the scope of action allowed by the original permit, the department shall
require the permit holder to apply for the review and approval of the Zoning
Commission under the provisions of this article. (Ord. 392, 8-16-2021)
9-7A-8: EXPIRATION OF CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT:
A conditional use permit shall expire if the use allowed by the permit is not
initiated within one year of the effective date or if the use is initiated and
then ceases for a period of one year unless otherwise specified by the Zoning
Commission. A one time extension of no more than one year may be granted by the
Director for good cause. (Ord. 392, 8-16-2021)
9-7A-9: FAILURE TO COMPLY:
Failure to comply with the conditions of approval or the provisions of this
article may result in revocation of the conditional use permit and/or any other
formal or informal enforcement action at the discretion of the Director. The
Director may revoke a conditional use permit if the permittee fails to comply
with the conditions of approval. Upon revocation, the Director shall issue a
written notice of revocation including the reasons therefor. This notice shall
be sent to the permittee by certified mail or shall be hand delivered. This
revocation is appealable pursuant to subsection
9-1-11 of this title. No revocation shall take effect until the expiration of
the appeal period contained in subsection
9-1-11 of this title, or, if an appeal is filed, until a decision has been made
upon appeal. (Ord. 392, 8-16-2021)
ARTICLE B. VARIANCES
SECTION:
9-7B-1: Modification Of Certain Requirements
9-7B-2: Application; Fee
9-7B-3: Variance Criteria
9-7B-4: Public Hearings And Procedures
9-7B-5: Reconsideration Procedure
9-7B-6: Effective Date Of Variance
9-7B-7: Expiration Of Variance
9-7B-1: MODIFICATION OF CERTAIN REQUIREMENTS:
A variance shall only be used to modify setbacks, building height, yard or
frontage requirements, and parking requirements on a lot or parcel of land
prescribed by this title. Variances are not a property right and shall be
reviewed by the Zoning Commission prior to construction. This review shall
determine if the variance is in conflict with the public interest and that
compliance with the specified ordinance restrictions would deny the property
owner an otherwise permitted use on the property. (Ord. 392, 8-16-2021)
9-7B-2: APPLICATION; FEE:
Application for a variance shall be made by the owner of the affected property.
The completed application form, fee, and any other information required by the
Planning Department shall be submitted to the department prior to scheduling a
public hearing. (Ord. 392, 8-16-2021)
9-7B-3: VARIANCE CRITERIA:
   A.   A variance may be granted if the Zoning Commission finds that the
proposed variance meets each of the following criteria:
      1.   The variance will not be detrimental to the public interest or other
property in the vicinity of the proposed variance.
      2.   Compliance with setbacks, building height, yard or frontage
requirements, and parking requirements prescribed would deny the property owner
an otherwise permitted use on the property due to the parcel's peculiar
physical characteristics.
   B.   If the Zoning Commission finds that a variance is essential to the
public health, safety, or welfare, such use may be permitted even if the use is
not found to meet the criteria listed in this section. (Ord. 392, 8-16-2021)
9-7B-4: PUBLIC HEARINGS AND PROCEDURES:
   A.   A public hearing before the Zoning Commission shall be held on each
complete application received by the Planning Department within six (6) months
of receiving the complete application. In the event that the applicant does not
want a hearing to be held within this six (6) month period, at the end of the
six (6) month period the application will be returned to the applicant, with a
refund of eighty percent (80%) of the application fee if the hearing has not
been noticed. The applicant can withdraw an application at any time, with a
refund of eighty percent (80%) of the application fee if the hearing has not
been noticed.
   B.   Notice for the public hearing shall be given as set forth in Idaho Code
section 67-6516.
   C.   The Zoning Commission shall determine whether the proposal conforms to
the variance criteria set forth in section
9-7B-3 of this article. Based on its determination, the Zoning Commission shall
approve or deny the application for the variance.
   D.   The Zoning Commission shall announce its decision and approve findings
of fact and conclusions of law within forty (40) days of closing the public
hearing. A copy of the signed findings of fact and conclusions of law will be
mailed to the applicant within forty-eight (48) hours of them being signed.
(Ord. 392, 8-16-2021)
9-7B-5: RECONSIDERATION PROCEDURE:
All final decisions of the Zoning Commission may be reconsidered, as set forth
in section
9-1-12 of this title. (Ord. 392, 8-16-2021)
9-7B-6: EFFECTIVE DATE OF VARIANCE:
Upon approval, the variance shall become effective, but if there is an
application to reconsider the variance, any use and any associated building
permits must immediately discontinue until the reconsideration is decided. Any
initiation of a use that required the variance or obtaining of building permits
related to the use is at the risk of the applicant. Until the reconsideration/
appeal period has elapsed or until the Board of Latah County Commissioners/
court of law has made a decision upon reconsideration/appeal, no variance is
guaranteed. No refunds will be issued for building permits that are suspended
because an application for reconsideration has been made or an appeal has been
filed or a variance has been overturned by the Board of Latah County
Commissioners or by a court of law. If a variance is overturned, any
improvements associated with the variance must be removed from the property
within thirty (30) days. (Ord. 392, 8-16-2021)
9-7B-7: EXPIRATION OF VARIANCE:
A variance shall expire if the structure allowed by the variance is not
physically established within one year of the effective date. (Ord. 392, 8-16-
2021)
CHAPTER 8
DIVISIONS OF PROPERTY
ARTICLE A. LAND DIVISIONS
SECTION:
9-8A-1: Allowed Only In Agriculture/Forest Zone
9-8A-2: Definition Of Existing And New Parcels
9-8A-3: Definition Of Productive Soil Types
9-8A-4: Eligibility Based On Size Of Existing Parcel
9-8A-5: Eligibility Based On Soil Type
9-8A-6: Requirements For Approval
9-8A-7: Changes In Previously Approved Parcels
9-8A-8: Existing Homes On Eligible Parcels
9-8A-9: Division Of Parcels, Noncompliance
9-8A-10: Deadline For Completion Of Application
9-8A-11: Compliance With Design Standards
9-8A-12: Noncontiguous Same Ownership Parcels
9-8A-1: ALLOWED ONLY IN AGRICULTURE/FOREST ZONE:
Land divisions are only allowed in the Agriculture/Forest Zone. Land divisions
are allowed only if the requirements as listed in this article are met. (Ord.
392, 8-16-2021)
9-8A-2: DEFINITION OF EXISTING AND NEW PARCELS:
   A.   All parcels of land recorded or approved by the Planning Department on
or before January 1, 1997, shall be considered existing parcels. "Parcels of
land recorded" is defined as a contiguous quantity of land recorded as the
property of persons or entities, each of which is named in a single instrument
conveying ownership thereof, and which has been separately conveyed from any
adjoining quantity of land, whose boundaries are defined in the last recorded
instrument of conveyance of such parcel which was recorded prior to January 1,
1997.
   B.   Conveyance of title, or contracts which provide for conveyance of
title, to portions of existing parcels which are executed after January 1,
1997, shall be deemed to create new parcels, except when transferred as a
boundary line adjustment in accordance with section
9-8D-2 of this title.
   C.   To be eligible for one residential building permit or commercial
building permits under sections
9-3A-2,
9-3A-3, and
9-3A-4 of this title, these new parcels shall be created in compliance with the
provisions of this title.
   D.   Roads that cross parcels that are listed in the Assessor's database as
a category 19 or that are owned or maintained by the North Latah County Highway
District or South Latah Highway District do not divide a parcel into separately
eligible building sites and are themselves not parcels. Highways and freeways
owned by the State of Idaho or the United States that existed prior to January
1, 1997, divide eligible parcels, creating two (2) eligible parcels, if the
highway or freeway deeds show a "fee simple" ownership by the State or Federal
government or if parcels on either side were transferred prior to January 1,
1997 and defined the property boundary as the highway or freeway. Highways and
freeways owned by the State of Idaho or the United States that were developed
or rerouted after January 1, 1997 do not divide a parcel and in no case create
separately eligible building sites or eligible parcels.
   E.   To be eligible for building permits, existing parcels that are listed
as having undivided interest or percentages of interest between parties must be
divided in accordance with this article, including by the owners that have
interest in the parcel. (Ord. 392, 8-16-2021)
9-8A-3: DEFINITION OF PRODUCTIVE SOIL TYPES:
For purposes of this article, "productive soil types" are defined as those
mapped soils from the 1981 "Soil Survey of Latah County Area, Idaho", U.S.
Department of Agriculture, and any subsequent amendments or updates of this
survey as published by the U.S. Department of Agriculture, including soil type
numbers 3, 4, 8, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29,
31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 44, 45, 50, 51, 52, 53, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59, 60, 61,
62, 63, 64, 65 and soils on all lands not included in that soil survey. All
maps are located in the Latah County GIS system. Less productive soil types are
defined as all remaining soil types. (Ord. 392, 8-16-2021)
9-8A-4: ELIGIBILITY BASED ON SIZE OF EXISTING PARCEL:
Existing parcels of at least ten (10) acres, regardless of soil type, are
eligible for one division. Existing parcels of at least one hundred sixty (160)
acres, regardless of soil type, are eligible for one additional land division
for each one hundred sixty (160) acre portion of the existing parcel. (Ord.
392, 8-16-2021)
9-8A-5: ELIGIBILITY BASED ON SOIL TYPE:
Existing parcels with forty (40) or more acres of less productive soil types
are eligible for one additional land division. (Ord. 392, 8-16-2021)
9-8A-6: REQUIREMENTS FOR APPROVAL:
For a land division to be approved by the Planning Department and for any
parcel that is a product of a land division to be eligible for one residential
building permit or commercial building permits under section
9-3A-2,
9-3A-3, or
9-3A-4 of this title, the following requirements must be met:
   A.   Submittal of a completed application form and fee shall be made by the
owner of the affected property to the Planning Department;
   B.   The number of proposed new parcels cannot exceed the number allowed by
sections
9-8A-4 and
9-8A-5 of this article;
   C.   The proposed new parcel(s) and the remnant parcel must be at least one
acre in size;
   D.   Each proposed new parcel and the remnant parcel shall have a building
site outside of a designated special flood hazard area that will accommodate
the placement of a residence, any accessory buildings, a well, and a sewage
disposal system;
   E.   The applicant must show that adequate sewage disposal facilities can be
located on each new parcel and the remnant parcel by submitting to the Planning
Department written approval from the North Central District Health Department;
   F.   Each new parcel and remnant parcel shall have a designated building
site that is no larger than two (2) acres where all residential structures
shall be placed. The building site and all structures shall be placed in a
manner to preserve productive farm land, commercial timber stands, streams,
riparian areas, and other unique natural features to ensure the rural nature of
Latah County is preserved, that agriculture and forest industries are protected
from residential growth, and to ensure that natural resources are protected as
set forth as goals and policies in the comprehensive plan. When it is
unfeasible to create a parcel that will preserve such features, the applicant
shall work with the Planning Department to create a building site that will be
the most consistent with the goals and policies set forth in the Latah County
Comprehensive Plan;
   G.   The applicant must show that adequate access is provided to each new
parcel and the remnant parcel by having frontage to a public road, or by an
easement, at least twenty-five feet (25') in width, approved by the Latah
County Surveyor, which connects to a public road. Any easement used to meet
this requirement shall be located such that it will allow conformance with
sections
9-9-1 and
9-9-2 of this title. Any easement used to meet this requirement shall be
recorded prior to approval of the land division. To limit access points onto
roadways, shared easements (shared driveways) are required when feasible. The
applicant shall work with the Planning Department and the appropriate
jurisdiction owning or maintaining the public road to determine the location of
shared driveways. No division may include driveways entering directly onto
State highways maintained by the Idaho Transportation Department unless there
is no other option. When there is no other option, the applicant shall use a
single access point and obtain multi-use access approval from ITD. If there is
no feasible way to use a single access point, the applicant may apply for one
or more additional access points onto the State highway, but must first obtain
a variance from the Zoning Commission to do so following the procedures set
forth in subsections
9-8B-2E1 through
9-8B-2E3 of this chapter. Written approval for each access point, either direct
or by easement, from the jurisdiction owning or maintaining the public road is
required. In addition to meeting the requirements of subsection
9-9-2D of this title, all shared private driveways shall have a graveled or
paved surface of at least twenty feet (20') wide. A driveway map must be
submitted to the Planning Department and approved prior to approval of the
division;
   H.   The legal description must be approved by the Latah County Surveyor or
the Latah County Planning Department on a form provided by the Planning
Department and recorded upon the Planning Department's final approval. If any
required easement crosses property owned by the same person the easement may be
included and recorded on this form. If a parcel is not able to be divided into
aliquot parts and described via an aliquot description or a certified legal
description from a Surveyor has not been submitted, a legal description shall
be created which shall be reviewed and approved by the County Surveyor and a
survey may be required at the discretion of the County Surveyor;
   I.   Any approved "new" buildable parcel shall become an "existing parcel"
thirty (30) years after it was created;
   J.   The applicant shall provide to the Planning Department a site plan for
each parcel drawn to scale. The site plan shall include the size, dimensions,
and location of each parcel and building site, the potential or actual location
and plans for the wells or water system, septic systems, residences, other
structures, easements, driveways and regulatory setbacks. Each two (2) acre
building site shall be placed so it will accommodate all regulatory setbacks,
the septic system, a residence, any accessory structures related to the
residential use, and such that it will be in compliance with subsection D of
this section. (Ord. 392, 8-16-2021)
9-8A-7: CHANGES IN PREVIOUSLY APPROVED PARCELS:
The Planning Department may approve changes to the boundaries of an approved
parcel, driveway plan or building site only if the changed parcel, driveway
plan, building site, any other parcels that were a result of this land
division, and the remnant parcel meet all of the requirements of this article.
The applicant must submit new signed agency approval forms from the
jurisdiction owning or maintaining the accessed public road for each access
point, North Central District Health Department, and Latah County Surveyor for
the adjusted parcel to the Planning Department. Road access and septic
approvals may be waived by the Planning Department if the site conditions for
which the previous approvals were based remain unaffected by the boundary line
changes. Latah County Surveyor approval shall not be waived. (Ord. 392, 8-16-
2021)
9-8A-8: EXISTING HOMES ON ELIGIBLE PARCELS:
When application for a land division is made for an existing parcel that has
one or more existing homes located on it, the existing nonconforming homes must
come into conformance with subsection
9-3A-2F of this title, unless prior to the land division the individual
receives approval(s) under subsection
9-3A-3A,
9-3A-3B or
9-3A-4A of this title to allow more than one home on one of the new parcels.
(Ord. 392, 8-16-2021)
9-8A-9: DIVISION OF PARCELS, NONCOMPLIANCE:
   A.   The parcel(s) created from the division of a new parcel, or the parcel
(s) created from the division of an existing parcel not eligible for division
under the provisions of section
9-8A-4 or
9-8A-5 of this article, shall not be eligible for residential or commercial
building permits unless the owner of the new parcel receives County approval
for rezoning and a subdivision plat.
   B.   If an existing eligible parcel that is not eligible for division under
the provisions of section
9-8A-4 or
9-8A-5 of this article is divided outside of the provisions of this title, and
a residential building permit has not been issued for the existing eligible
parcel, the owner of the existing eligible parcel may be eligible for one
residential building permit on the portion of the parcel they retain, so long
as that portion meets the size and setback requirements, or they may relinquish
the one residential building permit eligibility to one of the new parcels, so
long as the new parcel meets the size and setback requirements.
   C.   If an existing parcel is divided without making application to the
Planning Department and without complying with this title, and that division
was completed in such a manner that it could comply with the provisions of this
title, and the existing parcel was eligible for a land division under this
title at the time the division was completed, a land division application may
be made by all current owners of the properties previously involved to
retroactively bring this division into compliance with this title. (Ord. 392,
8-16-2021)
9-8A-10: DEADLINE FOR COMPLETION OF APPLICATION:
The applicant for land division shall have all approvals required by this
article returned to the Planning Department within twelve (12) months of
tentative approval date. (Ord. 392, 8-16-2021; amd. Ord. 407, 6-24-2025)
9-8A-11: COMPLIANCE WITH DESIGN STANDARDS:
All parcels, buildings, improvements, and driveways located in an approved land
division shall comply with sections
9-9-1 and
9-9-2 of this title. Failure to comply with these design standards will make
the affected parcels ineligible for building permits. (Ord. 392, 8-16-2021)
9-8A-12: NONCONTIGUOUS SAME OWNERSHIP PARCELS:
Noncontiguous parcels in the Agriculture/Forest zoning designation under the
same ownership may transfer residential building permits and land divisions
subject to the following:
   A.   Any parcel that is located in the Agriculture/Forest zoning designation
that is eligible for a land division or a building permit is considered a
conveying parcel.
   B.   Any parcel owned by the same person(s) as the conveying parcel in the
Agriculture/Forest zoning designation is considered an acquiring parcel.
   C.   Any parcel that is located in the Agriculture/Forest zoning designation
that is eligible for a land division (conveying parcel) or a building permit
may use that land division or building permit on property owned by the same
person(s) (acquiring parcel) in the Agriculture/Forest zoning designation
subject to the following conditions:
      1.   Ownership of both the conveying and acquiring parcels must have been
established prior to July 20, 2013. For the purposes of this article, same
person/ownership means a person having at least five percent (5%) interest in
the conveying and the receiving parcels.
      2.   Submittal of a completed application form and fee shall be made by
the owner of the affected properties to the Planning Department. Such fee shall
be the same as for a land division under this article.
      3.   The conveying and acquiring parcels cannot be in a platted
subdivision.
      4.   The conveying parcel must have areas that would enhance or protect
the goals of the Comprehensive Plan to preserve the rural character of Latah
County, conserve streams, floodplains, wetlands, wooded areas, and other areas
of natural significance, open space, protect wildlife habitat, preserve
recognized sites and areas with cultural, scenic, or natural significance, to
move development away from hazardous areas, enhance contiguity to agricultural
lands suitable for long range farming and ranching operations, and/or protect
and preserve active farm and forest grounds.
      5.   The area of the acquiring parcel where the building site or division
is conveyed shall not consist of active farm, ranch or forest grounds, areas
including floodplain, wetlands, and natural hazard areas, shall be in a
location that has an established rural fire district or will be provided fire
protection by enacting a written agreement with a municipal or established
rural fire district, shall be in locations such as to preserve the rural
character of Latah County, and shall be placed in a manner to allow contiguity
for farming and other land operations.
      6.   No more than one building permit and one division, or two (2)
divisions, may be conveyed from any existing parcel or eligible remnant parcel
(conveying parcel) to an acquiring parcel. No acquiring parcel can accept more
than one building permit and one division, or two (2) divisions.
      7.   For a building permit or land division transfer to be approved by
the Planning Department and for any parcel that is a product of a transfer to
be eligible for one residential building permit or commercial building permits
under section
9-3A-2,
9-3A-3, or
9-3A-4 of this title, the requirements of this section and of section
9-8A-6 of this article must be met.
      8.   Any transfers made under this section shall be required to obtain
final approval, contingent on compliance with this section, by the Latah County
Planning Department. In order for the acquiring parcel to obtain building
permit eligibility, a "record of transfer" shall be recorded with the County
Recorder. A form for such shall be provided by the Latah County Planning
Department. No "record of transfer" shall be recorded without final approval
from the Latah County Planning Department. (Ord. 392, 8-16-2021)
ARTICLE B. SHORT PLATS
SECTION:
9-8B-1: Definition; Scope
9-8B-2: Preliminary Approval
9-8B-3: Design Standards
9-8B-4: Final Approval
9-8B-1: DEFINITION; SCOPE:
A "short plat" is the division of a parcel of land into four (4) or fewer lots.
Division of a parcel previously divided by short plat shall not be permitted if
the total number of lots created from the original short plat plus any new
short plat exceeds four (4) lots, except by application for a full plat. Short
plats shall not be permitted in the Agriculture/Forest Zone. No lot so created
shall be less than the minimum lot size in each allowed zone, exclusive of
easements, and may be required to be larger than the minimum lot size in the
zone to accommodate wells, setbacks, septic systems, or the requirements of
subsection
9-8B-2D of this article. Lots shall also meet the requirements set forth in any
development agreement as per chapter 9-6A of this title. (Ord. 392, 8-16-2021)
9-8B-2: PRELIMINARY APPROVAL:
The Planning Department shall approve short plats meeting the following
criteria:
   A.   Submittal of a completed application form and fee shall be made by the
owner of the affected property.
   B.   Written and signed acknowledgment from the fire district, Latah County
Sheriff, and school district serving the affected parcel stating that the
service requirements for the proposed short plat will not have an adverse
effect upon existing service capabilities or finances of the jurisdiction.
   C.   Written and signed approval from the North Central District Health
Department that each proposed lot has an approved sewage disposal site or
approval from the appropriate agency for a shared sewer or septic system.
   D.   Each proposed lot shall have a building site outside of a designated
special flood hazard area. The plat must include a development restriction
prohibiting the placement of any residences, accessory buildings, wells or
sewage disposal systems within the designated special flood hazard area.
   E.   Each lot shall have at least twenty-five feet (25') of frontage on a
public road or at least fifty feet (50') of frontage onto one (1) fifty foot
(50') easement that is a shared private driveway that accesses a public road.
Each access onto the public road must be approved in writing by the
jurisdiction maintaining the public road. No short plat may include new public
roads unless required and approved in writing by the responsible highway
district. As part of a development agreement via the rezone, the Board of Latah
County Commissioners can require the private driveway be built to highway
district standards for a public road. In addition to meeting the requirements
of subsection
9-9-2D of this title, all shared private driveways in a short plat shall have
twenty feet (20') of graveled or paved surface. The shared private driveway
meeting the previous requirements shall be built to completion prior to
issuance of any building permit for said short plat.
Unless the following requirements are met, no short plat may include driveways
entering directly onto State highways maintained by the Idaho Transportation
Department. All new lots created via a short plat, and rezones which will ask
for a subsequent subdivision, must be designed to meet this requirement.
      1.   An applicant for a short plat may request a hearing before the
Zoning Commission, applying the general procedures set forth in chapter 9-7B of
this title, excepting section
9-7B-3 of this title and using the criteria set below, to ask for permission to
use an existing residential access approach (existing residential access
approach defined as approval from Idaho Transportation Department for a
residential access approach given prior to the effective date of this article)
to a State highway maintained by the Idaho Transportation Department if no
reasonable lot configuration can meet the requirement and one of the following
applies:
         a.   The original parcel from which a rezone was created does not
touch any other public roadway.
         b.   An area rezoned prior to the adoption of this provision does not
touch any other public roadway.
         c.   It is physically impractical for the new or existing parcel to
gain access to a public roadway that is not a State highway maintained by the
Idaho Transportation Department that touches that parcel.
      2.   The Zoning Commission shall use the following criteria in making its
decision:
         a.   The proposed access is not detrimental to the health or safety of
those in the surrounding area or the safety of the public at large.
      3.   If the existing residential access approach is approved by the
Zoning Commission, the applicant shall be required to:
         a.   Gain approval from the Idaho Transportation Department for access
for each new residential lot prior to the short plat being approved by the
Planning Department.
         b.   Make any additional improvements as required by the Idaho
Transportation Department to the driveway or approach prior to issuance of any
building permit for said short plat, in addition to the requirements listed
under this subsection E.
   F.   Plans for a water system or a statement that individual wells will be
used shall be submitted to the Planning Department by the applicant.
   G.   The applicant shall provide to the Planning Department a map with each
lot in the short plat drawn to scale that shows the size and dimensions of each
lot and the potential location of the wells, septic systems, residences, other
structures, easements, and regulatory setbacks. Regardless of minimum lot sizes
in its zoning designation, each lot shall be sized so it will accommodate the
well, all regulatory setbacks, the septic system, a residence, any other
relevant structures, and such that it will be in compliance with subsection D
of this section.
   H.   Submittal to the Planning Department of the plat prepared in accordance
with the specifications of Idaho Code Title 50, Chapter 13. (Ord. 392, 8-16-
2021)
9-8B-3: DESIGN STANDARDS:
All lots, buildings, improvements, and driveways located in an approved short
plat shall comply with sections
9-9-1 and
9-9-2 of this title. Failure to comply with these design standards will make
the affected lots ineligible for building permits. (Ord. 392, 8-16-2021)
9-8B-4: FINAL APPROVAL:
Upon written approval of the short plat by the Planning Department, but not
prior to the expiration of the appeal period of the Land Use Board of Appeals,
the applicant shall, in the following order:
   A.   Submit the application to the Latah County Surveyor for review and
approval;
   B.   Gather all signatures as required on the plat and by Idaho Code Title
50, Chapter 13, under the guidance of the Latah County Surveyor; and
   C.   Record the plat in the Latah County Recorder's Office under the
guidance of the Latah County Surveyor and according to Idaho Code Title 50,
Chapter 13. The applicant shall record the plat within one year of approval by
the Planning Department. If the applicant fails to record the plat within one
year of approval, the short plat application shall expire and the applicant
shall resubmit a completed application form and fee that shall be made by the
owner of the affected property and shall provide new approvals as set forth in
subsections
9-8B-2 of this article to the Planning Department. (Ord. 392, 8-16-2021)
ARTICLE C. FULL PLATS
SECTION:
9-8C-1: Definition; Scope
9-8C-2: Application; Requirements Prior To Consideration
9-8C-3: Standards
9-8C-4: Public Hearings And Procedures
9-8C-5: Criteria
9-8C-1: DEFINITION; SCOPE:
A "full plat" is the subdivision of a parcel of land into five (5) or more
lots. Full plats shall not be permitted in the Agriculture/Forest Zone. No lot
so created shall be less than the minimum lot size in each allowed zone,
exclusive of easements, and may be required to be larger than the minimum lot
size in the zone to accommodate wells, setbacks, septic systems, other required
improvements, or the requirements of subsection
9-8C-2H of this article. Lots shall also meet the requirements set forth in any
development agreement as per chapter 9-6A of this title. (Ord. 392, 8-16-2021)
9-8C-2: APPLICATION; REQUIREMENTS PRIOR TO CONSIDERATION:
Applications for full plat subdivisions must meet the following standards prior
to consideration by the Zoning Commission:
   A.   Application for a full plat subdivision shall be made by the owner of
the affected property. The completed application form, fee, and any other
information required by the Planning Department shall be submitted to the
department prior to scheduling a public hearing.
   B.   Full plat subdivisions shall only be permitted in water and sewer
districts as created under the provisions of Idaho Code Title 42, Chapter 32,
or where services will be provided by a municipality. The applicant shall
provide the Planning Department with written verification of approval by the
majority of water and sewer district board members at a duly noticed public
hearing of that district or a letter from the municipality that they will be
receiving services with no contingencies. The approval shall explicitly state
that the proposed subdivision is presently within the water and sewer district
or will be receiving services from the municipality and that the district or
municipality has approved an agreement with the applicant to provide adequate
water and sewer service to each lot being approved for development. The
verification document and written agreement shall be submitted to the Planning
Department with the application. Full plats with fewer than ten (10) lots that
are greater than five (5) acres each are not required to comply with this
section, but must comply with subsections
9-8B-2C and F of this chapter.
   C.   No more than two (2) lots in a full plat subdivision may have private
driveway access to an existing highway district system road, unless additional
lots are approved for private driveway access by the responsible highway
district in the interest of public safety. The Board of Latah County
Commissioners is not limited in its authority to require limits to access as
part of the subdivision approval. All other lots in a full plat subdivision
must have direct access to a new public road that has been accepted on the
subdivision plat as a public road by the responsible highway district. No
private driveways shall enter a State highway maintained by the Idaho
Transportation Department. Written approval is required from the Idaho
Transportation Department for any new public road maintained by the Idaho
Transportation Department. The applicant shall provide a map showing the
proposed lots, location of the new public road and all private driveway
accesses. The applicant must obtain written approval of the responsible highway
district verifying:
      1.   That the new public road has been accepted as part of the highway
district's highway system;
      2.   That each lot has approved direct access to a public road; and
      3.   That the applicant, their successors and/or assigns have agreed the
highway district's conditions necessary to ensure proper construction and
maintenance of all public road improvements.
All approval documents and agreements shall be submitted to the Planning
Department with the application.
   D.   Full plat subdivisions shall be located within an existing fire
district. The applicant shall provide the Planning Department with written
verification of approval by the majority of fire district Commissioners at a
duly noticed public hearing of that district. The approval shall explicitly
state that the proposed full plat subdivision is within the fire district and
that the district has approved an agreement with the applicant to provide
adequate fire protection. The agreement shall specify any fire protection
improvements that may be required by the district prior to issuance of building
permits in the new subdivision. The verification document and written agreement
shall be submitted to the Planning Department with the application.
   E.   The applicant shall provide to the Planning Department a verification
document from the school district that the district will be able to accommodate
the proposed subdivision with services.
   F.   The applicant shall provide to the Planning Department a verification
document from the Latah County Sheriff that the Sheriff's Department will be
able to accommodate the proposed subdivision with services.
   G.   All utility services shall be provided through underground utility
easements shown on the plat.
   H.   Each proposed lot shall have a building site outside of a designated
special flood hazard area. The plat must include a development restriction
prohibiting the placement of any residences, accessory buildings, wells or
sewage disposal systems within the designated special flood hazard area. (Ord.
392, 8-16-2021)
9-8C-3: STANDARDS FOR FINAL PLAT APPROVAL AND IMPROVEMENTS:
To ensure public safety and comply with the provisions of the Latah County
Comprehensive Plan, and in addition to any other applicable provision of this
title, full plats approved in accordance with this article shall meet the
following standards:
   A.   Prior to the final plat being signed by the Board of Latah County
Commissioners and prior to any improvements being made upon the property:
      1.   A surface drainage and runoff plan, submitted by a professional
engineer licensed in the State of Idaho, shall certify that the subdivision,
when developed in accordance with the engineered plan, will not permit any
surface drainage or runoff which exceeds the drainage or runoff from the site
prior to subdivision approval.
      2.   The applicant shall provide a financial guarantee, bond or escrow
account, in an amount approved by the Board of Latah County Commissioners. The
applicant shall provide an amount recommended by a professional engineer
licensed in the State of Idaho for the needed drainage control improvements,
road work, utilities, and bike paths or sidewalks.
      3.   No gated communities will be allowed.
      4.   For all full plats with lots smaller than or equal to two (2) acres
in size, land shall be dedicated to the County, free of all liens and
encumbrances, prior to the signing of the final plat, in order that adequate
sites for public parks may be properly located and preserved as the County
develops. The amount of land dedicated shall be in the amount of five percent
(5%) of the total land in the plat not to exceed ten (10) acres. All lands
designated for parks shall be approved by the Latah County Parks and Recreation
Department.
   B.   Prior to the issuance of any building permits within the subdivision:
      1.   The plat prepared in accordance with the specifications of Idaho
Code Title 50, Chapter 13, and the requirements of this title shall be recorded
by the applicant or applicant's authorized agent within one year of the
effective date for full plat approval. Plat approval expires if the applicant
fails to record the plat as specified; the applicant must then reapply for a
full plat.
      2.   All lots in a plat shall have a minimum of a one-hundred foot (100')
greenbelt buffer between the plat and a nonresidential zone. No residences
shall be permitted within this buffer area. This buffer can be eliminated if
the zoning on the adjacent property is changed to residential.
      3.   All roads shall be built to the current highway district road
standards and shall be subject to highway district use standards and
regulations.
      4.   All lots shall have off-street parking for at least four (4)
vehicles.
      5.   All utilities, approved water systems, and approved sewer systems
shall be installed and shall be approved by the agency with oversight.
      6.   A paved path system must be created and maintained so that the
system accesses each house and goes to all bus stops and any required park. If
adjacent to a road, there must be an adequate buffer, as approved by the
Planning Department between the path and the road.
      7.   The surface runoff plan shall be implemented.
      8.   If the improvements are not made upon the property within one year
of final approval of the full plat, then the County may use the bond or escrow
account to make the improvements. (Ord. 392, 8-16-2021)
9-8C-4: PUBLIC HEARINGS AND PROCEDURES:
   A.   A public hearing before the Zoning Commission shall be held on each
complete application received by the Planning Department within six (6) months
of receiving the complete application. In the event that the applicant does not
want a hearing to be held within this six (6) month period, at the end of the
six (6) month period the application will be returned to the applicant, with a
refund of eighty percent (80%) of the application fee if the hearing has not
been noticed. The applicant can withdraw an application at any time, with a
refund of eighty percent (80%) of the application fee if the hearing has not
been noticed.
   B.   Notice for the public hearing shall be given as set forth in Idaho Code
section 67-6512(b), or when notice is required to two hundred (200) or more
property owners, notice shall be given as set forth in section
9-6B-2 of this title.
   C.   The Zoning Commission shall determine whether the proposal conforms to
the full plat criteria set forth in this article. Based on its determination,
the Zoning Commission shall issue a preliminary approval or denial of the
application for the full plat. The Zoning Commission shall require a written
agreement to ensure that the criteria set forth in subsection
9-8C-3B of this article shall be met. The written agreement shall, for any
improvements, include costs for any improvements as determined by a
professional engineer licensed in the State of Idaho, and the applicant shall
provide a financial guarantee for such improvements in the form of a bond or
escrow account.
   D.   The Zoning Commission shall announce its decision and approve findings
of fact and conclusions of law within forty (40) days of closing the public
hearing. If the Zoning Commission denies the application, that decision shall
be considered final and it may be reconsidered as per section
9-1-12 of this title.
   E.   If the Zoning Commission approves the application, the application
shall be forwarded to the Board of Latah County Commissioners. The Board of
Latah County Commissioners may either approve or deny the application. If the
Board of Latah County Commissioners denies the application, the Board shall
adopt written findings of fact and conclusions of law setting forth the basis
for the denial.
   F.   After the Board of Latah County Commissioners approves the application,
the applicant shall have one year from the expiration date of the
reconsideration period to complete and record the plat, in accordance with
Idaho Code Title 50, Chapter 13, the requirements set forth in subsection
9-8C-3A of this article, and any relevant provisions of the written agreement
set forth in subsection C of this section.
   G.   Once the applicant has completed the plat as set forth above and
provided notice of completed plat to the Planning Department and the Latah
County Surveyor, the Planning Department shall verify the compliance of this
plat and then forward it to the Board of Latah County Commissioners. The Board
of Latah County Commissioners shall then ensure the requirements of Idaho Code
Title 50, Chapter 13 are met, the applicant has complied with and completed the
requirements set forth in subsection
9-8C-3A of this article and any relevant provision of the written agreement set
forth in subsection C of this section, and then shall sign the plat. After the
Board of Latah County Commissioners signs the plat, the applicant shall record
the plat in the Latah County Recorder's Office. Plat approval shall expire if
the applicant fails to record the plat; the applicant must then reapply for a
full plat. (Ord. 392, 8-16-2021)
9-8C-5: CRITERIA:
A full plat shall be approved if the Zoning Commission finds that the proposed
full plat meets each of the following criteria:
   A.   The proposed subdivision will not be detrimental to the public interest
or other property in the vicinity of the proposed full plat.
   B.   The proposed subdivision will not require facilities or services with
excessive costs to the public.
   C.   The proposed subdivision is not in conflict with the goals and policies
of the Comprehensive Plan.
   D.   The proposed subdivision has met the applicable requirements of this
article and Idaho Code Title 50, Chapter 13. (Ord. 392, 8-16-2021)
ARTICLE D. OTHER DIVISIONS; BOUNDARY LINES
SECTION:
9-8D-1: Other Divisions Of Property
9-8D-2: Boundary Line Adjustments
9-8D-1: OTHER DIVISIONS OF PROPERTY:
Any court distributions of property, allocations of land in the settlement of
an estate, or any other type of property distribution that is not otherwise
addressed in this article must be in compliance with the provisions of this
title to be eligible for any residential or commercial building permits. (Ord.
392, 8-16-2021)
9-8D-2: BOUNDARY LINE ADJUSTMENTS:
   A.   Any transfer(s) of property between adjacent properties will be
considered a boundary line adjustment unless the property being transferred is
a product of an approved land division or subdivision. Lots created through a
subdivision are not eligible for boundary line adjustments unless the
subdivision is amended, changes meet all of the requirements of this title, and
the property is replatted.
   B.   Boundary line adjustments are allowed so long as the resulting parcels
and existing uses on those parcels do not violate any section of this title or
other requirements that were set upon approval of the lots or uses. Boundary
line adjustments for parcels that were part of a land division are subject to
the requirements of section
9-8A-7 of this chapter. Boundary line adjustments do not transfer the rights or
privileges of one parcel to another parcel, but may extend or decrease the
allowed uses on a parcel depending on how its boundaries are adjusted.
   C.   A parcel that is subject to a boundary line adjustment after January 1,
1997, may still be eligible for a land division under article A of this
chapter. The land division eligibility is set forth in article A of this
chapter; however, in the event that the parcel of land is smaller than the
previously defined boundaries of the existing parcel of land, the eligibility
shall be based upon the most recent deed. Any boundary line adjustment
performed after January 1, 1997, shall not increase, but may decrease, the
number of allowed land divisions for any existing parcel, as defined in article
A of this chapter.
   D.   Any strip of land used to connect an existing parcel to more property
that is being boundary line adjusted shall be at least twenty-five feet (25')
in width. (Ord. 392, 8-16-2021)
CHAPTER 9
DESIGN STANDARDS
SECTION:
9-9-1: All Construction Prior To Issuance Of Building Permit
9-9-2: All Construction Prior To Issuance Of Certificate Of Occupancy
9-9-3: Standards For Parking Lots; Parking Lots Required
9-9-4: All Uses In Industrial Zone
9-9-1: ALL CONSTRUCTION PRIOR TO ISSUANCE OF BUILDING PERMIT:
To ensure public safety and comply with the provisions of the Latah County
Comprehensive Plan, all new construction shall meet the following requirements,
in addition to the requirements contained in the Building Code ordinance, prior
to issuance of a building permit for any structure:
   A.   No sediment, stormwater runoff, or construction water may flow outside
the disturbed area of a construction site, including temporary driveway(s),
private driveway(s) or road(s). The landowner is responsible for taking
whatever steps are necessary to retain sediment within the disturbed area.
   B.   To protect aquatic and terrestrial habitat and other biological
resources, all buildings shall be set back at least one hundred feet (100')
from perennial streams shown on USGS 7.5 minute maps. Any structure within this
setback that is in existence upon the effective date hereof shall be exempt
from this section. When this setback would prohibit the construction of a
building without a variance, the Planning Department shall permit the building
to be constructed as far from the stream as possible while meeting all other
setback requirements of the zone. (Ord. 392, 8-16-2021)
9-9-2: ALL CONSTRUCTION PRIOR TO ISSUANCE OF CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY:
To ensure public safety, all new construction shall meet the following
requirements, in addition to any applicable requirements contained in the
Building Code ordinance, in another section of this Code, or via a development
approval, prior to issuance of a certificate of occupancy for any structure:
   A.   All residential roof coverings shall be made of fire resistive
material.
   B.   Utility easements shall receive written approval from the appropriate
electric/gas utility provider. The utility provider shall indicate that the
easement at the time of occupancy is adequate for minimizing damage to utility
lines.
   C.   All cut and fill slopes and other disturbed areas on construction sites
must be seeded using species mixtures, seeding techniques, and scheduled as
recommended by the Natural Resources Conservation Service until such time that
permanent vegetation is established. Alternative methods that control weeds,
runoff and erosion may be utilized. Cut and fill slopes and other disturbed
areas shall not be left to over-winter without appropriate treatment.
   D.   To ensure that the proper driveway standards are met please check with
the Planning Department prior to the start of construction of the driveway.
Development approval from other sections of this Code may require construction
standards that differ from the listed requirements below. All driveways shall:
      1.   Have a graveled or paved width of at least ten feet (10'), unless
shared and then the width shall be twenty feet (20'), with a turnaround at the
residence, building or structure which allows a safe opposite change of
direction for emergency equipment forty feet (40') long and fifteen feet (15')
high.
      2.   Have graveled or paved turnouts, fifty feet (50') long and ten (10)
additional feet wide for every one thousand (1,000) linear feet of driveway,
except where line of site is obstructed in which case such turnouts shall be
located every five hundred feet (500').
      3.   Have a turning radius for all curves which will accommodate
emergency equipment forty feet (40') long.
      4.   Have side slopes (cut or fill slopes) re-vegetated using species
mixtures, seeding techniques, and scheduled as recommended by the Natural
Resources Conservation Service until such time that permanent vegetation is
established. Alternative methods that control weeds, runoff and erosion may be
utilized. Side slopes shall not be left to over-winter without appropriate
treatment.
      5.   Have water breaks or water bars or culverts constructed at the
recommended spacing based on the graph below:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/be1a7649b362ad1768069ef201d8fc33b732c182/
IMAGES/0-0-0-885.png]
 
      6.    Have driveway plans designed by a professional engineer licensed in
the State of Idaho when any one of the following conditions will result from
construction:
         a.   Driveways cross any stream shown on a U.S. Geological Survey 7.5
Minute Series Topographic Map.
         b.   Driveways that have a grade that will exceed ten percent (10%)
for more than one hundred feet (100').
         c.   Driveways with side slopes (cut or fill slopes) that exceed two
horizontal to one vertical on heights of four feet (4') or more.
      7.   Have access approved in writing by the responsible highway district
and be constructed in accordance with Highway District Standards. (Ord. 392, 8-
16-2021)
9-9-3: STANDARDS FOR PARKING LOTS; PARKING LOTS REQUIRED:
Accessory off-street parking and loading facilities shall be provided to
accommodate the use and occupancies for all buildings and structures and every
land use established, in all zones, after the effective date hereof. When
required, parking lots shall comply with all accessibility requirements as set
forth in the adopted Building Code ordinance. (Ord. 392, 8-16-2021)
9-9-4: ALL USES IN INDUSTRIAL ZONE:
All developments in the Industrial zoning designation shall meet, in addition
to the requirements set forth in any other applicable section of this Code and/
or via a development approval, each of the following requirements:
   A.   Development and continued maintenance of an approved buffer yard of not
less than twenty feet (20') in width within the setback area. The buffer yard
must extend along any public right-of-way and any perimeter property line which
is adjacent to land not zoned industrial.
   B.   Prior to issuance of a building permit or initiation of any activity
that does not require a building permit, the Department of Environmental
Quality (DEQ) shall be consulted and if necessary, prior to a certificate of
occupancy, provide written approval for a wastewater management plan that is
created by and submitted to the DEQ by the applicant or their representative.
The applicant will have to meet whatever standards the DEQ requires for the
submittal. The applicant shall comply with the requirements of the approved
plan prior to the certificate of occupancy being issued.
   C.   A stormwater management program shall be implemented to ensure that no
increase in runoff from the property results from the new development. This
program shall be developed and submitted to the Planning Department for review
prior to issuance of a building permit or initiation of any activity that does
not require a building permit. If adequate, the plan shall be approved by the
Planning Department. Any necessary site improvements must be made and verified
prior to the issuance of the certificate of occupancy for the facility.
If the use will require outdoor watering, may have hazardous or other chemicals
that could be discharged during a rain event, or if there are any hazardous
chemicals that if released could be a safety hazard to the public, the Planning
Department can require this plan be designed by a professional engineer
licensed in the State of Idaho and the engineer shall certify that the program
has been implemented (including physical improvements).
   D.   The hours of operation shall be restricted to the period from six
o'clock (6:00) A.M. to nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. for exterior activities.
Operation outside these hours shall require a conditional use permit as
provided by chapter 9-7A of this title.
   E.   Prior to issuance of a building permit or initiation of any activity
that does not require a building permit the applicant must submit and/or
complete the following:
      1.   A plan for parking that includes spaces, accessibility, and approach
points. All approach points must be approved by the appropriate highway agency.
      2.   A plan for any lighting. All lighting must be a full cutoff fixture
and shall be directed away from existing residences.
      3.   A plan for fire protection.
      4.   Approval from the Health Department for any new septic system, any
connection or modification to an existing septic system, and approval from any
city or sewer district showing an approved connection for the proposed use.
      5.   A plan for any outdoor storage.
      6.   A signed statement that an available water source adequate for the
needs of the proposed facility has been developed. The Planning Department
shall check to ensure necessary permits have been issued for the water source.
(Ord. 392, 8-16-2021)
