CITY CODE
of
McCALL, IDAHO
1994
Code current through:
Ord. 1025, passed 8-8-2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
This code of the City of McCall, as supplemented, contains ordinances up to and
including ordinance 1025, passed August 8, 2024. Ordinances of the City adopted
after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the extent that
they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the City office in
order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has been
amended, superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not amend the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
Ordinance 1027
–AIRPORT RULES & REGULATIONS      Page of 1
September 26, 2024ORDINANCE NO. 1027
 
AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF McCALL, VALLEY COUNTY, IDAHO, AMENDING SECTIONS 8-
16-3, GROUND RULES, 8-16-5, LANDING AND TAKEOFF RULES, AND 8-16-7, FEES, OF
TITLE VIII, PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY, CHAPTER 16, AIRPORT RULES AND
REGULATIONS, OF THE McCALL CITY CODE, TO CLARIFY HELICOPTER AND OTHER AIRCRAFT
LANDING AND TAKEOFF RULES, REMOVE SELF-FUEL FEES, DETAIL FEES ASSOCIATED WITH
LANDING AND PERMITS, IDENTIFY REQUIRED HOOKUPS TO DESIGNATED RESOURCES, AND
AMEND VARIOUS SECTIONS FOR CLARITY; PROVIDING FOR SAVINGS AND SEVERABILITY; AND
PROVIDING FOR AN EFFECTIVE DATE.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MAYOR AND COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF MCCALL,
IDAHO:
 
   Section 1:   AMENDMENT. That Sections 8-16-3, 8-16-5, and 8-16-7, of
Title VIII, Chapter 16, of the McCall City Code are hereby amended, as provided
for in Exhibit “A,” attached hereto and, by this reference, incorporated herein
as if set forth in full.
 
   Section 2:    SAVINGS AND SEVERABILITY CLAUSE. It is hereby declared to be
the legislative intent that the provisions and parts of this Ordinance shall be
severable. If any paragraph, part, section, subsection, sentence, clause, or
phrase of this Ordinance is for any reason held to be invalid for any reason by
a Court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity
of the remaining portions of this Ordinance.
 
   Section 3:   EFFECTIVE DATE.  This ordinance shall be in full force and
effect after its passage, approval and publication, according to law.
PASSED AND APPROVED BY THE MAYOR AND COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF McCALL, IDAHO, THIS
26 DAY OF SEPTEMBER, 2024.
 
                     Approved:
 
                     By________________________________
                          Robert S. Giles, Mayor
Attest:
 
By                  
BessieJo Wagner, City Clerk
 
 
 
 
 
Exhibit A
   
8.16.3: GROUND RULES:
   (A)   Aircraft engines shall be started or warmed up so as not to endanger
life or property. At no time shall engines be operated at power greater than
necessary to move the aircraft when hangars, shops, other buildings, or persons
in the observation area, are in the path of the propeller stream or jet blast.
When aircraft engines are started, a competent operator shall be at all times
at the controls.
   (B)   Auxiliary power units (APUs) are not to be started until thirty (30)
minutes prior to planned takeoff time. APUs operating beyond thirty (30)
minutes are subject to a noise reduction/energy conservation/air quality fee to
be set by resolution of the City Council.
   (C)   Aircraft shall be parked only in areas and in the manner designated by
the Airport Manager.
   (D)   All repairs to aircraft or engines, except emergency repairs, shall be
made in the spaces designated for this purpose, and not in the area reserved
for landing and taking off.
   (E)   Only airmen, authorized personnel, or persons being conducted by
airmen or airport attendants shall be permitted to enter the landing areas,
aircraft parking ramps and taxiways. This does not give these persons the
privilege of unrestricted use of this space. These privileges are confined to
the necessary use of this space in connection with flights, inspections or
routine duties.
   (F)   Aircraft shall be properly blocked and tied down by the owner or
operator when parked for overnight or when conditions otherwise warrant.
   (G)   No motor vehicle shall be driven onto the runway safety area (runway)
without the expressed permission of the Airport Manager or his designated
representative. Fuel trucks and emergency vehicles are authorized. Operators of
ground vehicles desiring access to the RSA shall carry a radio equipped to
transmit and receive on 122.8 MHz (the common traffic advisory frequency
[CTAF]), shall announce their intentions prior to entering the runway
environment, and shall monitor CTAF continuously while within the runway
environment.
   (H)   No automobile shall be parked on the airport property except in areas
designated for that purpose by the Airport Manager.
Any vehicle parked in an area other than as herein provided shall be deemed to
be involved in an extraordinary circumstance and a threat to public safety and
the same shall immediately be towed away and impounded under the direction of
the McCall Police Department. All costs of towing, impounding and storage shall
be paid prior to redemption of any such vehicle, as provided by chapter 18,
title 49, Idaho Code, which chapter is hereby adopted by this reference.
Operators of vehicles crossing the taxiway adjacent to the tie down area shall
exercise due caution and must give way to all aircraft.
   (I)   Vehicle parking areas at the airport are intended for airport users
only. Commercial truck and bus parking not related to airport use is
prohibited.
   (J)   The Airport Manager may grant restricted access to the area inside the
airport boundary fence for various reasons. Access privileges are confined to
the times and areas required for the purpose access was granted.
   (K)   Fixed wing and helicopter operators with support vehicles must receive
approval from the Airport Manager for staging and parking locations prior to
leaving vehicles or aircraft unattended. (Ord. 949, 9-8-2016)
   (L)   Helicopters may not land on Taxilane E-1 to the west of the 500-Block/
East Row hangars. Helicopter operators must use a tug or wheels to move the
aircraft from the intersection of Taxilane E and E-2 or E-3 if they wish to
store a helicopter in a 500-hangar.
(M) To prevent rotor wash impacts on noncommercial hangars, helicopters wishing
to access hangars in the 200-row, 600-row, 700-row, and 900-row may not land on
hangar aprons. Landing helicopters must coordinate with taxiing aircraft and
land on the appropriate taxilane/taxiway and use a tug/wheels to cross the
apron and enter the hangar.
8.16.5: LANDING AND TAKEOFF RULES:
Landing and takeoff rules are voluntary but and compliance is strongly
encouraged.
   (A)   Refer to AC No: 90-66C Non-Towered Airport Flight Operations. Landings
and takeoffs shall be made directly into the wind or on the runway or landing
strip most nearly aligned with the wind except when winds are light. Winds of
less than five (5) miles per hour knots per hour are considered light. Except
when wind dictates otherwise, takeoffs to the south, Runway 16 is the
established protocol, with landing to the north on Runway 34 the established
protocol.
Traffic pattern altitude is six thousand feet (6,000') MSL.
   (B)   No landing or takeoff shall be made except at a safe distance from
buildings and aircraft.
   (C)   Runway 16 departures: All aircraft should climb on runway heading to
at least five thousand five seven hundred feet (5,500’) (5,700') MSL (Ord. xxx,
9-26-2024) prior to any turns.
 Runway 34 departures: Piston aircraft should make a left turn as soon as
safety permits to avoid residential areas; turbine aircraft should climb on
runway heading to Payette Lake shoreline prior to any turns.
Do not operate at high RPM and high power settings at low altitude, unless
required for safe operation.
   (D)   Unless a control tower is in operation, fixed wing aircraft taking off
or landing, or flying in the traffic pattern at the McCall Airport, shall use
the standard left hand traffic pattern.
   (E)   VFR "straight in" landings are permitted, traffic permitting.
   (F)   Helicopters shall avoid the flow of fixed wing aircraft.
   (G)   All radio equipped aircraft shall monitor the common traffic advisory
frequency (CTAF- formerly called UNICOM), 122.8 MHz and announce intentions to
use the runway, unless an air traffic control tower (ATCT) is in operation and
then shall follow the instructions of ATCT.
   (H)   When preparing for takeoff, aircraft on the ground shall yield to all
aircraft beginning final landing approach.
   (I)   Wind permitting, use Runway 16 for touch and go landings. Pilots
making touch and go landings must ensure safe spacing from other aircraft.
   (J)   Operations from eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. until six o'clock (6:00)
A.M. are discouraged, and operations from six o'clock (6:00) A.M. until seven
o'clock (7:00) A.M. should be minimized. Touch and go operations should be
avoided before eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and after seven o'clock (7:00) P.M.
   (K)   Avoid low altitude flying over populated areas, maintaining traffic
pattern altitude as long as practicable, flying at or above the VASIs.
    (L) Maintain a steep and stabilized approach when landing Runway 16.
8.16.7: FEES:
   (A)   Tie Down And Parking Area: Tie down and parking area rental fees shall
be from time to time established by resolution of the Council. Rules and
regulations for tie down areas and enforcement thereof shall be as established
in such resolutions of the Council.
   (B)   Parking Procedures: Parking procedures for tie down tenants will be as
directed by the Airport Manager.
   (C)   Landing Fees: There is hereby imposed on all owners and operators of
aircraft landing at the McCall Municipal Airport, landing fees in the amount
established from time to time by City Council resolution. The Council may in
such resolution establish classes of aircraft and vary the fees according to
class, and extend exemptions to certain on airport lessees or on airport
Federal government agencies, if it so chooses.
   (D)   Collection Of Landing Fees: The Airport Manager’s or designee,
including any vendor or contractor paid to perform this task, shall collect
such parking and landing fees and remit them to the City Treasurer who shall
credit such fees to the Airport Fund.
   (E)   Bulk Distributor Fuel Fee: A per gallon fee will be paid by the bulk
distributor on all aircraft fuel delivered to any location at McCall Municipal
Airport. The bulk distributor shall file a monthly report on an airport
approved format of such deliveries. Payment of the fuel flowage fees shall
accompany the report. The distributor shall pay to the City within thirty (30)
days following the end of each calendar month, without demand or invoicing, the
per gallon fee charges for the preceding month at the rate and in the amount
then currently approved in the airport fee schedule. The distributor shall
provide to the airport for calculation of per gallon fee charges a copy of its
monthly fuel flowage report and the number of gallons delivered by the due
date. The report and payment of fuel flowage fee must be received in the
Airport Director's Office on or before the delivered due date as described
above. The current fuel flowage fee will be published and available at the
Airport Manager's Office.
   (F)   Self-Fuel Fee: The fuel flowage fee will be paid by aircraft owners
who bring their own fuel onto the airport to "self-fuel". The aircraft owner
may choose either to pay the fuel flowage fee for all of the fuel brought onto
the airport, or else pay the nonbased rate of 1.5 times the current fuel
flowage fee for all fuel actually pumped.
   (GF)   Permits, Agreements, And Leases:
      1.   Commercial Activity: All commercial operators conducting activities
of any type on McCall Municipal Airport property, or using McCall Airport
property as a base of operations, shall notify airport management of such
activity by applying for an "airport business license". The licenses may be
obtained at the Airport Manager's Office and will be valid for three (3) years
from the date of issuance. A charge will be assessed for this license, as set
by the McCall City Council. Activities approved by license, agreement, or lease
shall be restricted to the activities specifically described in the license,
agreement, or lease and any applicable minimum standards. Forms for such
permits, agreements, and leases and copies of the airport minimum standards may
be obtained from the Airport Manager's Office.
In the event the airport agrees to an activity for which there is not an
appropriate license, agreement or lease, airport management will make a
recommendation through the Airport Advisory Committee to the City Council for
the terms, conditions and rates.
      2.   Airport Fees, Rents, And Charges: It is the goal of the airport to
be as self-supporting as possible, in accordance with FAA airport grant
assurances. The system of rates and charges is developed to reflect fair
compensation for the use of the facility by all users (see airport website for
current rates).
      3.   Lease Assignments: If any of the noncommercial hangar land lessees
propose a commercial operation, then they will be required to fill out a
complete new lease application and have the commercial operation reviewed by
the Airport Advisory Committee and approved or denied by City Council.
All hangars which have sewage holding tanks will be required to connect to the
City sewer Payette Lakes Recreational Water and Sewer (PLRWSD) system, where
available within three hundred feet (300') of the hangar, upon lease assignment
or the end of lease term. Lease assignees with no intent to utilize an existing
holding tank will crush or remove the existing tank as directed by the Airport
Manager through coordination with Public Works. PLRWSD.
Leases/hangars used for noncommercial purposes/airplane storage do not require
a complete lease application but do require contact information and the
registration number of the aircraft intended to be housed in the hangar.
Hangars 106 and above are all noncommercial hangars to be used for aircraft
storage. These noncommercial lease assignments will require the following:
         (a)   The name of the new owner including those authorized to execute
documents if transferred to a corporation.
         (b)   The address of the new owner.
         (c)   The telephone number of the new owner.
         (d)   An e-mail address if available for the new owner.
         (e)   Two (2) contacts to assist in finding the owner if they move and
the Post Office is no longer forwarding their mail.
         (f)   The N number of the aircraft to be stored in the hangar.
         (g)   If no aircraft is presently owned, a stated plan on when and how
aircraft are to be stored in the hangar (e.g., a plan to build a home built
aircraft, a plan to purchase an aircraft by a certain date, or a plan to rent
the hangar for aircraft storage until an aircraft is purchased).
         (h)   An acknowledgement that the hangar is to be used primarily for
aircraft storage.
         (i)   A name change for the hangar owner, a name of the corporation,
or placing the lease into an estate planning trust is not a lease assignment if
the people owning the lease have not changed.
      4.   New Leases: Leases for terms other than the adopted "standard" lease
template are reviewed by the AAC with a recommendation and comment to City
Council. Any variance from the standard lease template must be approved by the
City Council.
      5.   Lease Extensions Upon Lease Expiration: Prior to extending a lease,
the AAC will review and make a recommendation to City Council after
consideration of the physical condition of the existing hangar and its impact
on the Airport Master Plan and Airport Layout Plan to assure that extension of
the lease for the hangar does not interfere with future airport development.
      6.   Through The Fence (TTF) Agreements:
         (a)   Proposals for future TTF activity must first be submitted to the
Airport Manager and require a recommendation from the Airport Advisory
Committee to City Council. If City Council chooses to consider a TTF Plan, then
a public hearing with Planning and Zoning and a separate public hearing with
McCall City Council would be required, even if not normally required under
current Planning and Zoning rules. Additionally, FAA is required to comment as
to the acceptability of the proposed TTF to ensure that the proposal does not
violate any existing airport grant assurances.
         (b)   Any TTF activities are required to pay airport access fees as
stipulated by FAA directives. Landing fees, fuel flowage fees and other fees as
determined by City Council would also be required to be paid by TTF operators.
   (HG)   Damage To Airport Property: Any person causing or responsible for
injury, destruction, damage, or disturbance to the airport or public property
shall report such damage to the McCall Police and, upon demand by the airport,
shall reimburse the airport for the full amount of the damage.
   (IH)   Nondiscrimination: It is unlawful for a lessee, tenant,
concessionaire, licensee, or contractor to discriminate against any person,
because of race, color, national origin, sex, creed, or handicap, in public
services and employment opportunities.
   (JI)   Airport Construction And Obstruction Control: No person shall
commence any construction project on airport premises without first obtaining
written permission from the Airport Manager and without strict compliance and
adherence to the safety specifications and direction of the Airport Manager.
The Airport Manager will review all requests for building permits and approve
or disapprove on the basis of the airport minimum standards, any airport tenant
design standards, the then current Airport Master Plan, the current FAA
approved Airport Layout Plan, and the potential benefit to the public and the
aeronautical community. Construction shall not begin until FAA has approved via
an FAA Form 7460 (airspace) process. An FAA environmental process is also
required for all construction and demolition on the airport.
   (KJ)   Removal And Impoundment Of Property: The Airport Manager, or
his their duly authorized representative, may remove from any area of the
airport, including any leased premises, any aircraft, motor vehicle, or other
property which causes or constitutes, or reasonably appears to cause or
constitute, an imminent or immediate danger to the health or safety of the
persons using the air terminal or a significant portion thereof. The expense of
such removal and any storage fees shall become a lien chargeable to the owner
and/or operator of such aircraft, motor vehicle or other property.
   (LK)   Abandoned/Derelict Aircraft: No person may abandon an aircraft on the
airport, nor allow an aircraft parked on the airport, to become derelict or a
hazard to other airport users. If the owner of an aircraft which appears to be
abandoned or derelict cannot be contacted, a notice shall be placed on the
aircraft stating that the aircraft must be moved from the parking ramp within
six (6) weeks, or the aircraft will be impounded and removed.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ord.1028
Local Option Tax                        Page of 1
February 13, 2025
Local Option Tax Ordinance
Passed by Voter Approval May 20, 2025 Election
Effective January 1, 2026
 
ORDINANCE NO. 1028
 
 
AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF MCCALL, VALLEY COUNTY, IDAHO, FINDING THAT SAID
CITY QUALIFIES AS A RESORT CITY ABLE TO ADOPT LOCAL-OPTION NONPROPERTY TAXES
UPON AUTHORIZATION BY ELECTION; PROVIDING FOR DEFINITIONS; PROVIDING FOR THE
IMPOSITION AND RATE OF CERTAIN NON- PROPERTY SALES TAXES: A ONE PERCENT (1%)
SALES TAX ON SALES AT RETAIL WITH CERTAIN EXCLUSIONS AND AN ADDITIONAL FOUR
PERCENT (4%) OCCUPANCY SALES TAX ON HOTEL MOTEL AND SHORT TERM RENTALS;
PROVIDING FOR A TEN (10) YEAR DURATION OF SAID NON-PROPERTY TAXES; ESTABLISHING
THE PURPOSES FOR WHICH THE REVENUES DERIVED FROM SAID NON-PROPERTY TAXES SHALL
BE USED; ESTABLISHING GENERAL AND ENTERPRISE FUND CAPITAL INFRASTRUCTURE
BUDGETS; AUTHORIZING THE CITY CLERK TO ADMINISTER, REGULATE, AND COLLECT SAID
NON-PROPERTY TAXES; CREATING A PROPERTY TAX RELIEF FUND; PROVIDING FOR PERMITS
AND ISSUANCE; PROVIDING METHOD FOR PAYMENT OF TAXES, AUDITS, DEFICIENCY
DETERMINATIONS; RE-DETERMINATIONS OF DEFICIENCY, APPEALS, INTEREST ON
DEFICIENCY, COLLECTIONS AND ENFORCEMENT; REFUNDS, LIMITATIONS AND INTEREST;
PROVIDING FOR RESPONSIBILITY FOR PAYMENT OF TAXES; PROVIDING PERIOD OF
LIMITATION ON ASSESSMENT AND COLLECTION; ESTABLISHING SUCCESSORS' LIABILITY;
PROVIDING FOR GENERAL ADMINISTRATION BY CITY CLERK; PROVIDING PENALTIES AND
PENALTY CHARGES; PROVIDING EXEMPTIONS; PROVIDING FOR CONFIDENTIALITY OF
INFORMATION; PROVIDING FOR SEVERABILITY; PROVIDING A REPEALER CLAUSE; AND,
PROVIDING AN EFFECTIVE DATE OF THIS ORDINANCE.
 
BE IT ORDAINED by the Mayor and City Council of the City of McCALL, IDAHO:
SECTION 1
 
FINDINGS:
 
The City Council of the City of McCall hereby finds that said City has a
population not in excess of 10,000 according to the most recent census and is a
City that derives the major portion of its economic well-being from businesses
catering to recreational needs and meeting needs of people traveling to said
destination City for an extended period of time; that said City has a
significant economic dependence upon visitors and travelers passing through or
staying in the community and said City; and, that said visitors and travelers
require services of said City which place an undue burden upon the taxpayers of
said City.
   
SECTION 2
 
DEFINITIONS:
 
For the purposes of this Ordinance, the following terms, phrases, words, and
derivations shall have the meaning given herein. Except as specifically noted
herein, the terms used in this chapter shall have the same definitions as such
terms have been defined in the Idaho sales tax act, found at Idaho Code title
63, chapter 36, as that legislation may from time to time be amended; and the
Idaho sales and use tax regulations as adopted by the department of revenue and
taxation, state tax commission, as those regulations may from time to time be
amended; and the retail sale of liquor by the drink act as that legislation and
regulation may from time to time be amended. Whenever in the definitions
contained in the Idaho sales tax act or the Idaho sales and use tax
regulations, reference is made to the "state of Idaho", "tax collector", "Idaho
sales tax act" or "act" or "tax commission", such reference shall be deemed to
be to the City of McCall city clerk, this chapter, City of McCall,
respectively, unless the context of the reference clearly demonstrates that
such interpretation is unreasonable.
 
IN THE CITY OF MCCALL: means within the municipal boundaries of the City of
McCall, Valley County, Idaho.
 
GROCERIES: Means any items of food and/or beverages sold in a grocery store,
and does not include:
 
1.   Alcoholic beverages;
 
2.   Tobacco;
 
3.   Any food product which is prepared and sold for consumption at any eating
place
 
4.   Any sandwiches and foods prepared and sold by retailer for immediate human
consumption; or
 
5.   Any food product sold through a vending machine.
 
PERSON: Means and includes any individual, firm, co-partnership, joint venture,
association, social club, fraternal organization, corporation, estate, trust,
business trust, receiver, trustee, syndicate, cooperative, assignee, or any
other group or combination acting as a unit.
   
PURCHASE: Means any transfer, rental, exchange, or barter, conditional or
otherwise, in any manner or by any means whatsoever, of tangible personal
property for a consideration. A transaction whereby the possession of property
is transferred but the seller retains the title as security for the payment of
the price is a purchase. A transfer for a consideration of any publication or
of tangible personal property which has been produced, fabricated, or printed
to the special order of the customer is also a purchase.
 
RETAIL SALE - SALE AT RETAIL: Means a sale for any purpose other than resale in
the regular course of business or lease or rental of property in the regular
course of business where such rental or lease is taxable under section 63-3612
(h), Idaho Code.
      
1.   All persons engaged in constructing, altering, repairing, or improving
real estate, are consumers of the material used by them; all sales to or use by
such persons of tangible personal property are taxable whether or not such
persons intend resale of the improved property.
      
2.   For the purpose of this chapter, the sale or purchase of personal property
incidental to the sale of real property or used mobile homes is deemed a sale
of real property.
   
RETAILER: Means and includes:
      
1.   Every seller who makes any retail sale or sales of tangible personal
property and every person engaged in the business of making retail sales at
auction of tangible personal property owned by the person or others.
      
2.   Every person engaged in the business of making sales for storage, use, or
other consumption or in the business of making sales at auction of tangible
personal property owned by the person or others for storage, use, or other
consumption.
      
3.   Every person making more than two (2) retail sales of tangible personal
property during any twelve (12) month period, including sales made in the
capacity of assignee for the benefit of creditors, or receiver or trustee in
bankruptcy, or every person making fewer sales who holds himself out as
engaging in the business of selling such tangible personal property at retail
or who sells a motor vehicle.
      
4.   When the City Clerk determines that it is necessary for the efficient
administration of this act to regard any salesmen, representatives, peddlers,
or canvassers as agents of the dealers, distributors, supervisors, or employers
under whom they operate or from whom they obtain the tangible personal property
sold by them, irrespective of whether they are making sales on their own behalf
or on behalf of such dealers, distributors, supervisors, or employers, the City
Clerk may so regard them and may regard the dealers, distributors, supervisors,
or employers as retailers for the purpose of this act.
      
5.   Persons conducting both contracting and retailing activities. Such persons
must keep separate accounts for the retail portion of their business and pay
tax in the usual fashion on this portion.
 
ROOM OCCUPANCY CHARGE: Means and includes the total amount charged for, or
allocated to, the rental, use or temporary occupancy of a room, hotel, motel,
condominium, campground, or other sleeping accommodation or living unit, valued
in money, whether paid in money or otherwise, without any deduction.
 
SALE: Means any transfer of title, exchange, or barter, conditional or
otherwise, of tangible personal property for a consideration and shall include
any similar transfer of possession found by the City Clerk to be in lieu of, or
equivalent to, a transfer of title, exchange, or barter. "Sale" shall also
include the following transactions when a consideration is transferred,
exchanged, or bartered:
      
1.   Producing, fabricating, processing, printing, or imprinting of tangible
personal property for consumers who furnish, either directly or indirectly, the
tangible personal property used in the producing, fabricating, processing,
printing, or imprinting.
      
2.   Furnishing, preparing, or serving food, meals, or drinks and non-
depreciable goods and services directly consumed by customers included in the
charge thereof.
      
3.   A transfer of possession of property where the seller retains the title as
security for the payment of the sales price.
      
4.   A transfer of the title or possession of tangible personal property which
has been produced, fabricated, or printed to the special order of the customer,
or of any publication.
      
5.   Admission to a place or for an event in Idaho, provided that an
organization conducting an exempt function as defined in section 527 or
exempted by section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code, as incorporated in
section 63-3004, Idaho Code, and collecting any charges for attendance at the
aforementioned event, shall not have those admission charges be defined as a
sale if the event:
         
a)   Is not predominately recreational or commercial; and
         
b)   Any included entertainment value is minimal when compared to the charge
for attendance; and
         
c)   Such entity has paid sales and use tax on taxable property or services
used during the event.
      
1.   The use of or the privilege of using tangible personal property or
facilities for recreation.
      
2.   Providing hotel, motel, and/or short-term rental accommodations, non-
depreciable goods directly consumed by customers and included services, except
where residence is maintained continuously under the terms of a lease or
similar agreement for a period in excess of thirty days.
      
3.   The lease or rental of tangible personal property.
      
4.   The intrastate transportation for hire by air of freight or passengers,
except (1) as part of a regularly scheduled flight by a certified air carrier,
under authority of the United States, or (2) when providing air ambulance
services.
   
SALES PRICE: Means the total amount for which tangible personal property,
including services agreed to be rendered as a part of the sale, is sold, rented
or leased, valued in money, whether paid in money or otherwise, without any
deduction on account of any of the following:
   
1.   The cost of the property sold. However, in accordance with such rules as
the City Clerk may prescribe, a deduction may be taken if the retailer has
purchased property for some purpose other than resale or rental, has reimbursed
his vendor for tax which the vendor is required to pay to the City or has paid
the use tax with respect to the property, and has resold or rented the property
prior to making any use of the property other than retention, demonstration or
display while holding it for sale in the regular course of business. If such a
deduction is taken by the retailer, no refund or credit will be allowed to his
vendor with respect to the sale of the property.
 
2.   The cost of materials used, labor or service cost, losses, or any other
expense.
   
3.   The cost of transportation of the property prior to its sale.
   
4.   The face value of manufacturer's discount coupons. A manufacturer's
discount coupon is a price reduction coupon presented by a consumer to a
retailer upon purchase of a manufacturer's product, the face value of which may
only be reimbursed by the manufacturer to the retailer.
 
The sales price of a "new manufactured home" or a "modular building" as defined
in this act shall be limited to and include only fifty-five percent (55%) of
the sales price as otherwise defined herein.
      
Taxes previously paid on amounts represented by accounts found to be worthless
may be credited upon a subsequent payment of the tax provided in this chapter
or, if no such tax is due, refunded. If such accounts are thereafter collected,
a tax shall be paid upon the amount so collected.
      
Tangible personal property when sold at retail for more than eleven cents
($.11) but less than one dollar and one cent ($1.01) through a vending machine
shall be deemed to have sold at a sales price equal to one hundred seventeen
percent (117%) of the price which is paid for such tangible personal property
and/or its component parts including packaging by the owner or operator of the
vending machines.
 
Sales price shall not include a gratuity or tip received when paid to the
service provider of a meal. The gratuity or tip can be either voluntary or
mandatory, but must be given for the service provided and as a supplement to
the service provider's income.
 
The term "sales price" does not include any of the following:
 
1.   Retailer discounts allowed and taken on sales, but only to the extent that
such retailer discounts represent price adjustments as opposed to cash
discounts offered only as an inducement for prompt payment.
 
2.   Any sums allowed on merchandise accepted in payment of other merchandise,
provided that this allowance shall not apply to the sale of a "new manufactured
home" or a "modular building" as defined herein.
 
3.   The amount charged for property returned by customers when the amount
charged therefore is refunded either in cash or credit; but this exclusion
shall not apply in any instance when the customer, in order to obtain the
refund, is required to purchase other property at a price greater than the
amount charged for the property that is returned.
 
4.   The amount charged for labor or services rendered in installing or
applying the property sold, provided that said amount is stated separately and
such separate statement is not used as a means of avoiding imposition of this
tax upon the actual sales price of the tangible personal property; except that
charges by a manufactured homes dealer for set up of a manufactured home shall
be included in the "sales price" of such manufactured home.
 
5.   The amount of any tax (not including, however, any manufacturers' or
importers' excise tax) imposed by the United States upon or with respect to
retail sales whether imposed upon the retailer or the consumer.
 
6.   The amount charged for finance charges, carrying charges, service charges,
time- price differential, or interest on deferred payment sales, provided such
charges are not used as a means of avoiding imposition of this tax upon the
actual sales price of the tangible personal property.
 
7.   Delivery and handling charges for transportation of tangible personal
property to the consumer, provided that the transportation is stated separately
and the separate statement is not used as a means of avoiding imposition of the
tax upon the actual sales price of the tangible personal property; except that
charges by a manufactured homes dealer for transportation of a manufactured
home shall be included in the "sales price" of such manufactured home.
 
8.   Manufacturers' rebates when used at the time of a retail sale as a down
payment on or reduction to the retail sales price of a motor vehicle to which
the rebate applies. A manufacturer's rebate is a cash payment made by a
manufacturer to a consumer who has purchased or is purchasing the
manufacturer's product from the retailer.
 
9.   The amount of any fee imposed upon an outfitter as defined in section 36-
2102, Idaho Code, by a governmental entity pursuant to statute for the purpose
of conducting outfitting activities on land or water subject to the
jurisdiction of the governmental entity, provided that the fee is stated
separately and is presented as a use fee paid by the outfitted public to be
passed through to the governmental entity.
 
10.   The amount of any discount or other price reduction on telecommunications
equipment when offered as an inducement to the consumer to commence or continue
telecommunications service, or the amount of any commission or other indirect
compensation received by a retailer or seller as a result of the consumer
commencing or continuing telecommunications service.
      
   
SALES TAX ACT: Means the Idaho Sales Tax Act, Idaho Code 63-3601, et. seq.,
including subsequent amendments thereto, which is hereby adopted by reference.
The definitions provided herein may be amended from time to time in accordance
with corresponding amendments that may be made to the Sales Tax Act.
   
SELLER: Means every person making sales at retail or retail sales to a buyer or
consumer, whether as agent, broker, or principal.
   
SHORT-TERM OCCUPANCY CHARGE: Means and includes the total sales price for the
rental use or temporary occupancy of a short-term rental.
 
SHORT-TERM RENTAL: Means and includes the rental or leasing of lodging to
members of the public for a fee of any hotel room, motel room, campground, RV
Resort space, campground, condominium, home, room, or any other residential
unit, except where a residence is maintained continuously under terms of a
lease or similar agreement for a period in excess of thirty (30) days.
 
TANGIBLE PERSONAL PROPERTY: Means personal property which may be seen, weighed,
measured, felt, or touched, or which is in any other manner perceptible to the
senses. The term "tangible personal property" includes any computer software
except the following: custom computer programs; computer software that is
delivered electronically; remotely accessed computer software; and computer
software that is delivered by the load and leave method where the vendor or its
agent loads the software at the user's location but does not transfer any
tangible personal property containing the software to the user. As used in this
subsection, the term "remotely accessed computer software" means computer
software that a user accesses over the internet, over private or public
networks, or through wireless media, where the user has only the right to use
or access the software by means of a license, lease, subscription, service or
other agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing exclusions of certain types of
computer software from the definition of tangible personal property, tangible
personal property shall include computer software that constitutes digital
music, digital books, digital videos and digital games when the purchaser has a
permanent right to use such software and, regardless of the method of delivery
or access. If the right to use digital music, digital books, digital videos or
digital games is conditioned upon continued payment from the purchaser it is
not a permanent right of use.
 
1.   As used in this subsection, the term "computer software" means any
computer program, part of a program or any sequence of instructions for
automatic data processing equipment or information stored in an electronic
medium. Computer software is deemed to be tangible personal property for
purposes of this chapter regardless of the method by which the title,
possession, or right to use the software is transferred to the user.
         
2.   As used in this subsection, the term "custom computer program" means any
computer software (as defined in this subsection) which is written or prepared
exclusively for a customer and includes those services represented by
separately stated charges for the modification of existing prewritten programs
when the modifications are written or prepared exclusively for a customer. The
term does not include a "canned" or prewritten program which is held or
existing for general or repeated sale, lease or license, even if the program
was initially developed on a custom basis or for in-house use. Modification to
an existing prewritten program to meet the customer's needs is custom computer
programming only to the extent of the modification, and only to the extent that
the actual amount charged for the modification is separately stated on
invoices, statements, and other billing documents supplied to the purchaser.
      
The term "tangible personal property" does not include advertising space when
sold to an advertiser or its agent by the publisher of the newspaper or the
magazine in which the advertisement is displayed or circulated, or an online
news media outlet.
   
TAX: Any non-property sales tax imposed by this chapter.
 
TAXPAYER: Any person subject to or liable for any taxes imposed by this
Ordinance.
   
SECTION 3
 
IMPOSITION AND RATE OF CERTAIN NON-PROPERTY SALES TAXES
   
The City of McCall hereby imposes and shall collect certain local-option non-
property sales taxes, as follows:
   
(A)   A municipal sales tax is hereby imposed upon each sale at retail within
the City of McCall, Idaho, at the rate of one percent (1%) of the sales price
of all property subject to taxation under Idaho Code 63-3601, et. seq., Idaho
Sales Tax Act, including subsequent amendments thereto; excluding groceries as
defined within this ordinance and sales of motor vehicles which are titled by
the Idaho department of motor vehicles.
 
(B)   An additional four percent (4%) hotel-motel room occupancy sales tax on
receipts from all short-term rental charges for hotel rooms, motel rooms,
condominium units, tourist homes, campgrounds, vacation rental by owner,
Airbnb™, Vrbo™, Vacasa™, and the like within the city. The Hotel/Motel, short-
term rental occupancy tax shall apply to and be computed on the rental of all
Hotel/Motel, short-term rental including all credit, installment, conditional
or similar rental or lease fees at the time the Room Occupancy Charge is
charged. The Hotel/Motel, short-term rental occupancy tax shall be collected by
the owner of the Hotel/Motel, short-term rental or the authorized agent from
the renter or lessee.
 
(C)   When the sale price involves a fraction of a dollar, said local-option
non-property taxes shall be collected on that fractional portion of the price
by adding thereto the tax based upon a bracket system. The bracket system for
the collection of the one percent (1%) sales tax shall be as set forth in
Exhibit A, attached hereto and made a part hereof by reference. The bracket
system for the collection of the three percent (3%) non-property tax shall be
as set forth in Exhibit B, attached hereto and made a part hereof by reference.
The retailer shall calculate the tax upon the entire amount of purchases of the
consumer made at a particular time subject to this Ordinance, and not
separately upon each item purchased. The retailer may retain any amount
collected under said bracket system which is in excess of the amount of tax for
which they are liable to the City during the period as compensation for the
work of collecting said tax.
   
(D)   All monies collected and/or retained under the provisions of this
Ordinance shall be held in trust for the City of McCall and for payment thereof
to the City Clerk in the manner and at the times provided in this Ordinance.
   
(E)   This Ordinance, in conjunction with Idaho law, provides that when there
is a retail sales transaction within the City of McCall, a local-option sales
tax is imposed. For a sale of goods, a sale is made in the City when title
passes to the buyer in the City. When delivery of goods occurs in the City of
McCall title passes at the time of delivery. If goods are shipped from outside
the City of McCall into the City, the sale is subject to the local- option
sales tax. Alternatively, when goods are delivered by a seller from within the
City of McCall to a location outside the City, then no local sales tax is owed
to the City.
   
SECTION 4
 
DURATION OF TAXES:
 
The non-property taxes authorized and collected under this Ordinance are hereby
imposed for a duration of ten (10) years from the effective date of this
Ordinance.
   
SECTION 5
 
PURPOSES FOR WHICH THE REVENUES DERIVED FROM SAID NON-PROPERTY TAXES SHALL BE
USED:
   
The local-option non-property tax revenue derived from and collected under this
Ordinance shall be used for direct costs to collect and enforce the tax and
only for the following purposes:
 
(A)   Street and Transportation Infrastructure
Development, maintenance, and enhancement of streets, public parking, transit
infrastructure, traffic control devices, sidewalks, pathways, bike lanes, and
related multi-modal and streetscape facilities ensuring compliance with ADA
standards and community safety needs.
 
(B)   Stormwater and Snow Storage Management
Development, maintenance, and enhancement of transportation related stormwater
and snow storage systems to ensure compliance with the City’s drainage
management guidelines and prevent runoff pollution into the community’s water
resources, especially to protect Payette Lake.
 
(C)   Matching Funds to Leverage Funds from Other Sources
Providing matching funds for grant opportunities, revenue bonds, local, state
or federal joint projects, and public-private partnerships to support
transportation infrastructure and right-of-way projects, including those that
advance local housing goals.
 
(D)   5-year Streets Capital Improvement Plan (CIP) and Maintenance Improvement
Plan (MIP) Projects
Development and implementation of the Streets Department’s projected CIP and
MIP projects as approved by City Council via annual budget process.
 
 
SECTION 6
 
ESTABLISHMENT OF GENERAL AND ENTERPRISE FUND CAPITAL INFRASTRUCTURE BUDGETS:
 
In addition to the revenue collected from the taxes imposed by this ordinance,
the City Council will establish in each fiscal year’s budget a specific line
item, apart and separate from the revenue generated by this ordinance, for the
replacement, repair, and maintenance (where maintenance will extend the life of
existing capital infrastructure) of capital infrastructure funded by this tax.
The intent of this provision is to also use some of the City’s existing revenue
sources for repair, replacement, and maintenance of the capital infrastructure.
 
SECTION 7
 
AUTHORIZATION FOR CITY CLERK TO ADMINISTER, REGULATE, AND COLLECT SAID NON-
PROPERTY TAXES:
 
The City Clerk of the City of McCall is hereby authorized and empowered to
administer, regulate, and collect payment of all non-property taxes adopted and
imposed by this Ordinance. Said Clerk shall have all of the powers set forth in
this Ordinance together with those additional powers necessary and proper to
carry out the provisions of this Ordinance.
   
SECTION 8
 
CREATION OF A PROPERTY TAX RELIEF FUND:
 
Pursuant to Idaho Code § 50-1045, there is hereby created in the office of the
City Clerk a fund to be designated as the “Municipal Property Tax Relief Fund.”
Any revenues collected under this Ordinance in excess of the amount budgeted by
the City Council for the use of said revenues, shall be placed by the City
Clerk into the Municipal Property Tax Relief Fund. Such excess revenues shall
be used to replace City property taxes in the ensuing fiscal year by the amount
of all excess revenues placed in said Municipal Property Tax Relief Fund.
   
SECTION 9
 
PERMITS REQUIRED AND ISSUANCE OF PERMITS:
   
(A)   Every person desiring to engage in or conduct business of retail sales,
and/or a Hotel- Motel or short term Rental, within this City shall file with
the City Clerk an application for a City of McCall local-option non-property
tax permit for each place of business. A separate permit is required for each
place of business within the City. Every application for said permit shall be
made upon a form prescribed by the City Clerk and shall set forth the name
under which the applicant transacts or intends to transact business, the
location of the business or places of businesses, and such other information as
the City may require. The application shall be signed by the owner, if they are
a natural person; or in the case of an association or partnership, by a member
or partner, in the case of a corporation, by an executive officer or other
person authorized by the corporation to sign the application.
   
(B)   Upon filing an application meeting the requirements set out above, the
City Clerk shall issue, to each applicant, a permit for each place of business.
A permit shall not be assignable, and shall be valid only for the person in
whose name it is issued and for the transaction of business at the place
designated therein. It shall at all times be conspicuously displayed at the
location for which it was issued. Issuance of a permit may be subject to
additional requirements as set forth in this Ordinance.
   
(C)   On the face of the permit shall be fixed a municipal non-property tax
number which shall be used by the applicant as an identifying number on all
filing, payment, and correspondence with regard to the non-property tax imposed
under this Ordinance.
   
SECTION 10
 
METHOD FOR PAYMENT OF TAXES:
   
(A)   The taxes imposed by this Ordinance shall be computed and paid for each
calendar month. Said taxes are due and payable to the City Clerk on or before
the 20th day of the succeeding month. The amount of tax paid shall be computed
on all sales subject to taxation under this Ordinance. Each person required to
hold a City of McCall local-option non-property tax permit and number shall
file a City of McCall local-option non-property tax return and a copy of their
Idaho State Sales Tax Return for the month at the same time said taxes are paid
to the City Clerk, unless said person has been permitted in writing by the
Idaho State Tax Commission to file quarterly sales or use tax returns. Persons
who have been permitted to file other than monthly returns shall notify the
City Clerk in writing and the City Clerk thereupon may require reporting of
State Tax Returns over some other period, but shall require payment of taxes on
a monthly basis.
   
(B)   The first payment of taxes under this Ordinance shall be due and payable
together on the 20th day of February, 2026, for that period beginning January
l, 2026, and ending January 31, 2026. Thereafter all payments shall be made
monthly.
   
(C)   A City of McCall local-option non-property tax return shall be filed each
and every month by every person engaging in sales subject to taxation under
this Ordinance regardless of whether or not any tax is due. Returns shall be
signed by the person required to file the return or by a duly authorized agent.
   
(D)   A valid sales tax exemption certificate issued by the Idaho State Tax
Commission upon filing a copy thereof with the City Clerk shall have the same
effect to exempt the sale from the taxes imposed hereunder as in the Idaho
Sales Tax Act.
   
SECTION 11
 
AUDITS; DEFICIENCY DETERMINATIONS:
   
(A)   The City Clerk may order an audit of any taxpayer under this Ordinance
for the purpose of ascertaining the correctness or completeness of any return
or payment.
   
(B)   If any error or omission is discovered in such audits or in any other
way, the City Clerk may compute and determine the amount of tax due upon the
basis of facts obtained from such information within its possession and assert
a deficiency. One or more deficiency determinations may be made for the amount
due for one or for more than one period. In making such a determination, the
City Clerk may offset over payments against amounts due. Further, said
determinations shall be made for the period or periods in respect to which the
person fails to make a return and shall be based upon any information which is
in the City Clerk's possession.
   
(C)   The City Clerk shall give written notice of its determination and the
amount of its deficiency, including interest, at the rate of twelve percent
(12%) per annum from the date due, to the person from whom such deficiency
amount is due. Such notice may be given personally or mailed to the person at
the address furnished to the City Clerk in the non-property tax permit
application.
   
SECTION 12
 
RE-DETERMINATION OF DEFICIENCY:
 
(A)   Any person against whom a deficiency determination is made under this
Ordinance, or any person directly interested, may petition in writing for a re-
determination within thirty (30) days after service upon the person of notice
thereof. If the petition for re-determination is not filed within the thirty
(30) day period, the determination becomes final at the expiration of the
period.
   
(B)   If a petition for re-determination is filed with the thirty (30) day
period the City Clerk shall reconsider the determination and, if the person so
requests in the petition, grant the person an oral hearing and give said person
ten (10) days notice of the time and place of the hearing personally or by mail
addressed to the person at the address furnished to the City Clerk in said
person's application for a non-property tax permit.
   
SECTION 13
 
APPEALS, INTEREST ON DEFICIENCY:
(A)   When a re-determination is made, the City Clerk shall give notice to the
taxpayer against whom the re-determination is made. Within thirty (30) days of
the date upon which such notice of re-determination is mailed or served, the
taxpayer may file an appeal with the City Council or may file a complaint with
the District Court for review of the City Clerk's re-determination. There shall
be no right of review to the City Council nor to the District Court on the
determination of taxes due made by the City Clerk unless a re-determination has
been timely filed. No assessment of a deficiency in respect to the tax imposed
by this Ordinance or proceeding to collect for its collection shall be made,
begun or prosecuted until such notice has been mailed to the taxpayer and
expiration of such thirty (30) day period after notice of re- determination,
nor if a protest is filed until a decision on the protest becomes final. If the
taxpayer does not protest to the City Council or file an action in District
Court within the time prescribed in this section, the deficiency shall be
assessed and shall become due and payable upon notice and demand from the City
Clerk.
   
(B)   Interest upon any deficiency shall be assessed at the same time as the
deficiency and shall become due and payable upon notice and demand from the
City Clerk and shall be collected as part of the tax at the rate of twelve
percent (12%) per annum from the date prescribed for payment of the tax.
   
SECTION 14
 
COLLECTIONS AND ENFORCEMENT:
   
As soon as practical after monthly City of McCall local-option non-property tax
return and payment is filed, the City Clerk shall examine the same and
determine the correct amount of the tax. For the purpose of ascertaining the
correctness of any payment determining the amount of tax due where none has
been made, determining liability of any person for any tax payable under this
Ordinance, or the liability at law or in equity of any person in respect to any
tax provided by this Ordinance or collecting any such liability, the City
Clerk, or duly authorized deputy, is authorized (1) to examine the books,
papers, records, or other data which may be relevant or material to the
inquiry; (2) to summon the person liable for the tax or any officer, agent or
employee of such person, or any person having possession, custody or care of
books of accounting containing entries relating to the business of the person
liable for the tax, to appear before the City Clerk, or deputy, at a time and
place named in its summons to produce such books, papers, records or other data
and/or give such testimony under oath as may be relevant or material to such
inquiry.
   
SECTION 15
 
REFUNDS, LIMITATIONS, AND INTEREST:
   
(A)   If the City Clerk determines that any amount due under this Ordinance has
been paid more than once or has been erroneously or illegally collected or
computed, the City Clerk shall set forth that fact in its records and the
excess amount paid or collected may be credited on any amount due or payable to
the City Clerk for non-property taxes from that person, and any balance
refunded to the person by whom it was paid or to his successors, administrators
or executors.
   
(B)   No such credit or refund shall be allowed or made after one (1) year from
the time the payment was made unless before the expiration of such period a
claim therefore is filed by the taxpayer.
   
(C)   Interest shall be allowed on the amount of such credits or refunds at the
rate of twelve percent (12%) per annum from the date which such tax was paid.
   
(D)   Appeal from the City Clerk's decision denying in part or in whole a claim
for refund shall be made in accordance with the laws of the State of Idaho with
regard to claims against municipalities.
   
SECTION 16
 
RESPONSIBILITY FOR PAYMENT OF TAXES:
   
Every person with a duty to account for or pay over any tax imposed by this
Ordinance on behalf of a corporation, as an officer employee of the
corporation, or on behalf of a partnership, as a member employee of the
partnership, or on behalf of a limited liability company, as a member or
manager of the limited liability company, shall be personally liable for
payment of such tax, plus penalties and interest.
   
SECTION 17
 
PERIOD OF LIMITATION UPON ASSESSMENT AND COLLECTION:
   
(A)   The amount of taxes imposed under this Ordinance shall be assessed within
three (3) years of the time the return upon which the tax asserted to be due
was or should have been filed, whichever is later; provided, however, if a
deficiency determination or assessment has been made within the prescribed
time, such tax may be collected within a period of six (6) years after
assessment. The running of limitations provided by this section shall be
suspended for the period during which the City Clerk is prohibited from making
the assessment or from collecting or proceeding in Court due to a petition for
re-determination or an appeal therefrom, and for thirty (30) days hereafter.
   
(B)   In the case of taxes due during the lifetime of a decedent, the tax shall
be assessed, and any proceeding in court without assessment for the collection
of such tax shall be begun, within six (6) months after written request
therefore (filed after the return is made) by the executor, administrator, or
other fiduciary representing the estate of such decedent unless the assessment
is stayed by a petition for re-determination or any appeal therefrom.
   
(C)   In the case of a false or fraudulent return with intent to evade tax, or
of a failure to file a return, the tax may be assessed, or a proceeding in
Court for collection of such tax may be begun without assessment, at any time
within three (3) years after the date of the discovery of the facts
constituting the fraud.
   
SECTION 18
 
SUCCESSORS' LIABILITY:
   
(A)   If a vendor liable for any amount of tax under this Ordinance sells out
his business or stocks and goods, the vendee shall make an inquiry to the City
Clerk and withhold from the purchase price any amount of tax that may be due
under this Ordinance until such time as the vendor produces a receipt stating
that no amount is due.
   
(B)   If the purchaser of business or stock of goods fails to withhold from the
purchase price as above required, they are personally liable for the payment of
the amount required to be withheld by them.
   
SECTION 19
 
GENERAL ADMINISTRATION BY CITY CLERK:
   
(A)   The City Clerk shall enforce the provisions of this Ordinance and may
prescribe, adopt and enforce rules and regulations relating to its
administration and enforcement. The City Clerk may employ qualified auditors
for examination of taxpayers' books and records, and shall also employ such
accountants, investigators, assistants, clerks, and other personnel as are
necessary for the efficient administration of this Ordinance, and may delegate
authority to its representatives to conduct hearings, or perform other duties
imposed by this Ordinance.
   
(B)   Taxpayers in the City of McCall shall keep such records, receipts,
invoices, and other pertinent papers as the City Clerk may require. Each such
taxpayer who files tax payments required under this Ordinance shall keep all
such records for not less than four (4) years after making such payments unless
the City Clerk in writing authorizes their destruction.
   
(C)   The City Clerk, or any person authorized in writing by the Clerk, may
examine the books, papers, records, and equipment of any taxpayer or any person
liable for any tax, and may investigate the character of the business of the
person in order to verify the accuracy of any return made, or if no return is
made by the person, to ascertain and determine the amount required to be paid.
Any taxpayer whose pertinent records are kept outside of the City must bring
the records to the City for examination by the City Clerk upon request of the
latter, or by agreement with the City Clerk permit an auditor designated by the
City Clerk to visit the place where the records are kept, and there audit such
records.
   
SECTION 20
 
PENALTIES:
   
(A)   Any person who violates any provision of this Ordinance shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor, punishable by up to one (1) year in the county jail, and/or
Three Hundred Dollar ($300.00) fine, or both. Furthermore, each month in which
a person fails to report, or intentionally fails to accurately compute, or
intentionally fails to accurately disclose the total amount of sales or rentals
or the amount of tax to be paid, as imposed under this Ordinance, shall be
considered a separate offense.
   
(B)   Any person who violates any provision of this Ordinance shall have his
City of McCall local-option non-property tax permit and tax number revoked. The
City Clerk shall send written notice of revocation of said permit and tax
number to the permit holder by mailing the same by certified mail to the
address given on the permit application. The permit holder shall have ten (10)
days from the date said notice is mailed to file a written request of appeal
with the City Council, challenging said revocation. If no appeal is timely made
said revocation becomes final. Whenever a person subject to this Ordinance has
had said permit and tax number revoked, the City Clerk shall not reissue said
permit nor issue a new permit to said person until said person places with the
City Clerk a bond or other sufficient security in the amount equal to three (3)
times the actual, determined, or estimated average monthly amount of tax
payable by such person pursuant to this Ordinance.
   
(C)   The City Clerk, whenever it is deemed necessary to insure compliance with
this Ordinance, may require any person subject to this Ordinance to place with
it such security as it may determine. The amount of said security shall not be
greater than three (3) times the estimated average monthly amount payable by
such persons pursuant to this Ordinance. The amount of the security may be
increased or decreased by the City Clerk at any time, subject to the
limitations set forth above.
   
(D)   Any person who violates any provision of this Ordinance shall have all
City of McCall local-option non-property tax permits revoked, and in the case
of a short term rental operator, the short term rental permit may also be
revoked.
   
(E)   Any amount of tax due under this Ordinance for which a person fails to
report or accurately compute, shall became a lien upon the property of said
taxpayer on the date that the same becomes due, and the City may seek to
enforce said lien and collect all taxes and interest due, together with the
reasonable costs of collection, including attorney's fees, in a Court of
competent jurisdiction.
   
(F)   For the purposes of proper administration of this Ordinance, and to
prevent evasion of said local-option non-property taxes, the burden of proving
that a sale or rental is not a sale under this Ordinance is upon the person who
makes the sale or rental in question.
   
SECTION 21
 
PENALTY CHARGES:
   
(A)   Any person who is required to collect and pay over any tax imposed by
this Ordinance and fails or refuses to pay over to the City the same when due
in accordance with Section 9, hereinabove, shall be liable and pay a penalty
change equal to five percent (5%) of the tax not paid, or a minimum of $10
(whichever is greater). The City Clerk shall assess and collect said fee at the
time any delinquent tax payment is tendered. The permit holder shall have ten
(10) days from the date payment is made to file a written appeal with the City
Council challenging said penalty determination. If no appeal is timely made as
herein provided, said penalty determination shall be final.
   
(B)   Any person who is required to collect, truthfully account for, and pay
over any tax imposed by this Ordinance and who willfully fails to collect such
a tax or truthfully account for or pay over such a tax, or willfully attempts
in any manner to evade or defeat such a tax or payment thereof, shall, in
addition to other penalties provided by law, be liable to a penalty equal to
the amount of the tax evaded, or not collected, or not accounted for or paid
over. The City Clerk shall determine and assess such penalties, and the same
shall become due and payable upon notice and demand from the City Clerk. The
City Clerk shall send written notice of such penalty charge to the permit
holder by mailing the same by certified mail to the address given on the permit
application. The permit holder shall have ten (10) days from the date said
notice is mailed to file a written request of appeal with the City Council
challenging said penalty charge determination. If no appeal is timely made as
herein provided, said penalty charge determination shall be final.
   
SECTION 22
 
EXEMPTIONS:
 
Only those transactions which are exempted from the taxes imposed by the State
of Idaho pursuant to the Sales Tax Act, as that Act may be amended, are also
exempt from the provisions of this Ordinance.
   
SECTION 23
 
CONFIDENTIALITY OF INFORMATION:
   
(A)   No City Clerk of the City of McCall, Valley County, Idaho, nor any duly
authorized Deputy City Clerk, agent or employee shall divulge or make known to
any persons, in any manner, any information whatsoever submitted or obtained,
directly or indirectly, pursuant to this Ordinance, or to permit any non-
property tax return or information supplied with regard thereto, or any copy
thereof, or any paper or book so obtained, to be seen or examined by any person
except as provided by law; provided that in any action or proceeding brought
for the collection, remission, cancellation, or refund of the whole or any part
of a tax imposed under this Ordinance, or for enforcing the penalties
prescribed for making false or fraudulent returns, any and all information
contained in or provided with said returns may be made accessible to the
elected and appointed officials, officers, and representatives of said City
charged with enforcing or defending the same, all such returns, information,
statements and correspondence relating thereto may be produced into evidence in
any action, civil or criminal, directly pertaining to such returns or the tax
imposed on the basis of such returns.
   
(B)   The McCall City Council, under such rules and provisions as it may
prescribe, may permit, notwithstanding the provisions of this Ordinance as to
secrecy, the Commissioner of Internal Revenue of the United States or his
delegate, the Idaho State Tax Commission, or the proper officer of any state
imposing a tax to inspect the non-property tax returns or information provided
or obtained in connection therewith, or may furnish to such officer, or his
authorized agent, copies or an abstract thereof.
   
(C)   Nothing in the Ordinance shall prohibit a taxpayer, or authorized
representative upon proper identification, from inspecting and copying his own
non-property tax returns and information supplied therewith.
   
SECTION 24
 
SEVERABILITY:
 
It is hereby declared to be the legislative intent that the provisions, and
parts thereof, of this Ordinance shall be severable. Should any section,
subsection, paragraph, clause or phrase of this Ordinance, or any particular
application thereof, be declared invalid or unconstitutional for any reason by
a Court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the remaining
portions of said section, subsection, paragraph, clause, or phrase of this
Ordinance.
SECTION 25
 
EFFECTIVE DATE:
 
This Ordinance shall be in full force and effect on January 1, 2026, after
passage by City Council and Mayor, voter approval, and publication according to
law prior to January 1, 2026.
   
PASSED AND APPROVED BY THE MAYOR AND COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF McCALL, IDAHO, THIS
13 DAY OF FEBRUARY, 2025
                                       
Robert S. Giles, Mayor
ATTEST:
BessieJo Wagner, City Clerk
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ordinance 1029
- OFFICERSPage of 2
ORDINANCE NO. 1029
AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF McCALL, VALLEY COUNTY, IDAHO, AMENDING SECTION
1.9.8 OF CHAPTER 9, TITLE 1 OF THE McCALL CITY CODE, ENTITLED DEPARTMENT
DESIGNATED AND OFFICERS AND/OR DEPARTMENT HEADS LISTED BY TITLE, TO UPDATE THE
ADMINISTRATIVE STRUCTURE OF THE CITY, ADD ADDITIONAL DEPARTMENTS AND DEPARTMENT
HEADS, AND REVISE VARIOUS TITLES FOR CLARITY; PROVIDING FOR SAVINGS AND
SEVERABILITY; AND PROVIDING FOR AN EFFECTIVE DATE.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MAYOR AND COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF MCCALL,
IDAHO:
 
   Section 1:   AMENDMENT. That Section 1.9.8 of Chapter 9, Title I of the
McCall City Code is hereby amended, as provided for in Exhibit “A,” attached
hereto and incorporated herein by this reference.
   
Section 2:    SAVINGS AND SEVERABILITY CLAUSE. It is hereby declared to be the
legislative intent that the provisions and parts of this Ordinance shall be
severable. If any paragraph, part, section, subsection, sentence, clause, or
phrase of this Ordinance is for any reason held to be invalid for any reason by
a Court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity
of the remaining portions of this Ordinance.
   
Section 3:   EFFECTIVE DATE.  This ordinance shall be in full force and effect
after its passage, approval and publication, according to law.
PASSED AND APPROVED BY THE MAYOR AND COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF McCALL, IDAHO, THIS
26 DAY OF JUNE 2025.
 
 
Approved:
 
 
               
Robert S. Giles, Mayor
 
Attest:
 
 
                     
BessieJo Wagner, City Clerk
 
Exhibit A
1.9.8: DEPARTMENTS DESIGNATED AND OFFICERS AND/OR DEPARTMENT HEADS LISTED BY
TITLE:
 
The City of McCall deems it necessary for the efficient operation of the City
to create the following departments of the City, each to be administered by a
department head:
 
 
Department               Responsible Officer And/Or Department Head
Airport                Airport Manager
City Manager                City Manager
Clerk                   City Clerk
Community and Economic Development   Community and Economic Development
Director
Finance                Finance Director/Treasurer
Golf                   Head Golf Professional Golf Superintendent
Information Systems             Information Systems Manager
Parks and Recreation             Parks and Recreation Director
Police                   Chief of Police Police Chief
Community Engagement & Public Affairs    Community Engagement & Public Affairs
Director
Public Works                Public Works Director
The McCall Public Library          Library Director
 
 
 
 
 
ORDINANCE NO. 1030
AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF McCALL, VALLEY COUNTY, IDAHO, AMENDING CHAPTER 8,
CITY COUNCIL; MAYOR, OF TITLE 1, ADMINISTRATIVE, OF THE MCCALL CITY CODE AS
FOLLOWS: IN SECTION 1.8.5: SALARY OF THE COUNCIL MEMBERS CHANGING THE MONTHLY
SALARY TO NINE HUNDRED FIFTY-THREE DOLLARS ($953.00); IN SECTION 1.8.11: SALARY
OF MAYOR, CHANGING THE MONTHLY SALARY TO ONE THOUSAND ONE HUNDRED NINETY-ONE
DOLLARS ($1,191.00) AND PROVIDING AN EFFECTIVE DATE.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MAYOR AND COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF McCALL,
IDAHO:
 
Section 1:   That Chapter 8, City Council; Mayor, of Title 1, Administrative,
of the McCall City Code, be, and the same is hereby, AMENDED as follows, to-
wit:
 
1.8.5: SALARY OF THE COUNCIL MEMBERS:
Each member of the Council shall receive a monthly salary in the sum of nine
hundred two nine hundred fifty-three dollars ($902.00953.00). Each member of
the Council shall also receive all benefits afforded to regular full-time
employees of the City of McCall as described in the annual "Employee Benefits
Guide". Each Council member shall also receive Idaho PERSI retirement benefits
in the same amount afforded to City of McCall employees as prescribed by Idaho
Code section 59-1322. No other compensation shall be afforded to the Council
members.
 
1.8.11: SALARY OF MAYOR:
The Mayor shall receive a monthly salary in the sum of one thousand one hundred
twenty-seven one thousand one hundred ninety-one dollars ($1,127.001,191.00).
The Mayor shall also receive all benefits afforded to regular full-time
employees of the City of McCall as described in the annual "Employee Benefits
Guide". The Mayor shall also receive Idaho PERSI retirement benefits in the
same amount afforded to City of McCall employees as prescribed by Idaho Code
section 59-1322. No other compensation shall be afforded to the Mayor.
 
Section 2: This ordinance shall be in full force and effect January 1, 2026,
upon approval and publication, according to law.
 
PASSED AND APPROVED BY THE MAYOR AND COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF McCALL, IDAHO, THIS
24 DAY OF JULY 2025.
Approved:
 
 
 
 
Attest:
By       BessieJo Wagner, City Clerk
 
By        Robert S. Giles, Mayor
 
 
 
 
Ord. 1030 Title 1 Council and Mayor Salaries July 24, 2025
 
Page 1 of 1
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 237
AN ORDINANCE PROVIDING FOR THE REVISION, CODIFICATION AND COMPILATION OF THE
GENERAL ORDINANCES OF THE VILLAGE OF McCALL, IDAHO.
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CHAIRMAN AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE VILLAGE OF McCALL,
IDAHO:
   Section 1. That all ordinances of a general nature now in force in the
Village of McCall, Idaho, as revised, codified and compiled and hereinafter set
forth, be, and they are hereby adopted, passed, published and declared to be
the compiled ordinances of the Village of McCall, pursuant to Chapter 5, Title
50 of the Idaho Code, as amended, empowering any city of the first or second
class, or any village, to revise, codify and compile its ordinances.
   Section 2. That this ordinance and all said ordinances of a general nature
compiled and codified as above stated, shall be in full force and effect upon
the passage, approval, and publication of this ordinance in one issue of the
Payette Lakes Star, a newspaper of general circulation, published in the
Village of McCall, and the official newspaper thereof.
   Passed and approved this 1st day of June, 1964.
TITLE I
ADMINISTRATIVE
CHAPTER 1
ADOPTION OF OFFICIAL CODE
SECTION:
1.1.1: Title
1.1.2: Acceptance
1.1.3: Amendments
1.1.4: Construction Of Words
1.1.5: Definitions
1.1.6: Interpretations
1.1.7: Separability
1.1.1: TITLE:
This compilation and codification of the general ordinances of the city of
McCall is hereby declared to be and shall hereafter constitute the official
McCall city code, and shall hereafter be known, designated and cited as the
MCCALL CITY CODE. Any reference made to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same under its
appropriate title heading, its chapter heading, and its section heading, and to
the general penalty clause relating thereto, as well as to the section itself,
when reference is made to this code by title in any legal document. (Ord. 895,
2-9-2012)
1.1.2: ACCEPTANCE:
This code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in all administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of a general and permanent effect of the city. (Ord.
895, 2-9-2012)
1.1.3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this code shall set forth the title, chapter and section
number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall constitute a
sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to the
amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
city's official codifier, and the said ordinance materials shall be prepared
for insertion in its proper place in each copy of this code. Each such
replacement page shall be properly identified and shall be inserted in each
copy of this code within thirty (30) days from the date of its final passage.
(Ord. 895, 2-9-2012)
1.1.4: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
Whenever any word in any section of this code importing the plural number is
used, in describing or referring to any matters, parties, or persons, any
single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although,
distributive words may not have been used. When any subject matter, party or
person is referred to in this code by words importing the singular number only,
or the masculine gender, several matters, parties, or persons and females as
well as males and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be included. Provided,
that these rules of construction shall not be applied to any section of this
code which contains any express provision excluding such construction or where
the subject matter or content may be repugnant thereto. (Ord. 895, 2-9-2012)
1.1.5: DEFINITIONS:
DEPARTMENT HEAD: The person appointed by the city manager, and confirmed by the
council, to direct and oversee a city department listed in section
1.9.8 of this title.
KNOWINGLY: Imports only a knowledge that the facts exist which bring the act or
omission within the provisions of this code. It does not require any knowledge
of the unlawfulness of such an act or omission.
NEGLECT, NEGLIGENCE, NEGLIGENT AND NEGLIGENTLY: Import a want of such attention
to the nature or probable consequences of the act or omission as a prudent
person ordinarily bestows in acting in his or her own concern.
OFFICERS: The city attorney, the city clerk, the city police chief and the city
treasurer.
OWNER: Applied to a building or land shall include any part owner, joint owner,
tenant in common, joint tenant in common, and joint tenant or lessee of the
whole or part of such building or land whether alone or with others.
PERSON: Includes any person, firm, association or corporation, or any
organization of any kind.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Includes every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
STREETS: Includes alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places, and sidewalks.
WILFULLY: When applied to the intent with which an act is done or omitted,
implies simply a purpose or willingness to commit the act or make the omission
referred to. It does not require any intent to violate law, or to injure
another, or to acquire an advantage.
WRITTEN AND IN WRITING: May include printing. (Ord. 895, 2-9-2012)
1.1.6: INTERPRETATIONS:
In the determination of the provisions of each section of this code the
following rules shall be observed:
   (A)   Intent To Defraud: Whenever intent to defraud is required in order to
constitute an offense, it shall be sufficient if intent appears to defraud any
persons.
   (B)   Liability Of Employers And Agents: When the provisions of any section
of this official code prohibits the commission of an act, not only the person
actually doing the prohibited act or omitting the directed act, but also the
employer and all other persons concerned with or in aiding or abetting the said
person shall be deemed guilty of the offense described and liable to the
penalty set forth. (Ord. 895, 2-9-2012)
1.1.7: SEPARABILITY:
If any title, chapter, section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase or
portion of this code (called "provision" in the rest of this section) is for
any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by any judicially final decision of
a court of competent jurisdiction, such provision shall be deemed a separate,
distinct and independent provision, and such holding shall not affect the
validity of the remaining provisions of this code. The remaining provisions of
this code shall thereafter be interpreted without the offending provision, and
the city manager and city attorney shall prepare conforming amendments and
appropriate internal adjustments with all deliberate speed, for consideration
by council and any relevant advisory bodies. (Ord. 895, 2-9-2012)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1.2.1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1.2.2: Public Utility Ordinances
1.2.3: Pending Suits
1.2.1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the city passed prior to the passage of this code are
hereby repealed, except such as are referred to herein as being still in force
or are by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the
saving clauses herein contained) from which are excluded the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances, appropriation
ordinances, ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations, franchise
ordinances, and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations, contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants, salary ordinances, ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places,
improvement ordinances, bond ordinances, ordinances relating to elections,
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
city and all special ordinances. (Ord. 895, 2-9-2012)
1.2.2: PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroads or railroad crossings with streets and other
public ways, or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public
utilities shall be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this code or by virtue
of the preceding section, excepting as this code may contain provision for such
matters, in which case this code shall be considered as amending such ordinance
or ordinances in respect to such provision only. (Ord. 895, 2-9-2012)
1.2.3: PENDING SUITS:
No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former ordinance,
whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to any offense
committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any penalty,
forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising
under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such offense
or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so
incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance takes
effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform to the
ordinances in force at the time of such proceedings, so far as practicable. If
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment be mitigated by any provision of a new
ordinance, such provision may be, by the consent of the party affected, and
applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes effect.
This section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
Nothing contained in this or the preceding sections shall be construed as
abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of
the city herein repealed; or as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering
any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as altering the liability of any person,
firm, or corporation, or as waiving any right of the city under any ordinance
or provision thereof in force at the time of adoption of this code. (Ord. 895,
2-9-2012)
CHAPTER 3
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1.3.1: General Penalty
1.3.2: To What Acts Penalty Shall Attach
1.3.1: GENERAL PENALTY:
Any person convicted of a misdemeanor or violation of any section of this code
shall be fined in a sum not exceeding three hundred dollars ($300.00) for any
one offense, provided said fine shall not exceed the amount permissible in the
magistrate's division of the district court, or confined in the county jail not
more than thirty (30) days, or both such fine and imprisonment, recoverable
with costs, and in default of payment of any fine imposed shall be imprisoned
in the city or county jail for a period of one day for each ten dollars
($10.00) of such fine, provided that upon conviction of driving a motor vehicle
while the driver is intoxicated or under the influence of intoxicating liquor,
the court shall demand the delivery of the driver's license. Whenever a
defendant is sentenced to imprisonment or is imprisoned for nonpayment of a
fine or costs, the defendant may be put to work for the benefit of the city for
the term of his or her imprisonment. (Ord. 895, 2-9-2012)
1.3.2: TO WHAT ACTS PENALTY SHALL ATTACH:
Any person who shall commit any act declared by any section of this code to be
unlawful, or who fails to perform any act or discharge any obligation or duty
required by or imposed upon him by any ordinance shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor, and shall be subject to the penalty fixed for the violation with
like effect as if such penalty were specifically declared in the section
forbidding such act or declaring the same to be unlawful or prescribing the
duty or imposing the obligation. Where any duty is prescribed or obligation
imposed, or where any act which is of a continuing nature is forbidden or
declared to be unlawful, a separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each
day during or on which such violation occurs or continues, except where
otherwise provided in this code. (Ord. 895, 2-9-2012)
CHAPTER 4
SEAL
SECTION:
1.4.1: City Seal
1.4.1: CITY SEAL:
The corporate seal of the city shall be circular in form with inner and outer
circles. The outer circle shall be one and fifteen-sixteenths inches (115/16")
in diameter. It shall bear upon the space between the two (2) circles, the
words, "McCall, Idaho" in lowercase and "CITY OF McCALL, IDAHO" in uppercase
letters, and upon the space within the inner circle the word, "SEAL". (Ord.
895, 2-9-2012)
CHAPTER 5
OFFICIAL NEWSPAPER
SECTION:
1.5.1: Official Newspaper Designated
1.5.1: OFFICIAL NEWSPAPER DESIGNATED:
Pursuant to Idaho Code, section 50-213, "The Star-News", McCall, Idaho, is the
official newspaper of the city of McCall. Publication of official notices,
calls for bids, ordinances and other matters in this newspaper of general
circulation shall constitute legal publication within the requirements of
federal codes, state statutes and local ordinances. (Ord. 895, 2-9-2012)
CHAPTER 6
INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM
(Rep. by Ord. 935, 7-23-2015)
CHAPTER 7
CITY MANAGER
SECTION:
1.7.1: Office Of City Manager Created
1.7.2: Eligibility
1.7.3: Bond
1.7.4: Absence
1.7.5: Compensation
1.7.6: Powers And Duties
1.7.1: OFFICE OF CITY MANAGER CREATED:
The office of city manager of the city is hereby created. The city manager
shall be appointed by the council on the basis of the individual's
qualifications and experience and other factors deemed relevant by the council.
The city manager shall hold office at the pleasure of the council. The city
manager shall take the official oath for the support of the government and the
faithful performance of the city manager's duties. (Ord. 895, 2-9-2012)
1.7.2: ELIGIBILITY:
Residence in the city at the time of appointment as city manager shall not be
required as a condition of appointment, but residence must be established
within twelve (12) months after appointment, unless the council determines to
waive this requirement with respect to a particular city manager in the light
of the situation at the time. No person elected to membership on the council
shall, subsequent to such election, be eligible for appointment as city manager
until one year has elapsed after that person has ceased to be a member of the
council. (Ord. 895, 2-9-2012)
1.7.3: BOND:
The city manager shall secure a corporate surety bond through the city's
insurance coverage, be deemed to have coverage compliant with provisions of
Idaho Code section 59-804 for the terms and responsibilities of public
officials or employees to the extent required by the Idaho Code bonding
requirements for public officials, which shall be conditioned on the faithful
performance of the duties imposed on the city manager as herein prescribed. The
bond fee shall be paid by the city. (Ord. 895, 2-9-2012)
1.7.4: ABSENCE:
To perform the duties of the city manager during the temporary absence or
disability of the permanent city manager, the permanent city manager may
designate by letter, filed with the office of the city clerk, a qualified
administrative officer of the city. In the event of a failure to make such
designation, the council may, by resolution, appoint an officer of the city to
perform the duties of the city manager until the permanent city manager shall
have returned or the disability shall have ceased, and the appointee shall
qualify as provided under sections
1.7.2 and
1.7.3 of this chapter. (Ord. 895, 2-9-2012)
1.7.5: COMPENSATION:
The city manager shall receive such compensation as the council shall from time
to time determine and fix by resolution or written agreement. The city manager
shall be reimbursed for all sums necessarily incurred or paid by the city
manager in the performance of the city manager's duties or incurred when
traveling on business pertaining to the city under direction of the council;
reimbursement shall only be made, however, when a verified itemized claim,
setting forth the sums expended for which reimbursement is requested, has been
presented to the council and by such council approved and allowed. (Ord. 895,
2-9-2012)
1.7.6: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The city manager shall have full administrative authority and shall:
   (A)   Have general supervision over the business of the city.
   (B)   See that the ordinances and policies of the city are complied with and
faithfully executed.
   (C)   Attend all meetings of the council at which the city manager's
attendance is required by that body.
   (D)   Recommend for adoption to the council such measures as the city
manager may deem necessary or expedient.
   (E)   Make the appointment of all department heads, subject to confirmation
of such appointment by the council and such civil service regulations as may
relate thereto; provided, however, that the city attorney shall be excluded
from the scope of the city manager's appointment, termination and supervisory
authority. The city attorney shall report directly to council; however the
services and facilities of the city attorney shall be made available to the
city manager and, under guidelines of the city manager, to the officers,
department heads and staff of the city as to city business.
   (F)   Prepare and submit to the council such reports as may be required by
that body or as the city manager may deem advisable.
   (G)   Keep the council fully advised of the financial condition of the city
and its future needs.
   (H)   Prepare and submit to the council a tentative budget for the next
fiscal year.
   (I)   Perform such other duties as the council may establish by ordinance or
resolution.
   (J)   Terminate a department head's appointment, subject to confirmation of
such termination by the council and such civil service regulations as may
relate thereto.
   (K)   Possess such powers as are vested in the mayor as provided in Idaho
Code section 50-606.
   (L)   Authorize the waiver of fees when such a waiver would be in the public
interest, if the requester demonstrates an inability to pay, or when the waiver
conforms to an approved departmental policy. An affected person(s) aggrieved by
a decision by the city manager may appeal such decision in writing to the
council within sixty (60) days of notification of denial by the city manager.
(Ord. 895, 2-9-2012)
CHAPTER 8
CITY COUNCIL; MAYOR
SECTION:
1.8.1: Council Established
1.8.2: Regular Meetings
1.8.3: Special Meetings; Calling Of Same
1.8.4: Time Of Meeting
1.8.5: Salary Of The Council Members
1.8.6: Expenses Incurred By Council Members
1.8.7: Orders And Directions
1.8.8: Procedures For Filling Vacancies On Council
1.8.9: Mayor
1.8.10: Mayor; Authority, Duties And Powers
1.8.11: Salary Of Mayor
1.8.12: Expenses Incurred By Mayor
1.8.1: COUNCIL ESTABLISHED:
The authority, duties and powers of the McCall City Council are as defined
specifically in title 50, chapter 7, Idaho Code, and generally as may be
assigned in title 50, Idaho Code. The legislative authority of McCall (the
City) is vested in the City Council which consists of five (5) members.
   (A)   Qualifications: Any person shall be eligible to hold the office on the
City Council who is a qualified elector of the City at the time their
declaration of candidacy or declaration of intent is submitted to the City
Clerk and remains a qualified elector during their term of office.
   (B)   Term Of Office: The term of office of each Council person shall be for
a period of four (4) years except as otherwise specifically provided. (Ord.
895, 2-9-2012)
1.8.2: REGULAR MEETINGS:
Regular meetings of the Council shall generally be held on the second and
fourth Thursdays of each and every month at the City Hall, 216 East Park
Street, McCall, Idaho, except as may be modified by resolution of the Council.
At all meetings of the Council a majority of the full Council shall constitute
a quorum for the transaction of business; unless otherwise provided by law, a
question before the Council shall be decided by a majority of the members
present.
Regular or special meetings of the Council may be recessed to a date and time
certain. (Ord. 895, 2-9-2012)
1.8.3: SPECIAL MEETINGS; CALLING OF SAME:
Special meetings of the Council may be called at any time by a Council Member
or by the City Manager and confirmed by one-half (½) plus one of the members of
the full Council, and in each instance the object of the call shall be
submitted to the Council in writing, which call and purpose as well as the
disposition thereof, shall be entered into meeting minutes of the Clerk. (Ord.
895, 2-9-2012; Ord. 997, 1-7-2021)
1.8.4: TIME OF MEETING:
All regular Council meetings shall begin at five thirty o'clock (5:30) P.M.
unless a different time be specified. (Ord. 895, 2-9-2012; Ord. 997, 1-7-2021)
1.8.5: SALARY OF THE COUNCIL MEMBERS:
Each member of the Council shall receive a monthly salary in the sum of nine
hundred two dollars ($902.00). Each member of the Council shall also receive
all benefits afforded to regular full time employees of the City of McCall as
described in the annual "Employee Benefits Guide". Each Council member shall
also receive Idaho PERSI retirement benefits in the same amount afforded to
City of McCall employees as prescribed by Idaho Code section 59-1322. No other
compensation shall be afforded to the Council members. (Ord. 961, 8-24-2017,
eff. 1-1-2018; Ord. 981, 8-8-2019, eff. 1-1-2020; Ord. 1004, 8-12-2021, eff. 1-
1-2022; Ord. 1017, 8-10-2023, eff. 1-1-2024)
1.8.6: EXPENSES INCURRED BY COUNCIL MEMBERS:
A member shall be reimbursed for all sums necessarily incurred or paid in the
performance of the member's duties or incurred when traveling on business
pertaining to the City under direction of the Council or in the ordinary
performance of the duties of the Council; reimbursement shall only be made,
however, when a verified itemized claim, setting forth the sums expended for
which reimbursement is requested, has been presented to the full Council and by
such approved and allowed. (Ord. 895, 2-9-2012)
1.8.7: ORDERS AND DIRECTIONS:
The Council and its members shall deal with the administrative services of the
City only through the City Manager, except for the purpose of inquiry, and
neither the Council nor any member thereof shall give orders to any
subordinates of the City Manager. (Ord. 895, 2-9-2012)
1.8.8: PROCEDURES FOR FILLING VACANCIES ON COUNCIL:
In the event a vacancy exists in the membership of the Council, the Council
shall adopt a motion to meet as a Committee of the Whole. The Committee of the
Whole shall consider the matter of an appointment to fill such vacancy, make a
recommendation to the Mayor and adjourn. The Council then having been called
back into its session, the Mayor shall appoint such person as was recommended
by the Committee of the Whole; the Mayor may vote against confirmation of that
appointment if the Mayor chooses to do so. (Ord. 895, 2-9-2012)
1.8.9: MAYOR:
The Mayor shall be elected by the Council from among its membership for a term
of two (2) years at the first meeting of the newly elected Council after each
general or special election of members of the Council; the Mayor may be removed
by the Council per Idaho Code section 50-809. (Ord. 895, 2-9-2012)
1.8.10: MAYOR; AUTHORITY, DUTIES AND POWERS:
The Mayor shall preside at the meetings of the Council and perform such other
duties consistent with the office as may be imposed by the Council. The Mayor
shall be entitled to a vote on all matters coming before the Council, but shall
possess no veto power. The Mayor shall be recognized as the official head of
the City for all ceremonial purposes, by the courts for the purposes of serving
civil processes, and by the Governor for military purpose. The Mayor may use
the title of Mayor in any case in which the execution of contracts or other
legal instruments in writing, or other necessity arising from the general laws
of this State may so require, but this shall not be construed as conferring
upon the office administrative powers or functions of a Mayor under the general
laws of the State per Idaho Code section 50-810. (Ord. 895, 2-9-2012)
1.8.11: SALARY OF MAYOR:
The Mayor shall receive a monthly salary in the sum of one thousand one hundred
twenty-seven dollars ($1,127.00). The Mayor shall also receive all benefits
afforded to regular full time employees of the City of McCall as described in
the annual "Employee Benefits Guide". The Mayor shall also receive Idaho PERSI
retirement benefits in the same amount afforded to City of McCall employees as
prescribed by Idaho Code section 59-1322. No other compensation shall be
afforded to the Mayor. (Ord. 961, 8-24-2017, eff. 1-1-2018; Ord. 981, 8-8-2019,
eff. 1-1-2020; Ord. 1004, 8-12-2021, eff. 1-1-2022; Ord. 1017, 8-10-2023, eff.
1-1-2024)
1.8.12: EXPENSES INCURRED BY MAYOR:
The Mayor shall be reimbursed for all sums necessarily incurred or paid by the
Mayor in the performance of the Mayor's duties or incurred when traveling on
business pertaining to the City under direction of the Council or in the
ordinary performance of the duties of the Mayor; reimbursement shall only be
made, however, when a verified itemized claim, setting forth the sums expended
for which reimbursement is requested, has been presented to the Council and by
such approved and allowed. (Ord. 895, 2-9-2012)
CHAPTER 9
OFFICERS
SECTION:
1.9.1: Oaths
1.9.2: Bonds
1.9.3: Appointment And Removal
1.9.4: Personnel Rules; Applicability
1.9.5: Persons Appointed To More Than One Office
1.9.6: Deputy Officers
1.9.7: Officers, Contractor And Employee Status
1.9.8: Departments Designated And Officers And/Or Department Heads Listed By
Title
1.9.9: Officers' Duties
1.9.1: OATHS:
Each officer of the city shall take and subscribe such oath, as may be required
by law of city officers, before a person authorized to administer oaths, which
oath shall be filed with the clerk. No officer shall enter upon the duties of
said office until said officer shall have taken, subscribed and filed such
oath. (Ord. 895, 2-9-2012)
1.9.2: BONDS:
The officers of the city before entering upon the performance of their duties
shall, through the city's insurance coverage, be deemed to have coverage
compliant with provisions of Idaho Code section 59-804 for the terms and
responsibilities of public officials or employees to the extent required by the
Idaho Code bonding requirements for public officials. The bond fee shall be
paid by the city. (Ord. 895, 2-9-2012)
1.9.3: APPOINTMENT AND REMOVAL:
The council shall appoint or remove the city attorney and city prosecutor or
confirm or fail to confirm the city manager's appointment or removal of a
department head (whether or not also an officer) as follows:
   (A)   Appointment Or Removal Of City Attorney: The city council shall, by
majority vote of the full council (e.g., a vote of at least 3 members of a 5
member board), appoint or remove the city attorney.
   (B)   Appointment Or Removal Of The City Prosecutor: The city council shall,
by majority vote of the full council (e.g., a vote of at least 3 members of a 5
member board), appoint or remove the city prosecutor.
   (C)   Appointment Of Department Heads: The city manager may appoint acting
department heads at any time. The city manager shall appoint permanent
department heads subject to council confirmation. The council confirmation
shall be by majority vote of the full council held prior to presenting a formal
offer to the candidate.
   (D)   Removal Of Department Heads: The city manager may temporarily remove
any officer or department head (other than the city attorney or prosecutor) at
any time pending council action. The city manager shall present to the council
in executive session, pursuant to Idaho Code section 67-2345(1)(b) or its
successor, personnel issues, the basis for the permanent removal of the officer
or department head. The council shall confirm or fail to confirm the permanent
removal in open session by majority vote of the full council.
   (E)   Exceptions: These appointment and removal procedures may be amended by
written contract. (Ord. 895, 2-9-2012)
1.9.4: PERSONNEL RULES; APPLICABILITY:
The rights and duties of employees are defined by the "Personnel Policy Manual"
adopted and amended from time to time by resolution of the council. The city
manager, city officers and department heads are exempt employees. The city
manager, city officers and department heads shall perform such supervisory and
grievance duties as are assigned to them by the "Personnel Policy Manual".
(Ord. 895, 2-9-2012)
1.9.5: PERSONS APPOINTED TO MORE THAN ONE OFFICE:
Nothing shall prohibit an individual from being appointed to more than one
office. (Ord. 895, 2-9-2012)
1.9.6: DEPUTY OFFICERS:
There is hereby created the office of deputy city clerk, and the city clerk is
hereby authorized to appoint one or more Deputy City Clerks with the consent of
the City Manager. There is hereby created the Office of Deputy City Treasurer,
and the City Treasurer is hereby authorized to appoint one or more Deputy City
Treasurers with the consent of the City Manager. An individual in the
classified service cannot serve as a deputy officer. (Ord. 895, 2-9-2012)
1.9.7: OFFICERS, CONTRACTOR AND EMPLOYEE STATUS:
The City Council may elect to have officers who are not employees. Where such
election is made, a contractual relationship shall be provided for, with such
contract to be approved or rescinded in the manner provided for appointment and
removal of officers in Idaho Code, sections 50-204 and 50-206. (Ord. 895, 2-9-
2012)
1.9.8: DEPARTMENTS DESIGNATED AND OFFICERS AND/OR DEPARTMENT HEADS LISTED BY
TITLE:
The City of McCall deems it necessary for the efficient operation of the City
to create the following departments of the City, each to be administered by a
department head:
Department Responsible Officer And/Or Department Head
Department                Responsible Officer And/Or Department Head
Airport                   Airport Manager
Clerk                     City Clerk
Community Development     Community Development Director
Finance                   Treasurer
Golf                      Golf Superintendent
Information Systems       Information Systems Manager
Parks and Recreation      Parks and Recreation Director
Police                    Police Chief
Public Works              Public Works Director
The McCall Public Library Library Director
 
(Ord. 895, 2-9-2012)
1.9.9: OFFICERS' DUTIES:
The rights, duties and responsibilities of each City officer and the City
Prosecutor are:
   (A)   City Clerk:
      1.   Duties And Meetings: The City Clerk shall attend all meetings of the
City Council, and keep a true and accurate journal of the proceedings of the
Council to be known as the minutes.
      2.   Custodian Of Seal: The City Clerk shall be the keeper of the Seal of
the City and shall affix it to all documents; which by law are required to be
attested with the Seal of the City. (Ord. 895, 2-9-2012)
      3.   Designation Of Custodian Of Records: Unless otherwise specifically
provided by resolution of the City Council, the City Clerk or the City Clerk's
designee shall have the custody of and shall safely keep all records,
documents, contracts, bonds and all other papers and instruments belonging to
the City until disposed of in accord with Idaho Code 50-907. It shall be the
City Clerk's or the City Clerk's designee's duty to keep the original
ordinances passed by the Council. The City Clerk or the City Clerk's designee
shall attach to each copy of an ordinance thus made a certificate signed by the
Clerk and attested with the Seal of the City to the effect that the copy is a
true and correct copy of the ordinance as passed. (Ord. 969, 6-28-2018)
      4.   Certified Instruments: Upon payment of the fees therefor fixed in
accord with resolution of the Council, the Clerk shall furnish any person
applying therefor a certified copy of any record, ordinance, paper or document
in the Clerk's possession as such Clerk except those records exempt by law from
disclosure or copying. All fees shall be accounted for and paid to the
Treasurer of the City. (Ord. 895, 2-9-2012)
      5.   Processing Public Records Requests: The City Clerk or the City
Clerk's designee shall oversee the processing of open records requests as
required by the Idaho Public Records Act, the "Act", chapter 1, title 74, Idaho
Code; and, provided further, pursuant to a fee schedule enacted by resolution
of the Council, the City Clerk or the City Clerk's designee shall charge fees
for providing copies of such public record and, as provided by the Act, for the
administrative and labor costs of locating and providing access to the copies
of such records. (Ord. 969, 6-28-2018)
      6.   General Duties: The Clerk shall do and perform such other duties as
may be required from time to time by order of the Council or as prescribed in
title 50, Idaho Code.
   (B)   City Treasurer: The Treasurer's principal areas of responsibility are
accounting for all City funds and managing financial transactions and
activities of the City to include:
      1.   Cash management as custodian of all money belonging to the City;
      2.   Overseeing the debt of the City through a separate account of each
fund or appropriation, and the debits and credits belonging thereto;
      3.   Complying with all financial policies of the City and GASB
(Governmental Accounting Standards Board) financial reporting standards and the
laws of the State of Idaho;
      4.   Receipting, either personally or through a representative of the
City, every person paying money into the Treasury, thereon specifying the date
of payment and on what account paid; and also file copies of such receipts with
the monthly reports;
      5.   Management of purchasing, accounts payable, utility billing, and
grants;
      6.   Management of City investments in local improvement district
accounting;
      7.   Reporting an account of all receipts and disbursements, together
with all warrants redeemed and paid by the Treasurer, to the Council at each
regular meeting of the Council, copies of which shall be filed with the
Treasurer's said account in the Clerk's Office;
      8.   Recordkeeping of all outstanding bonds against the City showing the
number, amount of each, and to whom said bonds were issued; and when any bonds
are purchased, paid or canceled, and record shall show the fact; and
      9.   Preparing and publishing financial reports and the City's annual
budget to include a description particularly of the bonds issued and sold
during the year and the terms of the sale with each and every item of expense
thereof.
   (C)   City Attorney: The City Attorney shall:
      1.   Be a member in good standing of the Idaho State bar;
      2.   Be the legal advisor of the Municipal corporation;
      3.   Represent the City in all civil suits or proceedings in which the
City is interested;
      4.   Attend all Council meetings;
      5.   Report to the Council on legal and policy matters at their request
and direction;
      6.   Perform such other duties as may be prescribed by ordinances and
resolutions duly passed.
Nothing herein, however, shall preclude the City from employing alternative
additional counsel when deemed advisable, such as when retaining bond counsel,
or when the City Attorney retains other temporary assistance as provided for in
the budget respecting that office.
   (D)   City Prosecutor: The City shall by contract hire a prosecuting
attorney to prosecute those violations of County or City ordinances, State
traffic infractions, and State misdemeanors committed within the Municipal
limits; and in so doing, shall exercise the same powers as the County
Prosecutor including, but not limited to, granting immunity to witnesses. The
City Prosecutor shall be a member in good standing of the Idaho State bar.
   (E)   Police Chief: The Chief of Police shall be Chief of the police force
and all full time or reserve police officers shall be subordinate to the Chief
and subject to the Chief's orders. It shall be the Chief's duty to cause the
public peace to be preserved and to see that all laws and provisions of this
Code are enforced within the City limits. The Chief, and through the Chief, the
Police Department, have the responsibilities stated in section
5-1-020 of this Code. (Ord. 895, 2-9-2012)
CHAPTER 10
BOARDS, COMMITTEES AND COMMISSIONS
SECTION:
1.10.1: Temporary City Advisory Committees
1.10.2: Permanent Boards And Commissions
1.10.3: Appointment And Removal
1.10.4: Development Impact Fee Advisory Committees
1.10.1: TEMPORARY CITY ADVISORY COMMITTEES:
Pursuant to Idaho Code, section 50-210, the city of McCall deems it necessary
or expedient to the efficient operation of the city to have citizen advisory
committees including, but not limited to, those named below:
   Airport advisory committee
   Environmental advisory committee
   Golf course advisory committee
   Historic preservation commission
   McCall improvement committee
   Parks and recreation advisory committee
   Transportation advisory committee
   Tree advisory committee
The council shall assign duties and responsibilities to each of these
committees by motion of the council and provide for the committees'
organizations. Members shall be appointed and removed according to the
procedure set out in section
1.10.3 of this chapter. (Ord. 895, 2-9-2012)
1.10.2: PERMANENT BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS:
There shall be the following permanent boards and commissions whose existence,
duties and responsibilities are provided by the Idaho Code:
   (A)   The planning and zoning commission further provided for in title 3 of
this code; and
   (B)   The library board of trustees constituted as provided in the Idaho
Code, title 33, chapter 26. (Ord. 895, 2-9-2012)
1.10.3: APPOINTMENT AND REMOVAL:
   (A)   Committee Vacancies: When a vacancy on a committee occurs, the city
shall advertise for replacement candidates for a minimum of two (2) weeks. The
city staff shall provide council with copies of all responses. The city staff,
in consultation with the appropriate committee, shall review the qualifications
of those interested in serving on the committee and provide the council with
input to accompany the packet of information on prospective replacements.
   (B)   Appointment Of Committee Members: The city manager, or other
designated member of the city staff, shall present to the council
recommendations for appointments of members of all committees. The council
shall confirm or fail to confirm the appointment by majority vote of the full
council in open session. Members of committees have an obligation to perform
their duties and conduct themselves in a professional manner that is consistent
with the committee's charter, council's guidance, and in a manner that does not
reflect adversely upon the city.
   (C)   Removal Of Committee Members: A member of a committee may be removed
as follows:
      1.   The chair of any advisory committee may, upon receiving a majority
vote of the committee, request to the city manager that the member be
temporarily removed pending council action. The chair shall present to the
council the basis for removal in open session. The council shall remove or fail
to remove the committee member by majority vote of the full council.
      2.   The city manager may temporarily remove a committee member and
request the member's permanent removal from the committee if the member has
acted in such a manner to bring discredit to the city or has acted in a manner
that is clearly in violation of the expectations of the council, or displayed
conduct that is malicious or capricious in nature. The city manager shall
present the reasons for removal to the council at the next regularly scheduled
city council meeting. The council shall permanently remove or fail to remove
the member by majority vote of the full council. (Ord. 895, 2-9-2012)
1.10.4: DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEE ADVISORY COMMITTEES:
The following named development impact fee advisory committees of the City of
McCall (“city”) are established as standing permanent committees:
   (A)   City of McCall Development Impact Fee Advisory Committee; and
   (B)   McCall Fire Protection District Development Impact Fee Advisory
Committee by an intergovernmental agreement; and
   (C)   Committee Membership: The members of the City of McCall Development
Impact Fee Advisory Committee shall be appointed (including vacancy
appointments) by the City of McCall City Council (“city council”). The members
of the development impact fee advisory committees established by an
intergovernmental agreement shall be appointed as provided in the
intergovernmental agreement (including vacancy appointments) for a term stated
of at least one (1) year.
   (D)   Notice of Committee Appointments: Pursuant to the intergovernmental
agreements, notice of appointments shall be provided to the city clerk and the
city council within seven (7) days of any such appointment.
   (E)   Committee Membership Requirements: There shall be no fewer than five
(5) members on the development impact fee advisory committees (“advisory
committees”) and two (2) or more members must be active in the business of
development, building, or real estate. All members must reside within the
service area of the applicable capital improvement plan. No members shall be
employees or officials of the city; or any the district, whose service area is
the subject of the applicable capital improvements plan, with which the city
has an intergovernmental agreement to enact an impact fee ordinance.
   (F)   Committees Charge: Each development impact fee advisory committee
established by this chapter shall serve as an advisory committee to the city
council. In the case of advisory committees established by an intergovernmental
agreement, the advisory committees shall also serve as an advisory committee to
the governing body of any district with whom the city has an intergovernmental
agreement to enact an impact fee ordinance. Each advisory committee is charged
with the following responsibilities:
      1.   Assist in adopting land use assumptions; and
      2.   Review the capital improvements plan; and
      3.   Monitor and evaluate implementation of the capital improvements
plan; and
      4.   File with the impact fee administrator and the city clerk (at least
annually) a report of any perceived inequities in implementing the capital
improvements plan or imposing development impact fees; and
      5.   Advise the city council and the governing body of the other party
(per the respective intergovernmental agreement) of the need to update or
revise land use assumptions of capital improvements plans; and
      6.   The city and the governing body of the other party (per the
respective intergovernmental agreement) shall make available to the advisory
committees, upon request, all financial and accounting information,
professional reports in relation to development and implementation of land use
assumptions of the capital improvements plans, and of the need for periodic
updates to the capital improvements plan(s).
   (G)   Advisory Committee Organization: The impact fee administrator shall
staff the advisory committee in order to provide the committee with needed
information for the committee’s review and for the committee’s compliance with
the Open Meeting Law (Chapter 2 of Title 74 Idaho Code).
      1.   The advisory committee shall select its officers, which include a
chairman, vice chairman and a secretary of the committee; and
      2.   The chairman shall conduct the meetings of the committee. The duties
of the chairman shall be performed by the vice chairman in the absence of the
chairman or as delegated by the chairman. The chairman and the vice chairman
shall be members of the committee; and
      3.   The impact fee administrator shall serve as the secretary of the
committee and shall take minutes and post agenda notices as required by the
Open Meeting Law. The secretary is not a member of the committee; and
      4.   The committee shall establish a regular meeting schedule; and
      5.   The agenda of each meeting shall include the approval of the minutes
of the last meeting and the secretary shall provide a copy of the approved
minutes to the city council and to the respective governing body of the party
with whom the city has an intergovernmental agreement; and
      6.   Fifty (50) percent of the membership of the committee shall
constitute a quorum. Once a quorum is established for a meeting, the subsequent
absence of a member present for creating the quorum shall not dismiss the
quorum; and
      7.   A majority vote of those present at any meeting is sufficient to
carry motions.
   (H)   Committee Reporting: The advisory committees report directly to the
city council and to the respective governing body of the party with whom the
city has an intergovernmental agreement.
   (I)   Review of Committee’s Reports and Recommendations: The city council
and the respective governing body of any district with whom the city has an
intergovernmental agreement shall each consider the advisory committee’s
recommended revision(s) to the capital improvements plan (as relevant) at least
once every twelve (12) months. Each advisory committee shall make
recommendations intended to ensure that the development impact fees are
equitable, so that the impact fee charged to a development do not exceed a
proportionate share of system improvements costs, and that the procedures for
administering impact fees remain efficient. (Ord. 1019, 9-7-2023)
CHAPTER 11
MCCALL REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY
SECTION:
1.11.1: McCall Redevelopment Agency Established
1.11.2: McCall Redevelopment Agency Board Of Commissioners; Appointment And
Term
1.11.3: Duties Of McCall Redevelopment Agency Board Of Commissioners
1.11.1: MCCALL REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY ESTABLISHED:
Pursuant to Idaho Code, section 50-2006, the city of McCall created by
resolution an urban renewal agency to be known as the McCall redevelopment
agency. (Ord. 895, 2-9-2012)
1.11.2: MCCALL REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS; APPOINTMENT AND
TERM:
The mayor, by and with the advice and consent of the council, shall appoint a
board of commissioners of the McCall redevelopment agency which shall consist
of seven (7) members. The term of office of a commissioner shall be three (3)
years, and such terms shall be staggered such that three (3) are appointed
every three (3) years commencing in 1992 and two (2) are appointed in each
other year. Nothing in this section shall be construed to change the term of
office of any commissioner presently serving. (Ord. 895, 2-9-2012)
1.11.3: DUTIES OF MCCALL REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS:
The duties of the McCall redevelopment board of commissioners shall be as set
forth in chapters 20 and 29 of title 50, Idaho Code, and applicable city
ordinances now and hereafter adopted. (Ord. 895, 2-9-2012)
CHAPTER 12
ELECTIONS
SECTION:
1.12.1: Hours Of Opening And Closing Polls For City General And Special
Elections
1.12.1: HOURS OF OPENING AND CLOSING POLLS FOR CITY GENERAL AND SPECIAL
ELECTIONS:
At all general and special city elections the polls shall be open for voting at
the hour of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and remain open until eight o'clock (8:
00) P.M. of the same day. (Ord. 895, 2-9-2012)
TITLE II
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
APPLICABLE CODES
SECTION:
2-1-010: Purpose
2-1-020: Authority
2-1-030: Short Title
2-1-040: Permits Required
2-1-050: Applicability And Exemptions
2-1-060: Definitions
2-1-070: Adoption Of Codes
2-1-080: Amendments And Additions To Codes
2-1-090: Permit Fees
2-1-010: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this title is to promote the public health, safety and welfare,
to provide city officials with an adequate means of monitoring development, and
to provide certain minimum standards and requirements to safeguard life, limb,
health, property and public welfare by regulating and controlling the design,
construction, erection, alteration, moving, demolition, quality of materials,
use, occupancy and maintenance of all buildings and construction within the
McCall area including the city jurisdiction and the McCall area of city impact,
except as specifically exempted by this title. (Ord. 640, 5-12-1994, eff. 5-19-
1994; amd. Ord. 988, 4-23-2020)
2-1-020: AUTHORITY:
This title is enacted pursuant to the authority in chapter 41 Idaho Building
Code Act of title 39 Health And Safety, chapter 13 Plats And Vacations of title
50 Municipal Corporations, and chapter 65 Local Land Use Planning of title 67
State Government And State Affairs, Idaho Code. (Ord. 640, 5-12-1994, eff. 5-
19-1994; amd. Ord. 988, 4-23-2020)
2-1-030: SHORT TITLE:
This title shall be known as the MCCALL AREA BUILDING REGULATIONS. (Ord. 640,
5-12-1994, eff. 5-19-1994; amd. Ord. 988, 4-23-2020)
2-1-040: PERMITS REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to do, or cause or permit to be done, after
April 5, 1976, whether acting as principal, agent or employee, any
construction, improvement, extension, alteration or demolition of any building,
residence or structure, coming under the purview of this title, within the
McCall area without first procuring a permit authorizing such work to be done.
(Ord. 640, 5-12-1994, eff. 5-19-1994; amd. Ord. 988, 4-23-2020)
2-1-050: APPLICABILITY AND EXEMPTIONS:
The provisions of this title shall apply to all buildings and construction
within the McCall area, except as follows:
   (A)   Equipment used primarily for industrial chemical process purposes and
for mineral extraction and mineral processing purposes. This exemption shall
not include the erection and fabrication of new boilers, pressure vessels and
other equipment as required to condition the building for personnel comfort and
safety. Equipment in this regard shall mean and shall be limited to facilities
or installations for heating, ventilating, air conditioning, refrigerating
equipment, elevators, dumbwaiters, escalators, and boilers and pressure vessels
associated with building heating systems.
   (B)   Modular buildings that are constructed in the state of Idaho for
installation on building sites outside the state; provided however, that no
modular building shall be installed on a building site in the state of Idaho
until it has been approved and bears the insignia of approval of the Idaho
State division of Building Safety as being in compliance with the requirements
set forth in chapter 43, title 39, Idaho Code.
   (C)   Temporary facilities except modular buildings, mobile/manufactured
homes and commercial coaches.
   (D)   Agricultural structures, except modular buildings, mobile/manufactured
homes and commercial coaches and buildings intended for human habitation. (Ord.
773, 12-12-2002, eff. 1-1-2003; amd. Ord. 988, 4-23-2020)
2-1-060: DEFINITIONS:
Definitions set out in Idaho Code section 39-4105 shall apply to the same words
used in this title, except as otherwise expressly defined in this title. As
used in this title, the terms defined in this section shall have the following
meanings, unless the context clearly indicates another meaning:
AGRICULTURAL Any structure (see definition of “structure”) that is related to or used in the
STRUCTURE:   science, business or art of cultivating soil, producing crops, and/or raising
             livestock.
             Any structure used or intended for supporting or sheltering any use or
             occupancy. "Building" does not include a commercial coach, recreational vehicle,
             camping trailer, motor home, travel trailer, fifth wheel camper or truck camper.
BUILDING:    Nothing in this definition shall be taken to imply authorization of a use other
             than of the temporary nature intended for a unit of that kind, of a commercial
             coach, recreational vehicle, camping trailer, motor home, travel trailer, fifth
             wheel camper or truck camper.
BUILDING     The footings, foundations, exterior walls, roof and any other part of the
ENVELOPE:    building, such as, but not limited to, eaves and decks, projecting beyond any of
             the foregoing.
BUILDING     The person designated with authority to administer the McCall area building
OFFICIAL:    regulations and as the person identified as “building inspector” in Idaho Code.
BUILDING     Any lot, tract, parcel or subdivision of land, either public or private, upon
SITE:        which a building is placed or is to be placed.
             Facilities or installations, including, but not limited to, heating,
EQUIPMENT:   ventilating, air conditioning and refrigeration facilities or installations, and
             elevators, dumbwaiters, escalators, boilers and pressure vessels and ski lifts,
             but not including telecommunications facilities.
HUMAN        When used in respect to temporary facilities, means a space in a structure for
HABITATION:  living, sleeping, eating or cooking. Bathrooms, toilet compartments, storage or
             utility space and similar areas are not considered space for human habitation.
             Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires location on the
             ground or attachment to something having a fixed location on the ground. Among
             other things, structures include buildings, mobile homes with a permanent
             foundation, manufactured homes, modular buildings, walls, fences, decks, patios,
             satellite dishes, billboards, fuel tanks, refuse enclosures, and piers or any
             other construction erected to connect docks to the shore; “structure” does not,
             for purposes of setbacks from lot lines, include:
             (A)   Paths, steps, and sidewalks of less than forty-nine inch (49") width; and
STRUCTURE:   driveways from access streets to automotive vehicle storage areas;
             (B)   In-ground patios;
             (C)   Detached planter boxes, walls not more than thirty inches (30") in height,
             or other landscaping features, which landscaping features are not more than
             thirty inches (30") above the natural terrain, or lot line fences except as
             otherwise provided in section
             3.7.023 of this title; and
             (D)   Docks and retaining walls otherwise permitted by title 3 Planning and
             Zoning.
             The square footage of all floors, conditioned and unconditioned, and habitable
STRUCTURE    attics, and including covered porches, decks, and other useable areas under
SIZE:        roofs as measured to the outside of the exterior walls; excluding eaves unless
             intended to cover useable space.
             A structure designed and constructed to service actual construction projects and
TEMPORARY    which is completely removed upon completion of the project. A temporary facility
FACILITY:    does not include a residential occupancy or temporary structures used for the
             protection of the public around and in conjunction with construction work. (Ord.
             773, 12-12-2002, eff. 1-1-2003; amd. Ord. 988, 4-23-2020)
 
2-1-070: ADOPTION OF CODES:
As adopted, amended and excluded by the State of Idaho Division of Building
Safety, the following codes shall apply to the McCall area. These codes may be
superseded by successive versions as they are adopted or approved by the State
of Idaho and shall become effective the first of January following the
effective date of the state adoption, unless another date is specified in state
statute.
   (A)   International Building Code.
   (B)   International Residential Code, including Appendix R Tiny Homes.
   (C)   International Energy Conservation Code.
   (D)   Uniform Code For Abatement Of Dangerous Buildings.
   (E)   International Mechanical Code.
   (F)   National Electrical Code.
   (G)   Idaho Manufactured Home Installation Standards.
   (H)   Idaho State Plumbing Code.
   (I)   International Fuel Gas Code.
   (J)   International Fire Code. (Ord. 773, 12-12-2002, eff. 1-1-2003; amd.
Ord. 929, 12-4-2014, eff. 1-1-2015; Ord. 988, 4-23-2020)
2-1-080: AMENDMENTS AND ADDITIONS TO CODES:
The following amendments are additional regulations for building and
construction in the McCall area:
   (A)   Snow Load: The designed roof snow load shall be no less than one
hundred fifty (150) pounds per square foot; or with an engineer’s stamp and
calculation, the design roof or snow load shall be no less than one hundred
twenty (120) pounds per square foot, as determined by sections 1607 and 1608 of
the international building code.
   (B)   Snow Country Requirements:
      1.   Ice Barrier: Self-adhering polymer modified bitumen sheet
underlayment shall be installed as an underlayment on the entire roof unless
prohibited by the roofing manufacturer’s installation instructions.
      2.   Roof/Ceiling Insulation: Roof/ceiling insulation shall not be less
than R-49, or greater as required by the International Energy Efficiency Code.
         a.   Full height uncompressed R-49 insulation shall extend over the
wall top plate at the eaves. (Trusses may require “energy heels” to accomplish
this.)
         b.   Exception: Manufactured homes.
      3.   HVAC Equipment: Equipment located in attics shall be within the
thermal envelope of the building.
   (C)   Electrical Wiring Requirements:
      1.   Commercial Buildings: All electrical wiring in new buildings which
classify as commercial or building of public assembly in commercial, general
commercial or central business districts according to the official zoning map
shall be required to be in metal raceways, or other UL approved raceways.
      2.   Public Assembly Areas: All electrical wiring in places of public
assembly, including, but not limited to, schools, churches, fraternal orders,
hospitals, rest homes, sanatoriums, exhibition or entertainment buildings,
whether publicly or privately owned or operated, shall be in metal raceways, or
other UL approved raceways.
      3.   Exception To The Foregoing Provisions: Conductor operating at thirty
(30) volts or less may be installed by any method.
      4.   Electrical Wiring In Metal Raceways In Residential Buildings:
         a.   Electric wiring in metal raceways are not required in residential
buildings when the building is: (1) in a non-residential zoning district; (2)
used exclusively for residential occupancy; and (3) has not more than six (6)
single-family residences per structure.
         b.   Electric wiring in metal or other UL approved raceways are
required for residential buildings in non-residential zoning districts when
either: (1) the occupancy of the structure has more than six (6) residential
units; or (2) the residential structure includes common areas such as: meeting
rooms, game rooms, washrooms, laundry rooms, or other rooms designed or
designated as places of assembly for use by the tenants, residents, or the
general public.
   (D)   Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) System Requirements: These requirements
shall apply to all new liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) installations, including
residential and commercial systems, and to existing installations when LPG
service is reconnected after service is interrupted. LPG providers shall
install systems following NFPA 54 & 58, including:
      1.   Two-stage regulator systems, or twin packing regulators underneath
the tank lid, shall be installed on all LPG installations, with twin packing
preferred.
      2.   The first stage regulator shall be installed under the hinged gauge
cover supplied with the tank. The atmospheric pressure aperture of the
regulator shall point downward. The first stage regulator shall be plumbed to
the riser of the yard piping with a flexible riser to allow flexibility should
tank shifting occur. The riser from the yard piping shall be located not more
than twelve (12) inches from the walls of the tank.
      3.   The second stage regulator and riser pipe shall be installed on the
gable end of the building, in an approved location (flat roofs, bonnet roofs,
etc.). The penetrating building nipple shall be schedule 80. The outside hookup
to the nipple shall also be schedule 80. This riser shall be a flexible riser
pipe and shall be securely supported/braced to the wall approximately ten (10)
inches below the regulator to prevent bending of the pipe by lateral snow/ice
loads.
      4.   A protective cover, approved by the gas supplier and the fire
district, shall be installed over all second stage regulators/or meters and
riser piping, and securely supported to the ground or diagonally to the
building wall.
      5.   The riser pipes for the yard piping shall not be embedded in
concrete. Concrete placed around such riser shall be held back at least one
inch (1") from all sides of the pipe.
      6.   Location of the centerline of LPG tanks shall be permanently marked
using a snow stake. Such stake shall be of sufficient height to be visible
through anticipated maximum snow depth at the respective location. Installation
and maintenance of the snow stake is the responsibility of the LPG user.
      7.   Propane appliances shall not be permitted in any new installation in
an attic or crawl space, effective May 1, 2020. Installation in an attic or
crawl space will be allowed if combustible gas detection is built into a system
that shuts down the supply of propane in the event of a leak.
      8.   A combustible gas detector shall be installed in the lowest livable
level of any building with an LPG appliance at the time of installation.
Maintenance of the combustible gas detector shall be the responsibility of the
LPG user.
      9.   Propane tanks shall be kept clear of snow so that quick access can
be made to turn off the propane in emergencies. Keeping snow clear of the tank
shall be the responsibility of the LPG user.
      10.   The propane company, after installation of a propane system, shall
submit an LPG permit application to the appropriate fire district. The permit
application shall include an LPG system plot plan. The LPG plot plan shall
include, but not be limited to, the tank location, tank capacity in U.S.
gallons, route of yard piping, location of the riser pipe at the building,
property boundaries, an outline of all existing/proposed building on the lot
and a depiction of the ridgeline of any building to be supplied with LPG. If
service is interrupted and a new tank is being set, the LPG system plot plan
shall be submitted to the local fire district, along with an LPG permit
application.
   (E)   Materials For Roof Covering:
      1.   Class B or higher fire-retardant roofing is required for:
         a.   The entire roof covering of every new structure or addition;
         b.   Any roof covering applied in the alteration, repair, or
replacement of the roof of an existing structure; and
         c.   The entire roof covering of an existing structure where more than
fifty percent (50%) of the total roof area is replaced within any one-year
period.
         d.   An exception is where wood shakes/shingles are used, a Class A
roofing assembly is required.
      2.   Roof and attic vents shall be located and designed to resist the
intrusion of flame and embers into the attic.
   (F)   Maintenance During Construction: A written construction plan shall be
prepared and submitted for approval by the city for all construction projects
within the city or the area of city impact. A more detailed plan may be
required for larger projects as specified by the action of the commission. A
developer and all contractors working at the site shall take care to maintain
the construction site and access roads in a manner protective of the public and
surrounding property owners or residents. The plan shall address the following
elements:
      1.   Traffic Control Signing: The plan shall describe the traffic control
signing required, if any.
      2.   Construction Sign: A four by four foot (4' x 4') sign shall be
constructed at the main entrance or on the major frontage street of the
development advising the public of the name of the development, the name and
phone number of both the general contractor and developer, and a twenty four
(24) hour emergency number. See chapter 9, Signs of this title.
      3.   Notification Of Damage To Infrastructure: Within twenty four (24)
hours of notification by the city, repair and protect damaged service lines to
prevent inflow, sedimentation, or other damage to the city's infrastructure.
Service shall not be left in a damaged condition until service is restored to
the property under construction.
      4.   Repair Of Streets: Within forty-eight (48) hours of notification by
the city, potholes in asphalt or gravel streets shall be filled and compacted
with like material.
      5.   Final Repairs And Cleaning: Within seventy-two (72) hours of
notification by the city:
         a.   Cuts in asphalt shall be permanently patched and rolled.
Temporary patches may be approved if requested in writing with a permanent
patch date given.
         b.   Paved areas shall be cleaned to remove dirt, mud, gravel,
concrete and all other debris.
         c.   Sediment and debris shall be removed from any temporary B.M.P.,
catch basin, valley drain, gutter, or sand and grease trap to prevent further
flow into any receiving stream.
      6.   Erosion And Sedimentation Control Plan: As determined to be needed
by the building official, submit an erosion and sedimentation control plan to
the city for review two (2) weeks prior to the beginning of construction. The
plan shall have addressed periodic maintenance and response to precipitation
events. If precipitation events create a situation requiring mud or snow
removal, the city shall review the project site to define appropriate measures
and timelines for maintenance activities.
      7.   Hours Of Operation: Building construction or site work shall be
limited to the hours of six o'clock (6:00) A.M. to ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. If
construction is within one thousand feet (1,000') of a residential area,
equipment operation shall be limited to the hours of seven thirty o'clock (7:
30) A.M. to ten o'clock (10:00) P.M., and auxiliary construction lighting shall
be limited to one (1) hour before sunrise and one (1) hour after sunset, unless
otherwise approved by the administrator. On Sunday, the hours of operation are
limited to nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. to six o'clock (6:00) P.M. Hours of
operation may be extended with the approval of the city depending on natural
events or other concerns which may require continuous operation.
      8.   Use Of The Public Right-Of Ways:
         a.   Public Works Permit Required: Pursuant to section 8-2-9 of the
MCC, all use of the public right-of-way shall require a public works permit.
         b.   Parking: Construction vehicle parking may be restricted at
construction sites so as to not block reasonable public and safety vehicle
access along the street and sidewalks.
         c.   Storage On Public Streets: No equipment or materials shall be
left, parked or stored in public rights-of-way without traffic control devices
in place, including signage and flashing lights, in accordance with the manual
on uniform traffic control devices, as amended. Equipment or materials which
may impede traffic flow on a public right-of-way shall be removed or relocated
within four (4) hours.
         d.   From November 1 through April 30, no vehicles shall park within
the public right-of-way, except in designated on-street parking areas.
      9.   Deliveries:
         a.   Deliveries of construction materials and supplies, including
concrete, may be regulated as to time (hours of operation, but not to exceed
the hours of subsection 7. of this section), and routing.
         b.   Deliveries shall not obstruct public streets or unreasonably
interfere with the flow of traffic.
      10.   Public Protection:
         a.   The public shall be protected from construction hazards within
and adjacent to the public right-of-way.
         b.   Orange safety fencing or other fencing materials shall be
installed and maintained to prevent inappropriate pedestrian traffic from
access to adjacent construction activity and to prevent damage to adjacent
vegetation.
      11.   Access:
         a.   Access to private property shall be maintained. In the event that
access must be cut off, notification shall be given to affected property owners
forty-eight (48) hours in advance explaining the construction and the time
access will be restored. Access shall be restored no later than four thirty
o'clock (4:30) P.M. each night and shall remain open until eight thirty o'clock
(8:30) A.M. each morning.
         b.   For dead end streets, one (1) lane of access shall be
continuously provided for emergency vehicles.
      12.   Grading And Excavation: Because of the truck hauling involved in
grading and excavation, restrictions on trucking routes as well as the hours of
operation may be necessary to mitigate the adverse impacts from such
operations.
      13.   Control Of Dust And Mud: Sediment control structures, basins, silt
fences, catch basin filters and other items contained in EPA pollution
prevention plans or in any sediment control plan shall be maintained at all
times. A program for the control of dust or other airborne debris shall be
required. Provisions must be made to prevent the tracking of mud onto streets,
and it will be required to remove any such mud daily. Placing gravel on egress
and ingress areas of sites is a method to control mud and dust problems.
      14.   Stockpiling And Staging: In order to reduce the number of delivery
trips to construction sites, the stockpiling of materials is required, with
consideration of the space available on the property for stockpiling.
      15.   Sanitary Facility: Approved and regularly serviced temporary
sanitary facility(ies) adequate for the number of workers shall be in place for
use by contractor personnel. The location shall be appropriate to the site and
not on the public right-of-way.
      16.   Trash Management: Construction sites shall provide adequate storage
and a program for regular trash removal. Construction bins are encouraged on
sites with adequate room for separation of materials. Burning of scrap wood or
other materials or burying construction debris on site is not permitted, except
in an approved container and with a current burning permit, if required.
      17.   Temporary Lighting: An approved lighting plan must be obtained from
the administrator if any exterior, temporary lighting is necessary for
construction.
      18.   Dogs: Dogs are prohibited at active construction sites unless under
the owner's voice or leash control at all times.
      19.   Area Restoration: In the event that the developer, builder or their
contractors fail to protect and clean streets or public ways, including
adjacent private property as is necessary to provide safe, unimpeded access to
the public, the city may directly provide equipment, staff, or hire an outside
contractor to restore the area. The direct cost for all associated work, along
with the costs for staff time, consultants, contractors and attorney fees, if
any, shall be paid for by the developer.
      20.   Protection And Restoration: Obtain all required permits and provide
protection to all intermittent watercourses or streams and wetlands and return
any disturbed areas to their original state. (Ord. 773, 12-12-2002, eff. 1-1-
2003; amd. Ord. 775, 2-14-2003; Ord. 988, 4-23-2020)
2-1-090: PERMIT FEES:
A schedule of permit fees, including plan review fees, shall be set from time
to time by resolution of the city council. The building official may require
that a plan review fee be paid at the time of submitting plans and
specifications for review. Where plans are incomplete or changed so as to
require additional plan review, an additional plan review fee shall be charged,
according to the schedule of permit fees. (Ord. 773, 12-12-2002, eff. 1-1-2003;
amd. Ord. 988, 4-23-2020)
CHAPTER 2
RELATED DUTIES OF BUILDING OFFICIAL AND COORDINATION WITH OTHER PERMITS
SECTION:
2-2-010: Actions And Permits Required Prior To The Issuance Of A Building
Permit
2-2-020: Regulations Respecting Drainage, Flood Control, Utilities And Street
Improvements
2-2-030: Zoning And Site Development
2-2-040: Planning Report
2-2-010: ACTIONS AND PERMITS REQUIRED PRIOR TO THE ISSUANCE OF A BUILDING
PERMIT:
   (A)   Prior to the issuance of a building permit, the Building Official
shall require the installation of a driveway approach to the City streets,
County roads or State highway that provides continuity of drainage along the
right of way and that, where applicable, avoids damage to paving as required by
the Public Works Director and any other public works permit, if required.
   (B)   Prior to issuance of a building permit the Building Official shall
require evidence of approval by other government agencies and utilities for
installation of: 1) electric service, 2) water system (City, or Department of
Water Resources), 3) sewer system (Central District Health or Payette Lakes
Water and Sewer District), and 4) approach to State highway or County road or
City street, if applicable.
   (C)   No building permit shall be issued under this Chapter unless issued
simultaneously with the issuance of sewer and water connection permits and
payment of water connection charges, if any, for the same premises.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to connect or energize any
electrical installation or any other utility service to any building or
structure coming under the provisions of this Title unless the necessary permit
covering such installation has been issued.
   (E)   Prior to the issuance of a building permit, no tree removal, clearing,
grubbing, excavation, or other construction (including removal of any existing
structures or improvements) shall be permitted beyond what is permitted in MCC
3.8.03. (Ord. 640, 5-12-1994, eff. 5-19-1994; amd. Ord. 988, 4-23-2020)
2-2-020: REGULATIONS RESPECTING DRAINAGE, FLOOD CONTROL, UTILITIES AND STREET
IMPROVEMENTS:
   (A)   All development shall comply with all design and development
requirements for drainage, flood control, utility installation, and street
improvements set forth in this Title and in the provisions established in Title
8 Public Ways And Property and Title 9 Subdivision And Design Standards. The
Building Official may require review by the City Engineer when deemed necessary
to ensure compliance with these regulations.
   (B)   A Certificate of Occupancy shall not be issued until the project has
satisfied the requirements for building codes, McCall City Code or Valley
County Code, and stormwater drainage to the administrator’s satisfaction. (Ord.
712, 6-26-1997 1 ; amd. Ord. 988, 4-23-2020)
 
Notes
  This ordinance shall be in full force and effect within the area of city
  impact from and after the later of its passage, approval and publication as
1 required by law by the city, or the passage, approval and publication as
  required by law of an ordinance of the county applying this ordinance to the
  area of city impact.
2-2-030: ZONING AND SITE DEVELOPMENT:
   (A)   Compliance With Regulations: No building permit shall be issued or
authorized unless the work or project is in compliance with zoning and
subdivision ordinances of the city as determined by the review and approval
process contained in MCC Title 3 or Title 9.
   (B)   Surveys And Site Plans:
      1.   If deemed necessary by the Building Official, a building permit
application shall submit a stamped survey of the property showing the existing
conditions and proposed improvement(s).
      2.   The surveyor shall certify that the corners of the property have
been recovered and marked so as to permit their ready view by the Building
Official. Such marking shall be maintained in good order by the owner until
final completion of the building envelope.
      3.   The Building Official may waive the requirement that the site plan
be prepared by a surveyor when in the Building Official’s discretion the
Building Official determines there is no possibility of encroachment into a
setback.
      4.   The Building Official may require the owner to employ the surveyor
to stake the location of the setback lines on the property in the vicinity of
the proposed construction, and all such setback stakes shall be preserved until
the building envelope is complete.
      5.   When in the Building Official’s judgment it is desirable, the
Building Official may require an as built survey of the foundation and its
location on the lot to be submitted demonstrating compliance with setback
requirements prior to the erection of any other part of the building envelope.
      6.   The administrator as identified under MCC Title 3 shall advise the
surveyor or building designer what the applicable setbacks are for the building
shown on the plans.
      7.   If a survey is required, digital data shall be provided according to
the digital data submittal standards policy. (Ord. 640, 5-12-1994, eff. 5-19-
1994; amd. Ord. 899, 5-24-2012; Ord. 988, 4-23-2020)
2-2-040: PLANNING REPORT:
   (A)   Purpose: To ensure the effective administration and enforcement of MCC
Title 3 of this code, a planning report is required prior to the issuance of a
building permit. No building permit shall be issued until the project is shown
to comply with the provisions of MCC Title 3 Planning and Zoning.
   (B)   Responsibility: The planning report shall be completed by the
administrator’s designee. The applicant is responsible for furnishing all
necessary information to the administrator.
   (C)   Contents Of A Planning Report: A planning report shall address the
following items:
      1.   Current zoning of the land;
      2.   The proposed use of the land;
      3.   Development standards addressed in the applicable zone, including
density, setbacks, parking requirements, driveway access and landscaping;
      4.   Supplementary regulations and general development standards set
forth elsewhere in MCC Title 3; and
      5.   Any other development standards relevant to the application as
determined necessary by the administrator.
   (D)   Procedures:
      1.   The process and procedures for undertaking a planning report shall
include standardized application forms and instructions.
      2.   The process shall include notification to agencies with jurisdiction
over the project.
      3.   Notification will be provided to the applicant and Building Official
if the planning report determines that the project is not in compliance with
any provision of MCC Title 3 Planning And Zoning.
      4.   No building permit shall be issued until the administrator has
certified that the project is in compliance with MCC Title 3 Planning And
Zoning, including satisfying all land use conditions of approval and
development agreement obligations. (Ord. 640, 5-12-1994, eff. 5-19-1994; amd.
Ord. 988, 4-2-2020)
CHAPTER 3
ADMINISTRATION
SECTION:
2-3-010: Administration
2-3-020: Inspections
2-3-030: Expiration, Suspension and Revocation of Permits
2-3-040: Limitation of Responsibility
2-3-050: Building Board of Examiners and Appeals
2-3-060: Injunction, Affidavit Setting out Nonconformity
2-3-070: Violations; Misdemeanors
2-3-080: Civil Action
2-3-010: ADMINISTRATION:
The City of McCall shall establish a Building Department and appoint a Building
Official and such other persons as are necessary to administer and implement
the application and inspection functions required by this Title. The Building
Department shall collect building permit fees and issue permits upon approval
of the application for the McCall area. (Ord. 640, 5-12-1994, eff. 5-19-1994;
amd. Ord. 988, 4-23-2020)
2-3-020: INSPECTIONS:
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Building Official to inspect the
construction of all buildings and structures covered by this Title for
compliance with this Title.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of a permit holder to notify the Building
Official at least twenty four (24) hours prior to the time of inspection,
exclusive of Sundays and holidays, that the project will be ready for
inspection at a stipulated time. The permit holder will request the Building
Official to perform the inspection within forty eight (48) hours of the
stipulated time for the inspection and shall, if forty eight (48) hours then
pass without an inspection being made be allowed to proceed with work as if the
inspection had been made and the work found to be satisfactory.
   (C)   The Building Official may in writing waive any inspection of the work
of a permit holder. Inspections need not be made of any work which is subject
to inspection by the United States Government Veterans Administration, Federal
Housing Administration or Department of Agriculture Farmers Home
Administration; provided, the permit holder shall submit to the Building
Official a copy of the Federal agencies' inspection report within seventy two
(72) hours of receipt of such inspection report. (Ord. 640, 5-12-1994, eff. 5-
19-1994; amd. Ord. 988, 4-23-2020)
2-3-030: EXPIRATION, SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION OF PERMITS:
   (A)   Expiration: Each permit issued under this Title shall expire if the
work or building authorized by the permit is not commenced within one hundred
eighty (180) days from the permit date, or if the work or building authorized
by the permit once commenced is thereafter suspended or abandoned for a period
of one hundred eighty (180) days. Progress inspections or regular inspections
shall be scheduled at least every one hundred eighty (180) days to keep the
permit active and show that the work is continuing.
   (B)   Suspension: Suspended or abandoned work for which the original permit
has expired, shall be recommenced only after the issuance of a new permit.
   (C)   Revocation: A building permit, issued by mistake, issued on the basis
of incorrect information supplied, or issued in violation of any statute,
regulation, or provision of the McCall Area Code, if not already void under the
terms of the Uniform Building Code, may be suspended or revoked by written
notice to the permittee. (Ord. 640, 5-12-1994, eff. 5-19-1994; amd. Ord. 988,
4-23-2020)
2-3-040: LIMITATION OF RESPONSIBILITY:
Neither an approval nor a permit granted shall constitute a waiver of any
violation of any statute, ordinance or regulation. Neither the City of McCall
or Valley County nor their respective officers or employees assume liability
for structural or construction defects through the administration or
enforcement of this Title. (Ord. 640, 5-12-1994, eff. 5-19-1994; amd. Ord. 988,
4-23-2020)
2-3-050: BUILDING BOARD OF EXAMINERS AND APPEALS:
   (A)   There shall be a Building Board of Examiners and Appeals, to be the
"board of appeals" specified in section 113 of the International Building Code.
      1.   The Building Board of Examiners and Appeals shall be composed of
three (3) to five (5) members from the design and construction professions.
      2.   Members of the Building Board of Examiners and Appeals shall be
appointed by the City Council.
      3.   The terms of the members shall be four (4) staggered years.
   (B)   The duties and responsibilities of the Building Board of Examiners and
Appeals shall be to hear appeals from decisions of the Building Official.
   (C)   Appeals of orders, decisions, or determinations made by the Building
Official relative to the application and interpretation of this Title and the
International Building Code shall be presented and determined by the Building
Board of Examiners and Appeals following these procedures:
      1.   The notice of appeal shall be in writing, shall fully state the
decision of the Building Official being appealed and fully state the grounds of
the appeal, and shall be signed and verified by the appellant.
      2.   The notice of appeal shall be served on the City Clerk within ten
(10) days after the Building Official’s order, decision or written
interpretation.
      3.   The appeal shall be scheduled by the Clerk for hearing as soon as
practicable, and in any event within forty-five (45) days after receipt of a
notice of appeal complying with the standards of this section.
      4.   Written notice of hearing shall be given to the Building Official
and to the appellant not less than fifteen (15) days before the hearing. Should
the appellant desire to file written arguments, appellant shall do so no later
than five (5) days prior to the hearing.
      5.   Hearings before the Board shall be public and shall be conducted in
a quasi-judicial manner. Attorneys may represent petitioner but are not
required. All proceedings shall be recorded and said recordings shall be kept
and made permanent.
   (D)   The decision of the Building Board of Examiners and Appeals shall be
based on the International Building Code and the McCall Area codes. Following
the hearing, the Building Board of Examiners and Appeals shall enter written
findings of fact, conclusions of law, and its decision.
      1.   Findings shall be explicit and shall state the ruling and the
reasons for said decision by delineating the findings of fact and conclusions
of law.
      2.   Signed copies of the findings should be sent to all parties to the
action.
   The Board of Examiners and Appeals shall render all decisions and findings
in writing to the Building Official and the appellant within ten (10) days of
close of hearing.
   (E)   Appeals from the Board of Examiners and Appeals shall be filed within
ten (10) days after mailing of notice of decision by the Board of Examiners and
Appeals. The appeal will be filed and heard as provided by Idaho Code section
39-4120 (State Board of Appeals). Appeals of Board of Examiners and Appeals
decisions shall be in such form and manner as provided by the Idaho Rules of
Civil Procedure. (Ord. 640, 5-12-1994, eff. 5-19-1994; amd. Ord. 988, 4-23-
2020)
2-3-060: INJUNCTION, AFFIDAVIT SETTING OUT NONCONFORMITY:
The City may obtain from a district court having jurisdiction, a temporary
restraining order and a preliminary injunction enjoining the construction of a
building or installation of manufactured homes or modular buildings on any
building site upon affidavit of the Building Official that such activity does
not conform to the requirements of this Title or to the rules and regulations
adopted pursuant to this Title or any act of the State of Idaho relating to
building construction. The affidavit must set forth such violations in detail.
The injunction may be made permanent, in the discretion of the court. (Ord.
640, 5-12-1994, eff. 5-19-1994; amd. Ord. 988, 4-23-2020)
2-3-070: VIOLATIONS; MISDEMEANORS:
   (A)   Any person who willfully violates any provision of this Title or who
willfully violates any provision of the Codes enumerated herein, is guilty of a
misdemeanor, upon conviction, shall be fined not more than three hundred
dollars ($300.00), or imprisoned for not more than ninety (90) days or by both
such fine and imprisonment.
   (B)   A separate violation is deemed to have occurred with respect to each
building not in compliance with this Act. Each day such violation continues
constitutes a separate offense. (Ord. 640, 5-12-1994, eff. 5-19-1994; amd. Ord.
988, 4-23-2020)
2-3-080: CIVIL ACTION:
Notwithstanding any other remedies available, any person in an individual
capacity, damaged as a result of a violation of this Title or the Codes
enumerated herein or promulgated pursuant to this Title, has a cause of action
in any court of competent jurisdiction against the person who committed the
violation, and if such damaged person prevails, shall be entitled to a
reasonable attorney's fee to be determined by the court together with court
cost. (Ord. 640, 5-12-1994, eff. 5-19-1994; amd. Ord. 988, 4-23-2020)
CHAPTER 4
HISTORIC PRESERVATION
(Rep. by Ord. 989, 4-23-2020)
TITLE III
PLANNING AND ZONING
CHAPTER 1
AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE
SECTION:
3.1.01: Authority To Enact Zoning Regulations
3.1.02: Purpose Of Zoning Regulations
3.1.03: Affected Lands
3.1.04: Area Of City Impact Identified
3.1.05: Application Of Regulations
3.1.06: Establishment Of Zoning Districts
3.1.01: AUTHORITY TO ENACT ZONING REGULATIONS:
This title is enacted pursuant to article XII, section 2 of the constitution of
Idaho, and title 67, chapter 65 of the Idaho Code, which empower the city to
exercise the police power and to enact a zoning ordinance and to provide for
its administration, enforcement and amendment. This title may be cited and
referred to as the ZONING ORDINANCE FOR THE CITY OF McCALL. (Ord. 821, 2-23-
2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
3.1.02: PURPOSE OF ZONING REGULATIONS:
The purpose of this title (title III) shall be:
   (A)   To maintain and promote the small town character and attraction of the
planning jurisdiction, and the natural beauty of the surrounding lands and
lakeshore, present and future, for residents and visitors.
   (B)   To ensure that all physical growth is carried out in an orderly way
and in a way which complements the landscape, ecology and existing urban
character of McCall.
   (C)   To regulate the use of land, and the use, height, location and size of
buildings and structures.
   (D)   To implement the McCall area comprehensive plan.
   (E)   To facilitate the provision of public services and to promote and
protect the health, safety and welfare of all residents and visitors. (Ord.
821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
3.1.03: AFFECTED LANDS:
This title applies to all land within the boundaries of the city of McCall, and
to all land within the boundaries of the city of McCall area of city impact,
both of which areas are commonly referred to together in this title as the
planning jurisdiction, including, but not limited to, any lands that may after
March 16, 2006, become part of the city of McCall or of the impact area. (Ord.
821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
3.1.04: AREA OF CITY IMPACT IDENTIFIED:
The land and water areas included within the boundaries set out in the most
recent city and county ordinances fixing the same boundary of the city of
McCall area of city impact, is the area of city impact referred to in this
title and to which, along with lands in the city proper, this title applies.
Copies of a map of the impact area shall be on file for use and examination by
the public in the office of the city clerk; the current such map is labeled:
   McCall, Idaho
   Area of City Impact
(Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
3.1.05: APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS:
   (A)   Conformance Required: Except as herein specified, no land, building,
structure or premises, and no part thereof, shall hereafter be used, and no
building or part thereof, or other structures, shall be located, erected,
moved, reconstructed, extended, enlarged or altered except in conformity with
the requirements herein specified for the zone in which it is located; nor
shall any yard, lot or open space be reduced in dimensions or area to an amount
less than the minimum requirements set forth herein.
   (B)   Conflicting Provisions: In case of a conflict between the provisions
of various sections of this title, the more restrictive provisions shall
prevail. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
3.1.06: ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS:
In order to carry out the provisions of this title, the following zones and
overlay zones are created for the city of McCall, and the lands within the city
are placed into one or more of these zones as depicted on the zoning map or, in
the case of overlay districts, as defined in this title. The provisions of this
title respecting an overlay district are cumulative with, not in lieu of, the
provisions respecting the underlying zoning district. In the event there is a
difference between the provisions of this title applied within an overlay
district and the provisions of this title applied within the underlying zoning
district, the more restrictive provisions will apply.
   (A)   Rural residential (RR) zone: See chapter 3, "Residential Zones And
Standards", of this title.
   (B)   Residential, estate (RE) zone: See chapter 3, "Residential Zones And
Standards", of this title.
   (C)   Residential, one dwelling unit per acre (R1) zone: See chapter 3,
"Residential Zones And Standards", of this title.
   (D)   Residential, four (4) dwelling units per acre (R4) zone: See chapter
3, "Residential Zones And Standards", of this title.
   (E)   Residential, eight (8) dwelling units per acre (R8) zone: See chapter
3, "Residential Zones And Standards", of this title.
   (F)   Residential, sixteen (16) dwelling units per acre (R16) zone: See
chapter 3, "Residential Zones And Standards", of this title.
   (G)   Neighborhood commercial (NC) zone: See chapter 4, "Commercial Zones
And Standards", of this title.
   (H)   Community commercial (CC) zone: See chapter 4, "Commercial Zones And
Standards", of this title.
   (I)   Central business district (CBD) zone: See chapter 4, "Commercial Zones
And Standards", of this title.
   (J)   Industrial (I) zone: See chapter 5, "Industrial And Business Park
Zones And Standards", of this title.
   (K)   Business park (BP) zone: See chapter 5, "Industrial And Business Park
Zones And Standards", of this title.
   (L)   Agriculture and forest (AF) zone: See chapter 6, "Civic, Airport And
Agriculture/Forest Zones", of this title.
   (M)   Civic use (CV) zone: See chapter 6, "Civic, Airport And Agriculture/
Forest Zones", of this title.
   (N)   Airport (AP) zone: See chapter 6, "Civic, Airport And Agriculture/
Forest Zones", of this title.
   (O)   Navigable water (NW) zone: See chapter 7, "Special Districts", of this
title.
   (P)   Shoreline and river environs (SL) zone: See chapter 7, "Special
Districts", of this title.
   (Q)   Scenic route (SR) zone: See chapter 7, "Special Districts", of this
title.
   (R)   Payette Lakes water and sewer district (WSD) zones overlay: See
chapter 7, "Special Districts", of this title. (Ord. 885, 3-24-2011)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
3.2.01: Interpretation Of Terms Or Words
3.2.02: Meanings Of Terms Or Words
3.2.01: INTERPRETATION OF TERMS OR WORDS:
For the purpose of this title, certain terms or words used herein shall be
interpreted as follows:
   (A)   The word "person" includes an association, partnership, trust, joint
venture, syndicate, or corporation, as well as an individual, and any other
legal person capable of owning land.
   (B)   The present tense includes the future and past tense; the singular
number includes the plural, and the plural number includes the singular; and
the masculine, feminine, and neuter genders include each other.
   (C)   The word "shall" and the word "must" indicate a mandatory requirement,
the word "may" indicates a permissive requirement, and the word "should"
indicates a preference.
   (D)   The words "used" or "occupied" include the words "intended, designed
or arranged to be used or occupied". (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
3.2.02: MEANINGS OF TERMS OR WORDS:
ACCESSORY USE, BUILDING, OR STRUCTURE: A use, building, or structure on the
same lot with, and of a nature customarily incidental and subordinate to, the
principal use, building, or structure. An accessory structure is outside the
building roofline of the principal residence.
ADMINISTRATOR: The city manager, or in the event the city manager chooses to
delegate that authority, that official who is appointed by the city manager to
administer this title.
ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENT: A commercial establishment intended for the
entertainment of adults, to the exclusion of minors, which offers sexually
oriented entertainment, such as an adult arcade, adult bookstore, adult novelty
store, adult video store, adult cabaret, adult motel, adult motion picture
theater, adult theater, escort agency, seminude model studio, or sexual
encounter center.
AERONAUTICAL: Aeronautical uses include but are not limited to:
   (a)   Air taxi and charter operation;
   (b)   Scheduled or nonscheduled air carrier services;
   (c)   Pilot training;
   (d)   Aircraft rental and sightseeing;
   (e)   Aerial photography;
   (f)   Crop dusting;
   (g)   Aerial advertising and surveying;
   (h)   Aircraft sales and service;
   (I)   Aircraft storage;
   (j)   Sale of aviation petroleum products;
   (k)   Repair and maintenance of aircraft (includes paint, upholstery,
engine, propeller, avionics, instrument and airframe);
   (l)   Sale of aircraft parts;
   (m)   Parachute activities;
   (n)   Ultralight activities;
   (o)   Sport pilot activities;
   (p)   Military flight operations;
   (q)   General and corporate aviation;
   (r)   Flying clubs;
   (s)   US Forest Service flight operations and training;
   (t)   General Aviation Terminal;
   (u)   Airport support buildings and equipment including airport
administration, fire station, airport equipment/vehicle storage, control tower
(permanent and temporary), navigational aids/lighting vaults, and other airport
equipment.
AFFECTED PERSON: One having an interest in real property which may be adversely
affected by the issuance or denial of a permit, or zoning map amendment under
this title.
AGRICULTURAL STRUCTURE: Any structure (see definition of Structure) that is
related to or used in the science, business or art of cultivating soil,
producing crops, and/or raising livestock.
AGRICULTURAL USE: The science, business or art of cultivating soil, producing
crops, and/or raising livestock.
AGRICULTURE AND FOREST: The use of land for farming, dairying, pasturage,
agriculture, horticulture, floriculture, viticulture, silviculture, animal and
poultry husbandry and the necessary accessory uses for packing, treating, or
storing the product; provided, however, that the operation of any such
accessory uses shall be secondary to that of normal agricultural activities.
"Agriculture" does not include confined animal feeding operations.
AIRPORT: The McCall municipal airport.
AIRPORT ELEVATION: The highest point of an airport's usable landing area
measured in feet from sea level, i.e., five thousand twenty-one feet (5,021').
ANTENNA, PRIVATE: Any system of wires, poles, rods, reflecting discs or similar
devices used for the transmission or reception, or both, of electromagnetic
radiation waves, or antenna used to receive or transmit radio or television
signals from orbiting communication satellites for the private use of the
property where the antenna is located.
ANTENNA, PUBLIC: Any system of wires, poles, rods, reflecting discs or similar
devices used for the transmission or reception, or both, of electromagnetic
radiation waves, or antenna used to receive or transmit radio or television
signals from orbiting communication satellites for the use by public agencies.
ANTENNA, WIRELESS: Communications equipment that transmits and/or receives
over-the-air electromagnetic signals used in the provision of wireless
services. This definition does not apply to broadcast antennas, antennas
designed for amateur radio use, or satellite dishes for residential or
household purposes.
APPLICANT: One who files an application under this title. The applicant must be
the owner of the subject property, or a person who has written permission from
the owner to make an application in the name of the owner.
APPLICATION: A document submitted to the commission conforming to the
requirements of this title applying for a permit or approval under this title.
APPROACH SURFACE: A surface longitudinally centered on the extended runway
centerline, extending outward and upward from the end of the primary surface
and at the same slope as the approach zone height limitation slope set forth in
section 3.7.051. In plan, the perimeter of the approach surface coincides with
the perimeter of the approach zone.
AREA DEVELOPMENT PLAN: A plan encompassing all contiguous parcels controlled by
the same owner, which includes:
   (A)   Legal description of contiguous parcels.
   (B)   Name(s) of owner(s) of contiguous parcels.
   (C)   Streets, whether public or private.
   (D)   Water main lines and sewer main lines.
   (E)   Other utilities including power, telephone, cable, etc.
   (F)   Parks, if required under this title.
   (G)   Grading and drainage.
   (H)   Easements.
   (I)   Hazardous or natural resource areas.
AREA OF FIRE HAZARD: Lands on which there is vegetation that is prone to fire;
and also means lands where there is heavy fuel loading, where fuels are
arranged in close continuity, where development or timber management slash
exists, or where wildfires are likely to be difficult to suppress and become a
threat to public safety.
ATTACHED STRUCTURE: A structure attached to a principal structure, or is
located within three feet (3'), such that the two (2) (or more) structures
result in a nearly contiguous whole.
BASEMENT: That level of a dwelling unit all or partly underground and having
the plane on top of at least one-half (1/2) of its perimeter wall within two
feet (2') of the average level of the adjoining ground.
BED AND BREAKFAST: See definition of Dwelling, Rooming House.
BEDROOM: A fully enclosed portion of a building designed or intended to be used
for sleeping purposes, including a closet, door that can be closed and an
Emergency Escape and Rescue Opening, as defined by the International Fire Code.
BIKE PATH: An asphalt or concrete path which has been created for nonmotorized
transportation and is usually physically separate from automobile travel lanes.
BILLBOARD: See definition of Sign, Off Premises.
BLANK WALL: A street facade that is characterized by a lack of transparency
into which the pedestrian can see.
BLOCK: A group of lots within defined and fixed boundaries, usually within a
parcel of land, bounded by physical barriers, one or more streets, or a
boundary line of a subdivision that has been legally surveyed and recorded.
BOARD: The board of county commissioners of Valley County.
BOND: A security contract between the applicant and the city which guarantees
that the applicant will perform certain requirements of an approval or permit
under this title or title IX of this code, by surety, cash, or letter of credit
sufficient in amount and terms to assure either reclamation, or performance of
any act or acts authorized by the approval or permit.
BREWPUB: A small brewery, generally producing fewer than ten thousand (10,000)
barrels of beer and ale a year and frequently selling its products on the
premises.
BUILDING: Any structure designed or intended for the support, enclosure,
shelter or protection of persons, animals, chattels or property of any kind.
BUILDING ELEMENT: An exterior wall, or roof, or bay window, or deck, or patio,
or balcony, or any other part of the exterior of a building which has an
exterior surface that is in a different plane from the other parts of the
building to which the element is attached.
BUILDING PERMIT: A permit pursuant to title II of this code, including without
limitation the international building code adopted by that title. Such permits
shall be issued only if the activity to be permitted conforms to title II and
this title. Building permits are issued by the city building department.
BUILDING, PRINCIPAL OR PRIMARY: A building in which is conducted the main or
principal use of the lot on which said building is situated.
BUSINESS: Any retail or wholesale store, professional office, or similar kind
of commercial establishment. See also, definition of Home Occupation.
CAMP: Property owned or leased by any organization exempt from federal income
tax, which property is used for such purposes as recreation, outdoor education,
outdoor instruction, and deliberation. "Camp" does not include a church
building or church school unless it is accessory to an outdoor operation of
larger scope, does not include property used for commercial purposes, and does
not include facilities at which services or lodging are offered to the general
public for a fee. Thus "camp" includes youth summer and youth winter camps
operated by the Girl Scouts, Boy Scouts, Campfire, YMCA, YWCA, and the like,
and youth summer and youth winter camps operated by various organized churches;
to the extent not used for generation of unrelated business income; and
includes state park and U.S. forest service public campgrounds. Thus a "camp",
when permitted as a conditional use, does not include renting rooms, cabins,
buildings, campsites, spaces, or the like, with or without meals, to tourists
or vacationers, even if the tourists or vacationers are members of the owner
organization.
CAR WASH: An area of land and/or a structure with machine or hand operated
facilities used principally for the cleaning, washing, polishing or waxing of
motor vehicles.
CARE CENTER: A place, home or facility providing care for which compensation is
paid, for more than five (5) children of preschool age, or for more than eight
(8) adults with diminished capacity to manage their own affairs.
CEMETERY: Land used or intended to be used for the burial of the human or
animal dead and dedicated for cemetery purposes, including crematories,
mausoleums and mortuaries if operated in connection with and within the
boundaries of such cemetery, for which perpetual care and maintenance is
provided.
CHURCH: A structure or portion of a structure used for the purpose of worship
by any religious organization exempt as such from federal income tax.
CITY: The area within the corporate city limits of the city of McCall, and the
government thereof.
CITY ENGINEER: An employee of or contractor to the city who is a registered
professional engineer responsible for advising the city as to infrastructure
design, mapping, code issues, planning, plat review and other related tasks.
CITY STANDARDS: Those standards for improvements as set forth in the city of
McCall improvement standard drawings, etc., as adopted by the city council.
CLINIC: A building used for the care, diagnosis and treatment of sick, ailing,
infirm or injured persons and those who are in need of medical and surgical
attention but which building does not provide board (outpatient only).
CLUB: A building, or a portion thereof, primarily for the exclusive use of
members and their guests, owned or operated by an association of, but not
including any organization, group or association, the principal activity of
which is to render a service usually and ordinarily carried on as a business.
CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT: A subdivision or other development planned and constructed
so as to group structures or lots into relatively concentrated and contiguous
areas while providing a unified network of open space, wooded area,
recreational, or agricultural land.
COLLOCATION: The use of a common wireless communication facility or common site
by two (2) or more service applicants or use by one applicant of a single site
for two (2) or more technologies. It is also called site sharing.
COMMERCIAL COACH: A manufactured structure designed to be used for commercial
and other nonresidential purposes, which bears the label of the department of
labor and industrial services, building bureau. The label shall designate the
unit's plan approval number, occupancy group classification and type of
constructions specified in the international building code.
COMMERCIAL PROJECT: A structure or development that, after completion, would be
devoted to commercial or business purposes.
COMMISSION: The city or county planning and zoning commission, one or the other
having jurisdiction.
COMMON OWNERSHIP: The joint and simultaneous ownership of a piece of property
(a common area) by the owners of separate parcels or units; for example, within
a condominium or PUD development.
COMMUNITY HOUSING GUIDELINES: Guidelines adopted by the city, county and other
local jurisdictions which delineate authority, policies, procedures, and
reporting methods for managing community housing.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: A plan, or any portion thereof, adopted by the board and/or
council affecting land within the planning jurisdiction, and including such
things as the general location and extent of present and proposed physical
facilities including housing, industrial and commercial uses, major
transportation, parks, schools and other community facilities.
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW: That part of a decision document which relates found facts
to applicable provisions of this title. See Idaho Code section 67-6535.
CONDITIONAL USE: A special or conditional use, as defined in Idaho Code title
67, chapter 65, permitted within a zone under a permit approved by the council.
Conditional uses authorized to be permitted in each zone are listed in the
chapter relating to that zone.
CONDOMINIUM: An estate consisting of: a) an undivided interest in common in
real property, an interest or interests in real property, or any combination
thereof, together with b) a separate interest in real property, in an interest
or interests in real property, or a combination thereof. Condominium
development within the city of McCall and its area of impact is subject to
title IX, "Subdivision And Development", of this code, and shall be developed
in accordance with section
9.2.08 of this code. See Idaho Code section 55-101B, as amended.
CONDOMINIUM AREA: The entire project excepting all units.
CONDOMINIUM PROPERTY: The land described in the declaration recorded pursuant
to Idaho Code section 55-1505, together with every building, improvement or
structure thereon, and every easement or right appurtenant thereto, and all
personal property intended for use in connection therewith or for the use,
benefit or enjoyment of the condominium owners.
CONDOMINIUM UNIT: The separate interest in a condominium.
CONFINED ANIMAL FEEDING OPERATION (CAFO): Involved in the feeding or holding of
animals or poultry, including, but not limited to, horse, cattle, sheep, or
swine feeding areas, dairy confinement areas, slaughterhouse or shipping
terminal holding pens, poultry and egg production facilities and fur farms. The
buildings, pens, or lot surfaces have been prepared with concrete, rock, or
other material to support animals in wet weather. They have wastewater
treatment facilities or discharge waste into adjacent water bodies. The
facility does not produce crops, forage, vegetation, or provide pasture for the
animals.
CONICAL SURFACE: A surface extending outward and upward from the periphery of
the horizontal surface at a slope of twenty to one (20:1) for a horizontal
distance of four thousand feet (4,000').
CONTAINER: A garbage can, dumpster or any other kind of storage device
customarily sold or rented for use as a temporary storage of waste matter and
lawfully located on the property in question.
CONTRACTOR STORAGE YARD: Area used for the storage of equipment and material
used in contractor's business.
CONVENIENCE STORE (NEIGHBORHOOD CONVENIENCE STORE): Any retail establishment
offering for sale prepackaged food products, household items, and other limited
goods and having a gross floor area of less than four thousand (4,000) square
feet.
CORNER VISION: Those areas near intersections of roadways and motor vehicle
access points where a clear field of vision is necessary for traffic safety.
COUNCIL: The city council of the city of McCall.
COUNTY SURVEYOR: The professional land surveyor appointed by the county
pursuant to Idaho Code section 50-1305 to check plats and computations thereon.
DAYCARE: See definition of Care Center.
DECK: An unenclosed flat floored area, whether roofless or covered, whether on
one level or multiple levels, adjoining or used in conjunction with a building;
the term includes porches, and patios; a fully enclosed porch is considered a
room of the dwelling.
DECORATIVE POLE: A pole that is specially designed and placed for creating a
sense of place or identity to a specific location, such as in the downtown and
around parks.
DEDICATION, DEDICATE: The setting apart of land or interests in land for use by
the public, and unless otherwise stated in the document making the dedication,
the legal equivalent of a deed in fee simple determinable for the purposes
evident, for example, streets, and other utilities and the purposes reasonably
implied. "Dedicate" is the verb transitive for the making of a dedication.
DENSITY: A unit of measurement; the number of dwelling units per acre of land.
   (A)   Gross Density: The number of dwelling units per acre of total land
area, including street rights of way within the land and one-half (1/2) of the
abutting rights of way.
   (B)   Net Density: The number of dwelling units per acre of land when the
acreage involved is computed excluding street rights of way.
DEVELOPMENT: Any construction or activity that changes the existing character
or use of land upon which such construction or activity occurs.
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT: A contract or agreement between the city and a developer
or developers in accordance with Idaho Code section 67-6511A.
DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS: That official of the city who is responsible for the
administration of the public utilities and streets within the city and whose
responsibilities include review of plats, maps and surveys for compliance with
this title.
DOCK: Any structure extending from dry land into, upon, or over a body of
water, providing moorage for watercraft and/or access to the body of water.
"Dock" includes landing pier and wharf, and includes the means of access and
egress to and from the dry land.
DOMESTIC LIVESTOCK: Animals such as, but not limited to, horses, cows, goats,
rabbits, poultry, pigs, sheep or other typical farm animals and may include
mink, chinchillas and such animals raised for pelts.
DOUBLE FRONTAGE LOT: A lot other than a corner lot having frontage on two (2)
parallel or approximately parallel streets.
DRIVEWAY: A nondedicated vehicular access constructed on private property
providing access to not more than five (5) residential dwelling units.
DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY: A dwelling consisting of three (3) or more dwelling
units including townhouses, condominiums, and apartments, with varying
arrangements of entrances.
DWELLING, ROOMING HOUSE (BOARDING HOUSE, DORMITORY, BED AND BREAKFAST): A
dwelling or part thereof, other than a hotel, motel or restaurant, where
lodging and, occasionally, meals are provided for compensation for three (3) or
more unrelated persons, where no cooking or dining facilities are provided in
the individual rooms.
DWELLING, SHORT TERM RENTAL: A dwelling, including a single-family or a multi-
family unit, which is rented for the purpose of overnight lodging for
compensation, money, rent or other bargained for consideration for a period of
one or more days and not more than thirty (30) consecutive days. Short term
rentals are also commonly referred to as tourist or vacation rentals. Short
term rentals with occupancy of eleven (11) persons or more shall require a
conditional use permit.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A dwelling consisting of a single dwelling unit only,
separated from other dwelling units by open space; when considered in the
context of enforcement of restrictions, any space so used.
DWELLING UNIT: Living, dining, sleeping room or rooms, storage closets, as well
as space and equipment for cooking, bathing and toilet facilities, of a size
and configuration suitable for use by only one family and its household
employees; when considered in the context of enforcement of restrictions, any
space so used.
DWELLING UNIT, ACCESSORY: A residential dwelling located on the same property
as a principal dwelling unit either within or attached to the principal
residence or in a detached structure that provides basic Building Code
requirements for sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation.
DWELLING UNIT, LOCAL HOUSING: A residential dwelling unit deed restricted for
the primary residence of (1) an employee working a minimum of 30 hours per week
or 1560 hours per year within the McCall Area for a set period (six months) or
have an employment offer from a McCall Area business; (2) a senior age 65 years
or over where the dwelling unit is their primary residence; or (3) a person
with disability. Local housing units may be for homeownership or long-term
rental (more than thirty days).
DWELLING UNIT, PRINCIPAL: A dwelling unit which serves as the principal or
primary dwelling for a household, as opposed to a guest home or accessory
dwelling.
DWELLING UNIT, SEASONAL: A residential dwelling unit including modular units,
containers, soft wall shelters, mobile prefabricated structures, recreational
vehicles, or trailers, not affixed to the ground by a permanent foundation.
EASEMENT: A property interest (less than a fee simple estate) which an entity
has in land owned by another, entitling the holder of the interest to limited
use or enjoyment of the other's land, such as for a driveway, installation of
utility lines, or the like, the purpose of which shall be designated and placed
on the plat as appropriate. Plats shall show the entity to which the easement
has been granted.
EFFECTIVE DATE OF THE APPLICABLE REGULATIONS: The effective date of the first
pertinent ordinance ever adopted by the city. "Pertinent ordinance" means, for
example with respect to a nonconforming use, the first ordinance which
prohibited that use on that land, which ordinance (and its successors) has
continued in effect to the time as of which the legality of the use needs to be
determined.
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT: The critical appraisal of the likely effects of a
proposed project, activity, or policy on the environment, both positive and
negative.
EVENTS: Weddings, receptions, family reunions, seminars, retreats, corporate
events, commercial functions, and any other similar events that would exceed
occupancy limits identified in the Short-Term Rental permit for a given Short-
Term Rental structure.
EXCAVATION: See chapter 70 of the international building code.
EXTERIOR: Those outside portions of a structure, landscape, or lot that are
visible from a public right of way or an adjacent property.
FAIR DISCLOSURE STATEMENT: A notification to prospective buyers of property
near airports that they may be exposed to potentially impactive levels of
aircraft overflight.
FENCE: A hedge, structure, or partition, erected for the purpose of enclosing
or delineating a piece of land, or to divide a piece of land into distinct
portions or ownerships.
FINDINGS OF FACT: That part of a decision document which sets out those facts
in evidence found by the fact finder, and which the fact finder believes are
necessary and material to their decision. See Idaho Code section 67-6535.
FOOTPRINT: The area of the lot which is within the perimeter created by a
vertical extension to the ground of the exterior walls of all enclosed portions
of a building, including all attached structures, decks, porches, and accessory
annexes.
GARAGE, REPAIR: A building designed and used for the storage, care, repair, or
refinishing of motor vehicles including both minor and major mechanical
overhauling, paint and body work.
GARAGE, RESIDENTIAL: A building designed and used for the storage and care of
motor vehicles owned by the property owner or guests.
GARAGE, SIDE-LOADED: A garage that does not face the street or is less than
ninety (90) degrees from the street.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/da309f2534fb351bbed1003b3bd0777eedff815e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2216.png]
 
GASOLINE OR DIESEL FUELING ISLANDS: Facilities generally intended for the
fueling of internal combustion automobiles located away from enclosed
structures.
GROUND FLOOR: The floor of a building with a principal entrance which faces the
street to which the building address is assigned.
HARDSHIP: As applied to a request for a variance, an act of depriving an owner
of a property the opportunity to use that property to the reasonable use
because of some feature or condition of the property.
HAZARD TO AIR NAVIGATION: An obstruction determined to have a substantial
adverse effect on the safe and efficient utilization of the navigable airspace.
HEALTH AUTHORITY OR HEALTH DEPARTMENT: That office of the Central district
health department having approval jurisdiction over land development within the
city, such as: location and engineering for septic systems; water systems
(wells and distribution); review of subdivision plats, etc.
HEIGHT, AIRPORT: For the purpose of determining the height limits in all zones
set forth in section 3.6.05 and shown on the zoning map, the datum shall be
mean sea level elevation unless otherwise specified.
HEIGHT, BUILDING: Building height shall be measured vertically from any point
on a proposed or existing building element to the existing grade prior to
construction or finished floor elevation after construction, whichever is more
restrictive, directly below said point on a proposed or existing building
element. (The highest to lowest measurement at any given vertical structure
line.)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/da309f2534fb351bbed1003b3bd0777eedff815e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2279.png]
Excluded from the height measurement are: antennas (approved), roof stair
access enclosures/projections, cupolas, chimneys (up to 10 feet above the
highest point of the roof surface), steeples, and spires.
HEIGHT, FENCE OR SCREEN: The vertical distance measured from the existing grade
prior to construction to the top of the fence. For the purpose of applying
height regulations, the average height of the fence along any unbroken run may
be used, provided the height at any point is not more than ten percent (10%)
greater than that permitted by this title.
HOME OCCUPATION: A business conducted within a dwelling unit, which activity is
clearly incidental to the use of the residence as a dwelling and does not
change the residential character thereof, is conducted in such a manner as to
not give any outward appearance of a business in the ordinary meaning of the
term, and does not infringe upon the right of neighboring residents to enjoy a
peaceful occupancy of their homes for which purpose the residential zone was
created and primarily intended.
HORIZONTAL SURFACE: A horizontal plane one hundred fifty feet (150') above the
established airport elevation, the perimeter of which in plan coincides with
the perimeter of the horizontal zone.
HOTEL OR MOTEL: A building in which lodging or boarding and lodging are
provided and offered to the public for compensation. The term does not include
a "dwelling, rooming house" or "dwelling, short term rental" (see definition of
Dwelling, Rooming House (Boarding House, Dormitory, Bed And Breakfast) or
Dwelling, Short Term Rental in this section).
HOUSEHOLD: One or more persons related by blood, marriage, legal adoption or
guardianship, plus not more than five (5) additional persons who live together
in one dwelling unit; or one or more handicapped persons as defined in the fair
housing amendments act of 1988, with amendments, plus not more than five (5)
additional persons, who live together in one dwelling unit.
INDUSTRY, EXTRACTIVE: Any mining, quarrying, excavating, processing, storing,
separating, cleaning or marketing of any mineral natural resource; "mineral"
for these purposes also including the so called "common varieties" of earth
materials.
INFRASTRUCTURE: The facilities, properties, supports and utilities which
provide services.
INSTITUTION: Building and/or land designed for educational services (school) or
to aid individuals in need of mental, therapeutic, rehabilitative, counseling,
correctional, or like services.
JUNK: Any kind of liquid or solid waste when kept under objectively bona fide
claim that the same may be of future use as is, as repaired, for parts, or as
recycled; including, without limitation, trash or refuse of any kind, litter,
commercial waste, industrial or construction or demolition debris of any kind,
such as rubble, broken asphalt and concrete, crates, cartons, metal, glass;
appliances or appliance shells, vehicle bodies and parts, and inoperable or
damaged vehicles, and any castoff tangible personal property or fixtures; where
kept without any such claim of future use, such material constitutes waste
material prohibited under title V of this code.
JUNK BUILDINGS, JUNK SHOPS, JUNKYARDS: Any land, property, structure, building
or combination of the same, on which junk is stored or processed, including,
but not limited to, recycling facilities.
KENNEL: Any lot or premises, on which three (3) or more domesticated animals
more than six (6) months of age are bred, boarded, trained or sold.
LARGE SCALE RETAIL BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT: A development that is proposed to
consist of any structure designed with a footprint larger than forty thousand
(40,000) square feet for any one retail establishment. This definition does not
include government uses, educational uses, health centers or hospitals, and
similar establishments.
LAUNDROMAT: A self-service laundry facility not offering dry cleaning, and open
to the public; the term does not include a laundry facility which is an
accessory use for a planned unit development, for a multi-family housing
development, or for a mobile home or travel trailer park or campground, or the
like.
LOADING SPACE, OFF STREET: Space logically and conveniently located for bulk
pick ups and deliveries, scaled to delivery vehicles expected to be used and
accessible to such vehicles when required off street parking spaces are filled.
LOCAL CONTACT PERSON: The person designated by the Owner, or the Owner’s
authorized agent or representative, who shall be available twenty-four (24)
hours per day, seven (7) days per week while a Short-Term Rental Dwelling is
rented, for the purpose of: a) responding within sixty (60) minutes to
complaints regarding the condition, operation, or conduct of occupants of the
short term rental; and b) taking remedial action to resolve any such
complaints.
LOT: A quantity of land shown as an individual unit on the most recent
relevant, approved plat of record or approved record of survey; and also a
quantity of land described in a deed recorded prior to March 24, 1994, and
apparently executed for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of building
development. The word "lot" includes the words "parcel" and "tract" where such
parcel or tract is the smallest quantity of land that includes the site of a
proposed use or building with respect to which a permit is sought, which
quantity of land is the subject of a deed of record. "Lot" does not include a
strip or gore of land which was apparently conveyed for the purpose of
adjusting the boundary between ownerships of record. "Parcel" and "tract" can
also mean a larger quantity of land out of which a subdivision is being
created, or a tract of land set aside for future development, as the context
makes most suitable. "Approved" as used in this paragraph means formally
approved under these or predecessor subdivision regulations.
LOT, AREA OF: The area of a lot is computed exclusive of any portion of the
right of way of any public or private street.
LOT, CORNER: A lot located at the intersection of two (2) or more streets.
LOT COVERAGE: The building footprint plus other surfaces such as driveways,
decks, patios, and walkways expressed as a percentage of the total lot area.
See section
3.3.06 of this title.
LOT, FLAG: A lot with access to the bulk of the lot provided by a narrow
corridor.
LOT FRONTAGE: The front of a lot shall be construed to be the portion nearest
the street. For the purpose of determining yard requirements on corner lots and
through lots, all sides of a lot adjacent to streets shall be considered
frontage, and yards shall be provided as indicated under the definition of
"yards" in this section.
LOT LINE ADJUSTMENT: A change or modification of easement lines or boundary
lines between existing lots, parcels of land, or properties, which does not
reduce the area, frontage, width, depth, or building setback lines of each lot,
parcel of land, or property below the minimum zoning requirements and which
does not create additional lots or new streets.
LOT OF RECORD: A lot in a subdivision the plat of which is of record in the
office of the county recorder; or a lot or parcel described in a record of
survey or deed so recorded prior to March 24, 1994.
LOT, THROUGH: A lot other than a corner lot with frontage on more than one
street. Through lots abutting two (2) streets may also be referred to as
"double frontage" lots.
LOT WIDTH: The distance parallel to the front lot line, measured between side
lot lines through that part of the building envelope or buildable area of the
lot where the lot is narrowest.
MANUFACTURING, HEAVY: Manufacturing, processing, assembling, storing, testing
and similar industrial uses which are generally major operations and extensive
in character, which require large sites, open storage and service areas,
extensive services and facilities, ready access to regional transportation and
which normally generate some nuisances such as smoke, noise, vibration, dust,
glare, air pollution and water pollution.
MANUFACTURING, LIGHT: Manufacturing or other industrial uses which are usually
controlled operations; relatively clean, quiet, and free of objectionable or
hazardous elements such as smoke, noise, odor, or dust; operating and storing
within enclosed structures, and generating little industrial traffic and no
nuisances.
McCALL AREA: The geographic area defined in the adopted Local Housing Policy
for the City of McCall, or in the absence of the same, the City limits of the
City of McCall, Idaho and its Area of Impact.
MEAN HIGH WATER MARK: The mark on all watercourses, where the presence and
action of waters is so common and continued in all ordinary years as to mark
upon the soil a character distinct from that of the abutting upland, in respect
to vegetation, and destroys its value for agricultural purposes. In areas where
riprap bank stabilization has occurred, the measurement shall begin on the
landward side of such stabilization work.
MOBILE HOME: A vehicle or structure constructed with wheels for use on the
public highways, which has sleeping, cooking and plumbing facilities, is
intended for human occupancy and is being used for residential purposes. The
term "mobile home" does not apply to any prefabricated section of a factory
built house to which wheels may be attached for the purpose of moving it to a
permanent location where it becomes affixed to real property.
MOBILE HOME PARK: Any privately owned place where two (2) or more mobile homes
used for human occupancy are parked within five hundred feet (500') of each
other on a lot, tract or parcel of land under the same ownership.
MOBILE HOME SPACE: A plot of land within a mobile home park designated for the
accommodation of a mobile home.
NONCONFORMING MOBILE HOME: A mobile home which is not permitted under the
district in which it is located, but which was permitted by or conformed to
requirements of a zoning ordinance in effect prior to March 16, 2006.
NONCONFORMING USE, DEVELOPMENT, OR STRUCTURE: A use, development, or structure
not permitted in the relevant zone or not conforming to one or more standards
in this title or title IX of this code, but which lawfully existed prior to the
effective date of this title and which is permitted to continue. See chapter 11
of this title.
NOTICE: As required by chapter 15 of this title.
NURSERY: Land, building, structure or combination thereof for the storage,
cultivation, and transplanting of live trees, shrubs or plants offered for
retail sale on the premises; such use may include sale of products used for
gardening or landscaping.
OBSTRUCTION: Any structure, growth, or other object, including a mobile object,
which exceeds a limiting height set forth in section
3.7.051.
OCCUPANT: The person or persons who contract, either directly or through a
third party, for use of a Short-Term Rental Dwelling.
OPEN SPACE: An area substantially open to the sky which may be on the same lot
with a building. The area may include, along with natural environmental
features, water areas, swimming pools, tennis courts and any other recreational
facilities deemed similar by the commission and approved by the council.
Streets, parking areas, structures for habitation, and the like, shall not be
included as open space.
OVERLAY: Describes a zone imposing requirements in addition to those of an
underlying zone, applied where characteristics of the land or the type of
development proposed for the land require special considerations.
OWNER: The person or persons holding the fee simple estate. For purposes of
enforcement, the owner in fee simple and also the person or persons in
possession.
OWNER OCCUPANCY: A residential dwelling unit that is occupied by the property
owner on a full-time basis.
PARK, PUBLIC: An area of publicly owned land retained in the natural state and/
or developed with walks, recreation facilities, picnic areas, etc., for the use
and enjoyment of the public.
   (A)   Park: A parcel of land dedicated to the public or privately owned. A
park is maintained for the primary purposes of recreations and/or green space.
   (B)   Green Space: Planned and preserved open land, an interconnected system
of open land, and determined to have cultural, ecological, and/or recreational
value.
   (C)   Parks And Recreation Advisory Committee: The McCall parks board, a
recommending body whose members are appointed by the council.
   (D)   Master Plan: The McCall parks, lands and trails master plan, as may be
amended from time to time.
PARKING AREA: An area reserved for the parking of vehicles consisting of one,
or more, parking spaces.
PARKING, ON SITE: The area off of any public or private street, access easement
or alley used for the transient storage, with appropriate dimensions, of
passenger vehicles, parking stalls, access drives and aisles.
PARKING SPACE, OFF STREET: A space designed and designated for the parking of
vehicles located totally outside of the right of way of any street or alley,
together with properly designed access to a public street or alley, and
maneuvering room.
PATIO: A recreation or living area that adjoins or is used in conjunction with
a dwelling or other building, is on grade, and is usually paved or surfaced,
e.g., wood, stone, brick, etc., often used for outdoor dining.
PEDESTRIAN AMENITY: An area adjacent to a street right of way that is improved
for pedestrians; such areas include, but are not limited to, plazas, outdoor
seating areas, bus waiting areas, and street furnishings (e.g., seating,
planter, drinking fountains, public art, kiosks, way finding signs, etc.)
within such areas.
PERIMETER FENCING: Fencing which substantially encloses the property in
question.
PERMANENT LIVING QUARTERS: The use of a mobile home on one specific site for
living quarters for a period in excess of forty five (45) days in any twelve
(12) month period shall constitute a use for permanent living quarters.
PERSON: An individual, firm, partnership, corporation, limited liability
company, association, joint stock association, state subdivision, municipal
corporation, or any other private entity or governmental or quasi-governmental
agency, or group or combination thereof acting as a unit.
PERSONAL SERVICES: Services rendered to the general public, such as, but not
limited to, those rendered by shoe repair shops, barbershops, beauty parlors
and similar activities, for financial gain.
PIER: That construction erected upon the shore for the purpose of providing
access to docks.
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD): An area of land described in a final plan
approved pursuant to chapter 10 of this title, and the improvements and land
features to be constructed on it pursuant to the approval given.
PLANNING JURISDICTION: The geographic area consisting of the city of McCall
together with the city of McCall area of city impact.
PLANNING STAFF: The individuals assigned by the city to conduct the planning
functions of the city.
PLAT, FINAL: The plat of a subdivision or dedication, or any portion thereof,
completely approved and executed for filing and recording in the office of the
Valley County recorder, pursuant to title IX, chapter 2 of this code.
PLAT, PRELIMINARY: A preliminary plan of the plat, subdivision or dedication
containing the elements and requirements set forth in title IX, chapter 2 of
this code.
PLOT PLAN: A plan showing the layout of improvements on a lot. The plot plan
usually includes location, dimensions, parking areas, landscaping and the like.
PRIMARY SURFACE: A surface longitudinally centered on a runway. The primary
surface extends two hundred feet (200') beyond each end of that runway. The
elevation of any point on the primary surface is the same as the elevation of
the nearest point on the runway centerline.
PRINCIPAL STRUCTURE: A structure located on a parcel which is designed for and
used as the primary structure as opposed to an attached or accessory structure.
PRIVATE COMMUNITY USES: Parochial schools, colleges, camps, hospital, and other
facilities of an educational, charitable, philanthropic or nonprofit nature.
PROFESSIONAL OFFICES: The use of a building or part thereof and related spaces
for such professional services as are provided by medical practitioners,
lawyers, architects, engineers, real estate brokers/agents, title companies,
subdivision or fractional ownership sales and marketing, and similar
professions.
PUBLIC OR SEMIPUBLIC PROJECT: A structure or development that, after
completion, would be devoted to public or semipublic uses, including churches
and schools.
PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY: Land dedicated or reserved for use as a public way, which
normally includes streets, alleys, open spaces, sidewalks, trails, and other
public utilities or service areas.
PUBLIC SERVICE FACILITY: Buildings, power plants or substations, water
treatment plants, pumping stations, sewage disposal or pumping plants, and
other similar public service structures; operated by a public utility, or by a
municipal or other governmental agency; for purposes of furnishing of
electrical, gas, communication, water, sewer, and similar services.
PUBLIC USES: Public parks, schools, administrative and cultural buildings and
structures; not including public land or buildings devoted solely to the
storage and maintenance of equipment and materials, and not including public
service facilities.
RECORD GRADE: The natural grade existing prior to any site preparation grading,
or filling, unless a new record grade is approved at the time of subdivision
approval and noted on the filed final plat.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicular unit primarily designated as temporary living
quarters for recreation, camping or travel which either has its own power or is
mounted on or drawn by another vehicle. The basic entities are: travel trailer,
camping trailer, truck camper and motor home.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK: An area for the temporary placing of movable
vehicles designed and used for human occupation and housekeeping which involves
land under single ownership with lots rented for the location of recreational
vehicles and provision of facilities and services to campers by management.
REPLAT: A plat of a resubdivision, altering an existing plat or portion
thereof. A replat does not automatically change the dedication of rights of way
and easements on previous plats; the dedicated parts of the plat can only be
vacated by specific action of the council, with commission recommendation, on
an application for a vacation.
RESEARCH ACTIVITIES: Research, development and testing related to such fields
as chemistry, pharmacology, medicine, electronics, transportation, and
engineering.
RESTAURANT: A place of business which sells or serves food products and
beverages for consumption on the premises, with a building consisting of a
permanent structure that is fully enclosed with a roof and walls, and where
incidental dining may be permitted out of doors on a patio, deck or terrace
integrated into the building design.
RESTAURANT, FORMULA: An eating establishment devoted to the preparation and
offering of food and beverages for sale to the public for consumption either on
or off the premises which, by contractual or other arrangement, established or
recognized business practice, or membership affiliation, maintains any of the
following:
   (A)   Business name common to more than five (5) similar businesses located
elsewhere;
   (B)   Standardized menus, ingredients, food preparation, uniforms, or other
standardized features common to more than five (5) restaurants located
elsewhere;
   (C)   Interior decor common to more than five (5) similar businesses located
elsewhere;
   (D)   Architecture or exterior signs common to more than five (5) similar
businesses located elsewhere;
   (E)   Use of trademark or logo common to more than five (5) similar
businesses located elsewhere (but not including logos or trademarks used by
Chambers of Commerce, Better Business Bureaus, or indicating a rating
organization including, but not limited to, AAA, Mobile or Michelin); or
   (F)   A name, appearance, or food presentation format which causes it to be
substantially identical to more than five (5) restaurants within or outside
Valley County.
Provided, an eating establishment which has commonality with another restaurant
or business in a manner which is described in subsection (A), (B), (C), (D),
(E) or (F) of this definition shall not be considered a "restaurant, formula"
under this chapter if the commonality is shared with five (5) or fewer other
restaurants or businesses.
RETAIL BUSINESS: A business which sells goods to the public at a price normally
greater than the wholesale price.
RETAIL, FORMULA: A retail, service retail, vending service retail, or
restaurant business (including fast food and coffee shops) that is required by
contractual or other arrangement to maintain standardized services,
merchandise, menus, ingredients, food preparation, uniforms, decor, logos,
architecture, signs, or similar features.
RETIREMENT OR ASSISTED LIVING HOME: A dwelling designed for the habitation of
elderly, or invalid, individuals who may require some limited level of living
assistance.
RIGHT-OF-WAY (PUBLIC): A strip of land taken, dedicated, or otherwise acquired
for use as a public way. In addition to the roadway, it normally incorporates
space for curbs, planting strips, sidewalks, lighting, drainage facilities, and
snow storage; and may include special features (required by the topography or
treatment) such as back slopes, fill slopes, grade separation, landscaped
areas, viaducts and bridges. See the definitions of Street and Street, Gated.
RIPARIAN SETBACK: The distance measured at right angles from the mean high
water mark of a waterway, between the mean high water mark and an imaginary
line parallel to the mean high water mark, defining an area between such lines
within which no building or other applicable structure may be placed, and
whereby any existing vegetation shall remain undisturbed.
ROADWAY: A portion or portions of a street right-of-way or of a street without
platted right-of-way developed, appropriately surfaced, and opened for
vehicular traffic, commonly used by the public, measured to the curb, in the
absence of a curb to the top of the back slope of the borrow ditch, and in the
absence of curb or borrow ditch, to the bottom of the fill slope; where there
is no curb, no borrow ditch, and no fill slope, then to the edge of the
traveled way.
RUNWAY: A defined area on an airport prepared for landing and take-off of
aircraft along its length.
SCALE, PEDESTRIAN: The size, texture, and articulation of a structure that
matches the size and proportions of humans. Building details, pavement texture,
street trees, and street furniture are all physical elements contributing to
pedestrian scale.
SCHOOL: An institution providing full time day instruction which is accredited
by and meets the requirements of the Idaho State Board of Education, including
nursery schools or kindergartens whose annual session does not exceed the
school sessions for full time day schools.
SEAT: For purposes of determining the number of off street parking spaces for
certain uses, the number of seats is the number of seating units installed or
indicated, or each twenty four (24) linear inches of benches, pews or space for
loose chairs.
SECURITY TRAILER: A mobile home used for residential purposes in the operation
of a business or industry to provide living quarters on the premises for a
night watchman or caretaker.
SERVICE RETAIL BUSINESS: A business which sells a service to the public at a
price normally greater than the wholesale price.
SERVICE STATION: Buildings and premises with or without gasoline or diesel
fueling islands, where oil, grease, batteries, tires and motor vehicle
accessories may be supplied and dispensed at retail and where, in addition,
light maintenance activities such as engine tuneups, lubrication, exhaust
system repair, minor repairs and carburetor cleaning are conducted. Activities
conducted at a service station shall not include major mechanical and body
work, straightening of body parts, painting, welding or storage of automobiles.
Additionally, the sales of cold drinks, packaged food, tobacco and similar
convenience goods for service station customers is permitted, as accessory and
incidental to principal service station operations.
SETBACK LINE: A line established by this title, generally parallel with and
measured from the lot line, defining the limits of a yard in which an element
of a building or structure shall not be located aboveground except as may be
provided in this title. The setback line for any particular building element
shall be determined by measuring from the appropriate lot line to the outermost
protrusion of the building element or structure such as the roof drip line of a
roof, eaves of a roof, or rail of a deck. The setback line from the water pool
shore contour or high water mark shall be measured from the nearest point of
such water pool shore contour or high water mark. Setbacks shall be measured on
the horizontally projected plane.
SHOPPING CENTER: A complex of retail businesses grouped together and having a
common parking area.
SHORELINE: See water pool shore contour, high water mark.
SIDEWALK: That portion of the road right of way outside the roadway which is
improved for the use of pedestrian traffic.
SIGN: See chapter 9, "Signs", of this title.
SITE PLAN: A detailed plan for a parcel which includes information about the
plot, buildings and other improvements, rights of way, easements, natural
features, etc.
SKYLINES: Ridges or hilltops that do not have backdrops behind them.
SLASH: Brush, severed limbs, poles, tops and other waste material incident to
logging or land clearing which are less than or equal to three inches (3") in
diameter.
STORAGE FACILITY, SELF-SERVICE: A facility designed primarily for the covered
or enclosed storage of belongings of the public on a rental basis. These
facilities are usually secured with fencing and security gates.
STORAGE YARD: Any area used for storage of vehicles, equipment, materials and/
or similar items, either commercial or private.
STORY: That part of a building between the surface of a floor and the ceiling
immediately above it, including the ceiling structure.
STREET: A right of way which provides vehicular and pedestrian access to
adjacent properties. The term “street” also includes the terms highway,
thoroughfare, parkway, road, avenue, boulevard, lane, place, and other such
terms. Streets are classified as follows (where an existing street has less
than the below indicated width of right of way, such fact shall not deprive it
of the status of “street”, but shall instead evidence city policy for lawful
acquisition of right of way in the fullness of time). Streets are designated in
the most recently adopted Roadway Functional Classification Map.
   (A)   Minor: A street which has the primary purpose of providing access to
abutting properties, of which the right of way shall be not less than sixty
feet (60') in width. For the purposes of this code, the term “minor street” is
synonymous with “local street”.
   (B)   Collector: A street intended for the purpose of carrying traffic from
minor streets to other collector streets and/or arterial streets, of which the
right of way shall be not less than seventy feet (70') in width.
   (C)   Arterial: A street intended for the purpose of carrying fast and/or
heavy traffic, of which the right of way shall be not less than eighty feet
(80') in width.
   (D)   Private: A street that is not accepted by the city (or, in the impact
area, by the county) for public maintenance which provides vehicular and
pedestrian access, of which the roadway shall be adequate in width to provide
access for emergency vehicles when snow is being stored, and in any event with
a paved roadway not less than twenty feet (20') wide. Minimum right of way for
a private street shall conform to the functional classification in subsections
(A), (B), and (C) of this definition or as otherwise approved by the commission
(see section
9.6.05 of this code).
   (E)   Emergency Access Street: A street designed to connect two (2)
otherwise incompatible streets with excessive cul-de-sac lengths so as to
remove the incompatibility and which will accommodate emergency, and other,
vehicles. The right of way shall not be less than forty feet (40') wide, with a
paved roadway of at least twenty feet (20') wide.
   (F)   Cul-De-Sac: A short street terminated by a vehicular turnaround.
   (G)   Dead End: An adjective describing a street terminating at a property
line, having no outlet.
   (H)   Alley Or Alleyway: A minor way which is used primarily for vehicular
service access to the rear or side or properties also abutting on a street.
   (I)   Frontage: A minor street parallel to and adjacent to an arterial
street providing access to abutting properties and protection from through
traffic.
   (J)   Highway: A street designated as a state or federal highway by the
state or federal agency responsible therefor.
   (K)   Half: A portion of the width of a street, usually along the edge of a
subdivision, where the remaining portion of the street.
STREET FACADE: Any wall abutting a dedicated public street.
STREET, GATED: Any street, public or private, with a gate across the traveled
way, whether open at all times or periodically closed and locked or otherwise
secured.
STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS: Any change in the supporting members of a building,
such as a bearing wall, column, beam or girder, floor or ceiling joist, roof
rafter, roof diaphragms, foundation, pilings, retaining walls, or similar
elements, or changes in roof or exterior lines.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires location
on the ground or attachment to something having a fixed location on the ground.
Among other things, structures include buildings, mobile homes, walls, fences,
decks, patios, satellite dishes, billboards, fuel tanks, refuse enclosures, and
piers or any other construction erected to connect docks to the shore;
"structure" does not, for purposes of setbacks from the lot lines, include:
   (A)   Paths, steps, and sidewalks of less than forty nine inch (49") width;
and driveways from access streets to automotive vehicle storage areas;
   (B)   Inground patios;
   (C)   Detached planter boxes, walls not more than thirty inches (30") in
height, or other landscaping features, which landscaping features are not more
than thirty inches (30") above the natural terrain, or lot line fences except
as otherwise provided in section
3.7.023 of this title; and
   (D)   Docks and retaining walls otherwise permitted by this title.
STRUCTURE SIZE: The square footage of all floors, conditioned and
unconditioned, and habitable attics, and including covered porches, decks, and
other usable areas under roofs as measured to the outside of the exterior
walls; excluding eaves unless intended to cover useable space.
SUBDIVIDER: An applicant for approval of the platting of a subdivision of land
pursuant to title IX of this code. The subdivider shall be an "owner" as
defined in this section. For purposes of enforcement, "subdivider" also
includes a person who creates an unapproved subdivision.
SUBDIVISION: The division of a tract or parcel of land into two (2) or more
lots, sites, or other divisions for the purpose, whether immediate or future,
of sale, lease, or building development, including any resubdivision, and when
appropriate to the context, the process of subdividing the land subdivided.
"Subdivision" is so defined for purposes of subject matter jurisdiction; that
certain action constitutes a "subdivision" for purposes of this title and title
IX of this code does not imply the necessity of a plat under state law, as
opposed to a "record of survey" under state law approved as to zoning by the
city. See title IX of this code.
SUPERMARKET: A "supermarket" or "grocery store" is a store that sells a wide
variety of food. A supermarket is larger than and more than a grocery store.
Most supermarkets also sell a variety of other household products that are
consumed regularly, such as alcohol (where permitted), household cleaning
products, medicine, and clothes.
SUPPLY YARD: A commercial establishment storing and offering for sale building
supplies, steel supplies, coal, heavy equipment, feed and grain and similar
goods.
SURVEYOR: A professional land surveyor registered in the state of Idaho.
TEMPORARY FOOD VENDOR: Any self-contained pushcart, automobile, trailer, or
similar device which is used for the sale of prepared foods, except those that
meet the definition of “Peddler” located within Section
4.1.2 of this code.
TEMPORARY LIVING QUARTERS: A living quarters used by a family or individual(s)
for a limited period of time for an approved purpose, such as the construction
of a permanent dwelling; the time limit is to be proposed by an applicant and
approved by the administrator.
TEMPORARY MERCHANDISE VENDOR: Any tent, cart, automobile, trailer, or similar
device which is used for the sale of merchandise, except those that meet the
definition of “Peddler” located within Section
4.1.2 of this code.
TEMPORARY STORAGE FACILITY: Includes, but is not limited to, tents, freight
trailers, freight containers, or other storage units, which are being used for
storage of equipment or inventory; but does not include personal utility or
boat trailers in a residential district on the property of the owner of the
same.
TEMPORARY VENDOR COURT: Two or more temporary food or merchandising vendors
located on the same parcel of land, or one or more temporary food vendors with
seating, covered areas, or similar areas.
TOWNHOUSE DEVELOPMENT: A planned residential project of two (2) or more
townhouse units which may be constructed as single building(s) containing two
(2) or more townhouse units. Each unit within the development shall be
separated from the adjoining unit or units by firewalls as required by the
international building code, as amended, each unit having its own access to the
outside, and no unit located over another unit in part or whole. All townhouse
development(s) shall be platted under the procedures contained in title IX of
this code.
TOWNHOUSE SUBLOT: The lot resulting from platting a residential townhouse
development.
TOWNHOUSE UNIT: One or more rooms, including a minimum of one bathroom and a
single kitchen, designed for or occupied as a unit by one family for living and
cooking purposes, located in a townhouse development on a platted townhouse
sublot, and meeting the efficiency dwelling unit standards established in the
international building code, as amended.
TRANSITIONAL SURFACES: These surfaces extend outward at ninety degree (90°)
angles to the runway centerline, and the runway centerline extended, at a slope
of seven feet (7') horizontally for each foot vertically from the sides of the
primary and approach surfaces to where they intersect the horizontal and
conical surfaces. Transitional surfaces for those portions of the precision
approach surfaces, which project through and beyond the limits of the conical
surface, extend a distance of five thousand feet (5,000') measured horizontally
from the edge of the approach surface and at ninety degree (90°) angles to the
extended runway centerline.
TREE: A tall perennial woody plant having a main trunk and branches forming a
distinct elevated crown.
UPPER FLOOR: Any floor of a building which is situated above the elevation of
the ground floor.
USE: The specific purposes for which land or a building, or a portion of either
or both, is designated, arranged, or intended, or for which it is or may be
occupied or maintained.
UTILITIES: Installations for conducting water, sewage, gas, electricity, cable
television, fiber optics and stormwater, and similar facilities providing
service to and used by the public.
UTILITY RUNWAY: A runway that is constructed for and intended to be used by
propeller driven aircraft of twelve thousand five hundred (12,500) pounds
maximum gross weight and less.
VARIANCE: The relaxation of an otherwise applicable dimensional requirement.
See chapter 13 of this title.
VEHICLE: A "vehicle" as defined in the Idaho Code; however, for purposes of the
sign regulations, authorization of signs on vehicles, a vehicle which is
currently, regularly, commonly, and principally used for a significant
transportation purpose other than display of such sign and which motor vehicle
is not under any circumstances to be used principally as a sign for a business,
either in the scenic route overlay district, or elsewhere, no matter how
conforming to this title the sign may otherwise be.
VETERINARY ANIMAL HOSPITAL OR CLINIC: A place used for the care, grooming,
diagnosis and treatment of sick, ailing, infirm, or injured animals, and those
who are in need of medical or surgical attention, and may include overnight
accommodations on the premises for treatment, observations and/or recuperation.
It may also include boarding that is incidental to the primary activity.
VICINITY MAP: A drawing which sets forth by dimensions or other means the
relationship of the proposed development to other nearby developments or
landmarks and community facilities and services within the general area, in
order to better locate and orient the area affected by an application.
WALKWAY: A public way, four feet (4') or more in width, for pedestrian use
only, whether or not along the side of a road.
WALL: A constructed solid barrier of concrete, boulders, bricks, tiles or
similar types of material that limit visibility and the flow of air and light.
WALL, RETAINING: A wall constructed for the purposes of stabilizing soil,
retarding erosion or terracing land.
WASTE MATTER: Any kind of liquid or solid waste, including without limitation,
trash, household garbage or refuse of any kind, such as rubble, broken asphalt
and concrete, crates, cartons, metal, glass; appliances or appliance shells;
vehicle bodies and parts; or accumulations of manure other than that
customarily in pastures and in association with fertilization of lawful on site
agricultural uses. "Waste matter" also includes anything that was in a waste
container but which has escaped from the same.
WATER POOL SHORE CONTOUR, PAYETTE LAKE: The intersection with the shore of a
horizontal plane at an elevation of 4,992.59 feet above sea level, NAVD88
datum. It is irrelevant for purposes of this title that such contour is or is
not covered by water at any particular time or times.
WETLANDS: Lands which are dedicated and protected in accordance with Federal
laws and are not to be included in the calculation of land to meet the
requirements for parks.
WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITY, SMALL SCALE: Antennas and equipment required
for the operation and maintenance of small cells, fixed wireless antennas and
including distributed antenna systems (DAS) typically installed on utility,
traffic light and signal poles in the public right-of-way.
WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITY, MAJOR: A steel monopole or similar
structures including wireless antenna equipment such as transmitters,
repeaters, microwave dishes, horns, and other types of equipment for the
transmission or receipt of such signals, as well as ground support structures,
equipment buildings and parking areas.
WRECKING YARD: A place where the dismantling or wrecking of two (2) or more
used motor vehicles, mobile homes, trailers or the storage, sale or dumping of
dismantled, partially dismantled, obsolete or wrecked vehicles or their parts,
occurs. See also definition of Junk Buildings, Junk Shops, Junkyards.
YARD: An area, unoccupied and unobstructed by any structure or portion of a
structure; provided, that accessories, ornaments and furniture may be permitted
in any yard, subject to height limitations and requirements limiting
obstruction of visibility, defined as the area between the lot line and the
setback line.
YARD, USABLE: One (1) or more well drained open areas covered with lawn grass
or other suitable cover material, located on the same lot as the principal use,
for use by the residents for outdoor activities. Usable yard may be computed in
part using sandboxes, horseshoe pits, and like outdoor recreational facilities.
No dimension of the usable yard shall be less than ten feet (10'). "Usable
yard" does not include driveways, common walks, refuse storage or collection
areas, or off street parking or loading areas. Decks and accessible flat roof
areas having at least one (1) dimension of ten feet (10'), and no dimension
less than three feet (3'), may be used to meet a usable yard requirement. (Ord.
821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006; amd. Ord. 840, 9-6-2007; Ord. 846, 11-5-2007;
Ord. 864, 2-12-2009; Ord. 880, 9-23-2010; Ord. 930, 12-18-2014, eff. 1-1-2016;
Ord. 952, 11-3-2016; Ord. 983, 12-19-2019, eff. 1-1-2020; Ord. 984, 12-19-2019,
eff. 1-1-2020; Ord. 987, 4-9-2020; Ord. 989, 4-23-2020; Ord. 998, 1-14-2021;
Ord. 1009, 10-6 -2022; Ord. 1011, 9-8-2022; Ord.1015, 3-30-2023)
CHAPTER 3
RESIDENTIAL ZONES AND STANDARDS
SECTION:
3.3.01: Purpose
3.3.02: Residential Use Regulations
3.3.03: Residential Zone General Development Standards
3.3.04: Residential Zone Lot Width Versus Side Yard Setback
3.3.041: Snow Shedding Roof Setback
3.3.05: Residential Zone Lot Depth Versus Rear Yard Setback
3.3.06: Residential Zone Lot Coverage Of Improvements
3.3.07: Residential Zone Required Determination
3.3.08: Residential Zone Special Development Standards
3.3.09: Residential Zone Design Review Standards
3.3.01: PURPOSE:
The McCall area comprehensive plan details the goals, objectives, actions, and
policies for the city's residential areas, including the preservation of the
natural resources of the area and enhancement of existing residential
neighborhoods. It is the purpose of this chapter to implement the plan's vision
through development regulations that allow for a range of residential
opportunities for all socioeconomic groups, ensure that new residential
development maintains existing and achieves new, quality neighborhoods, and
provides holding areas for future urban development.
   (A)   Rural Residential (RR) Zone: The RR land use designation is the least
intense residential designation in the city, and is intended to guide
development away from unsuitable areas, to preserve ecologically sensitive and
important recreation areas. This zone allows for the development of single-
family homes on significant acreage at a maximum density of one dwelling unit
per ten (10) acres.
   (B)   Residential, Estate (RE) Zone: The RE land use designation permits the
development of large lot, single-family residential areas, and is intended to
provide for a rural setting and encourage preservation of open space and
recreation areas. This zone allows a maximum density of one dwelling unit per
five (5) acres.
   (C)   Residential, One Dwelling Unit Per Acre (R1) Zone: The R1 land use
designation permits the development of large lot single- family residential
areas and is intended to allow larger lot residential subdivisions. The zone
allows a maximum density of one dwelling unit per acre.
   (D)   Residential, Four Dwelling Units Per Acre (R4) Zone: The R4 land use
designation permits the development of low-density single-family residential
neighborhoods. These neighborhoods would consist of larger home sites. The zone
allows a maximum density of four (4) dwelling units per acre.
   (E)   Residential, Eight Dwelling Units Per Acre (R8) Zone: The R8 land use
designation permits the development of medium density single-family housing and
is intended to maintain traditional residential neighborhoods. The zone allows
a maximum density of eight (8) dwelling units per acre.
   (F)   Residential, Sixteen Dwelling Units Per Acre (R16) Zone: The R16 land
use designation permits the development of neighborhoods with multiple-family
dwelling units and is intended to encourage a variety of housing opportunities.
The zone allows a maximum density of sixteen (16) dwelling units per acre.
(Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
3.3.02: RESIDENTIAL USE REGULATIONS:
   (A)   Permitted And Conditionally Permitted Uses: The uses identified in
table 3.3.02 of this section shall be the primary uses allowed to occur on a
property. All uses, unless otherwise provided for in this title, shall be
conducted within enclosed structures. All uses not listed in
table 3.3.02 of this section require review by the commission and a conditional
use permit. The primary uses identified in
table 3.3.02 of this section shall be permitted or conditionally permitted as
indicated:
P: Where the symbol P appears, the use shall be permitted.
A: Where the symbol A appears, the use may be permitted subject to the issuance
of an administrative permit in accordance with section
3.13.01 of this title.
C: Where the symbol C appears, the use shall be permitted subject to the
issuance of a conditional use permit in accordance with section
3.13.03 of this title.
Where no symbol, or a dash, appears, the use is not permitted.
TABLE 3.3.02
PERMITTED AND CONDITIONALLY PERMITTED USES WITHIN RESIDENTIAL ZONES
Allowed Use RR RE R1 R4 R8 R16
Allowed Use                                               RR RE R1 R4 R8 R16
Accessory structure4                                      P  P  P  P  P  P
Accessory use, residential                                P  P  P  P  P  P
Agricultural structure                                    A  A  A  C  C  C
Agricultural use                                          P  P  C  -  -  -
Amusement or recreation facility, indoor (only)           -  -  -  -  -  -
Animal clinic, animal hospital, or veterinary office      C  C  C  -  -  -
Animals, large or common farm animals                     A  A  A  -  -  -
Animals, small farm animals                               P  P  P  P  A  A
Antenna, private                                          P  P  P  P  C  C
Antenna, public                                           A  A  A  A  A  A
Automotive, hobby                                         A  A  A  A  A  A
Camp                                                      C  C  C  C  C  C
Care center                                               C  C  C  C  C  C
Cemetery                                                  C  C  C  C  C  C
Children's treatment facility                             C  C  C  C  C  C
Church                                                    C  C  C  C  C  C
Clinic                                                    C  C  C  C  C  C
Club or lodge or social hall                              C  C  C  C  C  C
Convenience store                                         C  C  C  C  C  C
Drug and alcohol treatment facility                       C  C  C  -  -  -
Dwelling, multi-family                                    -  -  -  C  P  P
Dwelling, rooming house                                   C  C  C  C  C  C
Dwelling, short term rental, occupancy fewer than 11      A  A  A  A  A  A
persons5
Dwelling, short term rental, occupancy 11 or more persons C  C  C  C  C  C
Dwelling unit, accessory (including guesthouses)          P  P  P  P  P  P
Dwelling unit, local housing                              P  P  P  P  P  P
Dwelling unit, principal (single-family)                  P  P  P  P  P  P
Foster home, group                                        C  C  C  C  C  C
Golf course and country club                              C  C  C  C  C  C
Home occupation                                           P  P  P  P  P  P
Kennel                                                    C  C  C  -  -  -
Large scale retail business2                              -  -  -  -  -  -
Mortuary                                                  C  C  -  -  -  -
Nursery, wholesale (only)                                 P  -  -  -  -  -
Nursing facility, skilled                                 C  C  C  C  C  C
Professional office                                       C  C  C  C  C  C
Public parks, recreation areas, easements, trails         A  A  A  A  A  A
Recreational vehicle park                                 C  C  C  C  C  C
Rental store and storage yard                             C  C  C  -  -  -
Restaurant                                                C  C  C  C  C  C
Restaurant, formula3                                      -  -  -  -  -  -
Retail business                                           C  C  C  C  C  C
Retail, formula1                                          -  -  -  -  -  -
Retirement or assisted living home                        C  C  C  C  C  C
Roadside produce stand                                    A  A  A  -  -  -
School, public or private                                 C  C  C  C  C  C
Service retail business                                   C  C  C  C  C  C
Service station                                           -  -  -  -  -  -
Stable or riding arena, commercial                        C  C  -  -  -  -
Storage facility, self-service                            C  C  C  -  -  -
Storage yard (outdoor)                                    C  C  C  -  -  -
Temporary food vendor                                     -  -  -  A  A  A
Temporary merchandise vendor                              -  -  -  C  C  C
Temporary vendor court                                    -  -  -  C  C  C
Temporary living quarters                                 A  A  A  A  A  A
Wireless communication facility, major                    C  C  C  C
Wireless communication facility, small scale              A  A  A  A  A  A
Notes:
   1.    See section
3.8.18 of this title for limitations on retail, formula.
   2.    See subsection
3.8.02(E) of this title.
   3.    See section
3.8.17 of this title for limitations on restaurants, formula.
   4.   See Section
3.8.11 of this title for limitation on size and requirements of design review.
   5.   A conditional use permit is required for any Short-Term Rental with
occupancy of eleven (11) persons or more.
(Ord. 931, 2-12-2015; amd. Ord. 983, 12-19-2019; Ord. 987, 4-9-2020; Ord. 1009,
10-6-2022; Ord. 1011, 9-8-2022; Ord. 1015, 3-30-2023)
3.3.03: RESIDENTIAL ZONE GENERAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
The following property development standards shall apply to all land and
permitted or conditionally permitted buildings located within their respective
residential zones.
Table 3.3.03 of this section lists the site development standards required for
residential development properties. Chapter 10 of this title provides special
provisions for planned developments. (Ord. 847, 11-8-2007, eff. 3-1-2008)
TABLE 3.3.03
DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS BY RESIDENTIAL ZONE
Dimensional Standard RR RE R1 R4 R8 R16
Dimensional  RR         RE        R1       R4       R8            R16
Standard
Nominal                                    4 units/               16 units/
property     10.0 acres 5.0 acres 1.0 acre acre     8 units/ acre acre
size
Minimum
property
size per     360,000    180,000   40,000   10,000   5,000         2,500
unit (square
feet)
Street
frontage,    300        200       100      75       50            25
minimum (in
feet)1
Setback (in
feet) from:
1. Any
property
line on an   30         30        30       25       20            20
arterial or
collector
street
2. Front
property
line on a    25         25        25       20       20            155
minor or
private
street
3. Front
property
line on a
minor or
private
street where
alley        25         20        20       15       15            105
provides
access to
garage or
where the
garage is
side loaded
4. Interior
side         50         30        53       53       53            53
property
line2,8
5. Rear
property     50         30        57       57       57            57
line2,8
6. Side
property
line on      25         25        20       15       15            15
minor or
private
street2,4,8
7. Alley     3          3         3        3        3             3
setback
Maximum
height (in   35         35        35       35       35            505
feet)
Minimum
distance
between      20         20        20       10       10            10
buildings
(in feet)6
Maximum
single-
family
residential  10,000     10,000    10,000   10,000   10,000        10,000
unit size
(in square
feet)9
Notes:
   1.   Measured at the setback line; for flag lots, the setback starts at the
end of the pole section.
   2.   See section
3.10.08 of this title, regarding development standards.
   3.   See
figure 3.3.04 of this chapter to determine minimum setbacks and section
3.3.041 of this chapter regarding snow shedding roof setback. However, no
building element shall be closer to a side property line than 1/2 the building
element height (see chapter 2, "Definitions", of this title); use the greater
of this measurement or that determined from section
3.3.04 and
figure 3.3.04  of this chapter.
   4.   If vehicle access is restricted on such street, a setback of 15 feet is
permitted.
   5.   Exception to height allowances as noted in chapter 7, "Special
Districts", of this title. All buildings over 35 feet in height will require a
conditional use permit. Fifty feet (50') maximum height without a conditional
use permit when twenty-five percent (25%) of the floor area of the development
is devoted to local housing units as noted in section 3.3.21.
   6.   To points of building elements in opposition.
   7.   Determine rear setback using section
3.3.05 of this chapter.
   8.   For zero lot line developments, the maximum lot coverage standard shall
be increased by 10 percent for each lot line with a 0 foot setback. For
example, for a lot with 1 zero lot line and a size of 10,000 square feet, the
percent of lot coverage would be: 30% + 10% x (30%) = (30+3)% = 33%.
   9.   Maximum square footage of a structure will be determined, as defined by
the International Building Code, adopted by reference in title 2 “Building
Regulations.” The square footage of all floors, conditioned and unconditioned,
and habitable attics, and including covered porches, decks, and other usable
areas under roofs as measured to the outside of the exterior walls; excluding
eaves unless intended to cover useable space.
(Ord. 847, 11-8-2007, eff. 3-1-2008; amd. Ord. 864, 2-12-2009; Ord. 998, 1-14-
2021; Ord. 1009, 10-6-2022)
3.3.04: RESIDENTIAL ZONE LOT WIDTH VERSUS SIDE YARD SETBACK:
See
figure 3.3.04 of this section to determine side yard setback, or the following
formulas:
 
Minimum Lot Width (feet) Maximum Lot Width (feet) Formula
0                        50                       s = 5
50                       75                       s = 0.068w+1.6
75                       100                      s = 0.132w-3.2
100                      125                      s = 0.2w-10
Over 125                                          s = 15
 
where s is the side yard setback in feet for one side and w is the lot width,
in feet.
Figure 3.3.04
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/da309f2534fb351bbed1003b3bd0777eedff815e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2357.png]
 
However, for lots up to one hundred feet (100') wide, the sum of both side yard
setbacks shall equal a minimum of twenty percent (20%) of the lot width when
measured at the location of the setback. For lots over one hundred feet (100')
in width, the requirement is for the sum of both side yard setbacks to equal at
least thirty percent (30%) of the lot width when so measured. The administrator
may approve, for lots up to one hundred twenty five feet (125') wide, a
relaxation of total side yard setback to up to twenty five percent (25%) of the
lot width if conditions of topography, adjacent buildings, vegetation, or
wetlands impact the location of the proposed building site. (Ord. 821, 2-23-
2006, eff. 3-16-2006; Ord. 1009, 10-6-2022)
3.3.041: SNOW SHEDDING ROOF SETBACK:
If the interior side setback is less than ten feet (10') and the roof slopes
toward the interior side property line, then the roof shall be designed to hold
and/or shed snow to prevent snow accumulation on the adjoining property. (Ord.
821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
3.3.05: RESIDENTIAL ZONE LOT DEPTH VERSUS REAR YARD SETBACK:
If rear yard setback is less than ten feet (10') and the roof slopes toward the
property line, then the roof will be designed to hold snow to prevent snow
accumulation on adjacent properties.
 
Setback standard:              
Lots less than 100 feet deep  5 foot minimum
Lots 100 - 200 feet deep      10 foot minimum
Lots over 200 feet deep       20 foot minimum
(Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
3.3.06: RESIDENTIAL ZONE LOT COVERAGE OF IMPROVEMENTS:
The maximum permitted lot coverage varies with lot size.
Figure 3.3.06 of this section establishes the maximum permitted lot coverage
for all uses in all residential zones.
To determine the lot coverage for a proposed development, calculate the
following values and add to determine the total coverage. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006,
eff. 3-16-2006)
 
Building/house footprint               100 percent of footprint area = A
Decks, patios, walkways, plazas, etc.  50 percent of covered area = B
Driveways, surface parking, etc.       35 percent of covered area = C
                                      Total = A+B+C
 
(Ord. 864, 2-12-2009)
Determine the maximum permitted lot coverage (A+B+C) for home sites by using
figure 3.3.06 of this section, or the following formulas:
Minimum Lot Size Maximum Lot Size Formula
Minimum Lot Size Maximum Lot Size Formula
Less than 5,000                   c=50%
5,000            10,000           c=(-4/100,000 s+0.7)*100
10,000           20,000           c=(-6/1,000,000 s+0.36)*100
20,000           40,000           c=(-2/1,000,000 s+0.28)*100
40,000           100,000          c=(-9.45/10,000,000 s+0.2378)*100
100,000          200,000          c=(-4.33/10,000,000 s+0.1866)*100
Over 200,000                      c=10%
 
where c is the maximum allowable lot coverage, in percent, and s is the lot
size, in square feet.
For sites with multiple dwellings per lot, or condominium or townhouse plats,
the applicable lot size for the purposes of calculating maximum lot coverage
shall be determined by dividing the entire lot size (less non-developable land)
by the total number of dwelling units.
Some examples:
   (A)   Lot Size = 7,000 square feet.
   House plus garage footprint = 1,800 square feet x 1.00 = 1,800 (A).
   Patio = 200 square feet x 0.50 = 100 (B).
   Driveway and walk = 300 square feet x 0.35 = 105 (C).
   A + B + C = 1,800 + 100 + 105 = 2005.
   Lot size = 7,000; from figure 3.3.06 of this section, maximum value for A +
B + C = 42%, or 2,940.
   So this example meets the coverage requirement.
   (B)   Lot Size = 15,000 square feet.
   House plus garage footprint = 3,500 square feet x 1.00 = 3,500 (A).
   Patio and deck = 800 square feet x 0.50 = 400 (B).
   Driveway and walk = 600 square feet x 0.35 = 210 (C).
   A + B + C = 3,500 + 400 + 210 = 4,110.
   Lot size = 15,000; from figure 3.3.06 of this section, maximum value for A +
B + C = 27%, or 4,050.
   So in this example, something will have to be reduced to bring the total to
4,050.
Figure 3.3.06
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/da309f2534fb351bbed1003b3bd0777eedff815e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2359.png]
(Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006; amd. Ord. 1009, 10-6-2022)
3.3.07: RESIDENTIAL ZONE REQUIRED DETERMINATION:
Each application for a building permit will show calculation for the above
requirements. For odd shaped lots, corner lots, and similar situations where an
interpretation of the standards is required, the administrator may require the
submittal of specific building envelopes and other information to demonstrate
compliance with the intent of these requirements. The administrator will make a
determination of compliance or noncompliance. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-
2006)
3.3.08: RESIDENTIAL ZONE SPECIAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   (A)   Landscaping. See section
3.8.13 of this title.
   (B)   Accessory dwelling units may be utilized as short-term rentals given
conformance with section
3.13.09 of this title.
   (C)   The commission may approve smaller individual lots in a multiple lot
subdivision if the average size meets the minimum size values shown in
table 3.3.03 in this chapter. See also chapter 10, “Planned Unit Development”,
of this title.
   (D)   Home occupation (see definitions, chapter 2 of this title). An
occupation which complies with the following criteria shall be deemed a home
occupation:
      1.   The use, including all storage space, shall occupy not more than
fifty percent (50%) of the residence’s floor area which is finished for living
purposes.
      2.   There shall be no commercial advertising, except one nonluminous
sign bearing the name and occupation of the resident, not exceeding two (2)
square feet in area, and placed flat against the building.
      3.   No materials or mechanical equipment shall be used which will be
detrimental to the residential use of said residence or surrounding residences
because of vibration, noise, dust, smoke, odor, interference with radio or
television reception, or other factors.
      4.   Materials or commodities delivered to or from the residence which
are of such bulk and quantity as to require delivery by a commercial motor
vehicle or a trailer, or the parking of customer’s automobiles in a manner or
frequency causing disturbance or inconvenience to nearby residents or so as to
necessitate a parking lot, shall be prima facie evidence that the occupation is
a primary business, and not a home occupation. “Commercial motor vehicle”, for
these purposes, shall not be said to include a united parcel service or federal
express delivery or other like courier services and parcel post services,
making deliveries to the subject property with a frequency not uncommon in
residential neighborhoods.
   (E)   Residential development shall provide open space in the amount of one
hundred (100) square feet per bedroom in excess of one (1) bedroom per dwelling
unit. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006; amd. Ord. 998, 1-14-2021; Ord.
1009, 10-6-2022)
3.3.09: RESIDENTIAL ZONE DESIGN REVIEW STANDARDS:
   (A)   Purpose: To ensure that the McCall area's built environment
complements McCall's natural environment, scenic mountain setting, and
historic, small town character.
      1.   To support development that is residential in character and
compatible with its surrounding neighborhood.
      2.   To preserve natural features, including waterways, open space,
trees, native vegetation, and wildlife habitat and corridors.
      3.   To promote active and safe streetscapes in residential neighborhoods
that are conducive to walking and biking.
   (B)   Applicability: The design standards apply to accessory dwelling units,
multifamily residential developments of three (3) or more units and single-
family residential dwelling units greater than three thousand five hundred
(3,500) square feet.
   (C)   Residential Design Standards:
      1.   Building Scale: The building shall be in scale with the site
conditions and surrounding structures. Appropriate scale can be accomplished
through the following:
         a.   The principal structure on the site is the dominant element.
         b.   Building massing and scale is responsive to the site conditions,
including views through and of the site, and existing vegetation. Development
that is designed to complement rather than dominate the natural landscape.
         c.   Variations in wall planes and roof lines are incorporated to
minimize the apparent scale of the building.
         d.   Porches, balconies, decks and terraces that strengthen the
residential scale and character of the building.
      2.   Building Design: Building designs shall enhance and/or continue the
styles found in the McCall area with allowance for new interpretations of
historic details. Local natural building materials, roof overhangs, covered
porches and entrances, simplicity of design, and segmented windows are elements
of the McCall style. Building designs that are in keeping with the McCall style
include the following:
         a.   Materials:
            i.   Natural looking exterior materials looking siding and decking
materials that resist heat and flames, including: composite decking, cement,
plaster, stucco, masonry (such as stone brick or blocks) and fiber-cement
siding, soffit, and trim products.
            ii.   Use of stones that convey the appearance of a structural
element rather than a veneer facing.
            iii.   Metal when used in combination with natural materials.
         b.   Roofs:
            i.   Roofs that compliment and respond to the mountain setting and
heavy snow environment.
            ii.   Hipped, pitched, shed and gabled roofs.
            iii.   Roofs designed to prevent snow or ice from shedding directly
onto a pedestrian walkway, access or adjacent property.
            iv.   Class A fire rated roof assemblies.
         c.   Exterior Color:
            i.   Exterior wall colors that tend toward earthy warm hues, with
accent colors kept to a minimum of two (2) and used to highlight entrances.
            ii.   No harshly contrasted color combinations, brilliant,
luminescent or day-glow colors on exterior finishes.
         d.   No blank walls shall face street frontages, including blank or
unarticulated garage doors.
         e.   Decks and balconies shall be designed to handle snow and drift
loads including snow shedding from roof overhangs above. (Ord. 998, 1-14-2021;
amd. Ord. 1009, 10-6-2022)
CHAPTER 4
COMMERCIAL ZONES AND STANDARDS
SECTION:
3.4.01: Purpose
3.4.02: Permitted And Conditionally Permitted Uses Within Commercial Zone
3.4.03: Commercial Zone General Development Standards
3.4.031: Maximum Setback (Build-To Line)
3.4.04: Commercial Zone Special Development Standards
3.4.05: Specific Standards For Development In CBD
3.4.06: Specific Standards For Commercial Development In Any District Zone
3.4.061: Special Parking Standards In CBD
3.4.07: Commercial Zone Design Review Standards
3.4.01: PURPOSE:
The McCall comprehensive plan details the goals, objectives, actions and
policies for the city's commercial areas, including the preservation of
community character and enhancement of existing commercial zones. It is the
purpose of this chapter to implement the plan's vision through development
regulations that allow for a variety of appropriately scaled retail, service,
and mixed use opportunities for residents and visitors to McCall.
   (A)   Neighborhood Commercial (NC) Zone: The NC land use designation is the
least intense commercial designation in the city, and is intended to provide
retail, service, and mixed use establishments that are within easy walking
distance for area residents. These small scale commercial uses should be
conveniently located and integrated within neighborhoods and designed to
complement the pedestrian environment of the neighborhoods in which they are
located. This zone allows residential uses at a maximum density of that allowed
by the average of the adjacent residential zones.
   (B)   Community Commercial (CC) Zone: The CC land use designation supports
general commercial uses that serve the greater community of McCall. These
retail, service, and mixed use establishments may be automobile oriented and
require a larger lot area; provided, that they are designed to safely and
comfortably accommodate those arriving by foot, bicycle, or transit. This zone
allows residential uses at a maximum of forty (40) dwelling units per acre.
   (C)   Central Business District (CBD) Zone: The CBD land use designation is
intended to preserve and enhance the McCall downtown area as the historic heart
of McCall, and the primary tourist and pedestrian activity area of the
community. A variety of retail, service, and mixed use establishments
associated with the traditional main street environment are permitted. This
zone allows residential uses at a maximum of sixty (60) dwellings per acre.
(Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
3.4.02: PERMITTED AND CONDITIONALLY PERMITTED USES WITHIN COMMERCIAL ZONES:
   (A)   Permitted And Conditionally Permitted Uses: The uses identified in
table 3.4.02 of this section, uses within commercial zones, shall be the
primary uses allowed to occur on a property. All uses, unless otherwise
provided for in this title, shall be conducted within enclosed structures. For
example, some businesses, such as a gas station or car wash, will have a
portion of a use outside the primary structure. All uses not listed in
table 3.4.02 of this section require review by the commission and a conditional
use permit. The primary uses identified in
table 3.4.02 of this section may be permitted or conditionally permitted as
indicated:
      P: Where the symbol P appears, the use shall be permitted.
      A: Where the symbol A appears, the use may be permitted subject to the
issuance of an administrative permit in accordance with section
3.13.01 of this title.
      C: Where the symbol C appears, the use may be permitted subject to the
issuance of a conditional use permit in accordance with section
3.13.03 of this title.
      Where no symbol, or a dash, appears, the use is not permitted.
TABLE 3.4.02
PERMITTED AND CONDITIONALLY PERMITTED USES WITHIN COMMERCIAL ZONES
Allowed Use NC CC CBD
Allowed Use                               NC CC CBD
Adult entertainment establishment         -  -  -
Agricultural or garden use, without farm  P  P  P
animals
Amusement or recreation facility, indoor  C  P  P
Amusement or recreation facility, outdoor C  A  C
Animal boarding with outside runs         C  C  -
Animal clinic, animal hospital, or        C  P  P
veterinary office
Animals, small farm animals               A  A  A
Antenna, private                          A  A  C
Antenna, public                           A  A  A
Auction establishment, outdoor            C  C  C
Automobile, major repair                  -  C  -
Automobile or recreational vehicle sales  C  P  C
or service (used or new), indoor
Automobile or recreational vehicle sales  -  C  -
or service (used or new), outdoor
Bank                                      P  P  P
Bar, brewpub, or nightclub                C  P  P
Camp                                      -  C  -
Car wash                                  C  C  C
Care center                               P  P  P
Cemetery                                  C  C  -
Church                                    C  P  P
Clinic, medical (excluding animal or      P  P  P
veterinary)
Club or social hall                       C  P  P
Contractor's yard or shop                 -  C  -
Convention facility                       -  C  P
Crematory                                 -  C  -
Drive-up window service                   -  C  -
Dry cleaning facility                     -  C  C
Dwelling, accessory                       A  P  P
Dwelling unit, local housing              P  P  P
Dwelling unit, seasonal housing           A  A  A
Dwelling, multi-family                    P  P  P1
Dwelling, rooming house                   C  P  P
Dwelling, Short-Term Rental, occupancy    A  A  A
fewer than 11 persons
Dwelling, Short-Term Rental, occupancy 11 C  C  C
or more persons5 
Dwelling, single-family                   P  P1 P1
Farm, garden, lumber, or building supply  C  P  P
store
Hotel or motel                            C  P  P
Kennel, commercial                        C  C  -
Large scale retail business3              -  -  -
Laundromat                                P  P  P
Mixed use1                                Use procedure of most restrictive use
Mortuary                                  P  P  -
Nursery, retail (only)                    P  P  P
Off street parking facility when not      C1 P1 C1
accessory
Office, temporary construction            A  A  A
Package and letter delivery service       C  P  P
Personal, business, or professional       P  P  P
service
Portable classroom                        A  A  A
Professional offices                      P  P  P
Public parks, recreation areas or         P  P  P
easements, and trails
Public service facility                   C  C  C
Radio and television broadcasting station P  P  P
Recreational vehicle park                 C  C  -
Recycling center                          P  P  -
Rental or retail store with outdoor       C  C  C
storage or display yard
Rental or retail store without outdoor    P  P  P
storage or display yard
Research and development facility         P  P  P
Restaurant                                P  P  P
Restaurant, formula4                      P  P  P
Retail, formula2                          P  P  P
Retail sales relating to an approved use  A  A  A
Retirement or assisted living home        P  P  P
School, public or private                 P  P  P
School, vocational or trade               P  P  P
Service retail business                   A  A  A
Service Station, without gasoline or      C  C  -
diesel fueling islands
Service station, with gasoline or diesel  -  C  -
fueling islands
Storage facility, self-service            -  C  -
Storage yard (outdoor)                    -  C  -
Studio (music, art, dance or similar      P  P  P
studio)
Swimming pool, private                    A  A  A
Temporary Food Vendor                     P  P  P
Temporary Merchandise Vendor              A  A  P
Temporary Vendor Court                    A  A  P
Theater                                   P  P  P
Transit facility (e.g., bus stop, bus     P  P  P
shelter, transit center)
Truck stop                                -  C  -
Wireless communication facility, major    C  C  C
Wireless communication facility, small    A  A  A
scale
 
Notes:
   1.   Subject to subsection
3.4.04(D) of this chapter.
   2.   See section
3.8.18 of this title for limitations on retail, formula.
   3.   See subsection
3.8.02(E) of this title.
   4.   See section
3.8.17 of this title for limitations on restaurants, formula.
   5.   A conditional use permit is required for any Short-Term Rental with
occupancy of eleven (11) persons or more.
(Ord. 923, 5-22-2014; amd. Ord. 983, 12-19-2019, eff. 1-1-2020; Ord. 987, 4-9-
2020; Ord. 1009, 10-6-2022; Ord. 1011, 9-8-2022; Ord. 1015, 3-30-2023)
3.4.03: COMMERCIAL ZONE GENERAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
The following property development standards shall apply to all land and
permitted or conditionally permitted buildings located within their respective
commercial zones.
Table 3.4.03 of this section presents minimum setbacks for commercial zones and
section
3.4.031,
table 3.4.04 of this chapter presents dimensional standards.
TABLE 3.4.03
MINIMUM SETBACKS BY COMMERCIAL ZONE
 
Setbacks In Feet Minimum1,2 NC  CC CBD
Front setback               10  5  0
Side street setback         10  5  0
Interior side setback       5   0  0
Rear setback (no alley)     5   10 0
Alley setback               n/a 3  3
 
Notes:
   1.   The interior side and rear setbacks shall be as set forth in the
abutting residential district with the most restrictive standards applying
where the commercial zone abuts the residential zone.
   2.   If the side setback is less than 10 feet and the roof slopes toward the
property line, the roof shall be designed to hold or shed snow to prevent snow
accumulation on adjoining properties, unless otherwise allowed through a
subdivision or PUD approval. See chapter 7, "Special Districts", of this title,
for additional setback requirements.
(Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
3.4.031: MAXIMUM SETBACK (BUILD-TO LINE):
At least one primary building entrance or other pedestrian building element
shall be built within ten feet (10') of the front property line. An exception
to this build-to line may be granted through design review when the project
contains pedestrian amenities between the primary building entrance and the
front property line.
TABLE 3.4.04
DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS BY COMMERCIAL ZONE
Dimensional Standards NC CC CBD
Dimensional Standards                                    NC     CC      CBD
Minimum property size (square feet)                      5,000  3,000   3,000
Maximum lot coverage (percent)1                          65     80      95
Maximum structure height (in feet)                       35     502     502
Minimum street frontage (in feet)3                       50     30      30
Maximum building footprint (square feet)4                5,000  40,000  15,000
Footprint with a CUP and community impact review (square -      -       40,000
feet)4,5
Shopping center (square feet)                            10,000 100,000 40,000
 
Notes:
   1.    Lot coverage of structures.
   2.    Exception to height allowances as noted in chapter 7, "Special
Districts", of this title. All buildings with a height over 35 feet will
require a conditional use permit and conform with the building stepback
standard in chapter 8, "General Development Standards", of this title.
   3.   This requirement may be modified if requested as part of an approved
final plat.
   4.   If 2 or more buildings are under 1 ownership or serve a single
business, the limits shown are for the sum of all the buildings.
   5.   Community impact review and mitigation - see chapter 13, "Permits And
Applications", of this title.
(Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
3.4.04: COMMERCIAL ZONE SPECIAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   (A)   Sidewalks, Curbs And Gutters: Sidewalks, curbs and gutters or pathways
according to the McCall area pathways master plan are required as provided for
in title IX of this code.
   (B)   Outdoor Eating And Seating: Outdoor and/or sidewalk eating and seating
provisions may be administratively approved, subject to the review of an
applicant's plan for outdoor seating. The submitted plan must include:
      1.   Hours of operation for outdoor seating versus indoor seating;
      2.   Location of outdoor seating facilities during and outside of
business hours;
      3.   Necessary food and alcohol permits for outdoor operation;
      4.   Plans for waste abatement;
      5.   Letter of agreement to the conditions outlined in the outdoor
seating plan. (Ord. 864, 2-12-2009)
   (C)   Uses: Residential uses, including single family, multi-family, and
local housing are allowed as part of a mixed-use development, including
commercial and or public uses within the CBD and CC zones and under the
following conditions:
      1.   In a multi-story structure, commercial space and/or public uses are
provided at the street level with residential space above (or below).
      2.   In a development with commercial and/or public use building facing
the primary street, residential units are located to the rear or side.
      3.   In each case, a proposal will be expected to provide at least fifty
percent (50%) ground floor area in commercial and/or public uses; or in the CC
zone, an equivalent square footage are deed restricted for local housing. (Ord.
821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006; amd. Ord. 864, 2-12-2009; Ord. 898, 5-10-2012;
Ord. 983, 12-19-2019, eff. 1-1-2020; Ord. 998, 1-14-2021)
3.4.05: SPECIFIC STANDARDS FOR DEVELOPMENT IN CBD:
   (A)   Density: Densities in excess of the base zoning may be permitted
through a planned unit development.
   (B)   Maximum Lot Size: Two (2) acres. If development size exceeds one acre,
a PUD will be required. See title IX, chapter 1, "Subdivision And Development
Provisions", of this code.
   (C)   Mixed Use Project Design: The design of each mixed use project must
further the quality and characteristics of the CBD, and be compatible with the
historic area in its architectural character. There are a number of historic
buildings, some registered, in this area. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
3.4.06: SPECIFIC STANDARDS FOR COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENT IN ANY DISTRICT ZONE:
3.4.061: SPECIAL PARKING STANDARDS IN CBD:
Off street parking areas shall be provided according to the standards specified
in chapter 8, “General Development Standards”, of this title. In the CBD, the
required parking spaces must be provided as follows:
   (A)   On Site: On site, or pursuant to shared parking agreement approved as
provided in chapter 8 of this title; or
   (B)   Parking Lot Trust Fund: For each required space, the owner may
contribute the amount most recently specified by resolution of the council to
the city’s parking lot trust fund which shall be used exclusively for the
purchase of land or air rights for, and the construction and maintenance of,
public parking lots or structures within or adjacent to the central business
district; or
   (C)   Combination: By a combination of subsections (A) and (B) of this
section to provide the required number of parking spaces.
   (D)   Improvement District Or Renewal District Exemption: Commercial,
business park, or industrial uses within former or current business improvement
district or urban renewal districts are exempt from providing off street
parking as required by this section and section
3.8.062 of this title. (Ord. 923, 5-22-2014; amd. Ord. 1009, 10-6-2022)
3.4.07: COMMERCIAL ZONE DESIGN REVIEW STANDARDS:
   (A)   Purpose: To ensure that the McCall area's built environment
complements McCall's natural environment, scenic mountain setting, and
historic, small town character.
      1.   To encourage commercial development that incorporates high standards
in energy-efficient, durable and environmentally responsible materials, and
implements best practices in site design and construction.
      2.   To promote building design that reflects a pedestrian scale
regarding height, proportion, site features, roof shapes and building
materials.
      3.   To enhance commercial areas that lack distinctive character or where
the character has faded.
      4.   To encourage design that supports pedestrian activity by providing
safe, comfortable and attractive commercial environments.
   (B)   Applicability: The design standards apply to any development allowed
in the Commercial Districts.
   (C)   Commercial Design Standards:
      1.   Pedestrian Scale: The scale of all structures shall be at a
pedestrian scale. Pedestrian scale may be accomplished through the following:
         a.   Variations in wall planes and materials to minimize the apparent
scale of buildings.
         b.   Minimizing the perceived mass of a building by developing a
facade of smaller buildings rather than one large, monolithic structure.
         c.   Utilizing voids and masses, as well as details, textures, and
colors on building facades.
         d.   For buildings over two (2) stories in height, incorporating roof
elements, or upper decks, balconies or other design elements where the upper
portion of the building is stepped or angled back.
         e.   Provision of pedestrian-oriented street frontages which include
colonnades and covered walkways, overhangs, canopies, landscaping, trees,
plazas, storefronts closely spaced, window displays and screening walls.
         f.   Provision of pedestrian-oriented amenities which include unique
and attractive: trash receptacles, benches, bicycle racks, decorative
sidewalks, drinking fountains, kiosks or neighborhood directories, lighting,
outdoor fountains, plazas, and public art.
      2.   Pedestrian Oriented Storefronts: Storefronts shall be attractive to
pedestrians by keeping and enhancing the small town feel of McCall. Pedestrian
oriented storefront can be accomplished through the following:
         a.   Building frontages that are no wider than twenty-five feet (25'),
or fifty feet (50') when individualized storefronts are designed that create
the appearance of separate buildings.
         b.   Storefronts that are predominantly transparent. A series of tall,
narrow windows with wood mullions is more historically correct than plate glass
windows.
         c.   Entrances that are the dominant storefront feature and are
readily visible from the street and accessible from the sidewalks.
         d.   Storefronts that align with the height, mass, scale and in
relationship with adjacent existing storefronts to create continuity in the
pedestrian environment.
         e.   Building design components that create repetitive patterns and/or
alignments that visually link buildings within a block.
      3.   Building Design: Building designs shall enhance and/or continue the
styles found in the McCall area with allowance for new interpretations of
historic details. Local natural building materials, roof overhangs, covered
entrances, simplicity of design, and segmented windows are elements of the
McCall style. Building designs that are in keeping with the McCall style
include the following:
         a.   Materials:
            i.   Natural exterior materials which include wood siding, shingles
and shakes, logs, poles, milled horizontal wood siding, board and batten,
natural stone, and brick.
            ii.   Use of stones that convey the appearance of a structural
element rather than a veneer facing.
            iii.   Minimal use of synthetic materials designed to replicate
natural materials, including cultured or faux stone.
            iv.   Metal when used in combination with natural materials.
            v.   As determined by the McCall Fire Protection District to have a
high risk for wildland fires, natural looking exterior materials looking siding
and decking materials that resist heat and flames, including: composite
decking, cement, plaster, stucco, masonry (such as stone brick or blocks), and
fiber-cement siding, soffit, and trim products.
         b.   Roofs:
            i.   Exposed structural expression of wood framing members, timbers
and steel detailed elements supporting the roofs, sheds and balconies in scale
and proportion to the building.
            ii.   Extended roof edges, sheds and canopies that reflect the
western mountain environment and protect building features, upper balconies,
entrances and especially the public walkway from weather and snow accumulation.
            iii.   Hipped and pitched roofs and minimal use of false western
storefronts.
         c.   Exterior Colors: Wall colors that tend toward earthy warm hues,
with accent colors kept to a minimum of two (2) and used to highlight entrances
and other pedestrian oriented features of the development.
      4.   Building Additions: Additions to existing structures shall either:
(1) extend primary features of the original building through the roof lines,
materials, colors, and/or other architectural features; or (2) alter the
original building to appear as an extension of the new addition.
      5.   Snow Country Design:
         a.   Roofs and canopies shall be designed to prevent snow or ice from
shedding directly onto a pedestrian walkway or access.
         b.   Decks and balconies shall be designed to handle snow and drift
loads including snow shedding from roof overhangs above.
      6.   Prohibitions:
         a.   Harshly contrasted color combinations, brilliant, luminescent or
day-glow colors are prohibited on exterior finishes.
         b.   Blank walls on primary street facades are prohibited. (Ord. 998,
1-14-2021)
CHAPTER 5
INDUSTRIAL AND BUSINESS PARK ZONES AND STANDARDS
SECTION:
3.5.01: Purpose
3.5.02: Industrial Zone Use Regulations
3.5.03: Industrial Zone General Development Standards
3.5.04: Specific Standards For Industrial Development In Any Zone
3.5.05: Business Park Use Regulations
3.5.06: Business Park Zone General Development Standards
3.5.07: Public Improvements
3.5.08: Hours Of Operation And Noise Restrictions
3.5.09: Planned Unit Development Requirements
3.5.10: Vehicle And Bicycle Parking
3.5.11: Architectural
3.5.12: Landscaping
3.5.13: Fencing
3.5.14: Outdoor Lighting
3.5.15: Sustainable Construction Standards
3.5.01: PURPOSE:
The McCall area comprehensive plan identifies the importance of a variety of
land uses including industrial and business park areas. It is the purpose of
this chapter to implement the plan's vision through development regulations
that permit industrial and business park uses that will support the
diversification of a growing economy and yet are not detrimental to any
abutting uses. Furthermore, industrial and business park activities shall not
interfere with the operation of the airport or any transportation facility.
(Ord. 973, 11-29-2018, eff. 1-1-2019)
3.5.02: INDUSTRIAL ZONE USE REGULATIONS:
   (A)   Permitted And Conditionally Permitted Uses: The uses identified in
table 3.5.02 of this section shall be the primary uses allowed to occur on a
property. All uses, unless otherwise provided for in this title, shall be
conducted within enclosed structures. For example, some industrial uses such as
recycling centers for storage yards may have a portion of the use not enclosed.
All uses not listed in
table 3.5.02 of this section require review by the commission and a conditional
use permit. The primary uses identified in
table 3.5.02 of this section shall be permitted or conditionally permitted as
indicated:
P: Where the symbol P appears, the use shall be permitted.
A: Where the symbol A appears, the use may be permitted subject to the issuance
of an administrative permit in accordance with section
3.13.01 of this title.
C: Where the symbol C appears, the use may be permitted subject to the issuance
of a conditional use permit in accordance with section
3.13.03, "Conditional Use Permit Standards", of this title.
TABLE 3.5.02
PERMITTED AND CONDITIONALLY PERMITTED USES WITHIN THE INDUSTRIAL ZONE
Allowed Use I
Allowed Use                                                      I
Antenna, public                                                  A
Assembly plants                                                  A
Bulk petroleum storage                                           P
Church                                                           C
Craft beverage production with or without tasting room           P
Dwelling, multi-family1                                          C
Dwelling unit1                                                   A
Heavy equipment sales, rental, repair and service                C
Indoor recreation                                                P
Industry, extractive                                             C
Large scale retail business3                                     -
Manufacturing, heavy                                             C
Manufacturing, light                                             P
Professional offices and buildings                               P
Public service facilities                                        C
Radio, TV and telephone relay stations                           C
Recycling centers                                                A
Rental store and yard                                            C
Research and development facilities                              A
Retail, formula2                                                 C
Retail stores, when accessory to a primary industrial use        P
Retail stores, when not an accessory to a primary industrial use C
Service Station, without gasoline or diesel fueling islands      C
Service Station, with gasoline or diesel fueling islands         C
Storage buildings and yards, including contractor                A
Storage facility, self-service                                   C
Temporary Food Vendor                                            A
Temporary Merchandise Vendor                                     A
Temporary Vendor Court                                           A
Terminal yards trucking facilities                               P
Truck and tractor repair facilities                              P
Vehicle sales                                                    P
Warehouse and wholesaling facilities                             P
Wireless communication facility, major                           C
Wireless communication facility, small scale                     A
Wrecking yards                                                   C
 
Notes:
1.   Housing must be a part of a mixed use project.
2.    See section
3.8.18 of this title for limitations on retail, formula.
3.    See subsection
3.8.02(E) of this title.
(Ord. 973, 11-29-2018, eff. 1-1-2019; amd. Ord. 987, 4-9-2020; Ord. 1009, 10-6-
2022; Ord. 1015, 3-30-2023)
3.5.03: INDUSTRIAL ZONE GENERAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
The following property development standards shall apply to all land and
permitted, or conditionally permitted buildings located within an Industrial
Zone.
Table 3.5.03 of this section lists the site development standards required for
industrial development properties. Chapter 10 of this title provides special
provisions for planned developments.
TABLE 3.5.03
DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS FOR INDUSTRIAL ZONE PROPERTY
Dimensional Standards Size
Dimensional Standards                    Size
Minimum property size                    10,000 square feet
Minimum street frontage                  75 feet
Minimum setback from:
Street, frontage                         10 feet, or per design review
Abutting residential property            20 feet, or per design review
Property line not fronting a roadway     10 feet
Maximum coverage (percent) of structures 90 percent
Maximum height                           35 feet, or up to 50 feet per design
                                         review
Minimum distance between buildings       10 feet
Maximum building size, total             50,000 square feet
Maximum building footprint               10,000 square feet, or up to 25,000
                                         square feet per design review
(Ord. 973, 11-29-2018, eff. 1-1-2019)
3.5.04: SPECIFIC STANDARDS FOR INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT IN ANY ZONE:
   (A)   Distance Between Buildings: The minimum distance between detached
buildings on the same parcel shall be ten feet (10').
   (B)   Off Street Parking: Off street parking areas shall conform to the
space and standards requirements specified in chapter 8, "General Development
Standards", of this title.
   (C)   Review: Design review is required, as provided for in chapter 16 of
this title, for industrial development that has a building footprint area of
ten thousand (10,000) square feet or greater, or that proposes a maximum
building height in excess of thirty five feet (35'), or that seeks to reduce
the minimum setback distance. (Ord. 973, 11-29-2018, eff. 1-1-2019; amd. Ord.
998, 1-14-2021)
3.5.05: BUSINESS PARK USE REGULATIONS:
The intent of the Business Park Zone is to provide an ideal zone to attract and
accommodate new, high quality, stable businesses and light industries that will
foster economic growth and diversify the economy of McCall. It is critical that
all development within this zone be held to a level of quality that enhances
the area as a whole and creates an attractive and desirable environment within
the business park.
   (A)   Business Park Subzones: To minimize the impacts of Business Park Zone
activities where the zone abuts an existing residential zone, there are two (2)
subzones within the Business Park Zone. The BP-Exterior Zone is located within
the first two hundred feet (200') of the perimeter of the business park
property where it abuts an existing residential zone. The purpose of this
subzone is to limit uses to those that will have limited impact on adjacent
properties. The more intense uses that are likely to have greater impacts of
noise, vehicular traffic, and activity shall be located in the BP-Interior
Subzone which is located on the interior portion of the site and along
boundaries adjacent to properties with similar permitted uses.
   (B)   Intent: The intent of the business park use regulation is to:
      1.   Allow a wide variety of uses that are compatible with each other;
and
      2.   Attract high quality businesses and industries; and
      3.   Encourage uses that may not be appropriate in the Central Business
District, Community Commercial, or Industrial Zones; and
      4.   Minimize impacts on adjacent residential zones.
   (C)   Permitted And Conditionally Permitted Uses: The uses identified in
table 3.5.05, "Permitted And Conditionally Permitted Uses Within Business Park
Zones", of this subsection C, shall be the primary uses allowed to occur on a
property. All uses not listed in
table 3.5.05 of this subsection C require review by the commission and a
conditional use permit. The primary uses identified in
table 3.5.05 of this subsection C may be permitted or conditionally permitted
as indicated:
      P: Where the symbol P appears, the use shall be permitted.
      A: Where the symbol A appears, the use may be permitted subject to the
issuance of an administrative permit in accordance with section
3.13.01 of this title.
      C: Where the symbol C appears, the use may be permitted subject to the
issuance of a conditional use permit in accordance with section
3.13.03 of this title.
Where no symbol, or a dash, appears, the use is not permitted.
TABLE 3.5.05
PERMITTED AND CONDITIONALLY PERMITTED USES WITHIN BUSINESS PARK ZONES
Allowed Use BP-Exterior BP-Interior
Allowed Use                                          BP-Exterior BP-Interior
Administrative offices                               P           P
Amusement or recreation facility (indoor)            C           P
Amusement or recreation facility (outdoor)           -           C
Animal clinic, animal hospital, or veterinary office C           C
Automobile, major repair                             -           C
Bank                                                 C           P
Bar, brewpub                                         -           C
Business support services                            C           P
Call center                                          C           P
Clinic, medical                                      P           P
Computer, software development, web based business   P           P
Contractor's yard or shop                            C           C
Convenience store                                    C           C
Convention facility, conference center               C           P
Dwelling, attached1                                  P           C
Dwelling, single-family detached                     -           -
Government or agency offices                         P           P
Industrial, heavy                                    -           -
Industrial, light                                    C           C
Manufacturing, heavy                                 -           -
Manufacturing, light                                 -           C
Mixed use                                            C           C
Nursery, retail                                      C           C
Nursery, wholesale                                   C           C
Package and letter delivery service                  C           P
Professional office                                  P           P
Public or quasi-public use                           P           P
Public parks, plazas, recreation areas or easements, P           P
trails, pathways
Public service facility                              P           P
Radio and television broadcasting station            C           P
Recycling center (serving business park only)        -           C
Research and development facility                    C           P
Restaurant                                           C           C
Retail business, large scale                         -           C
Retail stores, when ancillary to a primary use2      P           P
School, environmental resource center                C           P
School, university extension                         C           P
School, vocational, technical or trade               C           P
Service retail business                              P           P
Service station                                      C           C
Storage facility, outdoor3                           -           C
Storage facility, self-service                       C           -
Storage facility, warehouse                          C           -
Studio (music, art, dance or similar studio)         P           C
Temporary Food Vendor                                P           P
Temporary Merchandise Vendor                         C           C
Temporary Vendor Court                               A           A
Transit facility (bus stop, shelter)                 P           P
Warehouse and wholesaling facilities                 -           C
Wireless communication facility, major               -           C
All other uses not specified                         C           C
 
Notes:
1.    Dwelling units must be part of a mixed use project and only permitted on
upper floors. The maximum allowed density is 40 units per acre.
2.    Ancillary uses are secondary uses and activities that are associated with
and support the primary use. They typically require a minor portion of the
square footage of the space of the primary use.
3.    All outdoor storage areas shall be completely screened from view from any
adjacent street.
(Ord. 885, 3-24-2011; amd. Ord. 987, 4-9-2020; Ord. 1009, 10-6-2022; Ord. 1015,
3-30-2023)
3.5.06: BUSINESS PARK ZONE GENERAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   (A)   Except as modified below, all development shall comply with chapter 8,
"General Development Standards", of this title.
   (B)   The intent of this section is to:
      1.   Allow adequate space for vehicle and pedestrian circulation.
      2.   Allow compact development and efficient use of site.
      3.   Protect solar access to adjacent properties.
      4.   Orient buildings and pedestrian entrances to the street.
      5.   Provide a transitional buffer from adjacent residential zones.
      6.   Provide flexibility to allow for innovative and creative design
solutions.
      7.   Assure that proposed developments are in scale with the area.
TABLE 3.5.06
DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS FOR BUSINESS PARK ZONE
Dimensional Standards Size
Dimensional Standards                Size
Minimum property size                4,000 square feet
Maximum structure height             35 feet, or 50 feet in BP-interior1
Maximum building footprint, per      25,000 square feet, or 40,000 square
building                             feet in BP-interior1,2
Maximum lot coverage                 80 percent (see section
                                     3.3.06 of this title)
Minimum street frontage              40 feet
Minimum setback from:
Street, frontage                     10 feet, 0 feet with CUP3
Abutting other zones                 25 feet
Property line not fronting a roadway 10 feet (0 feet for attached structures)
Minimum distance between buildings   15 feet (0 feet for attached structures)
Maximum setback (build-to line)      15 feet in BP-interior, none in BP-
                                     exterior4
 
Notes:
1.    Building height and footprint allowances in the BP-interior subzone may
be increased to the maximum indicated with the issuance of a conditional use
permit. Approval of the CUP will be considered if the proposed development
provides significant, attractive and functional civic space for public use and/
or provides superior architectural design elements such as those recommended by
leadership in energy and environmental design (LEED) or another design
standard. Buildings greater than 35 feet are subject to the step back standards
of section
3.8.14 of this title.
2.    Individual lots may have multiple buildings in a "campus" configuration.
3.    With a CUP the minimum front setback may be reduced to 0 feet to
accommodate pedestrian oriented architectural features such as a storefront,
vestibule, open air lobby, etc.
4.    At least 1 primary building entrance or other pedestrian building element
shall be built within 15 feet of the front property line in the BP-interior
subzone. An exception to this build-to line may be granted through design
review when the project contains pedestrian amenities between the primary
building entrance and the front property line. Pedestrian amenities including
parks and plazas are allowed and encouraged.
   (C)   Design review is required for all developments within the business
park zone as provided for in chapter 16 of this title. (Ord. 885, 3-24-2011)
3.5.07: PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS:
Except as modified below, all public improvements including streets, sidewalks,
pathways, and utilities shall be in accordance with title IX, chapter 6,
"Subdivision And Development Improvement Requirements", of this code.
   (A)   All streets and alleys within the business park zone shall be
constructed per city standards and shall be located in a platted public right
of way.
   (B)   A minimum six foot (6') wide concrete sidewalk is required on both
sides of all interior streets. Secondary accessways and alleys may have
sidewalks where appropriate however they are not required. A minimum ten foot
(10') wide asphalt multiuse pathway is required around the perimeter of the
business park. An easement may be required if the pathway does not fit within
the right of way. Crosswalks shall be provided at all intersections for all
sidewalk and pathway crossings. Crosswalks may be painted or constructed of an
alternate paving material such as concrete or precast pavers.
   (C)   The following figures are typical cross sections of all improved
streets within and adjacent to the business park zone. These street cross
sections are designed to provide:
      1.   Sufficient travelway for passenger cars and truck traffic.
      2.   Adequate space for snow storage.
      3.   Street side swales for drainage, infiltration and stormwater
quality.
      4.   An attractive streetscape with landscaping to enhance proposed
buildings.
      5.   Sidewalks and pathways to accommodate and encourage pedestrian
circulation.
      6.   Buffers and screening for adjacent residential zones.
      7.   Adequate utility and pathway easements separate from road rights of
way as required.
Figure 3.5.07A
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/da309f2534fb351bbed1003b3bd0777eedff815e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1968.png]
Figure 3.5.07B
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/da309f2534fb351bbed1003b3bd0777eedff815e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1970.png]
Figure 3.5.07C
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/da309f2534fb351bbed1003b3bd0777eedff815e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1972.png]
(Ord. 885, 3-24-2011)
3.5.08: HOURS OF OPERATION AND NOISE RESTRICTIONS:
   (A)   Hours of operation of businesses within the business park are not
restricted except that any activities that produce plainly audible noise in
excess of the following levels shall not be permitted. The intent of this
requirement is to:
      1.   Reduce the impact of business park activities on surrounding
residential areas.
      2.   Reduce the impact of the business park on other businesses and live-
work units within the business park.
   (B)   No business activities shall produce regular or continuous noise that
is excessively annoying, loud, or unusual. Noise that is produced for no more
than a cumulative period of five (5) minutes in any daylight hour may occur for
the daytime hours eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. to eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. (Ord.
885, 3-24-2011)
3.5.09: PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS:
Planned unit developments are permitted in the business park zone and can be
applied to individual lots or a contiguous area consisting of multiple lots.
Any proposed planned unit development shall be in accordance with chapter 10,
"Planned Unit Development", of this title. (Ord. 885, 3-24-2011)
3.5.10: VEHICLE AND BICYCLE PARKING:
Parking for vehicles and bicycles shall be provided in accordance with chapter
8, "General Development Standards", of this title. (Ord. 885, 3-24-2011)
3.5.11: ARCHITECTURAL:
All developments within the business park zone shall comply with the "City Of
McCall Design Guidelines" with regard to architectural improvements. (Ord. 885,
3-24-2011)
3.5.12: LANDSCAPING:
   (A)   Purpose: Except as modified below, all developments within the
business park zone shall comply with the "City Of McCall Design Guidelines"
with regard to landscape improvements and irrigation systems. The purpose of
this section is to:
      1.   Reduce water use requirements on the property.
      2.   Increase the visual interest and natural look of the business park.
      3.   Provide a buffer between the business park and the surrounding
residential areas.
      4.   Encourage the use of native species.
      5.   Provide infiltration capacity for the business park.
   (B)   Perimeter Buffer Strip: A landscaped perimeter buffer strip and
pathway shall be provided on perimeter streets. Plant materials shall be native
or adaptive species with low water requirements. The overall design shall mimic
the natural landscape of the region. A variety of plant materials that include
deciduous and evergreen trees and shrubs as well as native grasses and ground
covers shall be used to create an interesting and effective screen of the
proposed development. Plant densities shall be sufficient to provide an
effective screen within a period of five (5) years. In general, the plant
densities shall be ten (10) shrubs and three (3) trees per one thousand (1,000)
square feet of landscape area. Plant quantities can be reduced if larger
specimens are provided.
   (C)   Boulders: Native boulders can be added sparingly if they are placed
such that they become an integral feature in the naturalistic landscape.
   (D)   Berms: The construction of earthen berms should be considered
depending on building structures and topography to add interest and additional
buffering from adjacent developments. Berms shall be irregularly shaped into
natural forms of varying height and width. Continuous berms of uniform height
and width are not permitted. Landscaping shall be designed to blend with
adjacent properties to result in a harmonious corridor. See subsection
9.6.02(S) of this code.
   (E)   Gaps In Buffer Strip: Buffer strip landscaping need not be a
continuous solid screen. Gaps and openings may be designed to highlight or
frame interesting natural or architectural features or modest signage. Openings
may be provided and are encouraged to allow pedestrian accesses from the
pathway to pedestrian building entrances adjacent to the buffer. The following
illustration shows a typical landscape buffer on perimeter streets:
Figure 3.5.12
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/da309f2534fb351bbed1003b3bd0777eedff815e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1974.png]
   (F)   Street Trees: Street trees and native grasses shall be provided in the
swales between the edge of pavement and the sidewalk along all interior public
streets. Street trees shall be planted a minimum of thirty feet (30') on center
along the entire length of the street. Exceptions to this standard can be
considered to accommodate innovative and interesting landscape design
alternatives at pedestrian amenities, building entrances, plazas, and parks.
Street tree species shall be in accordance with the city of McCall approved
species list. See appendix B on file in the office of the city clerk.
   (G)   Irrigation: Irrigation systems shall be provided for all new
landscapes. The systems should be continuously maintained in a functional
condition. Low water consumption irrigation systems are encouraged. Irrigation
systems for native landscapes and xeriscapes may be turned off if plants are
well established and remain in a healthy and attractive condition without
supplemental water. (Ord. 885, 3-24-2011)
3.5.13: FENCING:
All fencing within the business park zone shall be in accordance with chapter
8, "General Development Standards", of this title and the "City Of McCall
Design Guidelines". (Ord. 885, 3-24-2011)
3.5.14: OUTDOOR LIGHTING:
Except as modified below, all lighting within the business park zone shall be
in accordance with chapter 14, "Outdoor Lighting", of this title and the "City
Of McCall Design Guidelines". In general, site and parking lot lighting should
be kept to the minimum required for function and safety. Street lighting shall
be kept to a minimum and provided only at main intersections and pedestrian
gathering areas such as transit stops and plazas. Consideration should also be
given to the design of interior lighting so as not to produce offensive glare
on adjacent exterior spaces, especially along public streets. (Ord. 885, 3-24-
2011)
3.5.15: SUSTAINABLE CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
Projects shall be built to sustainable construction standards. Standards may be
defined by resolution. Incentives for sustainable development that may be
considered:
   (A)   Reduced parking requirements for bicycle facilities and showers and
transit stops.
   (B)   Reduced parking requirements for designated car pool only parking
spaces.
   (C)   Increase in allowable impervious lot coverage for green, sustainable
practices that reduce stormwater runoff (i.e., rainwater reuse, rain gardens,
green roofs).
   (D)   Reduced building permit fees for facilities and practices that
significantly reduce water consumption thus reducing the demand on city
services.
   (E)   Allow height and area bonuses for superior architecture, for providing
extra civic space, recycling facility space and service or a transit stop, or
for master planning two (2) or more contiguous lots. (Ord. 885, 3-24-2011)
CHAPTER 6
CIVIC, AIRPORT AND AGRICULTURE/FOREST ZONES
SECTION:
3.6.01: Purpose
3.6.02: Permitted And Conditionally Permitted Uses Within Public Zones
3.6.03: Public Zones Development Standards
3.6.01: PURPOSE:
The McCall area comprehensive plan identifies the importance of a variety of
land uses including public uses. It is the purpose of this chapter to implement
the plan's vision through development regulations that allow for a range of
public lands, buildings and services designed to be compatible in scale and
character with their surrounding environment.
   (A)   Agriculture And Forest (AF) Zone: The AF land use designation is
intended to provide a designation for agricultural areas, including
forestlands, within the city. Some of these lands may be held in public
ownership.
   (B)   Civic Use (CV) Zone: The CV land use designation is intended to
provide for governmental offices and other civic facilities. This includes
governmental, cultural and recreational facilities. Mixed use is allowed in
combination with public uses.
   (C)   Airport (AP) Zone: The AP land use designation is intended for airport
and aviation use by the McCall Municipal Airport and the surrounding related
facilities and properties to implement the objectives of the McCall Municipal
Airport Master Plan. Within the AP zone there is an Airport Perimeter (APP)
zone which includes the land 150 feet from the interior edge of the AP zone.
The Airport Internal (API) zone includes all other land in the AP zone that is
internal to the APP zone. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006; amd. Ord 984,
12-19-2019, eff. 1-1-2020)
3.6.02: PERMITTED AND CONDITIONALLY PERMITTED USES WITHIN PUBLIC ZONES:
   (A)   Permitted And Conditionally Permitted Uses:
Table 3.6.02, identifies the permitted and conditionally permitted uses within
the Public Zones. The primary uses identified in
table 3.6.02 of this section shall be permitted or conditionally permitted as
indicated:
      P: Where the symbol P appears, the use shall be permitted.
      A: Where the symbol A appears, the use may be permitted subject to the
issuance of an administrative permit in accordance with section
3.13.01 of this title.
      C: Where the symbol C appears, the use may be permitted subject to the
issuance of a conditional use permit in accordance with section
3.13.03, "Conditional Use Permit Standards", of this title.
      No symbol, or a dash: The use is not permitted. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006,
eff. 3-16-2006)
TABLE 3.6.02
PERMITTED AND CONDITIONALLY PERMITTED USES WITHIN PUBLIC ZONES
Allowed Use AF CV AP
Allowed Use                                                 AF CV AP
Accessory structure >1,500 square feet                      A  A  A
Aeronautical                                                -  -  P
Agricultural service establishment                          C  -  -
Agricultural structure                                      A  -  -
Agricultural use                                            P  -  -
Airport (public ownership)                                  C  -  P
Animals, small farm animals                                 P  A  -
Antenna, private                                            A  A  C
Antenna, public                                             A  A  A
Assembly plant (light manufacturing)                        -  -  C
Camp                                                        P  -  -
Cemetery                                                    C  P  -
Church                                                      C  C  -
Club or lodge or social hall                                C  C  -
College or university                                       -  C  C
Conference or convention center                             C  C  -
Dwelling, caretaker for an approved use                     A  A  C
Dwelling, single-family detached                            C  P  -
Dwelling unit 3                                             -  C  -
Dwelling unit, local housing                                A  A  A
Golf course and country club                                C  C  -
Hospital or clinic                                          C  A  -
Hotel, motel, lodge                                         C  C  -
Kennel                                                      A  -  -
Large scale retail business1                                -  -  -
Library, public                                             -  P  -
Livestock facility ≤ 300 AU                               C  -  -
Manufacturing facility (light)                              -  C  C
Mixed use3                                                  -  C  -
Mortuary                                                    C  A  -
Museum                                                      C  C  C
Nursery, wholesale (only)                                   P  -  -
Nursing facility, skilled                                   -  A  -
Office building or use, relating to an approved development C  A  C
Office, temporary construction                              A  A  A
Park, public                                                C  P  P
Pit, mine, or quarry                                        C  -  C
Portable classroom                                          A  A  -
Post office or mail delivery service                        -  A  -
Power plant                                                 C  C  C
Professional offices or buildings                           -  A  C
Public or quasi-public use                                  C  P  C
Public service facility                                     C  C  C
Research and development facility                           -  C  C
Restaurant                                                  -  C  C
Restaurant, formula4                                        -  C  C
Retail, formula1                                            -  C  -
Roadside produce stand                                      A  A  -
Sanitary landfill, restricted                               C  A  -
School, public or private, including vocational             C  C  C
Service station                                             -  -  -
Soil or water remediation                                   C  -  -
Stable or riding school, commercial                         C  C  -
Storage building and yard                                   C  C  C
Swimming pool, private or public                            A  A  -
Temporary food vendor5                                      -  -  -
Temporary living quarters                                   A  A  C
Temporary Merchandise Vendor                                -  -  -
Temporary Vendor Court                                      -  A  -
Warehousing facility                                        -  -  C
Winery                                                      C  -  -
Wireless communication facility, major                      C  C  C
Wireless communication facility, small scale                A  A  A
 
   Notes:
      1.   See section
3.8.18 of this title for limitations on retail, formula.
      2.   See subsection
3.8.02(E) of this title.
      3.   Residential uses are permitted in mixed use building when the
primary use of the ground floor is a nonresidential use permitted or
conditionally permitted in the CV zone.
      4.   See section
3.8.17 of this title for limitations on restaurants, formula.
      5.   Temporary food vendors with a concessionaire’s agreement with the
City are permitted to operate within public parks.
   (B)   All uses not listed in
table 3.6.02 of this section shall require review by the Planning and Zoning
Commission and a conditional use permit.
   (C)   All uses, except for those allowed by subsection
3.8.01(H), “Outdoor Display Areas”, section
3.8.05, “Temporary Uses”, of this title, and aircraft parking and light
maintenance in the AP Zone- shall be conducted within enclosed structures.
(Ord. 875, 5-27-2010; amd. Ord. 983, 12-19-2019, eff. 1-1-2020; Ord. 984, 12-
19-2019, eff. 1-1-2020; Ord. 987, 4-9-2020; Ord. 1009, 10-6-2022; Ord. 1015, 3-
30-2023)
3.6.03: PUBLIC ZONES DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
The following property development standards shall apply to all land and
permitted or conditionally permitted buildings located within their respective
zones:
The following property development standards shall apply to all land and
permitted or conditionally permitted buildings located within their respective
zones:
   (A)   
Table 3.6.03 identifies the dimensional standards required within the public
zones.
TABLE 3.6.03
DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS FOR PUBLIC ZONES
Dimensional Standards AF CV AP APP
Dimensional       AF       CV                AP                APP
Standards
Minimum property  40 acres 3,000 square feet
size
Minimum lease     -        -                 1,500 square feet 10,000 square
size                                                           feet
Minimum street    n/a      50                                  75
frontage
Minimum setback from: (in feet)1:                               
1. Arterial,
collector, or     30 ft.   0
section line
street
2. Other roadway  25 ft.   0
3. Property line
not fronting a    50 ft.   0
roadway2
Maximum site
coverage of       5%       80%               100%              100%
structures
Maximum height3   35 ft.   50 ft.            60 ft.            60 ft.
Minimum property  100 ft.  30 ft.
width
Minimum distance
between                                      10 ft.            10 ft.
structures
Landscaped buffer                                              20 ft.
Notes:
1.   See section
3.7.03, "Scenic Route Zone", of this title.
2.   Setbacks abutting a residential zone are the same as the residential zone
setback to the subject property line.
3.   Building heights adjacent to residential zones shall conform to the
building height stepback requirements in section
3.8.14 of this title.
   (B)   FAA Airport Design standards identified in the current edition of
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Advisory Circular 150/5300-13 Airport
Design shall be adhered to when determining leaseholds and siting structures in
the AP Zone.
   (C)   All buildings with a height over 35 feet shall require a conditional
use permit and conform with the building stepback standards in chapter 8,
"General Development Standards", of this title.
   (D)   Exception to the development standards may be allowed through the
provisions of a planned unit development as set forth in Chapter 10 of this
Title.
   (E)   Sidewalks, curbs and gutters may be required if specified in a
development agreement as provided for in Title 9 "Subdivision and Development"
of this code.
   (F)   Fencing shall be in accordance with permitted forms for the applicable
zone; see chapter 8, “General Development Standards”, of this title and Title 9
“Subdivision and Development” of this code. In the AP Zone, fencing will be
built to standards outlined in the current edition of FAA Advisory Circular AC
150/5370-10 Standards for Specifying Construction of Airports, where identified
as necessary to comply with FAA grant assurances.
   (G)   City projects shall be built to sustainable construction standards as
defined by Title 2, BUILDING REGULATIONS.
   (H)   Design review is required as provided for in chapter 16 “Design
Review” of this title, except within the AP Zone. (Ord. 864, 2-12-2009; amd.
Ord. 984, 12-19-2019, eff. 1-1-2020; Ord. 1009, 10-6-2022)
CHAPTER 7
SPECIAL DISTRICTS
SECTION:
3.7.01: Navigable Water Zone
3.7.010: General
3.7.011: Permitted Uses
3.7.012: Conditional Uses
3.7.013: Prohibited Uses
3.7.02: Shoreline And River Environs Zone
3.7.020: Purpose
3.7.021: Lands Included
3.7.022: Permitted Uses
3.7.023: Requirements For Development
3.7.03: Scenic Route Zone
3.7.030: Purpose
3.7.031: Lands Included
3.7.032: Requirements For Development
3.7.033: Prohibited Uses
3.7.04: Payette Lakes Water And Sewer District Zones Overlay
3.7.040: Purpose
3.7.041: Date Of Designation Of Overlay
3.7.042: Permitted Hookup Densities
3.7.043: Exemptions
3.7.05: McCall Municipal Airport Influence Overlay Zones
3.7.050: Purpose
3.7.051: Airport Operational Protection Zones
3.7.01: NAVIGABLE WATER ZONE:
3.7.010: GENERAL:
   (A)   The navigable water zone is intended to provide for the appropriate
usage of, and for the adequate protection of, the surface water resource within
the city limits and the area of city impact. The "landward boundary" of the
navigable water zone is the water pool shore contour of Payette Lake, the high
water mark of the North Fork of the Payette River, and the water pool shore
contour of such other navigable lakes and the high water mark of such other
navigable streams as are or may become within the planning jurisdiction. The
"navigable water zone" includes the entire water body between or encircled by
the landward boundaries. "Navigable", for purposes of this chapter, has the
same meaning as "navigable" for purposes of this title under the submerged
lands act and the equal footing doctrine, whether or not there were any federal
reserved rights as might have prevented vesting of title in the state as to
some particular navigable waters.
   (B)   The use of navigable waters, in addition to recreation and other
public uses should recognize the littoral and riparian rights of the upland
property owners adjacent to the lake and river.
   (C)   Compliance with all applicable county, state and federal laws is
required.
   (D)   Project review under the procedures for a conditional use permit is
required for all proposed future uses. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
3.7.011: PERMITTED USES:
In addition to public uses of the public waters, all uses that are normal
accessory uses to the principal use on the adjacent upland property and within
the littoral or riparian rights of the owners of that property are permitted
uses, including the following:
   (A)   Accessory uses related to boating, swimming and other water related
activities.
   (B)   Public and private docks. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
3.7.012: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following uses may be permitted in accordance with the procedures and
standards set out in chapter 13, "Permits And Applications", of this code.
   (A)   Commercial docks, wharves, piers and marinas.
   (B)   Boat ramps.
   (C)   Outdoor recreation facilities.
   (D)   Fish pens (as an accessory, noncommercial use). (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006,
eff. 3-16-2006)
3.7.013: PROHIBITED USES:
The following uses are prohibited in the navigable water zone:
   (A)   Buildings, structures, and uses not expressly permitted in section
3.7.011 or 3.7.012 of this chapter.
   (B)   Any use which causes or may reasonably be expected to cause excessive
noise, vibration, smoke, heat or glare, noxious fumes, toxic or hazardous
waste, or visible refuse, at or beyond the extension of the side lot lines of
the associated upland lot or parcel over the water and at right angles to the
shoreline. "Excessive" is defined for these purposes as a degree exceeding that
generated by uses permitted in the zone in their customary manner of operation,
or to a degree injurious to the public health, safety, welfare or convenience.
   (C)   Disposal or storage of junk, including, without limitation, inoperable
or unlicensed motor vehicles, watercraft, used appliances, building and
construction debris, auto parts, fuels and other contaminating liquids. (Ord.
821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
3.7.02: SHORELINE AND RIVER ENVIRONS ZONE:
3.7.020: PURPOSE:
Payette Lake and the North Fork of the Payette River are critical economic
resources of the planning jurisdiction, because they are the distinguishing
features of this area making it a destination resort for tourists and summer
residents. It is therefore the purpose of this section
3.7.02 to regulate development along and alterations of the shoreline of
Payette Lake and the banks and immediate vicinity of the Payette River in order
to protect and maintain water quality, fish and wildlife habitat, edge and
forest habitat, vistas, and public visual and physical access. (Ord. 821, 2-23-
2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
3.7.021: LANDS INCLUDED:
The lands between the water pool shore contour of the named lakes and the high
water mark of the other named water bodies below, and a line parallel to and
one hundred fifty feet (150') away from the water pool shore contour or high
water mark, except on lots fronting East Lake Street in McCall, where it shall
be to Mill Road, but no more than three hundred feet (300'):
   (A)   Payette Lake.
   (B)   North Fork of the Payette River.
   (C)   Little Payette Lake and tributaries.
   (D)   Lake Fork Creek below Little Payette Lake.
The above environs together with so much of the land below such line or high
water mark as is affected by a use addressed in this chapter. If any portion of
a structure lies within this zone, then the total structure shall be deemed to
be within this zone. Docks, landfills, retaining walls, and other uses
addressed in this section
3.7.02 shall be deemed within and regulated by this zone without regard to
whether all or any part thereof also falls within the "navigable water zone" as
defined in this chapter. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
3.7.022: PERMITTED USES:
All those uses permitted in the underlying zones upon which this zone is
superimposed shall be permitted, provided they satisfy the special conditions
set forth in this chapter, except that:
   (A)   Open storage of anything but firewood or water oriented recreational
equipment (no automobiles or off highway vehicles) on the lake front side of
the residence shall not be permitted.
   (B)   No building and no land filling shall be permitted within a floodway
and no building within an area of special flood hazard as such terms are
defined in title IX, chapter 8, "Flood Control Regulations (Overlay)", of this
code, unless the applicant complies with the standards set forth in that
chapter.
   (C)   Any structure, wholly or partially within this zone, which may be
visible from the water bodies, and any part of which is within the one hundred
fifty foot (150') land strip as specified in section
3.7.021 of this chapter, is subject to design review and approval under chapter
16, "Design Review", of this title, notwithstanding that portions of the
structure are not on land that is within this zone. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff.
3-16-2006)
3.7.023: REQUIREMENTS FOR DEVELOPMENT:
   (A)   Review: Design review is required for all development, including all
single-family residences and accessory buildings, as provided for in chapter 16
of this title.
      1.   In addition to the design review requirements set forth in other
sections of this title, design review for development within the Shoreline and
River Environs Zone, shall also assess and mitigate the visual impacts of
development.
         a.   Development should not dominate the vistas of water to the extent
that it has an unreasonable adverse impact on the visual quality of its
setting.
         b.   Development should be compatible in form, line, color and texture
with its surroundings.
         c.   Development should not significantly differ in scale or contrast
to its surroundings to that extent that it has an unreasonable adverse impact
on the visual quality of its setting.
         d.   Structures should be clustered to allow for visibility through
the site of the lake or river and avoid a wall of structures as viewed from the
water.
      2.   If in the opinion of the Administrator, the visual impacts of the
development are potentially significant, a visual impact assessment of the
development shall be required. An applicant's visual impact assessment should
visualize the proposed development and evaluate potential adverse impacts of
the development on scenic views or the views from or to the lake or river, and
determine effective mitigation strategies, if appropriate.
   (B)   Permit Criteria: No conditional use or building permit shall be
issued, nor is any development, grading, or alteration of any land within this
zone permitted, unless the applicant establishes to the satisfaction of the
commission and council in the case of a conditional use, or of the
administrator in the case of a building permit, that:
      1.   The proposed development meets all applicable requirements of this
title and title IX of this code.
      2.   The plans accurately identify the water pool shore contours and high
water marks, which, in the case of river environs, shall mean the limits of the
area of special flood hazard.
      3.   A letter is on file from a specialist certified by the United States
army corps of engineers wetlands expert that certifies that no wetlands related
issues or issues related to fill of navigable waters issues were presented by
the proposed development; or that a section 404 permit has been issued or is
forthcoming by the corps of engineers, whichever is appropriate, city approval
(s) under this title and title IX of this code are contingent upon all
applicable section 404 permit requirements being met; if a permit requirement
is not met, the city may revoke its approval(s) under this title and title IX
of this code.
      4.   The requirements of the underlying zone are met.
      5.   The fifty foot (50') building setback line is met per subsection
(C)3(c) of this section.
      6.   Proof of stormwater certification training has been provided by the
individual applying for the building permit.
   (C)   Development:
      1.   Prohibitions: No construction, alteration or activity shall cause
harm to:
         a.   Water quality.
         b.   Fish and aquatic habitats.
         c.   Wetlands.
         d.   Significant wildlife habitat harboring any threatened or
endangered species.
         e.   Views of, from, or across a lake or river.
         f.   To this end, all applications for building permits within this
overlay zone, no matter what the permit may be for, shall be accompanied by a
plan for the installation of appropriate natural, storm, and melt water
drainage and treatment facilities. Such plans for natural, storm and melt water
drainage of the property and on and through the property, shall be consistent
with best management practices under state and federal storm and melt water
regulatory programs to which the city is subject and consistent with other city
programs in these regards to the satisfaction of the city.
      2.   Harm Defined: "Harm" for these purposes means:
         a.   The creation of conditions which foster runoff of, or other
source of fertilizers, toxic substances, or other pollutants or contaminants,
into the water;
         b.   The excessive clearing of natural vegetation or change of natural
landforms within the area between the water pool shore contour or high water
mark and the fifty foot (50') building setback line;
         c.   The removal, burial, or destruction in whole or part of boulders,
sandy beaches, rocky shores, or other features of the water pool shore contour
or high water mark, the land below the same, or the immediate upland edge;
         d.   The filling or dredging of lake bottom or wetlands;
         e.   The erection of visual barriers between the lake or river and the
roads on the uplands, beyond the extent reasonably necessary for an owner's
usage of the land for a permitted use; or
         f.   The creation of any other condition which would be inconsistent
with best management practices under, or threaten a violation of, state and
federal storm and melt water regulatory programs to which the city is subject,
or fail otherwise to be consistent with other city programs in these regards,
all as established to the satisfaction of the city.
      3.   Improvements:
         a.   The owner shall apply for approval under the provisions of
chapter 10, "Planned Unit Development", of this title, if the owner wishes to
construct, in whole or part on the land within the zone, any improvements other
than:
            (1)   A single-family residence; and/or
            (2)   Accessory structures commonly associated with dwellings, such
as garages or toolsheds; however,
            (3)   The application for a building permit for such a dwelling or
accessory structure must be accompanied by a site plan demonstrating that no
"harm", as defined above, is threatened by the construction; and construction
in accord with that site plan shall be a condition of the permit issuance.
         b.   The application shall be evaluated against the standards set out
in subsections (C)1 and (C)2 of this section, except that improvements
discussed in subsection (C)4 and the following subsections of this section
shall be evaluated against the standards in those subsections.
         c.   Fifty-foot (50') Building Setback Line:   
            (1)   There is hereby established a fifty feet (50') setback from
the lake water pool shore contour and fifty feet (50') from the stream high
water mark The setback shall be measured along a line perpendicular to a line
tangent to the nearest point so determined on the lake water pool shore contour
or stream high water mark, without regard to the spatial relationship between
that nearest point and any boundary lines of the lot in question. All
structures, perched beaches, lawns (except for native grasses identified in
City of McCall publication, “Native and Suitable Plants”), patios, walls and
fences shall be prohibited within the fifty foot (50') setback with the
following exceptions: (1) structures addressed by subsection (C)4; (2) public
walkways to the waterfront, and private walkways not exceeding eight feet (8')
in width; (3) essential public infrastructure; and (4) public parks facilities
and civic uses not requiring sanitary waste disposal.
            (2)   Access along the beach below the lake water pool shore
contour or stream high water mark shall be unobstructed, except as otherwise
provided in the approval of an applicable conditional use or variance.
         d.   Additionally, development in commercial zones, including
buildings, parking areas, and sidewalks, shall not cover more than eighty
percent (80%) of the total area of the lot or parcel; except in the central
business district zone where the total lot coverage may be up to ninety five
percent (95%), with not less than the remaining five percent (5%) maintained in
landscaping.
         e.   Maximum height of any structure is thirty five feet (35').
      4.   Private And Public Docks And Piers: Private and public docks and
piers shall:
         a.   Require a building permit from the city in addition to the
permits required by the state department of lands, or other authorities having
jurisdiction.
         b.   Be used to provide access to boats.
         c.   Be floating or held on pilings.
         d.   Be built with chemically inert materials; and foam materials
shall be fully enclosed.
         e.   Not be constructed in whole or part by or in association with
excavation or dredging, unless a conditional use permit has first been issued.
      5.   Commercial Marinas: Commercial marinas are a conditional use and
shall meet all requirements in subsection (A) of this section, and in addition
shall:
         a.   Provide an environmental assessment which addresses the issues
identified by the commission and/or city staff during the required
preapplication consultation.
         b.   Have restrooms, pump-out facilities for boat sewage receptacles,
and trash receptacles for other boat wastes, on or near and accessible from
such facilities.
         c.   Meet all other building code and environmental requirements.
      6.   Commercial Docks And Piers: Commercial docks and piers are a
conditional use and shall meet requirements in subsection (A) of this section
and shall meet all other building code and environmental requirements.
      7.   Retaining Walls And Similar Construction: Retaining walls and
similar construction to arrest erosion shall be permitted and shall:
         a.   Be at or above the higher of:
            (1)   The ordinary high water mark for purposes of this title to
land, as determined by the Idaho department of lands; or
            (2)   The lake water pool shore contour; and not involve fill above
original, natural grade and contour at the location, unless a different
location, and/or different fill, is approved by the commission as a conditional
use, and is also declared by it to be beneficial to the public and the
environmental qualities of the shoreline; and unless that different location is
also permitted by other governmental authorities having jurisdiction; provided,
however, that fill may be added directly behind a retaining wall to an extent
not greater than eighteen inches (18") above original, natural grade at the
wall, and blended back into the natural slope. "Original", for purposes of this
subsection, means existing historically within the prior two (2) years.
         b.   Be constructed of reinforced native rock and/or concrete.
         c.   Not be painted.
         d.   Be set at such a depth to prevent movement of backfill materials
into the water, and at such a depth set and reinforced to the extent to prevent
frost heaving and other natural structural deterioration.
      8.   Breakwater And Similar Construction: Breakwater and similar
construction shall:
         a.   Conform to the structural standards required by the U.S. corps of
engineers, and must be approved in writing by the Idaho department of lands and
by the planning commission as a conditional use.
         b.   Be floating, and shall not extend more than one foot (1') above
the surface of the lake; and shall be lit or marked as required by the state of
Idaho. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006; amd. Ord. 864, 2-12-2009; Ord.
880, 9-23-2010; Ord. 998, 1-14-2021; Ord. 1009, 10-6-2022)
3.7.03: SCENIC ROUTE ZONE:
3.7.030: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the scenic route overlay zone is to preserve, and enhance the
scenic quality of public collector and arterial streets. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006,
eff. 3-16-2006)
3.7.031: LANDS INCLUDED:
The scenic route zone includes:
   (A)   One hundred fifty foot (150') wide strips of land bounded by the right
of way lines of the following named streets, and by lines parallel to and one
hundred fifty feet (150') away from such right of way lines, together with any
right of way not part of the roadway:
      1.   State Highway 55, from the southern boundary to the northern
boundary of the impact area (Third Street and Lake Street).
      2.   East Side Road and East Side Drive from Lick Creek Road to Warren
Wagon Road.
      3.   Warren Wagon Road to the northern boundary of the area of city
impact.
      4.   Lick Creek Road from the intersection of Davis Avenue east to the
eastern boundary of the impact area.
      5.   Spring Mountain Boulevard from Deinhard Lane to Lick Creek Road.
      6.   Mission Street and Norwood Road to boundary of the area of city
impact.
      7.   West Mountain Road, including the proposed eastward extension to
Boydstun Street or Deinhard Lane, extended to the western or southern boundary
of the area of city impact.
      8.   South Samson Trail to the boundary of the area of city impact.
   (B)   Any structure or a portion thereof which may be visible when traveling
along the roadways designated above and any part of which is located within one
hundred fifty feet (150') of the nearest right of way line of a road named in
this section or designated pursuant to this section; such a structure is
subject to design review and approval under chapter 16, "Design Review", of
this title, notwithstanding that portions of the structure are not on land that
is within this zone. (Ord. 848, 2-12-2008; amd. Ord. 998, 1-14-2021)
3.7.032: REQUIREMENTS FOR DEVELOPMENT:
Prior to the issuance of a building permit, and prior to any clearing,
grubbing, excavation, or other construction (including removal of any existing
structures or improvements), the owner shall apply for scenic route and design
review approval in accordance with the procedure outlined in chapter 16 of this
title, which application shall include a site plan as set forth in section
3.8.21 of this title. A building permit shall neither be issued, nor any such
work or construction undertaken, until approval of the site plan and design
approval of proposed structures.
   (A)   Materials Provided By Applicant: The applicant shall furnish graphic
or pictorial material sufficient to indicate the nature of any proposed
development or improvement to include signing and landscaping, and an
indication of obscured views, if any.
   (B)   Commission Determination: The commission shall ascertain whether the
proposed development, improvement or use will:
      1.   Block or disrupt the visibility of significant views or features.
      2.   Be compatible (in terms of setback, bulk, height, design, finish
materials, signing and landscaping) with its immediate surroundings and the
desired visual quality of the scenic route.
   (C)   Structure Height: The maximum height for any structure is thirty five
feet (35'), except for structures containing deed restricted local housing,
created by the density bonus provision set forth in Section
3.8.21, where the maximum height may be 50' if setback 75' from the right-of-
way.
   (D)   Timber Harvesting: The existing forest in the McCall area is
considered a public resource, important to the character of the planning
jurisdiction and its tourist economy. Prior to the issuance of a relevant
building permit, the harvesting of timber shall be limited to dead, dying or
damaged trees. Slash shall not be accumulated or piled within view of the
roadway. Following issuance of a relevant building permit, tree removal is
additionally permitted within the area of the building footprint, other
structures, driveways, and other improvements, and in accord with section
3.8.04, "Fire Hazard Mitigation Standards", of this title. Development of the
lot should endeavor to preserve standing, healthy trees outside the area
occupied by improvements; lawn not being considered an improvement for these
purposes. Landscaping shall replace trees harvested or removed.
   (E)   Access Roads:
      1.   Access roads in subdivisions and resubdivisions platted after March
16, 2006, will be kept to a minimum. Every subdivision platted after March 16,
2006, shall provide an interior roadway providing access to each lot, which
interior roadway shall connect to the scenic route at a single point of access,
as is the case with Lucks Point Subdivision, for example, except as the fire
chief may require an additional access. The intersections of any two (2) access
roads with the scenic route in the impact area and any portion of the planning
jurisdiction that was in the impact area on March 16, 2006, shall be no closer
than one thousand feet (1,000') to each other. Where the entire frontage of a
parcel on the scenic route on March 16, 2006, is less than one thousand feet
(1,000') from the intersection of its side boundaries with the right of way,
and if an agreement with adjacent property owners for a common property line
point of access is not reached after bona fide effort, that shorter distance
between intersections is permitted which is consistent with a minimization of
points of access. Direct driveway access shall be discouraged to the scenic
route in the impact area.
      2.   Inside the city limits within existing subdivisions where individual
lots with scenic route right of way as a lot boundary cannot obtain access to
the public road from a road interior to the subdivision, direct access onto the
scenic route may be allowed; provided, that the driveway distances in the
applicable zone shall apply. In such cases, common driveways on common lot
lines, thus two (2) driveway accesses per four (4) lots, may be required.
   (F)   Bike Paths: Some or all of the routes listed in section
3.7.031 of this chapter are designated by the parks and recreation master plan
(also see the "McCall area pathways master plan") to have a bike path, walkway
or other recreational routing alongside, or as a part of the scenic route.
Where such designation exists, the commission shall assist in the effectuation
of the master plans by the exaction of recreational easements or dedication of
additional right of way or other techniques to ensure a continuous route for
such uses. In all cases, the city must show that such exaction is roughly
proportional to the impacts of the development and that the conditions for
implementing portions of the bike paths are to be based upon an individualized
determination for each development that the conditions are related to both the
nature and extent of such impacts. Digital data for easements shall be provided
according to the digital data submittal standards policy.
   (G)   For Sale: Along the scenic route, vehicles and other personal property
shall not be displayed for sale outside of a building unless the occupant of
the property is an authorized dealer of merchandise that is consistent with the
primary business and has obtained approval from the administrator. The owner or
occupant of property along the scenic route may display his or her own vehicle
or other personal property for sale on his or her own premises.
   (H)   Building Clustering: Building clustering shall be encouraged to
provide more efficiency and cohesion in design, reducing the number of access
points, and reserving the natural landforms, vegetation and open space.
   (I)   Landscaping: In addition to the requirements set forth in section
3.8.13 “Landscaping, Screening And Buffering,” development within the scenic
route zones shall provide the following landscaping:
      1.   One (1) native tree including evergreen and deciduous and three (3)
native shrubs each ten feet (10') of the linear street frontage along the
scenic route. Not less than fifty percent (50%) shall be evergreen trees.
      2.   The required landscaping shall be located with a twenty-five feet
(25') setback from the scenic route. Landscaping shall be arranged within
groups or clustered allowing spacing for natural maturity. Linear designed
landscaping is not acceptable.
      3.   If conflicts arise between this section and section 3.8.04 “Fire
Mitigation Standards,” or in the use of any snow storage or utility easements,
a recommended resolution will be the responsibility of the McCall Fire
Protection District or the Administrator. (Ord. 902, 7-12-2012; amd. Ord. 983,
12-19-2019; Ord. 998, 1-14-2021; Ord. 1001, 5-13-2021)
3.7.033: PROHIBITED USES:
The following uses are prohibited within the Scenic Route Zone:
   A.   Service Stations with Gasoline or Diesel Fuel Islands. (Ord. 1015, 3-
30-2023)
3.7.04: PAYETTE LAKES WATER AND SEWER DISTRICT ZONES OVERLAY:
3.7.040: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the Payette Lakes recreational water and sewer district overlay
is to conform the use and development of lands so designated to the grant
conditions imposed by the U.S. environmental protection agency in conjunction
with the funding provided by such agency to the Payette Lakes recreational
water and sewer district for the construction of the district's facilities,
including the expansion and rehabilitation of certain facilities owned by the
city.
   (A)   The relevant grant condition is that currently identified as special
condition 7, dated June 7, 1977, replacing the original special condition 7 set
forth in paragraph III b, page 5, of the grant agreement dated September 3,
1976. This grant condition, in the relevant part, relates to the population
predictions and other planning assumptions implicit in the overall facilities
plan jointly adopted by the city and the district, which factors are reflected
in the district's design density map. By resolution adopted March 3, 1980, the
city agreed to conform to such densities in the event any district lands were
annexed into the city.
   (B)   This section
3.7.04 implements such agreement, and further provides for zoning enforcement
of the district's requirements within the impact area. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006,
eff. 3-16-2006)
3.7.041: DATE OF DESIGNATION OF OVERLAY:
Land which was within the boundaries of the Payette Lakes water and sewer
district as of June 7, 1977, and which is also within the boundaries of the
city, is designated to be within the Payette Lakes water and sewer district
(overlay) zone. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
3.7.042: PERMITTED HOOKUP DENSITIES:
The lands within the Payette Lakes water and sewer district (overlay) zone
shall be restricted to a finite number of sewer hookups. The specific number
applicable to a given parcel of land within the overlay shall conform to
Payette Lakes water and sewer district densities. Any applicant seeking the
issuance of a building permit within this overlay zone shall investigate the
need for and seek the approval of the Payette Lakes water and sewer district
with respect to any sewer hookups involved in the proposed work or use.
Further, as provided by title II of this code, no building permit shall be
issued unless such a sewer service connection permit has been issued
simultaneously. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
3.7.043: EXEMPTIONS:
In the event the land in question is not actually serviced by the Payette Lakes
water and sewer district in that no sewer lines are physically or legally
accessible within the three hundred foot (300') service criteria, even though
the sewer district's design density map standards qualify such land for some
number of hookups, the applicant, upon demonstrating such inaccessibility, may
seek the necessary hookup approvals through the city rather than the district.
(Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
3.7.05 McCALL MUNICIPAL AIRPORT INFLUENCE OVERLAY ZONES:
3.7.050 PURPOSE:
The purpose of the McCall Municipal Airport Influence Overlay Zones is to
implement the goals and policies of the McCall Area Comprehensive Plan and the
McCall Municipal Airport Master Plan:
   (A)   To proactively protect the health, safety and general welfare and
property of the users of the airport and the property and inhabitants in the
airport vicinity;
   (B)   To operate, maintain, and develop the McCall Municipal Airport to
ensure safe and efficient aeronautical facilities for all aviation users per
City and FAA standards and requirements and in manner that it remains a safe
neighbor to surrounding land uses; and
   (C)   To provide for land uses that are compatible with the airport
operations, approach zones and aircraft noise. (Ord. 984, 12-19-2019, eff. 1-1-
2020)
3.7.051 AIRPORT OPERATION PROTECTION ZONES:
   (A)   Purpose: Airport operation protection zones are established to protect
the existing and future instrument approach minimums of the airport and
maintain safe operation of the airport for landing, takeoff and maneuvering of
aircraft. These zones do so by preventing the creation of hazards and nuisances
to air navigation including obstructions and lighting.
   (B)   Applicability: In order to carry out these purposes, all of the land
lying beneath the approach surfaces, transitional surfaces, horizontal
surfaces, and conical surfaces as they apply to the McCall Municipal Airport
shall be protected. Such zones are designated on "the current approach plan
included in the Airport Layout Plan set included in the Airport Master Plan",
incorporated herein by reference. An area located in more than one of the zones
shall be subject to the more restrictive height limitation.
   (C)   Establishment of Zones: The various zones are hereby established and
defined as follows:
      1.   Utility Runway Non-Precision Instrument Approach Zone: The inner
edge of this approach zone coincides with the width of the primary surface and
is five hundred feet (500') wide. The approach zone expands outward uniformly
to a width of two thousand feet (2,000') at a horizontal distance of five
thousand feet (5,000') from the primary surface. Its centerline is the
continuation of the centerline of the runway.
      2.   Horizontal Zone: The horizontal zone is established by swinging arcs
of five thousand feet (5,000') radii from the center of each end of the primary
surface of each runway and connecting the adjacent arcs by drawing lines
tangent to those arcs. The horizontal zone does not include the approach and
transitional zones.
      3.   Conical Zone: The conical zone is established as the area that
commences at the periphery of the horizontal zone and extends outward there
from a horizontal distance of four thousand feet (4,000').
   (D)   Height Limitations: No structure shall be erected, altered, or
maintained, and no tree shall be allowed to grow in any zone created by this
section to a height in excess of the applicable height limit herein established
for such zone. Such applicable height limitations are hereby established for
each of the zones in question as follows:
      1.   Utility Runway Non-Precision Instrument Approach Zone: Slopes
thirty-four feet (34') outward for each foot upward beginning at the end of and
at the same elevation as the primary surface and extending to a horizontal
distance of five thousand feet (5,000') along the extended runway centerline.
      2.   Transitional Zones:
         a.   Slope seven feet (7') outward for each foot upward beginning at
the sides of and at the same elevation as the primary surface and the approach
surface, and extending to a height of one hundred fifty feet (150') above the
airport elevation which is five thousand twenty one feet (5,021') above mean
sea level.
         b.   Height limits sloping seven feet (7') outward for each foot
upward beginning at the sides of and at the same elevation as the approach
surface and extending to where they intersect the conical surface.
         c.   Where the precision instrument runway approach zone projects
beyond the conical zone, there are established height limits sloping seven feet
(7') outward for each foot upward beginning at the sides of and at the same
elevation as the approach surface, and extending a horizontal distance of ten
thousand feet (10,000') measured at ninety degree (90°) angles to the extended
runway centerline.
      3.   Horizontal Zone: Established at one hundred fifty feet (150') above
the airport elevation or at a height of five thousand one hundred seventy-one
feet (5,171') above mean sea level.
      4.   Conical Zone: Slopes twenty feet (20') outward for each foot upward
beginning at the periphery of the horizontal zone and at one hundred fifty feet
(150') above the airport elevation and extending to a height of three hundred
fifty feet (350') above the airport elevation.
   (E)   Use Restrictions:
      1.   No use may be made of land or water within any zone established by
this section in such a manner as to create electrical interference with
navigational signals or radio communication between the airport and aircraft,
make it difficult for pilots to distinguish between airport lights and other
objects, result in glare in the eyes of pilots using the airport, impair
visibility or ability to acquire and maintain visual acquisition of the
airfield in the vicinity of the airport, create bird strike hazards, or
otherwise in any way endanger or interfere with the landing, takeoff, or
maneuvering of aircraft intending to use the airport.
      2.   The owner of any existing nonconforming structure or tree is
required to permit the installation, operation, and maintenance markers and
lights deemed necessary by the airport manager to indicate to the operators of
aircraft in the vicinity of the airport the presence of such airport
obstruction. Markers and lights shall be installed, operated and maintained at
the expense of the city.
   (F)   Permits Required:
      1.   Future Uses: Except as specifically provided in subsections a, b,
and c of this section, no material change shall be made in the use of land, no
structure shall be erected or otherwise established, and no tree shall be
planted in any operation protection zone unless a permit is applied for and
granted by the McCall Municipal Airport Manager. Each application for a permit
shall indicate the purpose for which the permit is desired, in sufficient
details to determine whether the use, structure, or tree would conform to these
regulations. If such determination is in the affirmative, the permit shall be
granted.
         a.   In the area lying within the limits of the horizontal zone and
conical zone, no permit shall be required for any tree or structure less than
seventy five feet (75') of vertical height above the ground, except when,
because of terrain, land contour, or topographic features, such tree or
structure would extend above the height limits prescribed for such zones.
         b.   In areas lying within the limits of the approach zones, but at a
horizontal distance of not less than four thousand two hundred feet (4,200')
from each end of the runway, no permit shall be required for any tree or
structure less than seventy five feet (75') of vertical height above the
ground, except when such tree or structure would extend above the height limit
prescribed for such approach zones.
         c.   In the areas lying within the limits of the transition zones
beyond the perimeter of the horizontal zone, no permit shall be required for
any tree or structure less than seventy five feet (75') of vertical height
above the ground, except when such tree or structure, because of terrain, land
contour, or topographic features, would extend above the height limit
prescribed for such transition zones.
         d.   Nothing contained in any of the forgoing exceptions shall be
construed as permitting or intending to permit any construction, or alteration
of any structure, or growth of any tree in excess of any of the height limits
established by this section except as set forth in section
3.7.051D of this chapter.
      2.   Existing Uses: No permit shall be granted that would allow the
establishment or creation of an obstruction or permit a nonconforming use,
structure, or tree to become a greater hazard to air navigation than it was on
the effective date of the applicable regulations or than it is when the
application for a permit is made. Except for abandoned or destroyed existing
uses, all applications for such a permit shall be granted.
      3.   Variances: Any person may request a variance from the provisions of
this section by applying and following the procedures set forth in Chapter 13
PERMITS AND APPLICATIONS. In considering a variance from the requirement of
these provisions, the application shall be sent to the McCall Municipal Airport
Manager for a recommendation prior to action by the Planning and Zoning
Commission. (Ord. 984, 12-19-2019, eff. 1-1-2020)
CHAPTER 8
GENERAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
SECTION:
3.8.01: General Requirements
3.8.02: Prohibited Uses
3.8.03: Timber Harvest
3.8.04: Fire Hazard Mitigation Standards
3.8.05: Temporary Uses
3.8.06: Parking Provisions, Driveways And Loading Areas
3.8.061: Parking And Internal Circulation
3.8.062: Off Street Parking
3.8.063: Bicycle Parking
3.8.064: Driveways
3.8.065: Commercial Zone Special
3.8.066: Loading Areas
3.8.07: Animals
3.8.08: Antennas
3.8.09: Provision For Trash Storage, Collection And Disposal
3.8.10: Fencing And Walls
3.8.11: Accessory Use, Buildings And Structures
3.8.11.01: Accessory Dwelling Units
3.8.12: Corner Vision
3.8.13: Landscaping And Buffering
3.8.14: Building Stepback Standards Adjacent To Residential Zones
3.8.15: Snow Storage And Drainage
3.8.16: Other Requirements
3.8.17: Restaurant, Formula Limitation
3.8.18: Retail, Formula Business Limitation
3.8.19: Main Entrances In R4 Through R16 Zones
3.8.20: Special Standards For Garages
3.8.21: Local Housing Density Bonus Program
3.8.22: Seasonal Dwelling Units
3.8.23: Site Design
3.8.24: Design, Location, And Screening Of Service Areas
3.8.01: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
The requirements of this chapter apply to all zones.
   (A)   Compliance Required; Nuisance Prohibited: No development shall be
permitted or authorized to be established or maintained which is a nuisance or
otherwise does not comply with all applicable local, state and federal laws and
regulations.
   (B)   Lighting: All lighting shall be located in such a manner as to prevent
glare on a roadway and to minimize impact on surrounding properties. See
chapter 14, "Outdoor Lighting", of this title.
   (C)   Environmental Assessment: The planning commission may require an
applicant to provide an environmental assessment, to be submitted prior to the
approval of any planned unit development, conditional use, or variance,
subdivision and/or prior to recommending any zoning map amendment. When
requiring such an assessment the precise nature of the items to be provided
shall be listed by the commission.
   (D)   Protection Of Natural And Cultural Resources: The planning commission
may require an applicant to provide the following to protect natural and
cultural resources of McCall:
      1.   The dedication of public accessways not less than ten feet (10') in
width to publicly owned land or waters; and
      2.   The preservation of all historic and archaeological sites known or
discovered on the parcel subject to development.
   (E)   Pit Privies: Pit privies are prohibited, except in camps and
campgrounds where constructed with a concrete liner and periodically pumped.
   (F)   Dry Cabins: Dry cabins, that is, dwellings without piped in potable
water and approved sewer, are prohibited. An accessory building containing
sleeping quarters, such as a children's bunkhouse, adjacent to a residence with
piped in potable water and approved sewer, is not a dry cabin. If a residence
to which the water service has been discontinued for nonpayment of the water
bill under title VI of this code continues to be occupied more than briefly
after the discontinuance of service, it shall also be considered a dry cabin.
Occupancy of a dry cabin is a public health hazard, a public nuisance, and is
prohibited; the violation shall be considered committed by each of the adult
members of the household.
   (G)   Camping In Platted Subdivisions:
      1.   Undeveloped Lots: Camping in tents or recreational vehicles, whether
self-propelled or pulled by a vehicle, is prohibited on undeveloped lots in
platted subdivisions, except where camping serves as temporary housing for the
owners or construction workers during construction of a building on the lot
pursuant to an issued building permit. Such use is limited to sixty (60)
calendar days. Usage shall meet all health requirements, including potable
water, sewer services, and garbage collection service. The persons so camping
shall take all necessary steps to preserve the public peace and safety of other
residents in the subdivision who may be affected by the camping and associated
activity.
      2.   Developed Lots: Nothing in this section shall be read to prohibit a
homeowner from allowing guests to camp on the homeowner's property for up to
ten (10) days out of every thirty (30) day period. Camping in excess of such
ten (10) days out of thirty (30) is prohibited. A utility charge may be
assessed to the homeowner equivalent to one additional dwelling unit for each
month in which the ten (10) day limit is exceeded. When camping occurs, these
units must be connected to the home's water, sewer and electrical systems. Each
day of camping in excess of the ten (10) is a separate violation of this title.
   (H)   Outdoor Display Areas: Some areas, such as parking lots, may be used
as temporary places on which to display merchandise, artwork, handicrafts,
items for auction, etc.; in these cases, the organization arranging the display
shall obtain a permit from the administrator.
   (I)   Maintenance During Construction: A written construction plan shall be
prepared and submitted for approval by the city for all construction projects
within the city or the area of city impact. See section
9.6.08 of this code. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
   (J)   Written Construction Plan: A written construction plan shall be
prepared and submitted for approval by the public works director and community
development director for large projects, as determined by the administrator, or
the building official for single- or two-family dwelling units; see section
9.6.08 of this code. (Ord. 864, 2-12-2009)
3.8.02: PROHIBITED USES:
Any use which causes or may reasonably be expected to cause traffic congestion,
excessive noise, vibration, smoke, dust, or other particulate matter, humidity,
heat or glare, noxious fumes, toxic or hazardous waste, or visible refuse, at
or beyond any lot line of the lot on which it is located, is prohibited.
"Excessive" is defined for these purposes as a degree exceeding that generated
by uses permitted in the zone in their customary manner of operation, or to a
degree injurious to the public health, safety, welfare or convenience.
   (A)   Junk Storage: Outdoor storage of junk, including, without limitation,
inoperable or unlicensed motor vehicles (including aircraft), used appliances,
building and construction debris, and auto parts, except in wrecking yards
operated under and in conformity with a conditional use permit. Operable farm
machinery and other operable vehicles intended for on site use and required by
the state to be licensed shall not be considered in violation of this
subsection, as long as these vehicles are not stored outdoors, but are placed
in storage buildings or shelters when the intended operations are completed.
   (B)   Unhealthy Or Hazardous Conditions: No use shall be permitted or
authorized to be established or maintained which is or may become:
      1.   Hazardous from fire, or cause excessive traffic generation.
      2.   Noxious, or cause offensive conditions due to emission of odor,
dust, smoke, cinders, gas, fumes, vibration, noise, refuse matter or water
carried waste or toxic chemicals.
      3.   The cause of unhealthy conditions resulting from improper storage of
materials, or impoundment of wastewater, attracting and aiding the propagation
of insects or rodents.
   (C)   Impeding Safe Use Of Airport: No uses in the general vicinity of the
airport are permitted which may impede, confuse, distract or otherwise encumber
the safe and efficient use of the airport landing field, approach zones or
other facilities.
   (D)   Prevention Of Airport Expansion: No uses shall be located in the
general vicinity of the airport which may prevent expansion, according to the
airport master plan, of the airport or facilities associated with the airport.
   (E)   Retail Business Developments: "Large scale retail business
developments", as defined in chapter 2 of this title, are prohibited.
   (F)   CAFOs: "Confined animal feeding operations", as defined in chapter 2
of this title, are prohibited. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
   (G)   Building Permit Required: Until a valid building permit has been
issued by the city of McCall, no construction work, including grading,
blasting, filling, trenching, tree removal, etc., may be started, except as
permitted in section
3.8.03 of this chapter. (Ord. 864, 2-12-2009)
3.8.03: TIMBER HARVEST:
   (A)   Purpose: The existing forest in the McCall area, including the city
jurisdiction and the McCall area of city impact, is considered a public
resource.The purpose of these requirements is to protect that public resource
in fulfillment of the McCall area comprehensive plan goals and policies:
      1.   Maintain and increase McCall's urban forest as a key component of
the green infrastructure network with economic and social benefits.
      2.   Achieve no net loss of tree canopy coverage and strive to increase
the overall tree canopy to reduce storm runoff, absorb air pollutants, reduce
noise, stabilize soil, and provide habitat.
      3.   Maintain McCall's heritage trees.
      4.   Preserve, to the extent reasonable, native vegetation consistent
with ensuring wildland fire defensible space.
      5.   Strengthen incentives and requirements for tree preservation for new
development.
      6.   Improve forest health through selective thinning and using best
forest management practices and guidelines.
   (B)   Tree Removal Limitations:
      1.   Any tree equal to or larger than twelve inches (12") DBH (Diameter
at Breast Height 54") shall require the written approval of the city arborist.
      2.   Any thinning of smaller trees in excess of twenty percent (20%) of
the total stem count on the property shall require a consultation by the city
arborist.
      3.   Following issuance of a building permit or written pre-building
permit approval by the city arborist, tree removal is permitted within the area
of the building footprint, other structures, driveways, and other improvements,
and in accord with section
3.8.04, "Fire Hazard Mitigation Standards", of this chapter.
      4.   Development of the lot should endeavor to preserve standing, healthy
trees outside the area occupied by improvements.
      5.   Salvage of dead, dying, or hazardous timber and removal of brush and
timber for fire safety shall be allowed.
   (C)   Slash, Logging Debris: Slash, long butts, cull logs, and logging
debris shall not be accumulated or piled within view of a roadway. All such
debris shall either be removed to an approved location for disposal, burned
(with proper permits), or converted to mulch.
   (D)   Limitations On Timber Harvest: Timber harvest is prohibited except
under the following conditions:
      1.   A property owner has first obtained a conditional use permit for
such harvest;
      2.   Within road rights of way, timber harvest by or under contract with
the public agency having jurisdiction of the right of way.
      3.   By a developer as required for road or utility construction in
connection with a subdivision having at least preliminary plat approval, as
required for survey or engineering or to remove dead or dying trees with the
approval of the city arborist.
      4.   On public state lands as provided in subsection (E) of this section.
   (E)   Harvesting Without Permit; Procedure: Timber harvest from state
endowment lands is permitted after review and consultation with the city and
without a conditional use permit as follows:
      1.   Notice of a proposed timber sale or other logging contract shall be
given to the clerk by the department of lands at least sixty (60) days before
the publication of invitation to bid upon the sale, or creation of contract
rights in a logger, whichever first occurs; thereafter the clerk shall forward
the notice and supporting materials to the planning and zoning commission,
which, if it chooses to do so, may hold a public hearing on the question of the
appropriate city response to the proposed state action. The commission may
request additional information.
      2.   The council, upon receiving the recommendations of the commission in
this regard, may, if it chooses to do so, hold a second public hearing on the
question of the city response to the proposed state action. The council may
request additional information. Following such consideration by the council as
it deems appropriate, a statement of council's concerns and recommendations may
be approved for transmittal to the department of lands.
      3.   Public notice of any such public hearing under this subsection shall
be given by publication as provided in chapter 15, "Procedures, Appeals And
Actions", of this title.
      4.   The department shall not enter into the timber sale or other logging
contract without first implementing or otherwise responding point by point, in
writing, delivered to the city manager, to the council's statement of concerns
and recommendations.
      5.   Notice of a sale which is classed as a "direct sale" under present
rules of the department of lands, that is, one hundred thousand (100,000) or
fewer board feet, by negotiated sale for ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) or
less, and respecting certain trees the market value of which would be lost in
the event of any appreciable delay, shall be timely if furnished to the clerk
fifteen (15) or more days before the signing of a contract for such sale; and
the clerk shall bring the matter directly to the attention of council at its
next meeting. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006; amd. Ord. 998, 1-14-2021)
3.8.04: FIRE HAZARD MITIGATION STANDARDS:
   (A)   Purpose: To ensure that the potential for wildland fire is adequately
evaluated and measures are incorporated in the design of new development to
prevent and reduce exposure of lives and property to wildfires.
   (B)   Applicability: All development in residential and AF zones; or any
lands determined by the McCall fire protection district to have a high risk for
wildland fires.
   (C)   The assessment of the potential and severity of a fire hazard shall
consider:
      1.   The site topography, boundaries, location and orientation;
      2.   The terrain and amount and type of vegetation cover;
      3.   Accessibility for emergency vehicles; and
      4.   Fire history.
   (D)   Site design shall consider the potential fire hazard in location of
structures on the site, the use of fire wise landscaping, site access, and the
man-made features that create defensible space between structures and fire
fuel.
   (E)   Requirements in areas of fire hazard:
      1.   A thirty foot (30') wide zone shall be created around all dwellings;
that provides space for fire suppression equipment in case of emergency.
      2.   Within that thirty foot (30') zone: a) grasses shall be kept at or
below six inches (6") in height; b) shrubs and trees are thinned to a minimum
spacing of ten feet (10') or more; c) conifers sixteen feet (16') and over in
height are limbed up from the ground to a height of eight feet (8') and no more
than one- half (½) the total crown height; d) dead and down wood is removed;
and e) no tree shall be permitted to overhang a chimney.
   (F)   Maintenance:
      1.   In any development with common area and open space, the association,
or the owner in the absence of an association, shall remove dead and downed
woody materials less than six inches (6") in diameter, dead or dying standing
trees, and slash from the common area and open space at the time of development
and periodically thereafter.
      2.   All slash will be removed, converted to mulch, or burned within
twelve (12) months of its creation.
      3.   In subdivisions where there are vacant lots, it is the
responsibility of the landowner to properly mitigate any hazard. Hazards which
are noticed by the City, County, or the fire district to the landowner but not
properly mitigated will be removed or alleviated by the City or County at the
expense of the landowner.
      4.   Where a hazard described in subsection(F)3 of this section is not
mitigated by the property owner, and a fire results, the City or the County
depending on the property location is not liable for damage that results. (Ord.
821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006; amd. Ord. 998, 1-14-2021)
3.8.05: TEMPORARY USES:
   (A)   Temporary Storage Facilities:
      1.   No owner shall maintain a temporary storage facility, as defined in
section
3.2.02 of this title, upon any property in the planning jurisdiction for a
period of time in excess of twenty four (24) days during any sixty (60) day
period, unless within such twenty four (24) days such facility is brought into
compliance with all standards of the relevant zone, including, without
limitation, setbacks for structures, and parking requirements (whether or not
such facility otherwise meets the definition of “structure”). No such facility
shall be used in lieu of usable interior working space of a commercial,
business park or industrial land use for more than eighteen (18) months during
construction of a permanent building. (Ord. 885, 3-24-2011)
      2.   A temporary storage facility shall not be installed so as to occupy
required parking.
      3.   This section shall, as should the balance of the title, be given
construction in accord with its evident purposes. For purposes of determining
twenty four (24) days, for example, the interruption of the storage use of the
facility shall not be considered an interruption of the twenty four (24) day
period unless accompanied by removal of the facility from the property, nor
shall the period be deemed interrupted by the moving of the facility from one
location on the property to another location on the property or adjacent
properties of the owner.
   (B)   Temporary Food Vendors:
      1.   No drive-up or drive-through service shall be permitted.
      2.   Temporary food vendors shall not utilize public-right-of way except
for the following:
         a.   2nd Street between East Lake Street and East Park Street.
         b.   Parking spaces adjacent to pedestrian bulb-outs not marked as
disabled parking on East Lake Street between North 3rd Street and Pine Street.
         c.   Lenora Street between 1st Street and North 3rd Street.
         d.   East Park Street between 1st Street and North 3rd Street.
      3.   Temporary food vendors may operate on streets within residential
zones, but are not permitted to be stationary for greater than ten (10) minutes
while not actively engaged in a sales transaction.
   (C)   Temporary Merchandise Vendors:
      1.   All temporary merchandise vendors which remain in one location for
more than seven (7) consecutive days shall be subject to design review.
   (D)   Temporary Vendor Courts:
      1.   All temporary vendor courts shall be subject to design review.
      2.   Temporary vendor courts located within the Scenic Route Overlay Zone
shall be subject to the following additional design requirements:
         a.   No temporary freestanding signage
         b.   Landscaping or screening may be required at the discretion of the
Administrator.
      3.   Permanent free standing signage is permitted in conformance with
Chapter 9 of this title.
   (E)   Temporary uses associated with permitted Public Events in accordance
with Chapter 8, Title IV of McCall City Code do not need any additional
permitting. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006; amd. Ord. 1009, 10-6-2022)
3.8.06: PARKING PROVISIONS, DRIVEWAYS AND LOADING AREAS:
   (A)   Parking And Loading Spaces Required: No building or structure shall be
erected, nor any residential use changed to commercial, business park or
industrial use, unless maintained off street parking and loading spaces have
been provided in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. Even where the
new use involves no additions or enlargements, there shall be provided as many
such spaces as may be required by this chapter.
   (B)   Altered Or Enlarged Building, Compliance With Current Provisions: No
building or structure shall be substantially altered, added to or enlarged, or
its use changed permanently unless there is provided as many such spaces as may
be required by this title with respect to the square footage as to which
alteration, addition, enlargement, or change of use has occurred.
   (C)   Surfacing Requirements: Parking and/or storage of otherwise legal and
licensed vehicles of any kind, except upon properly surfaced and approved
driveways or parking aprons, is prohibited. Parking of such vehicles on lawns,
patios, garden area, or naturally wooded terrain is expressly forbidden at any
time, except in an emergency such as fire, flood, earthquake, etc., or to
facilitate approved construction work.
   (D)   Location Of Parking Spaces: The following regulations shall govern the
location of off street parking spaces and areas:
      1.   Parking spaces for all detached residential uses shall be located on
the same lot as the use which they are intended to serve.
      2.   Parking spaces for commercial, business park, or institutional uses
shall be located not more than three hundred feet (300') from the principal use
and shall be located behind or beside the use, except in the CBD, where parking
spaces shall be located not more than one thousand feet (1,000') from the
principal use and shall be located behind or beside the use.
      3.   Parking spaces for apartments, condominiums or similar residential
uses shall be located not more than two hundred feet (200') from the principal
use on the same developed property.
      4.   In all zones, if a new single-family residential structure is built
without a garage, space shall be provided for the lawful addition of future
covered parking.
      5.   No parking lot pavement edge for a commercial or industrial use may
be located closer than five feet (5') from the right-of- way of a public street
unless approved by the Public Works Director. (Ord. 973, 11-29-2018, eff. 1-1-
2019)
   (E)   Maintenance: The owner of property used for parking and/or loading
shall maintain such area in good condition without holes and free of all dust,
trash and other debris.
   (F)   Disabled Vehicles: The parking of a disabled vehicle within a
residential or commercial zone for a period of more than two (2) weeks shall be
prohibited, unless such vehicle is stored in an enclosed garage or other
accessory building.
   (G)   Uses Not Listed: Parking spaces for other permitted or conditional
uses not listed in this section shall be determined by the commission.
   (H)   Fractional Numbers: Fractional numbers shall be decreased to the whole
number.
   (I)   Reduction Of Requirements: Where there is an adequate public transit
system, or where, for any other reason parking demand is unusually low, such as
where uses with differing operating hours or needs share parking under a
formal, written agreement to which the City is a party, then the parking space
provisions cited herein may be reduced proportionately by the commission. If
the owner, whose parking facility is under such an agreement which requires the
facility to be available to the patrons of the other use(s), fails or refuses
to make such parking available in accordance with the agreement, such failure
or refusal is a violation of this title.
   (J)   Alternative Proposals: Where special conditions exist which make
compliance with these standards impractical, the commission will consider
alternative proposals presented according to the procedures and standards for a
variance.
   (K)   Off Street Loading Spaces: Required off street loading space is not to
be included as off street parking space in computation of required off street
parking spaces. All off street loading spaces shall be located outside of any
right-of-way or a street or alley.
   (L)   Snow Removal, Storage: Where snow removal and storage may pose a
problem to traffic circulation or reduce the amount of adequate parking for
winter business, the developer of the property shall designate a snow storage
area and remove snow as necessary to maintain minimum traffic circulation and
parking.
   (M)   Authority To Make Adjustments: Adjustments to required parking may be
authorized by the commission based upon evidence of actual parking demand for
the proposed use.
   (N)   Multiple Uses: Required parking facilities for two (2) or more uses,
structures, or parcels of land may be satisfied by the same parking facilities
used jointly, to the extent that the owners or operators show that the need for
parking facilities does not materially overlap (e.g., uses primarily of a
daytime versus nighttime nature; weekday uses versus weekend uses), and
provided that the right of joint use is evidenced by a recorded deed, lease,
contract, or similar written instrument establishing the joint use. The City
may approve owner requests for shared parking through land use review.
   (O)   Varying Uses: If more than one type of land use occupies a single
structure or parcel of land, the total requirements for off street automobile
parking shall be the sum of the requirements for all uses, unless it can be
shown that the peak parking demands are actually less (i.e., the uses operate
on different days or at different times of the day). The City may reduce the
total parking required accordingly through land use review.
   (P)   Residential Driveways: For residential driveways, see section
9.6.03 of this Code. (Ord. 907, 1-24-2013)
3.8.061: PARKING AND INTERNAL CIRCULATION DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   (A)   Purpose: To minimize the visual impacts of off-street parking and
loading areas, to discourage large expanses of pavement, and to reduce the
conflicts between different circulation needs, especially pedestrians.
   (B)   Location:
      1.   On-site parking shall be located so that it does not dominate the
streetscape and views from surrounding properties.
      2.   When parking lots occur on sloping terrain, the parking lots shall
be stepped to follow the terrain rather than allowing the lot surface to extend
above natural grade.
      3.   In the CC, CBD, NC,BP and CV Zones, multi-family residential uses in
any zone, and conditional use permits for new uses in residential zones, all
on-site parking shall be located on the side or behind the structure facing the
primary street.
   (C)   Landscaping And Screening:
      1.   Parking lot landscaping shall meet the objectives of reducing the
visual and noise impacts from vehicles, softening the expanse of hard surface
areas, reinforcing circulation, and providing stormwater benefits.
      2.   For parking lots over fifty thousand square feet (50,000 sf) in
size, a minimum of ten percent (10%) of the site shall be in interior parking
lot landscaping. Public art, decorative paving, kiosks, green infrastructure or
parking lot configurations that break-up the expanse of pavement may be
substituted for interior landscaping.
      3.   Landscaped areas shall be consolidated to enhance tree and plant
material growing conditions that reflect the natural growing patterns of the
native landscape, and to provide locations for snow storage, natural drainage,
light fixtures and other utilities.
      4.   Landscape materials shall consist of native trees, vegetation,
including grasses, hardy shrubs, or evergreen ground cover, and maintained in
good condition. (See City of McCall publication, "Native and Suitable Plants".)
      5.   Where parking areas adjoin or face any residential property, the
parking lot shall be effectively screened by an acceptably designed wall,
fence, hedge berm or planting screen.
         a.   Fence or wall screens shall be not less than four feet (4') or
more than six feet (6') in height except in street setback areas where it shall
not exceed four feet (4').
         b.   Planting screens shall not be less than four feet (4') in height.
         c.   In the event that terrain or other natural features are such that
the erection of such fence, wall or planting screen will not serve the intended
purpose, then with the approval of the Administrator, in writing, no such
fence, wall or planting screen and landscaping shall be required.
         d.   The use of chain link fencing in any residential zone, CBD and CC
zones is prohibited. In all other zones, approval by the Administrator is
required.
   (D)   Parking Access:
      1.   Access driveways for parking areas or loading spaces shall be
located in such a way that any vehicle entering or leaving such area shall be
clearly visible by a pedestrian or motorist approaching the access or driveway
from a public or private street.
      2.   Any parking area (except approved residential driveways) shall be
designed in such a manner that any vehicle leaving or entering the parking area
from or onto a public or private street shall be traveling in a forward motion.
      3.   Parking design that uses the street frontage as the access for an
individual parking stall is prohibited.
   (E)   Surfacing:
      1.   In the CC, CBD, NC, BP, I, AP and CV Zones, parking and loading
spaces and driveways shall have an improved surface including asphalt,
concrete, paving stones, grasscrete pavers bricks, or in the I Zone, other
material that does not generate significant dust or other particulate matter in
the air during ordinary use by wheeled equipment/vehicles.
         a.   Any parking or loading area that is found to generate significant
dust shall be required to mitigate by resurfacing and/or implementing a dust
abatement program that is approved by the City Engineer.
         b.   All parking or loading spaces or driveways accessing a public/
private roadway shall include a formal approach apron consisting of asphalt,
concrete, paving stones, or bricks. The apron shall extend entirely from the
property/right-of-way line and connect to the adjoining roadway and shall not
be less than fifteen feet (15') in length.
      2.   In the AF, RR, RE, R1, R4, R8, and R16 Zones, and residential uses
in any zone, parking and loading spaces may use other materials (such as
gravel) that provide a stable driving surface under all weather and moisture
conditions and during ordinary use by wheeled vehicles which prevents the
raising of road dust or other like particulate matter into the air.
   (F)   Internal Circulation: The design of internal circulation shall be
integrated with the overall site design and adjacent properties, including the
location of structures, pedestrian walkways and landscaping.
      1.   Pedestrian circulation shall be clearly identifiable using
continuous sidewalks, separated walkways within parking areas and well-designed
pedestrian crossings.
      2.   Driveways, aisles and turnaround areas shall meet the standards for
fire and refuse access.
      3.   Bus pullouts may be required when a development is adjacent to an
existing or planned bus stop.
   (G)   Drainage: All parking and loading areas shall provide for proper
drainage of surface water so as to prevent the drainage of such water onto
adjacent properties or walkways.
   (H)   Lighting: Any lights used to illuminate a parking lot shall be so
arranged as to reflect the light away from the adjoining property. See chapter
14, "Outdoor Lighting", of this title. (Ord. 923, 5-22-2014; amd. Ord. 973, 11-
29-2018, eff. 1-1-2019; Ord. 998, 1-14-2021)
3.8.062: OFF STREET PARKING:
   (A)   Dimensions:
 
If parking is at:       45 Degrees 60 Degrees 90 Degrees Parallel
Then the:               Shall be:
Width of parking1       13 feet    10 feet    9 feet2    9 feet
Length of parking space 15 feet    18 feet    18 feet2   23 feet
Width of driveway aisle 13 feet    17 feet    20 feet    12 feet
 
Notes:
1.    Width is measured parallel to the sidewalk or paved street surface.
2.    Compact parking spaces shall be 8 feet wide by 16 feet in length.
   (B)   Relationship Of Standard And Compact Parking Spaces: Up to thirty five
percent (35%) of any parking lot may be designated for compact car spaces. Such
spaces shall be permitted only on hard surfaced lots, where the space is marked
both on the pavement and by a sign.
   (C)   Parking Space Requirements: For the purpose of this title, the parking
space requirements presented in subsection (A) of this section shall apply; see
also title IX, chapter 2, "Subdivision Plats And Procedures", of this code, for
general parking area requirements for condominiums and townhouses.
TABLE 3.8.062
VEHICLE PARKING
Type Of Use Parking Spaces Required
Type Of Use           Parking Spaces Required
Residential:           
  Apartments or       11/2 for each unit (except see title IX, chapter 2 for
 multi-family        condominiums and townhouses)
  dwelling
  Boarding houses,
 rooming houses,     1 for each sleeping room, plus 1 for each permanent occupant
  dormitories and
  permanent occupant
 Mobile home park    1 for each unit plus 1 space for each 5 units
 Single-family or    2 for each unit
  two-family dwelling
Commercial:            
  Automobile service
 garages which also  1 for each 4 gasoline pumps and 2 for each service bay
  provide repair
  Banks, financial
 institutions and    1 for each 500 square feet of floor area
  similar uses
  Durable goods
 retail (furniture,  1 for each 700 square feet of floor area
  appliances)
  Funeral parlors,
 mortuaries and      1 for each 100 square feet of floor area in slumber rooms,
  similar types of    parlors or service rooms
  uses
                      1 per each sleeping room and 1 space for each 2 employees; in
 Hotels, motels      addition, 10 percent of the parking spaces shall be oversized
                      spaces (equivalent of 2 compact spaces situated front to back)
                      1 per 4 boat mooring spaces within 300 feet of the marina; 1
 Marinas             per 2 boat mooring spaces, or a sufficient size for boat
                      trailers within 1/2 mile from the marina
  Offices, public or
 professional        1 for each 500 square feet of floor area
  administration or
  service buildings
 Retail stores       1 for each 500 square feet of floor area
  All other types of
  business or
 commercial uses     1 for each 500 square feet of floor area
  permitted in any
  zone
Recreational or        
entertainment:
  Auditoriums, sports
 arenas, theaters    1 for each 5 seats
  and similar uses
                      4 for each alley or lane, plus 1 additional space for each 500
 Bowling alleys      square feet of the area used for restaurant, cocktail lounge or
                      similar use
 City parks:          
    A. Community     A. Use local street parking
    B. Neighborhoo   B. 1 per 10,000 square feet, including abutting on street
                      parking
    C. Large play    C. 1 per 10,000 square feet, including abutting on street
  areas               parking
    D. Open space    D. None required
  See title IX,
  chapter 3,
 "Subdivision Design  
  Standards", of this
  code
 Dance floors,       1 for each 500 square feet of floor area used for the activity
  skating rinks
  Dining rooms,
  restaurants,
 taverns,            1 for each 500 square feet of floor area
  nightclubs,
  clubhouses, etc.
  Outdoor swimming    1 for each 5 persons capacity, plus public or community or
 pools (public)      club; 1 for each 4 seats or 1 for each 30 square feet of floor
                      area used for seating purposes, whichever is greater
Institutional:         
  Churches and other
 places of religious 1 for each 5 seats
  assembly
 Hospitals           1 for each bed and 1 for every 2 employees
 Medical and dental  1 for every 500 square feet of floor area of examination,
  clinics             treatment, office, and waiting rooms
  Sanatoriums, homes
  for the aged,
 nursing homes,      1 for each 2 beds
  children's homes,
  asylums and similar
  uses
Schools (public or
parochial or           
private):
 Business, technical 1 for each 2 students
  and trade schools
 Colleges,           1 for each 4 students
  universities
 Elementary and      2 for each classroom and 1 for every 8 seats in auditoriums or
  junior high schools assembly halls
 High schools        1 for every 10 students and 1 for each teacher and employee
  Kindergartens,
 childcare centers,  2 for each classroom but not less than 6 for the building
  nursery schools and
  similar uses
Manufacturing (or any
type of industrial     
use):
  All types of
  manufacturing,      1 for every 2 employees (on the largest shift for which the
 storage and         building is designed), plus 1 for each vehicle used on the
  wholesale uses      premises
  permitted in any
  manufacturing zone
  Express, parcel     1 for every 2 employees (on the largest shift for which the
 delivery and        building is designed) and 1 for each motor vehicle maintained
  freight terminal    on the premises
 
(Ord. 907, 1-24-2013; Ord. 998, 1-14-2021)
3.8.063: BICYCLE PARKING:
Uses shall provide long and short term bicycle parking spaces, as designated in
table 3.8.063 of this section. Where two (2) options are provided (e.g., 2
spaces, or 1 per 8 bedrooms), the option resulting in more bicycle parking is
used.
TABLE 3.8.063
MINIMUM REQUIRED BICYCLE PARKING SPACES
Uses Long Term Spaces (Covered Or Enclosed) Short Term Spaces (Near Building
                                            Entry)
Uses                     Long Term Spaces (Covered  Short Term Spaces (Near
                         Or Enclosed)               Building Entry)
Boarding houses, rooming 1 per 8 bedrooms           None
houses, dormitories
Churches and places of   2, or 1 per 4,000 square   2, or 1 per 2,000 square
worship                  feet of net building area  feet of net building area
Daycare                  2, or 1 per 10,000 square  None
                         feet of net building area
Hotels, motels           2, or 1 per 20 rentable    2, or 1 per 20 rentable
                         rooms                      rooms
Manufacturing and        2, or 1 per 15,000 square  None
production               feet of floor area
Multi-family             1 per 4 units              2, or 1 per 20 units
Office, banks, and       2, or 1 per 10,000 square  2, or 1 per 40,000 square
similar uses             feet of floor area         feet of floor area
Retail sales and service 2, or 1 per 12,000 square  2, or 1 per 5,000 square
                         feet of floor area         feet of floor area
Schools - grades 2-5     1 per classroom, or per CU 1 per classroom, or per CU
                         review                     review
Schools - grades 6-12    2 per classroom, or per CU 4 per school, or per CU
                         review                     review
Other categories         Determined through conditional use (CU) and design
                         review
 
   (A)   Location And Design:
      1.   Bicycle parking should be no farther from the main building entrance
than the distance to the closest vehicle space, or fifty feet (50'), whichever
is less.
      2.   Long term (i.e., covered) bicycle parking should be incorporated
whenever possible into building design.
      3.   Short term bicycle parking, when allowed within a public right of
way, should be coordinated with the design of street furniture, as applicable.
      4.   Bicycle racks shall meet the following design specifications:
         a.   Provide two points of contact with frame.
         b.   A minimum of 32" in height.
         c.   A minimum of 36" between racks, measured perpendicular to the
bicycle parking space. In instances where a bicycle rack is installed between
the traveled path of a sidewalk and the curb and there is no vehicle parking,
the distance from the edge of the curb and the rack shall be a minimum of 24".
         d.   Allow a typical U-lock to capture one wheel and closed portion of
bike frame.
         e.   Not unreasonably limit the size or type of bicycle used.
         f.   Racks shall be secured to the ground and constructed from tamper
and weather resistant materials.
         g.   Inverted U, staple, loop, or similar style racks are preferred.
Wave, grid, and wheel-well style racks should be avoided.
   (B)   Visibility And Security: Bicycle parking for customers and visitors of
a use shall be visible from street sidewalks or building entrances, so that it
provides sufficient security from theft and damage.
   (C)   Options For Storage: Long term bicycle parking requirements for
multiple- family uses and employee parking can be met by providing a bicycle
storage room, bicycle lockers, racks, or other secure storage space inside or
outside of the building.
   (D)   Lighting: For security, bicycle parking shall be at least as well lit
as vehicle parking.
   (E)   Reserved Areas: Areas set aside for bicycle parking shall be clearly
marked and reserved for bicycle parking only.
   (F)   Hazards: Bicycle parking shall not impede or create a hazard to
pedestrians. Parking areas shall be located so as to not conflict with vision
clearance standards. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006; amd. Ord. 1009, 10-
6-2022)
3.8.064: DRIVEWAYS:
   (A)   Purpose:
      1.   To set standards for driveway design that are safe, and accessible
for fire safety equipment.
      2.   To establish the minimum driveway width and setbacks necessary to
reduce the impact on sidewalk crossings and protect the public right of ways.
   (B)   Driveway Width Standards: Unless authorized by the Public Works
Director due to safety and traffic conditions, driveways widths shall be as
follows:
      1.   For a single-family dwelling unit and development in the CBD,
driveways shall provide a minimum unobstructed width of twelve feet (12'), and
a maximum width of twenty feet (20').
      2.   For multi-family dwelling units and in the CC, NC, I, BP, AP, and CV
zones, driveways shall provide a minimum unobstructed width of fourteen feet
(14'), and a maximum width of thirty feet (30').
   (C)   Driveway Design:
      1.   The maximum grade permitted shall be ten percent (10%) where a
private driveway abuts a public or private street but must include a five foot
(5') wide landing to the street with a maximum grade of six percent (6%). Upon
an administrative approval and in consultation with the McCall Fire Protection
District, exceptions may be granted based on topographic constraints.
      2.   Residential driveways may provide access to more than one
residential lot with adherence to these standards:
         a.   For lots of ten thousand (10,000) square feet or greater: two (2)
residential lots.
         b.   For lots less than ten thousand (10,000) square feet in area:
five (5) residential lots.
         c.   Driveways serving more than one residential lot shall be limited
to a maximum length of one hundred feet (100').
      3.   Driveways shall be setback five feet (5') from the property line and
ten feet (10') between driveways or a distance determined by the Public Works
Director to accommodate city snowplow operations.
      4.   Only one (1) driveway access shall be allowed for each residential
lot or parcel, unless approved by the Administrator.
   (D)   Fire Safety Requirements:
      1.   Driveways longer than one hundred fifty feet (150') shall have a
turnaround area and adhere to any other requirements determined by McCall Fire
Protection District for fire safety.
      2.   No part of the required fire lane width of any driveway in a multi-
family development may be utilized for parking.
   (E)   Shared Driveways:
      1.   Shared driveways between adjoining uses or lots are encouraged to
reduce the number of driveway intersections with streets, minimize pavement and
surface water runoff, and protect the natural terrain.
      2.   The use of shared driveways shall be in accordance with the
following standards:
         a.   Driveways accessing more than one residential dwelling unit shall
be maintained by an owners' association or in accordance with a plat note.
         b.   Shared driveways or frontage streets may be required to
consolidate access onto a collector or arterial street.
         c.   Access easements (for the benefit of affected properties) shall
be a condition of land use or development approval and shall be recorded for
all shared driveways. Digital data for easements shall be provided according to
the digital data submittal standards policy.
         d.   Shared driveways are encouraged where the use would minimize
grading and disruption on natural features. Shared driveways are not required
when existing development patterns or physical constraints (e.g., topography,
parcel configuration, or similar conditions) prevent extending the driveway
with reciprocal access in the future.
   (F)   Drive-up and drive-through uses and their queuing areas shall be
oriented away from street rights of way and away from residential districts.
(Ord. 864, 2-12-2009; amd. Ord. 885, 3-24-2011; Ord. 998, 1-14-2021)
3.8.065: COMMERCIAL ZONE SPECIAL:
   (A)   Drive-Up Facilities Design Standards: The following standards shall
apply to all drive-up, drive-through and drive-in facilities in any zone:
      1.   The facility shall receive access from a driveway or alley and not a
street.
      2.   None of the drive-up, drive-in or drive-through facilities (e.g.,
driveway queuing areas, windows, teller machines, service windows, drop boxes
and similar facilities) are located within twenty feet (20') of a street and
shall not be oriented to a street corner.
      3.   The facility shall be subordinate to a primary permitted use.
"Subordinate" means all components of the facility, in total, occupy less
street frontage than the primary commercial use.
      4.   No more than one drive-up, drive-in or drive-through facility shall
be permitted on one block, or for a distance of four hundred (400) linear feet
along the same street frontage, whichever is less. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff.
3-16-2006; Ord. 998, 1-14-2021)
3.8.066: LOADING AREAS:
   (A)   Purpose: To ensure that the design and location of loading areas is
adequate for the development and integrated into the site design to avoid
conflicts and visual impacts on surrounding properties.
   (B)   Required Number Of Loading Spaces And Size:
      1.   Off street loading spaces for commercial and industrial uses in all
zones shall conform to the standards set forth in the following table:
 
Gross Floor Area (Square Feet)         Quantity And Type
14,000 - 36,000                        (1) B2
36,001 - 60,000                        (2) B2
60,001 - 100,000                       (2) B + (1) A1
For each additional 75,000 or fraction (1) A
 
Notes:
1.   Type A spaces are 65 feet in length and 15 feet in width.
2.   Type B spaces are 35 feet in length and 12 feet in width.
2.   Convenient access to loading spaces from streets or alleys shall be
provided, and be not less than twelve feet (12') in width.
   (C)   Location Of Required Loading Facilities:
      1.   The required off street loading facilities shall not project into
the public right of way of a street or alley, or the required setback area.
      2.   Loading areas shall be located in a segregated area of the
development. When they are not, the area shall be screened or buffered from
adjoining properties. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006; amd. Ord. 998, 1-
14-2021)
3.8.07: ANIMALS:
   (A)   Household Pets: Animals considered domestic household pets such as
dogs, cats, small rodents, and birds may be kept in any zone, provided such are
kept in conformance with this code. (Ord. 875, 5-27-2010)
   (B)   Farm Animals, Large: Animals such as horses, cows, goats, pigs, sheep
or other typical farm animals or any large or domesticated wild animals shall
not be boarded permanently or temporarily in any residential, industrial,
business park or commercial zone except as specifically provided in the
chapters respecting such zones. (Ord. 885, 3-24-2011)
   (C)   Farm Animals, Small: Animals such as chickens, ducks, or rabbits may
be boarded permanently or temporarily in any residential, civic, agriculture/
forest or commercial zone according to the regulations as specifically provided
in the chapters respecting such zones.
      1.   Roosters are prohibited; only hens, and chicks of either sex up to
four (4) months old, may be kept.
      2.   The total number of small farm animals must be no more than six (6)
per parcel in all zones.
      3.   All small farm animals must be enclosed in a structure that provides
for safety, protected from the weather, and providing a minimum of two (2)
square feet per animal. Enclosures must be roofed or otherwise enclosed on top
as well as all sides and must be kept clean to prevent offensive odors. All
feed must be kept in animalproof containers or indoors. In the residential
zones, the enclosures should be located on the side or behind the dwelling
units.
      4.   Chicken enclosures must be set back a minimum of ten feet (10') from
the property lines.
      5.   Outside slaughtering of small farm animals is prohibited.
   (D)   Kennels: Kennels for the keeping of four (4) or more like animals
shall be permitted by conditional use permit only in zones RR, RE, R1, NC, and
CC.
   (E)   CAFOs: Concentrated or confined animal feeding operations (CAFO) as
defined in Idaho statute 1  are not permitted within the city of McCall or the
McCall impact area. (Ord. 875, 5-27-2010)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 67-6529C.
3.8.08: ANTENNAS:
Antennas, where ground mounted, including also satellite dishes, and any
antenna regardless of mounting method transmitting at a power of fifty (50)
watts or more, require a building permit and must meet all applicable FCC
standards. Excepted are small diameter residential satellite antennas, such as
provided by Direct TV® and Dish Network®. These types of antennas should be
mounted, where possible, directly to a structure so that they are not visible
from the street frontage, or at the least, mounted at the rear of the
structure. Mounting these antennas to a post in the ground is to be avoided if
a structure mounting location is possible. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-
2006)
3.8.09: PROVISION FOR TRASH STORAGE, COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL:
It is unlawful and a nuisance to discharge waste matter onto the surface of the
earth outside of a building or sight obscuring fence, other than into a waste
container, and unlawful and a nuisance to discharge waste matter into any
stream or lake or other water body.
It is recommended that all trash be collected by a community trash collection
facility. An enclosed, or sight obscuring, structure is required for all trash
collection containers, unless these containers are kept in a building. Sight
obscuring structures, if in a commercial, business park or industrial zone, are
subject to administrative approval of the enclosure design. If the collection
containers are outside of a building, then they must be designed to be
animalproof, especially against bears, raccoons, and other animals. (Ord. 885,
3-24-2011)
3.8.10: FENCING AND WALLS:
   (A)   Purpose: To ensure that the scale, materials and design of fences and
walls blend with the site and building, that the placement of walls and fences
respect and do not dominate the existing built or natural environment including
the movement of wildlife.
   (B)   Fencing Standards:
      1.   Fencing which encloses a property shall be primarily constructed of
natural materials, such as log poles or split rails. Free-standing walls may
not be faced with any material disallowed for buildings and shall be
constructed of materials that are utilized elsewhere on the site, or of natural
or decorative materials, rather than constructed with a solid or flat surface.
Rock facing on walls shall be applied in a manner that makes the rock appear as
a structural element rather than a veneer. Textured, specially formed and sand
blasted concrete are suggested wall materials.
      2.   In the CC, CBD, I and BP zones, fencing is not permitted except as a
screen abutting residential properties and when approved by the Administrator
to provide security for hazardous materials or operations.
      3.   The use of plastic or synthetic materials in fencing shall have the
appearance or mimic natural materials and colors, and be approved by the
Administrator.
      4.   The use of chain link fencing in any residential zone, CBD and CC
zones is prohibited. In all other zones, approval by the Administrator is
required.
      5.   Fences located within twenty feet (20') of a property line facing a
public right of way, shall not exceed four feet (4') in height.
      6.   No fence shall be installed on a dedicated easement in a manner that
blocks or inhibits the use of such easement.
      7.   All other fences in all zones, except in the Industrial (I) zone
shall not exceed six feet (6') in height.
   (C)   Retaining Walls: Walls shall be compatible in form, scale, and
materials with the architectural details and materials of nearby buildings, and
add, not detract, from the appearance of the site.
      1.   Visible portions of walls may not be faced with any material
disallowed for buildings and shall be constructed of materials that are
utilized elsewhere on the site, or of natural or decorative materials, rather
than constructed with a solid or flat surface.
      2.   Rock facing on retaining walls shall be applied in a manner that
makes the rock appear as a structural element rather than a veneer. Textured,
specially formed and sand blasted concrete are suggested wall materials.
      3.   Retaining walls over twenty-four inches (24") high may require
railings or planting buffers for safety. Low retaining walls may be used for
seating if capped with a surface of at least twelve to sixteen inches (12" to
16") wide.
      4.   Retaining walls in excess of thirty inches (30 in.) in height must
adhere to the property setbacks for structures. In residential districts,
retaining walls shall be no higher than four feet (4') or terraced with a five
foot (5') separation of walls.
      5.   Retaining walls, where visible to the public shall be no higher than
four feet (4') or terraced with a five foot (5') horizontal separation of walls
to accommodate landscaping.
      6.   Multiple retaining walls with terraces between shall be the minimum
necessary for reasonable development of the site as determined by the
Administrator.
   (D)   Prohibitions:
      1.   No fence may be constructed of or include razor wire.
      2.   No fence may be constructed of barbed wire, or be electrified,
except fencing intended for pasture in zones RR, RE, AF and AP.
   (E)   Permits:
      1.   All fences and walls are structures and require and a building
permit.
      2.   All retaining walls over four feet (4') may be subject to review by
the City Engineer.
      3.   All fences and walls within the right of way shall require a public
works permit.
   (F)   Any repairs or modification to a fence or wall shall be in compliance
with these standards. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006; amd. Ord. 885, 3-
24-2011; Ord. 998, 1-14-2021; Ord. 1009, 10-6-2022)
3.8.11: ACCESSORY USE, BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES:
   (A)   An accessory building shall have the same exterior finishing colors
and textures as the principal building to which it is accessory, unless some
other design or materials are approved by the Administrator; provided, that if
the building roof does not comply with fire mitigation standards, materials
which do meet those standards may be substituted.
   (B)   The size of an accessory structure shall be limited to 1500 square
feet unless the structure contains a local housing unit then there is no
limitation on size. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006; amd. Ord. 983, 12-19-
2019, eff. 1- 1-2020)
3.8.11.01: ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS:
Accessory Dwelling Units: Accessory dwelling units are permitted subject to the
provisions of Chapter 16 DESIGN REVIEW of this Title and the following
conditions:
   (A)   Number: One accessory dwelling unit is permitted as subordinate to any
existing principal dwelling unit or on property where there is a development
permit to establish a principal dwelling unit, except as allowed through the
LOCAL HOUSING DENSITY BONUS PROGRAM set forth in Section
3.8.21.
   (B)   Location: An accessory dwelling unit shall be separate from, a part
of, or added to the principal dwelling unit.
   (C)   Density: Accessory dwelling units shall not be considered for purposes
of determining development density.
   (D)   Basic Requirements for Habitation: An accessory dwelling unit shall
provide basic requirements for living, sleeping, eating, cooking and
sanitation.
   (E)   Health and Safety Code Requirements: An accessory dwelling unit shall
meet the requirements of city code Title 2 BUILDING REGULATIONS and meet all
governmental standards for water and sewage systems.
   (F)   Size: The square footage of the accessory dwelling shall not exceed
1500 square feet, unless the unit has been dedicated as a local housing unit.
   (G)   Parking: No additional parking is required.
   (H)   Accessory dwelling units that qualify as Local Housing may request a
waiver from the monthly water service fees subject to available funding.
   (I)   Rental Requirements:
      1.   Accessory dwelling units may be used for lease or rental purposes by
obtaining a business license for rental pursuant to Title 4 BUSINESS
REGULATIONS of the Municipal Code. In the situation where there is a short-term
rental on a property, either the accessory dwelling unit or the principal
residence shall be owner occupied or a deed restricted local housing unit.
(Ord. 983, 12-19-2019, eff. 1-1-2020)
3.8.12: CORNER VISION:
In all zones, the property owner shall prepare and maintain landscaping and/or
structures located near a street intersection in such a manner as to provide a
clear and unobstructed view by a motorist of oncoming traffic using
intersecting streets. The degree of vision required will depend on the nature
of the streets, the terrain, and traffic control devices (if any) 1 . (Ord.
821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
 
Notes
1 1. See referenced documents, appendix A to ordinance 821.
3.8.13: LANDSCAPING AND BUFFERING:
   (A)   Purpose:
      1.   To ensure that landscape design takes advantage of natural settings,
and preserves and enhances existing trees, vegetation, native soils, and other
natural features such as streamside environments.
      2.   To promote the use of native trees, shrubs, and grasses, and
discourage landscaping that requires high water use for maintenance, such as
turf and non-native species.
      3.   To require best practices in the maintenance of landscaping and the
preservation of existing vegetation and trees.
   (B)   Applicability:
      1.   The provisions of this section apply to all zoning districts, except
for the Industrial (I) Zone.
      2.   Landscaping of parking areas shall be in accordance with subsection
3.8.061 of this chapter.
      3.   Nothing in this section shall be interpreted to require the
landscaping of exposed rocks and sands in undisturbed riparian and littoral
areas.
      4.   Landscape plans shall be prepared as part of a site plan and design
review as required by this title.
   (C)   Landscaping Development Standards:
      1.   In the RR, RE, R1, R4, and R8 zones, at least thirty percent (30%)
of the total parcel area shall be maintained in a manner that preserves
existing natural vegetation; or landscaped with plant species native to the
McCall Area (See City of McCall publication, "Native and Suitable Plants").
      2.   All landscaping shall adhere, as applicable, to City of McCall
Design Guidelines (2006); City of McCall publication, "Native and Suitable
Plants"; section
3.8.03 “Timber Harvest” of this chapter; Title 8 “Public Ways And Property,”
chapter 17 “Trees,” and title 9 “Subdivision And Development,” chapter 7,
“Special Subdivision And Development Provisions Of The MCC.”
      3.   All landscaping in the residential zones shall be in accordance with
the provisions for firewise landscaping set forth in
3.8.04 “Fire Hazard Mitigation Standards.” If conflicts arise between this
section and section
3.8.04, a recommended resolution will be the responsibility of the McCall Fire
Protection District or the Administrator.
      4.   On those sites where there exists vegetation of a significant or
sensitive character, the siting and design of buildings shall retain that
vegetation.
      5.   New landscape areas shall be configured to maximize the
interconnectivity with existing natural areas within and adjacent to the site.
         a.   For developments which adjoin native vegetation, the landscape
shall reflect the native vegetation patterns and plant materials.
         b.   Outward orienting portions of the landscape shall be planted with
the same species of plants which are found on the adjacent undisturbed natural
areas.
         c.   New plantings shall blend in with the existing landscape so that
within five (5) years all traces of the site disturbance will have disappeared.
         d.   Proper landscaping transition to adjacent properties and natural
areas shall be provided without strong demarcation.
      6.   New landscaping shall minimize the impacts on existing trees by
avoiding:
         a.   Significant grade changes or fill activities around existing
trees and their root systems, such as increase soil depths over roots or
against trunk of trees;
         b.   Trenching activities through existing root systems; and
         c.   Over saturation of soils around existing trees and root systems.
      7.   Disturbed areas shall be re-vegetated to mitigate noxious weed
growth and infestation.
      8.   Landscape improvements shall follow water efficient design
principles to facilitate water conservation.
         a.   Drought tolerant plant species shall be used wherever possible to
reduce water demand.
         b.   High water demand plant materials shall be kept to a minimum and
confined to areas adjacent to patios and entries, in active sports areas, and
in natural water courses.
      9.   Trees And Shrubs:
         a.   Any tree equal to or larger than twelve inches (12") DBH
(Diameter at Breast Height 54") shall not be removed without prior written
approval of the City Arborist.
         b.   Any tree destroyed or mortally injured after previously being
identified to be preserved, or removed without authorization, shall be replaced
with a tree of size and species as determined by the city arborist.
         c.   All trees planted shall be a minimum of one and one-half inches
(1.5") caliper for deciduous trees or five to six feet (5-6') in height for
conifers.
         d.   Landscaping that includes the planting of more than ten (10) new
trees, shall include a variety of tree species and sizes, including a minimum
of ten percent (10%) of the trees at least three-inch (3") caliper. Any one
single tree or shrub species shall be limited to forty percent (40%) of the
total number of trees (excluding street trees).
         e.   Spacing of trees and shrubs shall allow for their natural spread.
      10.   Lawn Areas: Except for native grasses:
         a.   Lawns shall be limited to ten percent (10%) of a site and be
located in areas with limited public visibility (i.e. enclosed courtyards) or
active play areas.
         b.   Lawns are prohibited in the Shoreline and River Environs Zone
(See
3.7.023(C)).
      11.   Irrigation:
         a.   All required landscaping, except single family homes, shall be
provided with an automatically controlled irrigation system.
         b.   Storm water runoff shall be retained on the site wherever
possible and used to irrigate plant materials.
         c.   Projects which use all native, drought tolerant plant materials
shall provide, at a minimum, a temporary irrigation system which must fully
operate for at least two (2) complete growing seasons.
   (D)   Buffering: In order to enhance the rural and natural environment and
maintain community character and aesthetics, when abutting a residential zone,
a commercial, business park, industrial, or civic use shall have buffering from
the residential area from noise, vehicle headlight glare, dust or other impacts
using walls, fences or vegetative barriers sufficient to mitigate those
impacts. Prior to the issuance of a building permit for construction on such
abutting commercial, business park or industrial zone, a site plan for
buffering shall be submitted to the administrator for approval; an approved
buffering plan shall be a condition of the building permit; its approval may be
combined with the approval of a subdivision or of a zoning map amendment. The
buffers may also be designed to provide for an area for the storage of snow or
rain runoff.
   (E)   Setbacks: Setbacks greater than those of chapters 4 and 5 of this
title may be required to provide sufficient space for buffering and screening
and to maintain compatibility between commercial, business park or industrial
and residential uses.
   (F)   Weed Control: The developer is responsible for the identification and
the proper treatment or removal of noxious weed infestations, as specified by
the state of Idaho, before timber harvest or significant infrastructure work
commences. These costly infestations are easily transported to other areas by
construction vehicles. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006; amd. Ord. 885, 3-
24-2011; Ord. 998, 1-14-2021)
3.8.14: BUILDING STEPBACK STANDARDS ADJACENT TO RESIDENTIAL ZONES:
For buildings taller than thirty five feet (35') in any zone and which are
located adjacent to a residential zone, the building height must be designed so
as to "stepback" the building height at least one foot (1') for every increase
in height above thirty five feet (35'). For example, for a building height of
forty feet (40'), the height could start as thirty five feet (35') at the
setback line, then increase in height one foot (1') for every foot behind the
setback line, and reach the design height of forty feet (40') at a distance of
at least five feet (5') behind the setback line. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-
16-2006)
3.8.15: SNOW STORAGE AND DRAINAGE:
   (A)   Where snow removal and storage may pose a problem to traffic
circulation or reduce the amount of adequate parking for winter business, the
developer of the property shall designate a snow storage area and remove snow
as necessary.
   (B)   Required Area: Snow storage areas not less than thirty-three percent
(33%) of the parking, sidewalk and driveway areas shall be incorporated into
the site design.
   (C)   Location:
      1.   Snow storage may only use landscape areas that are planted with salt
tolerant and resilient plant materials that can tolerate the weight of stacked
snow.
      2.   Snow storage may use up to thirty-three percent (33%) of the
required parking areas.
      3.   Snow storage areas shall be located to avoid piling of snow against
existing significant trees.
   (D)   See also the requirements of sections
3.3.041 and
9.3.08 of this code. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006; amd. Ord. 998, 1-14-
2021)
3.8.16: OTHER REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   Property Numbers: All structures shall have a street property number,
as assigned by the city, with characters not less than four inches (4") tall,
with a color contrasting with the color of the background and visible day and
night from the street at a point of driveway egress from the street or, for
commercial business, at a point near the primary entrance to the business.
   (B)   Sidewalk, Curb And Gutter And/Or Pathways: Sidewalks or pathways shall
be required improvements for projects requiring design review approval in the
commercial zones, or other districts where existing sidewalks/pathways adjoin
the subject property, or where the commission determines sidewalks/pathways are
necessary for public safety or located on the McCall area pathways master plan.
The requirement for sidewalks/pathways may be waived if the cost of the
proposed construction is disproportional to the total construction costs and
impact of the project. Sidewalks (and curb and gutter where required) shall
meet the standards set forth in the city's improvement standard drawings, as
adopted.
   (C)   Data Submission: The applicant shall provide the data as required by
the digital data submittal standards policy if applicable. (Ord. 923, 5-22-
2014)
3.8.17: RESTAURANT, FORMULA LIMITATION:
Restaurants, formula as defined in chapter 2 of this title, are limited to no
more than ten percent (10%) of the total number of restaurants in McCall and
area of city impact. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
3.8.18: RETAIL, FORMULA BUSINESS LIMITATION:
"Retail, formula" businesses, as defined in chapter 2 of this title, are
limited to no more than ten percent (10%) of the total of like businesses in
McCall and the area of city impact. "Like businesses" in this context are those
which have substantially the same product offering, such as food stores,
furniture stores, auto parts stores, etc., and is not the total quantity of all
categories of like businesses. Service stations and supermarkets are not
subject to this restriction; provided, that these uses are not combined with
formula restaurants or other formula retail with a different product offering.
(Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
3.8.19: MAIN ENTRANCES IN R4 THROUGH R16 ZONES:
   (A)   Purpose: These standards:
      1.   Together with the garage standards, ensure that there is a physical
and visual connection between the living area of the residence and the street.
      2.   Enhance public safety for residents and visitors and provide
opportunities for community interaction.
      3.   Ensure that the pedestrian entrance is visible or clearly
identifiable from the street by its orientation or articulation.
   (B)   Applicability:
      1.   The standards of subsection (C) of this section apply to single-
family and two-family dwellings, and townhouse units in the R4 through R16
zones.
      2.   Where a proposal is for an alteration or addition to existing
development, the standards of this section apply only to the portion being
altered or added.
      3.   On sites with more than one street frontage, the applicant may
choose on which frontage to meet the standards.
      4.   Development on flag lots or on lots that slope up or down from the
street with an average slope of twenty percent (20%) or more is exempt from
these standards.
      5.   Main entrances for developments which have secured a building permit
prior to March 16, 2006, are exempt from these provisions.
   (C)   Standards: At least one main entrance for each structure must:
      1.   Be within eight feet (8') of the longest street facing wall of the
dwelling unit; and
      2.   One of the following:
         (a)   Face the street. See
figure 3.8.19(A) of this section.
         (b)   Be at an angle of up to forty five degrees (45°) from the
street.
         (c)   Open onto a porch. See
figure 3.8.19(B) of this section. The porch must:
            (1)   Be at least twenty five (25) square feet in area.
            (2)   Have at least one entrance facing the street.
            (3)   Have a roof that is:
   A. No more than twelve feet (12') above the floor of the porch.
   B. At least thirty percent (30%) solid. This standard may be met by having
thirty percent (30%) of the porch area covered with a solid roof, or by having
the entire area covered with a trellis or other open material if no more than
seventy percent (70%) of the area of the material is open.
FIGURE 3.8.19(A)
MAIN ENTRANCE FACING STREET
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/da309f2534fb351bbed1003b3bd0777eedff815e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1976.png]
FIGURE 3.8.19(B)
MAIN ENTRANCE OPENING ONTO PORCH
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/da309f2534fb351bbed1003b3bd0777eedff815e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1978.png]
(Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
3.8.20: SPECIAL STANDARDS FOR GARAGES:
   (A)   Purpose: These standards:
      1.   Together with the main entrance standards, ensure that there is a
physical and visual connection between the living area of the residence and the
street.
      2.   Ensure that the location and amount of the living area of the
residence, as seen from the street, is more prominent than the garage.
      3.   Prevent garages from obscuring the main entrance from the street and
ensure that the main entrance for pedestrians, rather than automobiles, is the
prominent entrance.
      4.   Provide for a more pleasant pedestrian environment by preventing
garages and vehicle areas from dominating the views of the neighborhood from
the sidewalk.
      5.   Enhance public safety by preventing garages from blocking views of
the street from inside the residence.
   (B)   Applicability:
      1.   Generally: Unless exempted by the provisions of this subsection,
these standards apply to garages for single-family and two-family dwellings,
and townhouse units, in the R4 through R16 zones.
      2.   Exemptions:
         (a)   Garages that are accessory to development on flag lots, or
development on lots which slope up or down from the street with an average
slope of twenty percent (20%) or more are exempt from the standards of this
subsection.
         (b)   Detached garages which are located completely to the rear of the
dwelling unit, accessible by a driveway from the street or rear alley.
         (c)   Lots with areas equal to, or greater than, ten thousand (10,000)
square feet and with a street frontage of at least seventy five feet (75').
         (d)   Garages for developments which have secured a building permit
prior to March 16, 2006, are exempt from these provisions.
   (C)   Standards: The commission will consider exceptions to these standards
through design review.
      1.   Length: The length of the garage wall facing the street may be up to
fifty percent (50%) of the length of the street facing building facade. See
figure 3.8.20(A) of this section. For all other lots and structures, the
standards apply to the street facing facade of each unit.
         (a)   Exception: Where the street facing facade of the building is
less than twenty four feet (24') long, the garage wall facing the street may be
up to twelve feet (12') long if there is one of the following. See
figure 3.8.20(B) of this section.
            (1)   Interior Living Area Above The Garage: The living area must
be set back no more than four feet (4') from the street facing garage wall.
            (2)   Covered Balcony Above The Garage: A covered balcony above the
garage that is at least the same length as the street facing garage wall, at
least six feet (6') deep, and accessible from the interior living area of the
dwelling unit.
      2.   Proximity To Street Relative To Dwelling: A garage wall that faces a
street may be no closer to the street lot line than the longest street facing
wall of the dwelling unit. See
figure 3.8.20(C) of this section. Where a lot has more than one street lot
line, and there is an existing dwelling unit on the lot, this standard must be
met only on the street facing facade on which the main entrance is located.
         (a)   Exception: A street facing garage wall may be up to six feet
(6') in front of the longest street facing wall of the dwelling unit, if:
            (1)   The street facing garage wall is forty percent (40%) or less
of the length of the building facade.
            (2)   There is a porch at the main entrance. The garage wall may
not be closer to the street lot line than the front of the porch. See
figure 3.8.20(D) of this section. The porch may not be more than twelve feet
(12') above the floor of the porch.
FIGURE 3.8.20(A)
LENGTH OF STREET FACING GARAGE WALL
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/da309f2534fb351bbed1003b3bd0777eedff815e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1980.png]
FIGURE 3.8.20(B)
LENGTH OF STREET FACING GARAGE WALL EXCEPTION
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/da309f2534fb351bbed1003b3bd0777eedff815e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1982.png]
FIGURE 3.8.20(C)
STREET LOT LINE SETBACK
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/da309f2534fb351bbed1003b3bd0777eedff815e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1984.png]
FIGURE 3.8.20(D)
GARAGE FRONT SETBACK EXCEPTION
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/da309f2534fb351bbed1003b3bd0777eedff815e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1986.png]
(Ord. 939, 1-14-2016)
3.8.21: LOCAL HOUSING DENSITY BONUS PROGRAM:
   (A)   Purpose: The purpose of the Local Housing Density Bonus Program is to
implement the goals of the 2018 McCall Area Comprehensive Plan:
      1.   Promote a variety of quality housing types for current and future
residents.
      2.   Support a local housing program as part of the vision for a diverse
and year-round economy.
      3.   Support multi-faceted strategies to address local housing
opportunities.
   (B)   Applicability: The density bonus may be applied in any residential or
commercial district.
   (C)   General Provisions: Review and approval of a density bonus and the
general provisions set forth below shall be determined through the required
permit process as set forth in section
3.13.01. The applicant must demonstrate that the proposed units/lots comply
with the criteria for local housing as set forth in City Council adopted
policies.
      1.   Local housing units in a development shall be mixed with, and not
clustered together or segregated in any way from, market-rate units.
      2.   All development on the property, including the portion proposed for
local housing, shall meet all the provisions of section 3.3.03 RESIDENTIAL ZONE
GENERAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS;
3.3.04 RESIDENTIAL ZONE LOT WIDTH VERSUS SIDE YARD SETBACK;
3.3.041 SNOW SHEDDING ROOF SETBACK; and
3.3.05 RESIDENTIAL ZONE LOT COVERAGE OF IMPROVEMENTS.
      3.   The location of parking spaces as set forth in section
3.8.06(D) and the number of parking spaces required as set forth in
Table 3.8.062 VEHIICLE PARKING may be modified for local housing units pursuant
to
3.8.06(I) REDUCTION OF REQUIREMENTS.
      4.   The local housing unit(s) provided as part of the density bonus
shall be made available concurrent with the availability of the market rate
units and recorded as a deed restricted local housing unit or lot.
   (D)   Calculation of the Density Bonus:
      1.   In the residential zones, density bonuses include additional
dwelling units, additional building lots and reduction in minimum lot size
above what is entitled in the base zone.
      2.   In the Community Commercial (CC) and Central Business District (CBD)
zones, density bonus includes additional height above what is entitled in the
zone.
      3.   The calculation of the density bonus is as shown in
Table 3.8.21.
      4.   Only one incentive may be applied to any one project.
TABLE 3.8.21:
DENSITY BONUS CALCULATION
 
Incentive                              Density Bonus
Additional dwelling units              1 additional unit for each local housing
                                       unit
Additional building lots               1 additional building lot for each lot
                                       deed restricted for local housing
                                       50' maximum height without a conditional
Additional height in commercial zones1 use permit when 25% of the floor area of
                                       the development devoted to local housing
                                       units.
Reduction in minimum lot size to the   50% of the additional lots created by
standards allowed by the next higher   the bonus shall be deed restricted to
density residential zoning category.   local housing.
 
Notes:
1.   Not applicable where height is restricted for health and safety purposes,
as for aircraft navigation. See special provisions within the scenic route
overlay, Section
3.7.032.
(Ord. 983, 12-19-2019; eff. 1-1-2020)
3.8.22: SEASONAL DWELLING UNITS:
   Seasonal Dwelling Units: Seasonal dwelling units for use by employees of
businesses or institutions within the McCall Area including the city limits and
McCall Impact Area are permitted subject to section
3.13.01 ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW and under the following conditions:
   (A)   Approval of an application through the Administrative Review shall be
based on the carrying capacity of the site for the addition of seasonal
dwelling unit(s) and the impacts on surrounding properties considering the
following factors: number of proposed units, setbacks of the units to the
property lines, access and parking, visibility to the public right of way and
surrounding properties, refuse disposal and ability to maintain healthy and
safe living conditions.
   (B)   A declaration signed by the property owner and the employer filed with
the city prior to occupancy of the seasonal dwelling unit stating that the
seasonal dwelling unit will be used for the exclusive use of seasonal
employees; stipulating the length of time the seasonal dwelling will be
occupied; and declaring that the location for the seasonal dwelling unit is on
property owned or managed by the employer.
   (C)   An inspection by the city verifying that the seasonal dwelling unit
adheres to all health and safety standards and setbacks and height standards of
the zoning district within which it is located.
   (D)   Seasonal dwelling unit(s) may occupy a parcel/lot between May 1 and
October 31. (Ord. 983, 12-19-2019; eff. 1-1-2020)
3.8.23: SITE DESIGN:
   (A)   Purpose:
      1.   To ensure that site development maintains natural features of the
site and is compatible with the surrounding built and natural environment.
      2.   To guarantee that site planning is undertaken as an integrated
process inclusive of all factors influencing the development of the site and
showing compliance with requirements of this title including the following:
         a.   Chapters 3-7 “Development Standards” for all Zones including:
setbacks, lot coverage, and distance between buildings.
         b.   
3.7.021 “Shoreline And River Environs Zone.”
         c.   
3.7.031 “Scenic Route Zone.”
         d.   
3.8.04 “Fire Mitigation Standards.”
         e.   
3.8.061 “Parking, Loading And Internal Circulation Area Development Standards.”
         f.   
3.8.063 “Bicycle Parking.”
         g.   
3.8.064 “Driveways.”
         h.   
3.8.066 “Loading Areas.”
         i.   
3.8.10 “Fencing And Walls.”
         j.   
3.8.12 “Corner Vision.”
         k.   
3.8.13 “Landscaping And Buffering.”
         l.   
3.8.15 “Snow Storage And Drainage.”
         m.   
3.8.19 “Main Entrances In R4 Through R16 Zones.”
         n.   
3.8.20 “Special Standards For Garages.”
         o.   
3.8.24 “Design, Location, And Screening Of Service Areas.”
         p.   Chapter 14 “Outdoor Lighting.”
         q.   
9.7.033 “Special Subdivision And Development Standards” for cuts, fills and
grading.
   (B)   Structures shall be located in a manner that preserves significant
vegetation as set forth in section
3.8.13, as well as water courses, wildlife corridors, wetlands, and significant
natural features. Projects should be designed so they complement rather than
dominate the natural landscape. To meet this performance standard all
structures should be located:
      1.   In one of three (3) locations: (a) within tree masses; (b) at the
edge of tree or land masses overlooking open space; or (c) in such a way as to
preserve the predominate natural features of the site; and
      2.   At least fifteen feet (15') from any wetland, stream or watercourse.
   (C)   Site design shall minimize the modification of natural drainage
patterns.
      1.   When modifications are necessary, surface drainage systems such as
swales and retention basins are preferable to underground systems.
      2.   Drainage designs shall avoid the concentration, runoff, and
acceleration of the runoff.
      3.   Site design shall be executed in a way which will avoid drainage
impacts such as erosion and road damage both on-site as well as downstream.
      4.   Drainage designs shall avoid damage to the root systems of existing
trees from either trenching, grading changes or over saturation of soils around
trees.
   (D)   Site grading shall follow the natural terrain of the land and be the
minimum necessary for development of the site as determined by the
Administrator and Public Works Director.
      1.   Slopes shall be no steeper than 3-to-1 unless qualified soils
engineering information is provided as part of the application.
      2.   Cuts and fills shall have surface drainage that prevents off-site
impacts, provides erosion control, and avoids impacts to existing and offsite
trees.
      3.   Cut and fill slopes shall be re-vegetated and terraced or controlled
by retaining walls to protect against erosion, sedimentation, and the spread or
cultivation of noxious and invasive weeds.
   (E)   Structures shall be sited so that their form does not break prominent
skyline and preserves significant views. Development located on ridgetops is
prohibited.
   (F)   The alignment of streets and driveways shall follow the contours of
the site to minimize cuts and fills, preserve natural drainage patterns, and
produce roads that are easily negotiated.
   (G)   All utilities shall be installed underground.
      1.   New underground utilities shall be located outside of the dripline
of existing trees if trenched or be tunneled a minimum of three (3) feet below
existing grade within the tree's dripline. The guiding principle is that no
tree root two inches (2") or larger shall be cut.
      2.   In all commercial zones, all utilities within the public right of
way adjacent to the front property line shall be undergrounded or conduit
installed for future undergrounding. (Ord. 998, 1-14-2021)
3.8.24: DESIGN, LOCATION AND SCREENING OF SERVICE AREAS:
   (A)   Purpose: To minimize the visual and acoustical impacts of service area
functions.
   (B)   On-site service areas for HVAC equipment, waste collection containers,
mechanical equipment, fuel tanks, utility vaults, and other service functions
shall be incorporated into the overall site design of buildings and landscaping
to ensure the impacts of these facilities are fully contained and out of view
from adjacent properties and public streets.
   (C)   On-site service areas shall be screened from public view.
      1.   A sight obscuring fence, landscaping, berm or other suitable
screening shall be used to screen service areas where they border the side or
rear yard of any property in a residential district. Such fence or screen shall
be at least four feet (4') but not more than six feet (6') in height except in
the street setback area, where it shall be not more than four feet (4') in
height.
      2.   Enclosures shall be provided for waste collection containers that
are visible from the public street and/or adjoining residential districts.
   (D)   Areas of snow accumulation shall be considered in the location of
service area to ensure access to service facilities in the winter.
   (E)   Unless fully enclosed and baffled so that no noise is detected on any
adjoining property, the location of outdoor mechanical equipment shall meet all
setback requirements of the zoning district. (Ord. 998, 1-14-2021)
CHAPTER 9
SIGNS
SECTION:
3.9.01: Purpose
3.9.02: Definitions
3.9.03: Sign Standards By Zone
3.9.04: Temporary Signs
3.9.05: Exempt Signs
3.9.06: Nonconforming Signs
3.9.07: Prohibited Signs
3.9.08: Illumination
3.9.081: General Requirements
3.9.09: Permits And Fees
3.9.10: Structural Requirements
3.9.11: Inspection, Removal, Safety
3.9.01: PURPOSE:
Signage is a significant design element affecting the visual quality and
therefore the viability of commercial activity and quality of life in
residential areas, as well as the directional needs of cars and people. Signs
not only enhance and define the architecture, but support the intended function
of the business being advertised or other important information. Because they
are publicly viewed, signs can either add or detract from the community
character. Therefore, the purpose of this chapter is:
   (A)   To establish standards to regulate all exterior signs so as to protect
the health, safety and general welfare of residents and visitors.
   (B)   To regulate the sizes, location, character and other pertinent
features of all exterior signs in the planning jurisdiction.
   (C)   To reduce undue and confusing competition between signs.
   (D)   To prevent conflicts and confusion between advertising signs and
traffic control signs or signals.
   (E)   To prevent possible harm from outdoor signs suspended from or placed
on top of structures and otherwise erected above the ground and especially
where susceptible to high winds and/or icefall.
   (F)   To preserve the small town character of the community. (Ord. 922, 5-
22-2014)
3.9.02: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and terms shall, for the purpose of this chapter and as
used elsewhere in this code, have the meanings shown herein.
ABANDONED SIGN: A sign structure that has ceased to be used and the owner
intends no longer to have used, for the display of sign copy, or as otherwise
defined by state law.
ANIMATED SIGN: A sign employing actual motion or the illusion of motion.
"Animated signs", which are differentiated from "changeable signs" as defined
and regulated by this code, include the following types:
   (A)   Electrically Activated: Animated signs producing the illusion of
movement by means of electronic, electrical, or electromechanical input and/or
illumination capable of simulating movement through employment of the
characteristics of one or both of the classifications noted below:
1. Flashing: Animated signs or animated portions of signs whose illumination is
characterized by a repetitive cycle in which the period of illumination is
either the same as or less than the period of nonillumination. For the purposes
of this chapter, flashing will not be defined as occurring if the cyclical
period between on-off phases of illumination exceeds four (4) seconds.
2. Patterned Illusionary Movement: Animated signs or animated portions of signs
whose illumination is characterized by simulated movement through alternate or
sequential activation of various illuminated elements for the purpose of
producing repetitive light patterns designed to appear in some form of constant
motion.
   (B)   Environmentally Activated: Animated signs or devices motivated by
wind, thermal changes, or other natural environmental input; includes spinners,
pinwheels, pennant strings, and/or other devices or displays that respond to
naturally occurring external motivation.
   (C)   Mechanically Activated: Animated signs characterized by repetitive
motion and/or rotation activated by a mechanical system powered by electric
motors or other mechanically induced means.
ARCHITECTURAL PROJECTION: Any projection that is not intended for occupancy and
that extends beyond the face of an exterior wall of a building, but that does
not include signs as defined herein. See also definitions of Awning; Backlit
Awning; Canopy (Attached); and Canopy (Freestanding).
AWNING: An architectural projection or shelter projecting from and supported by
the exterior wall of a building and composed of a covering of rigid or nonrigid
materials and/or fabric on a supporting framework that may be either permanent
or retractable, including such structures that are internally illuminated by
fluorescent or other light sources.
AWNING SIGN: A sign displayed on or attached flat against the surface or
surfaces of an awning. See also definition of Wall Or Fascia Sign.
BACKLIT AWNING: An awning with a translucent covering material and a source of
illumination contained within its framework.
BANNER: A flexible substrate on which copy or graphics may be displayed.
BANNER SIGN: A sign utilizing a banner as its display surface.
BILLBOARD: See definition of Outdoor Advertising Sign.
CANOPY (ATTACHED): A multisided overhead structure or architectural projection
supported by attachments to a building on one or more sides and either
cantilevered from such building or also supported by columns at additional
points. The surface(s) and/or soffit of an attached canopy may be illuminated
by means of internal or external sources of light.
CANOPY (FREESTANDING): A multisided overhead structure supported by columns,
but not enclosed by walls. The surface and/or soffit of a freestanding canopy
may be illuminated by means of internal or external sources of light.
CANOPY SIGN: A sign affixed to the visible surface(s) of an attached or
freestanding canopy.
CHANGEABLE SIGN: A sign with the capability of content change by means of
manual or remote input, including signs which are:
   (A)   Electrically Activated: Changeable sign whose message copy or content
can be changed by means of remote electrically energized on-off switching
combinations of alphabetic or pictographic components arranged on a display
surface. Illumination may be integral to the components, such as characterized
by lamps or other light emitting devices; or it may be from an external light
source designed to reflect off the changeable component display. See also
definition of Electronic Message Sign Or Center.
   (B)   Manually Activated: Changeable sign whose message copy or content can
be changed manually.
COMBINATION SIGN: A sign that is supported partly by a pole and partly by a
building structure.
COPY: Those letters, numerals, figures, symbols, logos and graphic elements
comprising the content or message of a sign, excluding numerals identifying a
street address only.
DEVELOPMENT COMPLEX SIGN: A freestanding sign identifying a multiple-occupancy
development, such as a shopping center, business park or planned industrial
park, which is controlled by a single owner or landlord, approved in accordance
with section
3.9.03 of this chapter.
DIRECTIONAL SIGN: Any sign that is designed and erected for the purpose of
providing direction and/or orientation for pedestrian or vehicular traffic.
DOUBLE FACED SIGN: A sign with two (2) faces, back to back.
ELECTRIC SIGN: Any sign activated or illuminated by means of electrical energy.
ELECTRONIC MESSAGE SIGN OR CENTER: An electrically activated changeable sign
whose variable message capability can be electronically programmed.
EXTERIOR SIGN: Any sign placed outside a building.
FASCIA SIGN: See definition of Wall Or Fascia Sign.
FLASHING SIGN: See definition of Animated Sign: Electrically Activated.
FREESTANDING SIGN: A sign principally supported by a structure affixed to the
ground, and not supported by a building, including signs supported by one or
more columns, poles or braces placed in or upon the ground.
FRONTAGE (BUILDING): The length of an exterior building wall or structure of a
single premises oriented to the public way (street) or other properties that it
faces.
FRONTAGE (PROPERTY): The length of the property line(s) of any single premises
along either a public way or other properties on which it borders.
GROUND SIGN: See definition of Freestanding Sign.
IDENTIFICATION SIGN: Owner or proprietor, business name, address, phone number,
hours of operation, etc. Maximum letter size is four inches (4") in height.
ILLUMINATED SIGN: A sign characterized by the use of artificial light, either
projecting through its surface(s) (internally illuminated); or reflecting off
its surface(s) (externally illuminated).
IMPOUNDED SIGN: A sign which has been collected by the city as a result of
legal action.
INTERIOR SIGN: Any sign placed within a building, but not including "window
signs" as defined in this section. "Interior signs", with the exception of
"window signs" as defined in this section, are not regulated by this chapter.
MANSARD: An inclined decorative rooflike projection that is attached to an
exterior building facade.
MARQUEE: See definition of Canopy (Attached).
MARQUEE SIGN: See definition of Canopy Sign.
MENU BOARD: A freestanding sign for a restaurant that advertises the menu items
available and which has no more than twenty percent (20%) of the total area for
such a sign utilized for business identification.
MULTIPLE FACED SIGN: A sign containing three (3) or more faces.
OFF PREMISES SIGN: See definition of Outdoor Advertising Sign. Off premises
signs do not include directional signs, traffic control devices, or
jurisdictional limit signs.
ON PREMISES SIGN: A sign erected, maintained or used in the outdoor environment
for the purpose of the display of messages appurtenant to the use of, products
sold on, or the sale or lease of, the property on which it is displayed.
OUTDOOR ADVERTISING SIGN: A permanent sign erected, maintained or used in the
outdoor environment for the purpose of the display of commercial or
noncommercial messages not appurtenant to the use of, products sold on, or the
sale or lease of, the property on which it is displayed, but not including
directional signs, traffic control signs or devices, or jurisdictional limit
signs.
PARAPET: The extension of a building facade above the line of the structural
roof.
POLE SIGN: See definition of Freestanding Sign.
POLITICAL SIGN: A temporary sign intended to advance a political statement,
cause, or candidate for office.
PORTABLE SIGN: Any sign not permanently attached to the ground or to a building
or building surface.
PROJECTING SIGN: A sign other than a wall sign that is attached to or projects
more than eighteen inches (18") from a building face or wall or from a
structure whose primary purpose is other than the support of a sign.
REAL ESTATE SIGN: A temporary sign advertising the sale, lease or rental of the
property or premises upon which it is located.
REVOLVING SIGN: A sign that revolves three hundred sixty degrees (360°) about
an axis. See also definition of Animated Sign: Mechanically Activated.
ROOF SIGN: A sign mounted on, and supported by, the main roof portion of a
building, or above the uppermost edge of a parapet wall of a building and which
is wholly or partially supported by such a building. Signs mounted on mansard
facades, pent eaves and architectural projections such as canopies or marquees
shall not be considered to be roof signs. For a visual reference, and a
comparison of differences between roof and fascia signs, see
figure 3.9.02 in this section.
ROOFLINE: The top edge of a peaked roof or, in the case of an extended facade
or parapet, the uppermost point of said facade or parapet.
SIGN: Any device visible from a public place that displays either commercial or
noncommercial messages by means of graphic presentation of alphabetic or
pictorial symbols or representations.
SIGN AREA: The area of the smallest geometric figure, or the sum of the
combination of regular geometric figures, which comprise the sign face. The
area of any double sided or "V" shaped sign shall be the area of the largest
single face only. The area of a sphere shall be computed as the area of a
circle. The area of all other multiple-sided signs shall be computed as fifty
percent (50%) of the sum of the area of all faces of the sign.
SIGN COPY: Those letters, numerals, figures, symbols, logos, and graphic
elements comprising the content or message of a sign, exclusive of numerals
identifying a street address only.
SIGN FACE: The surface upon, against or through which the sign copy is
displayed or illustrated, not including structural supports, architectural
features of a building or sign structure, nonstructural or decorative trim, or
any areas that are separated from the background surface upon which the sign
copy is displayed by a distinct delineation, such as a reveal or border.
   (A)   In the case of panel or cabinet type signs, the sign face shall
include the entire area of the sign panel, cabinet or face substrate upon which
the sign copy is displayed or illustrated, but not open space between separate
panels or cabinets.
   (B)   In the case of sign structures with routed areas of sign copy, the
sign face shall include the entire area of the surface that is routed, except
where interrupted by a reveal, border, or a contrasting surface or color.
   (C)   In the case of signs painted on a building, or individual letters or
graphic elements affixed to a building or structure, the sign face shall
comprise the sum of the geometric figures or combination of regular geometric
figures drawn closest to the edge of the letters or separate graphic elements
comprising the sign copy, but not the open space between separate groupings of
sign copy on the same building or structure.
   (D)   In the case of sign copy enclosed within a painted or illuminated
border, or displayed on a background contrasting in color with the color of the
building or structure, the sign face shall comprise the area within the
contrasting background, or within the painted or illuminated border.
SIGN, LIGHTING DEVICE: Any light, string of lights or group of lights located
or arranged so as to cast illumination on a sign.
SIGN STRUCTURE: Any structure supporting a sign.
TEMPORARY SIGN: A sign intended to display either commercial or noncommercial
messages of a transitory or temporary nature. Portable signs or any sign not
permanently embedded in the ground, or not permanently affixed to a building or
sign structure that is permanently embedded in the ground, are considered
temporary signs.
UNDER CANOPY SIGN OR UNDER MARQUEE SIGN: A sign attached to the underside of a
canopy or marquee.
V SIGN: Signs containing two (2) faces of approximately equal size, erected
upon common or separate structures, positioned in a "V" shape with an interior
angle between faces of not more than ninety degrees (90°) with the distance
between the sign faces not exceeding five feet (5') at their closest point.
WALL OR FASCIA SIGN: A sign that is in any manner affixed to any exterior wall
of a building or structure and that projects not more than eighteen inches
(18") from the building or structure wall, including signs affixed to
architectural projections from a building, provided the copy area of such signs
remains on a parallel plane to the face of the building facade or to the face
or faces of the architectural projection to which it is affixed. For a visual
reference and a comparison of differences between wall or fascia signs and roof
signs, see
figure 3.9.02 in this section.
WAYFINDING SIGN: Advertises publicly accessible facilities remote from the sign
location and provides general descriptions of facilities or commercial areas,
but shall not advertise specific business names. These signs may be located on
public or private property.
WINDOW SIGN: A sign affixed to the surface of a window with its message
intended to be visible to and readable from the public way or from adjacent
property.
FIGURE 3.9.02
ROOF AND FASCIA SIGNS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/da309f2534fb351bbed1003b3bd0777eedff815e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1988.png]
(Ord. 922, 5-22-2014)
3.9.03: SIGN STANDARDS BY ZONE:
   (A)   General Standards Applicable To All Zones:
      1.   Sign Standards: The following sign standards by zone are intended to
include every zone in the planning jurisdiction. The zones are as defined by
this title. Only signs as described herein and as may be described under
sections
3.9.04, "Temporary Signs", and
3.9.05, "Exempt Signs", of this chapter, will be permitted in each particular
zone. The area of a sign shall be computed; if a sign includes silhouette
designs or letters, whether cut out of the interior of a background, or
projecting beyond the edges of a background, or freestanding, the area of the
sign shall be computed to include the square footage of a rectangle that would
enclose such designs. For example, should a sign that is attached flat against
a building that is three feet (3') on a side (9 square feet) have a pine tree
silhouette attached to and extending above it, such tree being one foot (1')
wide at the widest and two feet (2') tall, then the one foot by two foot (1' x
2') rectangle which could enclose that tree shall be added to the nine (9)
square feet of the rest of the sign of which it is a part for a total of eleven
(11) square feet, notwithstanding that some of that area in fact includes space
around the tree. Additionally, in calculating the size of a two (2) sided sign,
only one side is counted.
      2.   New Zone Created: If a new zone is created after March 16, 2006, no
signs shall be permitted therein until this chapter shall be amended to include
such zone.
      3.   Development Complex Sign: For traffic operations, emergency
response, and land use compatibility, the city may require that a development
complex sign be placed at the entrance(s) of a planned unit development,
subdivision, mixed use development, apartment building, shopping center, or
industrial park; each sign shall not exceed an area of fifty (50) square feet
and is subject to the other requirements of this chapter.
      4.   Wayfinding Signs: Wayfinding signs may be permitted by the
administrator when used to advertise publicly accessible facilities remote from
the sign location. Wayfinding signs may provide general descriptions of
facilities or commercial areas, but shall not advertise specific business
names. Such signs should be designed to include one or more such facilities
located in the same area. These signs may be located on public property, with
the permission of the jurisdictional authority, or private property, with the
permission of the owner, such location to be approved by the administrator.
      5.   Illumination: Illumination of signs is permitted but in accordance
with the restrictions specified in section
3.9.08 of this chapter.
      6.   Changeable Signs:
         (a)   Wooden framed permanent structure up to fifteen (15) square feet
that will allow for interior banners or similar material to be changed to
advertise special events, sales, or other promotions are allowed.
         (b)   A conditional use permit is required for signs with individual
changeable letters. No more than fifty percent (50%) of any given sign face may
include a space for changeable letters. Permitted changeable signs shall be of
a high quality, and the letters used on such signs shall be of a durable
material such as Lexan® or acrylic plastic, with a minimum thickness of 0.08
inch and a height not to exceed nine inches (9"). Messages are to be
nonscrolling.
   (B)   Residential Zones:
      1.   General: The regulations and specifications set forth herein shall
apply to the agriculture and forest (AF); rural residential (RR); residential
estate (RE); R1, R4, R8, and R16 zones.
      2.   Size: One sign not exceeding two (2) square feet in area shall be
permitted per dwelling unit. For multiple dwellings per platted lot, one or
more additional signs totaling twelve (12) square feet in area shall be
permitted.
      3.   Location: Permitted signs may be anywhere on the premises, except
that they may not project beyond any property line and except that, if
freestanding, the top shall be not over five feet (5') above the ground; and,
if building mounted, shall be flush mounted, shall not be mounted on any roof
of the building, and shall not project above the eaves line.
      4.   Content: Signs allowed in residential zones are normally used for
identification and directional purposes. The additional sign area permitted for
multiple dwellings shall be only for identification of the building. See also
subsection
9.6.02(R) of this code for address numbers.
   (C)   Commercial Zones:
      1.   General: The regulations and specifications set forth herein shall
apply to the civic use (CV), neighborhood commercial (NC), community commercial
(CC), and central business district (CBD) zones.
      2.   Size:
         (a)   A total sign area of one and one-half (11/2) square feet for
each linear foot of building frontage or one-half (1/2) square foot for each
linear foot of property frontage, whichever results in the larger sign area,
but the maximum total area of all permitted signs for any establishment shall
not exceed one hundred (100) square feet. All window signs shall be included
when calculating total permitted square footage. Interior signs are not to be
included in area calculations.
         (b)   Building frontage shall be measured along a horizontal plane
from one end of the building to the other along the street which the sign
faces.
         (c)   Where frontage is on more than one street, the allowable size of
signs facing one of those streets shall be based on the frontage of the
building or property facing that street.
      3.   Location:
         (a)   Signs may be wall or fascia signs and located anywhere on the
surface of the building.
         (b)   Signs may be projecting signs only if, under the applicable
zoning, there is no building setback, and then may project six feet (6') or
less beyond the street property line, but no closer than two feet (2') to a
curb line, and must have a minimum clearance of eight feet (8') above the curb
line and public sidewalk, and fifteen feet (15') above driveways or alleys.
         (c)   When a projecting sign is closer than twelve feet (12') to a
corner of the property, its projection shall be no more than a distance equal
to one-half (1/2) the horizontal distance from the sign to that corner.
         (d)   Where a building does not cover the full area of the property, a
sign may be freestanding and may be located anywhere back of the street setback
lines. The top of such a sign may extend up to ten feet (10') above the average
ground level at the base of the sign.
         (e)   Signs may be on the vertical faces of marquees and may project
below the lower edge of the marquee not more than twelve inches (12"). The
bottom of marquee signs shall be no less than eight feet (8') above the
sidewalk or grade at any point. No part of the sign shall project above the
vertical marquee face.
         (f)   Signs shall not project above the roofline or roof peak (highest
elevation).
         (g)   Signs shall not be located on any property which is not the site
of the subject of the information on the sign; e.g., a sign advertising a
business may only appear on the same lot or parcel of real estate that is the
location of the business (except, see subsection (A)4 of this section).
         (h)   Signs may be incorporated into building awnings. In terms of
calculating sign size, the procedure shall be to calculate the area of the
letters and design according to the "silhouette" sign described in subsection
(A)1 of this section.
      4.   Multi-Tenant Buildings Or Plazas: The total signage area may not
exceed the area for a single tenant building of the same frontage; exceptions
may be approved by the administrator with cause shown. Signs for individual
tenants may be wall mounted or hanging, but not projecting beyond eighteen
inches (18"). The portion of total signage available to each tenant shall be
determined by the building or plaza owner.
   (D)   Industrial And Business Park, Zones I And BP:
      1.   General: The regulations and specifications set forth herein shall
apply to the industrial (I) and business park (BP) zones.
      2.   Size: Requirements shall be the same as specified for the commercial
zones.
      3.   Location: Requirements shall be the same as specified for the
commercial zones.
      4.   Content: Signs permitted in these zones shall be identification
signs only.
      5.   Undue Hardship: If special conditions and circumstances unique to
the type of business, the land, or structure, make compliance with this section
an undue hardship, then the commission may take into consideration the products
or services offered by the establishment; the requirements for a conditional
use permit (see chapter 13 of this title) will be applied.
   (E)   Public Zones And Special Districts 1 :
      1.   Agriculture And Forest (AF) Zone: Apply the same standards as for
the residential zones.
      2.   Civic Use (CV) Zone: Apply the same standards as the commercial
zones.
      3.   Airport (AP) Zone: Signing to be located within the AP (airport)
zone requires an administrative permit, except for the signage required by
authorities for safety or security purposes. Otherwise, the same standards
apply as the commercial zones.
      4.   Special Districts: Apply the same standards as for the zone in which
the district falls. (Ord. 922, 5-22-2014)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapters 6 and 7 of this title.
3.9.04: TEMPORARY SIGNS:
The following signs shall be permitted anywhere within the planning
jurisdiction and shall not require a permit:
   (A)   Site Development Signs:
      1.   One site development sign is permitted for each project.
      2.   A sign which identifies the architects, engineers, contractors and
other individuals or firms involved with a construction project, but not
including any advertisement of any product, and signs announcing the character
of the building enterprise or the purpose for which the building is intended,
during the construction period, with a maximum area of sixteen (16) square
feet.
      3.   The signs shall be confined to the site of the construction, may be
placed up to thirty (30) days prior to start of construction, and shall be
removed within fourteen (14) days after the beginning of an occupancy use of
the project.
   (B)   Real Estate Signs:
      1.   Signs advertising the sale, rental or lease of the premises or part
of the premises on which the signs are displayed:
         (a)   For properties of one acre or less, the total area of the
signage shall not exceed five (5) square feet on one face. A double sided sign
may have a total sign surface of ten (10) square feet.
         (b)   For properties of over one acre but less than ten (10) acres,
the total area of the signage shall not exceed sixteen (16) square feet.
         (c)   For properties over ten (10) acres, the total area of the
signage shall not exceed thirty two (32) square feet.
         (d)   For properties facing the lakefront, the total area of the
signage shall not exceed sixteen (16) square feet.
      2.   Such signs shall be placed only on the property advertised and shall
be removed within seven (7) days after the sale, rental, or lease is documented
and closed, or upon expiration of the listing agreement.
      3.   "Open House" signs shall not exceed six (6) square feet in total
area. Open house signs shall be removed upon completion of the "open house" but
in no event shall the sign be placed longer than twenty four (24) hours.
      4.   Illuminated, reflective and Day-Glo® type materials are not
permitted on any real estate signs.
      5.   Signs shall be maintained in good repair. Damaged signs, or signs
which have fallen over, etc., are subject to removal by the city (see section
3.9.11 of this chapter).
      6.   Real estate signs shall not be placed upon or extend over public
rights of way.
   (C)   Political Signs: The following provisions apply to candidates for
public office, bond elections, referenda, and initiatives. Prior to any
enforcement action, the city shall seek legal advice for each case.
      1.   Signs announcing the candidates seeking public political office and
other data pertinent thereto, up to an area of thirty two (32) square feet for
each premises.
      2.   Such signs shall be confined within private property and removed
within seven (7) days after the election for which they were made.
   (D)   Over The Road Banners: Banners advertising a public entertainment or
event are allowed as described by resolution adopted by the city council.
   (E)   Window Signs: Window signs are permitted, so long as they do not cover
more than twenty five percent (25%) of the total window area and shall not
result in the property exceeding the maximum allowable signage as calculated
for its zone.
   (F)   New Business Signs: With prior written notice to the administrator and
the code enforcement officer, with their written concurrence that the business
is new, and upon payment of a fee set by council from time to time by
resolution, a new business may display a temporary sign for not more than a
total of sixteen (16) consecutive days to announce its opening, which sign
shall be on the premises where the business is located. Such a sign is in
addition to the permanent sign and shall not be larger than a sign permitted to
the business.
   (G)   Other Signs: Signs which express ideas or comments of a citizen may be
displayed with size and duration approved by the administrator, or, if
requested by the applicant or by a concerned citizen, by action of the
commission and council for a conditional use permit at a public hearing.
   (H)   Pennants Or Banners On Utility Poles And Light Standards: Pennants or
banners sponsored by a public agency or public benefit, nonprofit group are
allowed as described by resolution adopted by the city council. (Ord. 922, 5-
22-2014)
3.9.05: EXEMPT SIGNS:
The following types of signs are exempted from all the provisions of this
chapter, except for construction and safety regulations and the following
requirements:
   (A)   Public Signs: Signs of a noncommercial nature and in the public
interest, erected by or on the order of, a public officer in the performance of
the public officer's public duty, such as safety signs, danger signs,
trespassing signs, traffic signs, memorial plaques, signs of historical
interest, informational signs, and the like.
   (B)   Integral: Names of buildings, dates of erection, monumental citations,
commemorative tablets and the like when carved into stone, concrete or similar
materials or made of bronze, aluminum, or other permanent type construction,
and made an integral part of the structure.
   (C)   Private Traffic Direction:
      1.   Signs directing traffic movement onto a premises or within a
premises, not exceeding three (3) square feet in area for each sign; signs must
not be located in a public right of way.
      2.   Such signs may be illuminated in accordance with the regulations
specified in section
3.9.08, "Illumination", of this chapter.
      3.   Horizontal directional signs on and flush with paved areas are
exempt from these standards.
   (D)   Small Signs: Signs not exceeding two (2) square feet in area, attached
flat against the building, stationary and not illuminated, announcing only the
name and occupation of building tenant.
   (E)   Rental Signs: Signs on the premises announcing rooms for rent, table
board, apartment or house for rent and not exceeding four (4) square feet in
area.
   (F)   Vehicles: Signs on vehicles of any kind, provided the sign is painted
or attached directly to the body of the original vehicle and does not project
or extend beyond the sides or ends of the vehicle.
      1.   Registered: The motor vehicle or trailer must be currently
registered with the relevant motor vehicle authorities and be used for a
transportation purpose other than display of such sign. Signs which would
otherwise be mounted on a building or in a freestanding frame may not be placed
vertically on the roof, hood, or trunk of a car, nor in the bed nor on the cab
of a truck, unless being used to transport the sign to a permanent location.
Any vehicle which remains unmoved, and has not been driven off premises for
seventy two (72) consecutive hours shall be deemed to be in violation of this
section.
      2.   Located: The vehicle's location when not in use upon the public
streets must be consistent with the most logical implementation of the
principal use of the vehicle.
      3.   Not Actually Used As A Sign: A vehicle shall not be parked such that
the principal purpose of the vehicle, while parked, is that of a sign. This
subsection shall be construed so as to prevent the use of vehicles for a sign
except under the foregoing circumstances.
   (G)   No Trespassing Or Restricted Entry Signs: These signs are permitted if
each sign is no larger than two (2) square feet in area and no more than one
sign is placed every fifty feet (50') of fencing or building frontage.
   (H)   Religious Symbols, Seasonal Declarations: Religious symbols and
seasonal decorations within the appropriate public holiday season.
   (I)   Flags: United States or Idaho state flags and the flags of other
states or nations are permitted, and if displayed, shall be displayed with
appropriate respect and proper methods. Each business may display one
additional flag not to exceed fifteen (15) square feet and not to exceed five
feet (5') in length or width that is mounted directly to an existing building
or structure, provided such flag does not result in the business or property
exceeding the total allowable sign square footage as calculated for its zone or
use.
   (J)   Licensed vendor signage as permitted in McCall City Code Section
4.7.2(H).
   (K)   Licensed craft fair signage as permitted in McCall City Code Section
4.7.6(C). (Ord. 922, 5-22-2014; amd. Ord. 1009, 10-6-2022)
3.9.06: NONCONFORMING SIGNS:
   (A)   Signs May Be Continued: Where a lawful sign existed on the effective
date, July 6, 1999, of the previous sign regulations (previously title III,
chapter 24 of this code), that could not be lawfully installed under the terms
of current regulations, such sign may be continued so long as it remains
otherwise lawful, subject to the following provisions:
      1.   No such nonconforming sign may be enlarged or altered, in a way
which increases its nonconformity, but any sign may be altered to bring it into
conformity.
      2.   Should such nonconforming sign or nonconforming portion of sign be
damaged to an extent or require maintenance that would cost more than fifty
percent (50%) of the sign's replacement cost at the time of the damage or
maintenance, it shall not be maintained or repaired, but shall be removed or
reconstructed in conformity with the provisions of this title.
      3.   Should such nonconforming sign be moved for any reason for any
distance whatsoever, it shall thereafter conform to the provisions of this
title.
   (B)   Sign In Violation: Any sign in violation of section
3.9.07, "Prohibited Signs", of this chapter shall be removed, altered or
repaired in accordance with the provisions of this title within sixty (60) days
after March 16, 2006.
   (C)   Nonconforming Signs: Nonconforming signs installed or erected after
July 6, 1999, which are structurally altered, facially altered, relocated or
replaced shall comply immediately with all provisions of this code.
   (D)   Temporary Signs In Violation: Any sign in violation of section
3.9.04, "Temporary Signs", of this chapter shall be removed, altered or
repaired within thirty (30) days after March 16, 2006.
   (E)   Nonconforming Uses: Signage associated with any nonconforming building
or land use shall, nevertheless, comply with all the provisions of this chapter
applicable to the zone in which the nonconforming building or use would be
conforming. If there is more than one such zone, the most restrictive
regulations among those of the two (2) or more other zones shall apply.
   (F)   Sign Not Removed By The Expiration: In the event a sign is not removed
by the expiration of the time provided, it may be removed as provided in
section
3.9.11 of this chapter. (Ord. 922, 5-22-2014)
3.9.07: PROHIBITED SIGNS:
The following signs are prohibited (the judgment of the administrator shall be
final in these cases):
   (A)   Signs that contain statements, words or pictures of an obscene
character.
   (B)   Signs that contain or are an imitation of an official traffic sign or
signal or contain the words "stop", "go slow", "caution", "danger", "warning",
or similar words.
   (C)   Signs that are of a size, location, movement, content, coloring or
manner of illumination which may be confused with or construed as a traffic
control device, or hide from view any traffic or street sign or signal.
   (D)   Signs that advertise an activity, business, product or service not
conducted, or no longer conducted, on the premises upon which the sign is
located.
   (E)   Signs that have a moving part which is a major attraction of the sign
or constitutes more than ten percent (10%) of the sign area.
   (F)   Signs that contain or consist of balloons, banners, posters, pennants,
ribbons, streamers, strings of light bulbs, spinners or other similarly moving
devices. These devices, when not part of any sign, are similarly prohibited,
except as permitted by sections
3.9.03 and
3.9.04 of this chapter.
   (G)   Signs that swing or otherwise noticeably move as a result of wind
pressure in a fashion which may distract and/or cause a danger to the public,
or signs which, due to structural weakness, design defect, or other reason,
constitute a threat to the health, safety, and welfare of any person or
property.
   (H)   Outdoor advertising signs as defined in section
3.9.02, "Definitions", of this chapter, except as permitted by subsection
3.9.03(A)4 of this chapter.
   (I)   Portable changeable signs, V signs, A-frame signs, sandwich board
signs, or other temporary signs not permitted by section
3.9.04 of this chapter.
   (J)   Signs mounted on vehicles that are operated solely or primarily for
the purpose of displaying the sign in the public right of way. Or signs mounted
in or on a motor vehicle parked unattended other than at the home or business
premises of the business advertised or of its owner. A vehicle shall not be
considered unattended if the driver is in the vehicle or if the driver is in
the ordinary course of trade or business on the premises where parked.
   (K)   Changeable signs, except where permitted by section
3.9.03 of this chapter.
   (L)   Roof signs in any residential zone, unless for an approved business
use with a conditional use permit. (Ord. 922, 5-22-2014)
3.9.08: ILLUMINATION:
Allowed methods of illumination are divided into several types as described
below; all other forms of sign lighting are prohibited. All lighted signs shall
comply with chapter 14, "Outdoor Lighting", of this title.
   (A)   Unlighted: A sign with neither an internal light nor an external
source intended specifically for the purpose of lighting the sign.
   (B)   Halo Lighted: A sign with opaque letters or logos that are slightly
raised from the surface of the sign and behind which lights are mounted to
create a halo lighting effect around the opaque letter(s) or logo.
   (C)   Externally Lighted: A sign with an external light source intended
specifically to illuminate the sign. External light fixtures which produce
glare shall not be permitted. (Ord. 922, 5-22-2014)
3.9.081: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   The light from any illuminated sign shall be so shaded, shielded or
directed that the light intensity or brightness will not be objectionable to
surrounding areas.
   (B)   No sign shall have blinking, flashing or fluttering lights or other
illumination, brightness or color. Beacon lights are not permitted. Signs which
utilize low wattage (LED, for example) lamps for the purpose of public
information, such as an indication of time or temperature, are permitted with
the approval of the administrator.
   (C)   No colored lights shall be used at any location or in any manner that
could be confused with a traffic control device.
   (D)   Neither the direct, nor reflected, light from primary light sources
shall tend to create a traffic hazard to operators of motor vehicles on public
thoroughfares.
   (E)   No exposed reflective type bulbs and no strobe light or incandescent
lamps which individually or cumulatively exceed fifteen (15) watts shall be
used on the exterior surface of any sign so as to expose the face of the bulb,
light or lamp to any public street or adjacent property.
   (F)   Two (2) neon or similarly illuminated signs with a maximum size of
three (3) square feet each shall be permitted for each commercial, business or
industrial use within any zone, provided these signs do not flash, blink, or
scroll and are mounted only within the interior of windows or are flush mounted
on the building, provided the sign(s) are in accordance with the maximum window
sign coverage as described in subsection
3.9.04(E) of this chapter and comply with the maximum sign allowance of the
building or property. (Ord. 922, 5-22-2014)
3.9.09: PERMITS AND FEES:
   (A)   Permit Requirements:
      1.   All signs require a permit, except:
         (a)   Temporary signs as described in section
3.9.04 of this chapter.
         (b)   Exempted signs as described in section
3.9.05 of this chapter.
         (c)   Residential address and occupant name signs as described in
subsection
3.9.03(B) of this chapter.
      2.   Permits will be issued subject to review and approval by the
community development director or his/her designee in accordance with chapter
13, "Permits And Applications", of this title.
      3.   No sign shall be erected, altered or relocated without first
obtaining any necessary permits issued by the building inspector.
   (B)   Applications: The permit application shall contain the location of the
sign structure, the name and address of the sign owner and of the sign erector,
drawings showing the design and location of the sign and such other pertinent
information as the building official may require to ensure compliance with this
title.
   (C)   Fees: Fees for sign permits shall be as fixed from time to time by the
council.
   (D)   Nullification: A sign permit shall become null and void if the work
for which the permit was issued has not begun within a period of one hundred
twenty (120) days from the date of the permit. A new permit will require
assessment of an additional fee.
   (E)   Permit Exceptions: The following operations shall not be considered as
creating a sign and, therefore, shall not require a sign permit.
      1.   Replacing Copy: The changing of the advertising copy of a message on
an approved painted or printed sign or on a theater marquee and similar
approved signs which are specifically designed for the use of replaceable copy.
      2.   Maintenance: Maintenance, painting, repainting, cleaning and other
normal maintenance and repair of a sign or a sign structure unless a structural
change is made. (Ord. 922, 5-22-2014)
3.9.10: STRUCTURAL REQUIREMENTS:
All signs shall comply with the pertinent requirements of the international
building and national electrical codes as adopted by the city. (Ord. 922, 5-22-
2014)
3.9.11: INSPECTION, REMOVAL, SAFETY:
   (A)   Maintenance: All signs and components thereof shall be kept in good
repair and in safe, neat, clean and attractive condition.
   (B)   Removal Of Sign: The building official may order the removal of any
sign erected or maintained in violation of this title. The building official
shall give thirty (30) days' notice in writing to the owner of such sign, or of
the building, structure or premises on which such sign is located, to remove
the sign or to bring it into compliance. The building inspector may remove a
sign immediately and without notice if, in the building inspector's opinion,
the condition of the sign is such as to present an immediate threat to the
safety of the public.
   (C)   Abandoned Signs: A sign shall be removed by the owner or lessee of the
premises upon which the sign is located when the business which it advertises
is no longer conducted on the premises. If the owner or lessee fails to remove
it the building inspector shall give the owner or lessee fifteen (15) days'
written notice to remove it. Upon their refusal or failure to comply with this
notice, the building inspector or a duly authorized representative may remove
the sign at cost to the owner.
   (D)   Impounded Signs: An impounded sign may be retained by the city until
completion of any criminal prosecution or other court proceedings respecting
the erection or maintenance of the sign; if an owner has reoffended after
having been convicted of a violation in putting up a sign, and the new offense
involves the same sign, or a sign which in pertinent aspect(s) is a like sign,
such sign shall be forfeited to the city and shall be subject to disposal as
deemed appropriate by the city manager. (Ord. 922, 5-22-2014)
CHAPTER 10
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT
SECTION:
3.10.01: Purpose
3.10.02: Planned Unit Developments Permitted
3.10.021: Permitted In All Zones
3.10.022: Density Established
3.10.023: Uses Allowed
3.10.024: Density Bonus
3.10.03: Ownership
3.10.04: Approval Criteria And Conformance With Zoning And Title IX
3.10.05: Use Regulations
3.10.06: Use Exceptions
3.10.07: Developer Benefits
3.10.08: Development Standards
3.10.09: Application Procedure
3.10.10: Improvement Guarantees
3.10.11: Extension Of Preliminary Development Plan Approval
3.10.12: Amendments To Final Development Plan
3.10.01: PURPOSE:
The planned unit development (PUD) process provides an opportunity for land
development that preserves natural features, allows efficient provision of
services, and provides common open spaces or other amenities not found in
traditional lot by lot development. The procedure may allow a combination or
variety of residential, commercial, office, technical, business park and
industrial land uses. It also provides for the consistent application of
conditions of approval for the various phases of the planned unit development.
A planned unit development is intended to:
   (A)   Permit greater flexibility and, consequently, more creative design for
development than generally is possible under conventional zoning regulations.
   (B)   Retain and preserve natural scenic qualities and topographic features
of open spaces; promote aesthetics; prevent disruption of natural drainage
patterns.
   (C)   Promote the creation and efficient use of open space and park area.
   (D)   Provide a harmonious variety of neighborhood development and a higher
level of urban amenities.
   (E)   Promote local housing and a variety of housing types in quality
development. (Ord. 885, 3-24-2011; amd. Ord. 983, 12-19-2019, eff. 1-1-2020)
3.10.02: PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS PERMITTED:
3.10.021: PERMITTED IN ALL ZONES:
Planned unit developments are permitted in all zones. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006,
eff. 3-16-2006)
3.10.022: DENSITY ESTABLISHED:
Density shall be as established in the zone in which the PUD is permitted
except that the commission or council may grant additional density according to
section
3.10.024 of this chapter. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
3.10.023: USES ALLOWED:
Any permitted, conditional or accessory uses allowed in the zone may also be
allowed in the PUD, with conditional uses not requiring a conditional use
permit; see chapter 13, "Permits And Applications", of this title. (Ord. 821,
2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
3.10.024: DENSITY BONUS:
The following maximum increases in density may be granted singularly or
cumulatively only if the accompanying conditions are met:
   (A)   Ten percent (10%): Solar, wind, geothermal, or other alternative
renewable energy source will provide at least fifty percent (50%) of the total
energy needs of the PUD.
   (B)   Ten percent (10%): At least twenty five percent (25%) of the property
included in the PUD is located in the floodplain and no development occurs
within the floodplain, except that the PUD shall provide public access to the
floodplain for passive open space use.
   (C)   In compliance with section
3.8.21 Local Housing Density Bonus Program.
   (D)   Density bonuses exceeding those listed above, and for project
amenities and benefits to the community other than those listed may be granted
by unanimous vote of the council, following a recommendation by the commission,
in order to carry out the purpose and intent of this section
3.10.02 and the land use policies of the city.
   (E)   Twenty percent (20%): The developer incorporates into the subdivision
a facility for approved treatment of sewage and disposal of the treated
effluent on site, and which is approved by the state of Idaho. (Ord. 821, 2-23-
2006, eff. 3-16-2006; amd. Ord. 983, 12-19-2019, eff. 1-1-2020)
3.10.03: OWNERSHIP:
   (A)   An application for approval of a PUD may be filed by anyone meeting
the definition of "applicant" in chapter 2 of this title.
   (B)   Before approval is granted to the final development plan, the entire
project shall be under single or corporate ownership or control and proof of
legal title must be presented with the final development plan.
   (C)   If single or corporate ownership of any portion or the entirety of the
development is transferred to another entity, the new entity must agree to
adhere to all plans, easements, agreements, and other pertinent or applicable
documents, including this title and title IX of this code; such agreement shall
be obtained in writing, be submitted to, and approved by the commission and the
city council in accordance with chapter 15 of this title, with scheduled public
hearings. This transfer restriction does not apply to the sale and transfer of
individual properties as denoted in the final approved development plan and
subsequent detailed plat, if applicable. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
3.10.04: APPROVAL CRITERIA AND CONFORMANCE WITH ZONING AND TITLE IX:
A PUD may be allowed in any in any zone; provided, that the decision body makes
the following findings:
   (A)   The underlying zoning, title IX of this code, and other applicable
regulations under this title and title IX of this code are met, except as the
applicant has specifically requested modifications to the standards as part of
the PUD.
   (B)   The proposed uses shall not be detrimental to present and potential
surrounding uses; nor shall they be detrimental to the health, safety and
general welfare of the public. The physical features of the site, public
facilities, and existing adjacent developments and uses shall be considered.
   (C)   The density of the planned unit development considered as a whole
shall be in substantial conformity with the density of the underlying zone.
   (D)   Any variation from the basic zone requirements must be warranted by
the design and amenities incorporated in the preliminary and final development
plan.
   (E)   The final development plan must be in conformance with the preliminary
plan.
   (F)   The planned unit development must meet the general objectives of the
McCall area comprehensive plan.
   (G)   Existing and proposed streets and utility services must be suitable
and adequate for the proposed development.
   (H)   A development agreement is required between the developer and the city
which delineates commitments of the developer to the city and of the city to
the developer including, but not limited to, assurances for public and private
improvements and maintenance of the same.
   (I)   A PUD may be proposed in conjunction with an application to amend the
zoning map and the comprehensive plan. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
3.10.05: USE REGULATIONS:
Any permitted or conditional uses allowed in the underlying zone may also be
allowed in the planned unit development. Such a conditional use may be
permitted through a planned unit development approval without the need for a
separate conditional use application. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
3.10.06: USE EXCEPTIONS:
In the case of planned unit developments greater than two (2) acres in size,
the commission may authorize specified uses not permitted or conditionally
permitted by the use regulations of the zone in which the development is
located, provided the commission shall find that:
   (A)   The uses permitted by such exception are necessary or desirable and
are appropriate with respect to the primary purpose of the development.
   (B)   The uses permitted by such exception are of such a nature or so
located as to have minimum impact to the surrounding neighborhood as determined
by the preparation of a community impact review (see chapter 13 of this title).
   (C)   The development is phased so that the approval to construct the
exceptional use or uses is coordinated with the construction of all or a
proportionate phase of the permitted use.
   (D)   No more than twenty percent (20%) of the total area of the planned
unit development shall be devoted to the uses permitted by the exception.
   (E)   The uses permitted by such exception are shown to contribute to a
coherent living style and sense of community.
   (F)   The PUD contains public improvements (streets, water, sewer,
streetlights, etc.) for the proposed use. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
3.10.07: DEVELOPER BENEFITS:
The purpose of planned unit developments is to provide certain benefits to the
public and to the developer. The installation of public improvements (streets,
water, sewer, streetlights, etc.) and two (2) or more of the amenities set
forth herein ensure a public benefit. To provide the developer with an
incentive to utilize the planned unit development process, the following
allowances may be incorporated into the proposal:
   (A)   A variety of housing types may be included in residential projects,
including attached units, detached units, single-family units, multi-family
units and multi-ownership units.
   (B)   The minimum lot size of the zone may be reduced within the density
limits of the zone. "Density limits" is defined as the gross area less all
unbuildable area divided by the minimum lot size for the zone in which the site
is located.
   (C)   Private streets may be utilized within the project, subject to the
standards of title IX, chapter 6, "Subdivision And Development Improvement
Requirements", of this code, and the approval of the city. When private streets
are so approved, they shall be considered public improvements for the purposes
of this chapter.
   (D)   Setbacks for buildings within the interior of the project may be less
than required in the zone. A minimum distance of ten feet (10') shall be
maintained between all detached buildings unless greater separation is required
by fire or building codes.
   (E)   The conditions of approval applied to a planned unit development
concept plan shall be applied consistently to each subsequent phase and the
final development plan unless otherwise agreed to by both the applicant and the
council as specified in the development agreement. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff.
3-16-2006)
   (F)   Buildings may be clustered to preserve open space. Clustering of
dwelling units, commercial, business park and industrial uses are encouraged as
long as buffer yards, open space and emergency access are adequately planned.
Buffer yards shall be required to separate different uses in order to eliminate
or minimize potential interference and nuisances on adjacent properties. The
city may require clustering to avoid development in river areas, floodways,
foothills, wetlands, or other environmentally sensitive areas, or to preserve
tree groves. (Ord. 885, 3-24-2011)
   (G)   Uses which are not allowed within the zone may be allowed as part of
the planned development, as described in this section. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006,
eff. 3-16-2006)
3.10.08: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
The development proposal shall be preplanned in its entirety and be
characterized by a unified site design. Approval of a PUD shall substantially
conform to the zone in which the development is located, except that a zoning
standard may be modified as part of the PUD request. In addition, the following
development standards apply to PUDs:
   (A)   Residential Density: The number of dwelling units allowed in a PUD
shall be calculated by taking the gross area, less the area set aside for
nonresidential excepted uses, less open spaces, churches, schools, and public
roadways, and dividing by the minimum lot area per dwelling unit required by
the zone in which the site is located. An increase in the computed allowable
maximum may be permitted in conformance with section
3.10.024 of this chapter.
   (B)   Yards: Along the periphery of the PUD, yards shall be provided as
required by regulation of the zone in which the development is located, unless
an exception is provided. Where development already exists within one hundred
feet (100') of the PUD boundary at the periphery, the yards shall be matched,
where practical; e.g., side yards should be provided adjacent to side yards,
rear yards adjacent to rear yards and front yards opposite front yards.
   (C)   Off Street Parking: Off street parking shall comply with the parking
requirements of the underlying zone. No common parking or maneuvering areas
shall be allowed within twenty feet (20') of the boundary of the PUD, except
where the PUD is designed to be connected and integrated with an adjoining
development; otherwise, all common parking or maneuvering areas shall be
buffered from adjacent properties. The buffer area must be landscaped,
screened, or protected by natural features with the objective of minimizing
adverse impacts to surrounding properties. In addition to the above
requirements, where on street parking is prohibited, at least one-half (1/2)
additional parking space per dwelling unit shall be provided either in approved
parking bays along the street or in an off street parking area. In addition,
parking space shall be planned for the many types of recreational vehicles
common to the McCall area, such as trailers for snowmobiles, large motor homes,
etc.
   (D)   Signs: Signs shall conform to the requirements of chapter 9 of this
title.
   (E)   Storm Water Management: The management of storm water shall conform to
the requirements of title IX, chapter 6 of this code.
   (F)   Open Space; Common Areas; Amenities:
      1.   Unless otherwise approved, not less than ten percent (10%) of the
total gross area of a residential PUD shall be retained as permanent open space
and shall not include strips of less than fifteen feet (15') in width, unless
designed to accommodate a pedestrian accessway, pedestrian amenity, or a water
feature such as a pond or stream. Where a PUD contains more than twenty (20)
multi-family dwellings, a minimum of twenty percent (20%) of land area of the
PUD shall consist of open space. Of this required open space, portions may be
"common area" used for recreational or other collective enjoyment by occupants
of the development, privately owned properties dedicated by easements to assure
that open space will be permanent, and lands developed as active recreational
areas or preserved in their natural state when such areas contain unique
natural assets such as groves of trees, ponds, rivers or streambeds. If ponds
are to be considered as part of the required open space, no more than twenty
five percent (25%) of the surface area of the ponds shall be used to fulfill
this requirement.
      2.   In order to be functionally usable, open space should exist in
quantities of some minimum dimension. Therefore, the areas of each parcel of
open space to be used for active recreational use shall have a size and shape
consistent with the planned use.
      3.   Open spaces shall be distributed within projects in locations near
the dwelling units of the people they are intended to serve.
      4.   Land indicated as open space, common areas, amenities (tennis
courts, playgrounds, swimming pools, etc.), streets and sidewalks shall be
shown on the preliminary plan, and shall state on the plan that they be
permanently maintained as such either by a homeowners' association which
provides private covenants, an agreement with the developer, or if suitable and
mutually agreeable, by public dedications.
      5.   Amenities shall be provided as a part of each PUD. The number of
amenities (minimum of 2) shall be proportionate to the size of the development
and may include, but not be limited to, any of the following:
         (a)   Private recreational facilities such as a swimming pool, tennis
court, barbecue area or playground of a size appropriate to meet needs of the
development.
         (b)   Provision for public access to any public open space, park or
river greenbelt.
         (c)   Publicly dedicated land in a PUD for facilities such as school,
fire station, well site, public park, public recreational facility.
         (d)   Additional open space, above and beyond city standards, for
parkways, boulevards, or other features designed to mitigate vehicle/traffic
impact.
         (e)   Other amenities as approved by the commission and council.
   (G)   Residential PUDs: Except in the CBD zone, all residential PUDs shall
provide each dwelling unit with a minimum of one hundred (100) square feet of
private, landscaped, open space. The commission should evaluate each project on
its own merits and allow variations to the open space standard where it can be
shown that the provided space meets the intent and purpose of this title.
   (H)   Required Setbacks: Attached structures may be permitted in PUDs. The
minimum separation between detached buildings shall be ten feet (10'), unless
greater separation is required by fire or building codes. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006,
eff. 3-16-2006)
   (I)   Landscaping: Industrial, business park, commercial, and technological
uses shall be developed in parklike surroundings including landscape as buffers
to screen lighting and parking areas. (Ord. 885, 3-24-2011)
   (J)   Private Streets: Private streets may be utilized within the project,
subject to the requirements of title IX, chapter 6 of this code, when the
following requirements are met:
      1.   The commission, after recommendation from city staff and the fire
chief, finds that the design of the proposed streets, pedestrianways and off
street parking is adequate to protect public health, safety and welfare and
will adequately accommodate anticipated uses within the development, as well as
appropriately contribute to the city's need for a connected street network.
      2.   Private streets shall be owned by a homeowners' association and all
future repair and maintenance costs, including reconstruction, shall be borne
by the homeowners.
      3.   If the owners in the future should request that the private streets
be changed to public streets and no lots are rendered substandard as a result,
the owners do fully agree that, before acceptance of such streets, the owners
will bear full expense of reconstruction in making such streets conform to the
requirements applicable at that time.
   (K)   Lighting Plan: An exterior lighting plan shall be provided as required
by chapter 14, "Outdoor Lighting", of this title. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-
16-2006)
3.10.09: APPLICATION PROCEDURE:
   (A)   Preapplication: Prior to the filing of an application for approval of
a PUD, the developer shall submit to the city a conceptual plan of the
development proposal to enable review and comment. Such plan may be generalized
in content and such submission shall not require the official filing of an
application and fee. The conceptual plan shall include the following:
      1.   The general layout of the development showing at a minimum the
location of buildings, open space, types of landscaping, proposed uses.
      2.   The existing conditions and characteristics of the land on and
adjacent to the proposed development site.
      3.   Information on plans for water, sewer, streets, drainage, and other
major components of infrastructure.
   (B)   Preapplication Review: The city staff and fire chief shall review said
plans and data as submitted and advise the developer as to the general
conformance or nonconformance of the proposed development with title IX,
chapter 2, "Subdivision Plats And Procedures", of this code.
   (C)   Preliminary Development Plan: Upon completion of the preapplication
review, if the developer elects to proceed with the PUD process, he shall pay
all fees and file with the city an application for a preliminary development
plan and any other required application with the following required
information:
      1.   All necessary information as specified for the PUD preliminary
development plan.
      2.   Fifteen (15) copies of preliminary development plan which shall
consist of drawings and supplementary written material adequate to provide the
following information:
         (a)   Statement of how the purpose and intent of section
3.10.01 of this chapter will be achieved by the PUD, including sketches or
illustrations of the proposed character of the development, a description of
how the PUD will relate to surrounding land uses and identified key
neighborhood features, if any, and whether a zone change, zone map changes,
comprehensive plan amendment, variance, floodplain permit, and/or preliminary
plat is also requested. Include a description of each phase, if more than one.
(Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
         (b)   An outline of the proposed PUD stating: 1) land use allocation
by type, including the amount of land for housing, density, open spaces,
roadways and parking; 2) the number and type of housing units, commercial,
business park or industrial uses; 3) how necessary services will be provided;
and 4) whether services are publicly or privately owned and operated. (Ord.
885, 3-24-2011)
         (c)   Preliminary drawings at a scale of one inch equals one hundred
feet (1"=100'). The preliminary drawings (15 copies are required) shall display
the following:
            (1)   The name of the proposed PUD.
            (2)   Date, north point and scale of drawing.
            (3)   Legal description of the PUD other than metes and bounds,
sufficient to define its location and boundaries.
            (4)   Names, addresses and telephone numbers of the owners,
designer of the PUD, and engineer, planner and surveyor, if any, and the date
of the survey.
            (5)   Appropriate identification of the drawing as a preliminary
plan.
      3.   Fifteen (15) copies of a natural features map showing an inventory
of existing site features including:
         (a)   Ground elevations shown by contour lines at two foot (2')
intervals or less; five foot (5') intervals may be accepted for slopes greater
than ten percent (10%).
         (b)   General soil types as documented by a soils engineer or
engineering geologist, if necessary.
         (c)   Fish and wildlife habitats, if any.
         (d)   Proposed and existing stormwater facilities.
         (e)   Water features, such as ponds, wetlands and permanent or
intermittent watercourses.
         (f)   Areas subject to flooding.
         (g)   Natural features, such as trees, historic sites, major rock
outcroppings, and similar irreplaceable amenities.
         (h)   Existing on site or abutting sanitary sewer, storm drainage and
water supply facilities. If such facilities are not on or abutting the site,
indicate the direction and distance to the nearest such facilities.
         (i)   Width, location and purpose of all existing easements of record
on and abutting the site.
         (j)   Information on land areas contiguous and adjacent to the
proposed PUD and existing adjacent areas, including zoning classifications,
land uses, densities, circulation systems, public facilities, unique natural
features of the landscape, and approximate locations of nearby structures. This
map can be displayed on an aerial photograph of the site, or the photo can be
provided separately.
      4.   Fifteen (15) copies of a proposed site plan showing:
         (a)   The locations of dwelling units and/or individual lots.
         (b)   Location of major streets.
         (c)   The proposed yard requirements or locations of single-family
homes for individual lots, if any.
         (d)   The existing and proposed traffic circulation system serving the
PUD including: 1) off street parking and maneuvering; 2) points of access to
existing public rights of way; and 3) a plan notation or descriptive narrative
outlining ownership of streets and parking areas.
         (e)   The existing and proposed pedestrian and bicycle circulation
system.
         (f)   Conceptual plans for all necessary services including their
location and whether the services will be publicly or privately owned and
maintained, including the location of utilities as would tie into the project.
         (g)   Proposed location and treatment of any public or private common
areas or structures including open spaces, park or recreation areas, and school
sites.
         (h)   The general treatment proposed for the periphery of the site.
         (i)   The approximate amount, location and type of buffering and/or
landscaping.
         (j)   Proposed architectural styles.
         (k)   The subdivider shall submit proposed restrictive covenants, in
outline form, as are required to ensure continuing conformance with the
standards set forth in this title, including, but not limited to, building
setback lines. The covenants shall also include other conditions or
restrictions that shall be applied to the subdivision, including architectural
or design controls, organization of a homeowners' association, assessments,
various homeowners' committees, easements, and a legal description of the
property.
      5.   Environmental assessment, traffic study, grading plan or other study
necessary for the proposed site.
      6.   If the applicant is requesting preliminary subdivision plat approval
concurrently with the preliminary PUD approval, a preliminary subdivision plat
shall be submitted.
      7.   A development schedule indicating to the best of applicant's
knowledge the approximate date on which construction of all phases of the
entire project can be expected to begin, the anticipated rate of development,
and completion date. The schedule, if approved by the commission, shall become
a part of the final development plan and shall be adhered to by the owner of
the property in the PUD and his successors in interest.
      8.   Any additional information required by the city staff or commission.
   (D)   Combined Procedures: This application procedure, including the above
requirements, are intended to be combined with those in chapter 15 of this
title.
   (E)   Planning And Zoning Commission Review: The commission shall review the
plans for conformance with this chapter and set the date for a public hearing.
When a preliminary plat is to be considered as a part of the PUD, the public
hearings may be combined to fulfill the requirements of title IX, "Subdivision
And Development", of this code. After the public hearing, the commission shall
recommend to the city council approval, approval with conditions, or
disapproval of the PUD preliminary plat, if applicable.
   (F)   Council Review: The council shall hold a second public hearing and
shall approve, approve with conditions, or disapprove the PUD application. The
council shall also approve, approve with conditions, or disapprove a
preliminary plat at this time, where applicable. Council's approval of the plan
shall be subject to the findings of this section. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-
16-2006)
   (G)   Final Development Plan: Within eighteen (18) months after approval of
the preliminary development plan, the applicant shall submit to the city a
final development plan for the entire PUD or a final development plan for the
first phase of development if the PUD has been approved for phased development.
The applicant shall submit final development plans for any subsequent phases
within the time limit specified in the approval of the preliminary development
plan. (Ord. 883, 11-4-2010)
      1.   The final development plan may be submitted to the commission upon
approval by the city of detailed improvement plans, including private street
construction, utility locations, drainage, dedications of easements and public
facilities, along with a proposed schedule for phasing. Any necessary
agreements for maintenance, etc., shall be prepared and submitted for review
and approval at this time.
      2.   Items that shall be included in the final development plan are:
         (a)   Drawings And Information: The final development plan shall be
drawn in clear and legible form on good quality tracing paper or Mylar®
drafting film at a reasonable size and scale to clearly show all required
information. Ten (10) prints of the plan made from this drawing shall accompany
the application.
         (b)   Information Required On The Plan: In addition to that required
by the preliminary development plan, or otherwise specified by law, the
following information shall be shown on the plan:
            (1)   Reference points of identified existing surveys related to
the PUD plan by distances and bearings and referenced to field book or map,
including stakes, monuments or other evidence found on the ground and used to
determine the boundaries of the PUD.
            (2)   The location and width of streets and easements intercepting
the boundary of the tract.
            (3)   Easements and stormwater drainage facilities clearly
identified and, if already of record, their recorded reference. The width of
the easement, its length and bearing, and sufficient ties to locate the
easement with respect to the PUD shall be shown. If the easement is being
dedicated by the plan, it shall be properly referenced in the owner's
certificates of dedication.
            (4)   Identification of land to be dedicated for any purpose,
public or private.
            (5)   Other plans and studies as required at preliminary approval
such as a grading plan, soils engineer report, traffic study, detailed
landscaping and buffering plans where required.
         (c)   Additional Certificates Or Drawings: The following may be
combined where appropriate:
            (1)   A certificate signed and acknowledged by all parties having
any recorded title interest in the land, consenting to the preparation and
recording of the PUD.
            (2)   A certificate signed and acknowledged as above, dedicating
the land intended for public use, if any.
            (3)   A certificate with the seal of and signed by the surveyor
responsible for the survey.
            (4)   A title report issued by the title insurance company
verifying ownership by the applicant of real property that is to be dedicated
to the public.
            (5)   A copy of any deed restrictions applicable to the PUD.
         (d)   Design Plan: A detailed design plan for the PUD site including:
            (1)   The location of proposed buildings and structures, parking
and maneuvering areas and/or the location of allowable building areas of
individual lots, if any.
            (2)   Building setback lines, if any, that are to be made part of
the PUD restrictions.
            (3)   The location and type of proposed buildings, structures or
improvements in common open space areas.
            (4)   The location and detailed information for all proposed
streets, with approval by the city for public streets and fire marshal for
private streets.
            (5)   A plan for water mains approved by the city and fire hydrants
approved by the fire chief.
            (6)   A plan for sanitary sewer approved by the city.
            (7)   A plan for stormwater drainage with approval by the city.
            (8)   Plans for additional improvements such as pedestrianways,
street lighting, public utilities, street trees, etc. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006,
eff. 3-16-2006)
            (9)   The applicant shall provide the data as required by the
digital data submittal standards policy. (Ord. 899, 5-24-2012)
         (e)   Landscaping And Buffering Plan: A landscaping and buffering plan
for common open space areas, the periphery of the PUD and other required
locations. The plan shall show area to remain in natural vegetation; and, in a
clear manner, the area, sizes, numbers and general types of plant and other
materials to be used. Revegetation of common open space areas and periphery
areas disturbed during the construction of services, dwellings or other
facilities proposed during the construction schedule, if cannot be completed
prior to occupancy of dwellings or as otherwise required by the conditions of
approval, an improvement guarantee of a sufficient amount shall be required to
assure timely completion.
         (f)   Restrictive Covenants Or Conditions: The subdivider shall submit
in final form any restrictive covenants or conditions that shall be applied to
the subdivision, including architectural or design controls, organization of a
homeowners' association, assessments, various homeowners' committees,
easements, and a legal description of the property. Also to be submitted, if
required, are the final bylaws and articles of incorporation of the homeowners'
association.
   (H)   Commission Recommendations On Final Plan: The commission shall
recommend to the council approval, approval with modifications, or disapproval
of the final development plan. The commission shall base an approval on
evidence that the final development plan fulfills the requirements of the
preliminary PUD approval and all applicable requirements of this title and
title IX of this code have been met.
   (I)   Council Action On Final Plan: The council shall approve, approve with
modifications, or disapprove the final PUD plan and the final subdivision plat
or phasing proposal, where applicable. Approval of the final plan shall
constitute the requirements for the land in the PUD. Any subsequent changes
from the final plan shall be subject to approval by the commission and the city
council. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
3.10.10: IMPROVEMENT GUARANTEES:
   (A)   Building Permits: Prior to issuance of building permits for
structures, the applicant shall either install and complete all private service
improvements, including streets, pedestrianways, utilities, landscaping and
buffering, or file an improvement guarantee for these items.
   (B)   Schedule Specified: The improvement guarantee is an agreement between
the applicant and city specifying a development schedule setting forth when
service improvements will be made.
   (C)   Attorney Approval: The agreement shall be in a form satisfactory to
the city attorney, and shall be filed with the city clerk.
   (D)   Performance Guarantee: The applicant shall file with the agreement one
of the following to assure his full and faithful performance:
      1.   A certified check or checks.
      2.   A surety bond executed by a surety company authorized to transact
business in the state of Idaho.
      3.   An irrevocable letter of credit issued by a financial institution
authorized to do business in the state of Idaho.
      4.   Other surety acceptable to the city.
   (E)   Performance Bond: The developer may elect to provide a surety bond
from a company authorized to do such business in the state of Idaho. The bond
shall be in an amount equal to one hundred twenty five percent (125%) of the
estimated cost of all unaccepted public improvements. The bond shall be payable
to the city in the event that any required public improvements are not finally
accepted in accordance with the provisions of this title and shall be posted by
no person other than the developer.
   (F)   Deposit In Escrow: The developer may elect to deposit a cash sum equal
to one hundred twenty five percent (125%) of the estimated cost of all
unaccepted public improvements either with the city or in escrow with a
responsible financial institution authorized to do such business in Idaho. In
the case of an escrow account, the developer shall file with the city an escrow
agreement which includes the following terms:
      1.   Funds of the escrow account shall be held in trust until released by
the city and may not be used or pledged by the subdivider as security in any
manner during that period other than as provided in this subsection. The funds
may be used for payment of improvements as made, except that the escrow holder
shall withhold from disbursement so much of the funds as is estimated by the
city to be necessary to complete the construction and installation of such
improvements, plus an overrun allowance as provided above.
      2.   In the case of the failure of the developer to complete any
improvement within the required time period, the institution shall immediately
make all funds in such account available to the city for use in the completion
of those improvements.
   (G)   City Discretion: At the discretion of the city, the improvement
guarantee may be in the form of separate bonds or checks covering individual
portions or specific types of improvements, rather than one bond or check
covering all required improvements.
   (H)   Occupancy Permit: Occupancy permits shall not be issued unless all
improvements and conditions of approval have been fulfilled to the satisfaction
of the building official or the applicant has filed an improvement guarantee
for all such items.
   (I)   Release Of Guarantee: The administrator shall not authorize the city
clerk to return the improvement guarantee or guarantees until the improvements
related to the guarantee are completed to the satisfaction of the
administrator. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
3.10.11: EXTENSION OF PRELIMINARY DEVELOPMENT PLAN APPROVAL:
For good cause shown, the eighteen (18) month deadline for submittal of the
final development plan may be extended by the commission, upon application
filed not later than thirty (30) days prior to the expiration of the eighteen
(18) month time limit of the preliminary development plan. The duration of the
extension is at the discretion of the commission. (Ord. 883, 11-4-2010)
3.10.12: AMENDMENTS TO FINAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN:
   (A)   Subsequent Amendments:
      1.   Any subsequent amendment to the final development plan changing
location, siting, and height of buildings and structures may be authorized by
the commission, without additional public hearings, if required by engineering
or other circumstances not foreseen at the time the final plan was approved.
      2.   In no case shall the commission authorize changes which may cause
any of the following:
         (a)   A change in the use or character of the development, including
ownership.
         (b)   An increase in overall coverage of structures or significant
changes in types of structures.
         (c)   An increase of the intensity of use or types of usage.
         (d)   An increase in the problems of traffic circulation and public
utilities.
         (e)   A reduction of off street parking and loading space.
         (f)   A reduction in required pavement widths.
   (B)   Change Requiring Public Hearing: All other changes in use,
rearrangement of lots, blocks and building tracts, or in the provision of
common open spaces and changes in addition to those listed above which
constitute substantial alteration of the original plan shall require a public
hearing before the commission and approval by the council.
   (C)   Expiration:
      1.   On the anniversary year after general development plan and program
approval, until the project is complete, the applicants or applicants'
successors, shall file a progress report. If substantial construction or
development has not taken place within four (4) years from the date of approval
of the general development plan and program, the commission shall review the
PUD program at a public hearing to determine whether or not its continuation,
in whole or in part, is in the public interest, and, if found not to be, shall
recommend to the council that the PUD approval be revoked.
      2.   After action by the commission, the council shall consider the
matter and by resolution accept or reject it or return it to the commission for
further action. Notice and hearing shall be provided according to the same
procedures as are then applicable to a new application, with the present owner
of the property being sent notice by certified mail, return receipt requested;
the city is entitled to rely on the county tax assessor's records and a title
company title search for the name and address of the current owner(s). (Ord.
821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
CHAPTER 11
NONCONFORMING USE, STRUCTURE OR DEVELOPMENT
SECTION:
3.11.01: Purpose
3.11.02: Applicability
3.11.03: General Provisions
3.11.04: Nonconforming Use
3.11.05: Nonconforming Structure
3.11.06: Nonconforming Development
3.11.07: Exceptions
3.11.01: PURPOSE:
   (A)   To declare that conformities are incompatible with the allowed uses
and development requirements of the zoning district regulation set forth in
this title.
   (B)   To permit nonconformities to continue until they are removed and to
allow for routine maintenance, but not to encourage their perpetuation.
   (C)   To restrict nonconformities from being enlarged upon, expanded or
extended.
   (D)   To prevent nonconformities from being used as the grounds for adding
other prohibited structures or uses in the same zone.
   (E)   To further the goals and policies of the City's adopted Comprehensive
Plan which encourages energy efficiencies in structures; promotes in-fill
development; and the preservation of the scenic value of the shoreline and
existing historic development which contribute to the unique character of the
City. It is therefore the intent of this chapter to allow for limited
exceptions to the limitations on nonconformities which meet these Comprehensive
Plan objectives. (Ord. 979, 5-23-2019, eff. 7-1-2019)
3.11.02: APPLICABILITY:
   (A)   These regulations shall apply to any lawfully existing nonconforming
use, structure or development that existed prior to March 16, 2006.
   (B)   Any "special use" or variance granted prior to March 16, 2006, shall
be permitted to continue in accordance with the terms and conditions of
approval for such "special" (now known as "conditional") use or variance,
subject to the provisions set forth in chapter 13 of this title. Such a use
shall not be deemed a nonconforming use.
   (C)   Applications pending as of the effective date of this chapter, July 1,
2019:
      1.   Project With Pending Application: All applications shall be
processed according to the regulations and requirements in effect as of the
date the application was accepted by the City as complete.
      2.   Approved Project With Pending Request For A Time Extension: Time
extension requests shall be consistent with the requirements that are in effect
when the original application was approved.
      3.   Approved Projects Not Yet Completed: Any approved application may
still be completed as provided by the approval. (Ord. 979, 5-23-2019, eff. 7-1-
2019)
3.11.03: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   (A)   Where at the time of the adoption of applicable regulations, lawful
use of land, structures, and/or development existed which would not be
permitted by the regulations imposed by this title, the use, structure and/or
development may be continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful, and
adheres to the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   A nonconforming use of land or structure, or a nonconforming use of
land and structure in combination, shall not be extended or enlarged after
passage of this chapter by the addition of other uses of a nature which would
be prohibited in the zone.
   (C)   To avoid undue hardship, nothing in this chapter shall be taken to
prohibit completion of construction of a structure for which a building permit
has been issued prior to March 16, 2006. (Ord. 979, 5-23-2019, eff. 7-1-2019)
3.11.04: NONCONFORMING USE:
   (A)   A nonconforming use that involves no individual structures other than
small or minor accessory buildings, may be continued so long as it remains
otherwise lawful, provided:
      1.   No such nonconforming use shall be enlarged or increased.
      2.   No nonconforming use may be moved in whole or in part to any portion
of the lot or parcel other than the nonconforming use occupied at the time of
the adoption of regulations prohibiting such use.
      3.   If any nonconforming use ceases for any reason for more than twelve
(12) months, any subsequent use of land shall conform to the regulations of
this title; provided, however, that the owner of such land may, in writing,
file with the Administrator during or before such twelve (12) month period
expires, giving notice that the owner intends to suspend the use and intends to
preserve the right, not exceeding three (3) years, to resume the use.
      4.   No additional nonconforming structure(s) shall be erected in
connection with such nonconforming use of land.
   (B)   A nonconforming use that involves individual buildings or structures,
or of structure and land in combination, may be continued, so long as it
remains otherwise lawful, provided:
      1.   No existing structure devoted to a nonconforming use may be
enlarged, extended, constructed, reconstructed, moved, or structurally altered
unless the use of the structure is changed to a use permitted in the zone.
      2.   Any nonconforming use may be extended throughout any parts of a
building which were manifestly arranged or designed expressly for such use on
the effective date of the applicable regulations, but no such use shall be
extended to occupy any land outside such buildings that existed at the time
that the use became nonconforming.
      3.   Any structure and land, in or on which a nonconforming use is
replaced by a permitted use, shall thereafter conform to the use regulations
for the zone, and the nonconforming use may not be resumed.
      4.   If any nonconforming use of a structure and land is discontinued or
abandoned for twelve (12) months, the structure and land shall not be used
except in conformity with the regulations of this title; provided, however,
that the owner of such use may, in writing, file with the Administrator during
or before such twelve (12) month period expires, give notice that the owner
intends to suspend the use and intends to preserve the right, not exceeding
three (3) years, to resume the use.
      5.   Where nonconforming use status applies to a structure and premises,
removal or destruction of the structure shall eliminate the nonconforming
status. "Destruction" for purposes of this subsection is defined as damage to
an extent of more than fifty percent (50%) of the replacement cost at time of
destruction. (Ord. 979, 5-23-2019, eff. 7-1-2019)
3.11.05: NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE:
   (A)   A structure that is nonconforming by reason of restrictions on area,
lot coverage, height, yards, location on the lot, or other requirements
concerning the structure, such non- conformities may be continued so long as
the structure remains otherwise lawful, subject to the following provisions:
      1.   No nonconforming structure may be enlarged or altered in a way which
increases the nonconformity including volume, but any structure or portion may
be altered to decrease its nonconformity.
      2.   Should a nonconforming structure or nonconforming portion of
structure be damaged by any means to an extent of more than fifty percent (50%)
of its replacement cost at time of destruction, it shall not be reconstructed
except in conformity with the provisions of this title. The term "damage"
includes natural or accidental events, such as fire, flood, lightning, or
fallen snow or tree, but does not include incidental harm or intentional
demolition by the owner to a structure. The owner of such structure may repair
or reconstruct the same structure, on the same footprint, and in the process
may alter it to decrease its nonconformity, so long as:
         (a)   Within eighteen (18) months after the date of such damage or
destruction, the owner commences such repair or reconstruction, and diligently
prosecutes the work to completion in accord with then applicable Building
Codes; and
         (b)   No other nonconforming structure was constructed on that site
during the eighteen (18) month period.
      3.   When a nonconforming structure is moved for any reason over any
distance, it shall conform to the regulations for the zone to which it is
moved.
      4.   A nonconforming structure may be enlarged, so long as the addition
to the structure conforms to all the requirements of the zone with the
exception as stated in subsection
3.11.07(A) of this chapter. (Ord. 979, 5-23-2019, eff. 7-1-2019)
3.11.06: NONCONFORMING DEVELOPMENT:
   (A)   In any zone in which single-family dwellings are permitted,
notwithstanding limitations imposed by this title, a single- family dwelling
and customary accessory buildings may be erected on any lot that was of record
on the effective date of the applicable regulations, provided:
      1.   Setback and lot coverage requirements applicable to those
nonconforming lots of record shall be those of the zone with the largest lot
area requirement within which the lot would be conforming.
      2.   A lot which fails to be conforming in any zone shall maintain a
front yard setback of twenty feet (20'), side yard setback of five feet (5'),
rear yard setback of five feet (5'), and maximum lot coverage of fifty percent
(50%).
   (B)   A development that is not in accord with the standards for development
such as off street parking, off street loading, lighting, lot coverage or
landscaping shall be restricted in expansion of uses or structures associated
with the development until the nonconforming development standards have been
mitigated as determined by the Planning and Zoning Commission. Change shall be
permitted in the direction of conformity to these requirements. (Ord. 979, 5-
23-2019, eff. 7-1-2019)
3.11.07: EXCEPTIONS:
   (A)   Shoreline Development: If the nonconforming structure or portion
thereof is located within the fifty foot (50') shoreline setback pursuant to
chapter 7 of this title, then:
      1.   A single one-time only addition, less than twenty five percent (25%)
of the total square footage of the existing nonconforming structure is allowed
so long as the addition to the structure conforms to all the requirements of
the zone.
      2.   Additions or enlargements to the structure that equal more than
twenty five percent (25%) of the total square footage of the existing
nonconforming structure shall require the entire nonconforming structure, or
portion thereof which causes the structure to be nonconforming, to be removed
and conform to all the requirements of the zone.
   (B)   Repairs And Maintenance: For any nonconforming structure or structures
containing a nonconforming or permitted use, ordinary repairs, repair,
additions or replacement of nonbearing walls, fixtures, wiring, or plumbing to
an extent not exceeding ten percent (10%) of the current replacement cost of
the nonconforming structure or portion of structure may be made within a five
(5) year period.
      1.   Energy efficiency improvements to the building thermal envelope, as
defined by the International Energy Efficiency Code, will be exempted from the
ten percent (10%) valuation.
      2.   Similarly, historically significant structures as defined in
3.20.100(A) of this Title with recommendation from the Historic Preservation
Commission may be exempted by the Administrator..
   (C)   Exterior Improvements: Exterior improvements that do not increase the
nonconformity and style and material changes such as siding, roof and enlarged
windows may be approved by the Administrator when in accordance with McCall
Design Guidelines.
   (D)   Strengthening Or Restoring Structure: Nothing in this chapter shall be
deemed to prevent the strengthening or restoring to a safe condition of any
nonconforming structure or part of the structure declared to be unsafe by the
building inspector. (Ord. 979, 5-23-2019, eff. 7-1-2019; amd. Ord. 989, 4-23-
2020)
CHAPTER 12
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
SECTION:
3.12.01: Commission Created; Purpose
3.12.02: Qualifications; Term Of Office
3.12.03: Organization
3.12.04: Compensation; Reports; Meetings
3.12.05: Duties
3.12.06: City Departments To Cooperate
3.12.07: Relation To Other Boards
3.12.08: Authority To Expend Money Withheld
3.12.01: COMMISSION CREATED; PURPOSE:
   (A)   A McCall area planning and zoning commission (the commission) is
created for which the jurisdiction consists of matters relating to lands within
the city limits of the city of McCall and matters entrusted by the Idaho Code
to the planning and zoning commission of the city, referred to in the rest of
this chapter and title as the planning and zoning commission or the commission.
   (B)   By agreement, the city of McCall council (the council) and the board
of Valley County commissioners (the board) assign to the McCall area planning
and zoning commission jurisdiction which consists of the matters relating to
lands outside the city limits of the city of McCall and within the city of
McCall area of city impact.
   (C)   The council is the governing authority in legislative matters for the
city, and in quasi-judicial or administrative matters for both the city and the
impact area; the board is the governing authority in legislative matters for
the impact area. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
3.12.02: QUALIFICATIONS; TERM OF OFFICE:
   (A)   Commission shall consist of seven (7) members: four (4) appointed by
the mayor with the consent of the council, and three (3) appointed by the
board. Appointments shall be made without respect to affiliation. All members
shall be residents of the city or the area of city impact for a period of at
least two (2) years prior to appointment.
   (B)   The members in office on March 16, 2006, shall continue in office each
for her or his unexpired term. Thereafter, their successors shall be appointed
for and shall hold office for a term of three (3) years. Each member shall
serve no more than two (2) full consecutive terms except where approved by two-
thirds (2/3) concurrence of the governing authority which appointed him or her
and duly adopted by motion and recorded in the minutes; filling the remainder
of an unexpired term with more than two and one-half (21/2) years remaining
will qualify as a full term. Members may be removed by a majority vote of the
governing authority which appointed them. The governing authority may remove a
member for unacceptable performance of their duties, including, but not limited
to, chronic absenteeism. In the event of the death, resignation, or any other
vacancy in the commission, the vacancy shall be filled in accordance with
subsection (A) of this section. (Ord. 900, 6-14-2012)
3.12.03: ORGANIZATION:
The planning commission shall at its first meeting each calendar year elect a
chairman and a vice chairman who shall be members and shall serve for a term of
one year. The commission shall request that the administrator provide a
secretary who shall not be a member of the commission. The commission shall
prepare and keep current bylaws which outline the functioning, conduct of
meetings, organization, rules of order, voting and agenda preparation of the
commission. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
3.12.04: COMPENSATION; REPORTS; MEETINGS:
   (A)   Members of the commission shall receive no compensation. The staff
shall keep an accurate record of all proceedings of the commission and shall
distribute copies of the minutes of the commission, and other pertinent
documents as a record of decisions or recommendations, to the city manager and
members of the council and to the Valley County board of commissioners.
   (B)   The commission shall hold at least one meeting each month on a regular
day and at a regular time fixed in its bylaws. Pending adoption of such bylaws
by resolution of the commission and approved by resolution of the council, the
commission shall hold a meeting on the first Tuesday of each month at seven
o'clock (7:00) P.M., unless otherwise noticed and/or there is no business to
transact. The commission shall meet at such other times and dates as may in its
judgment be necessary. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
3.12.05: DUTIES:
The duties of the commission include:
   (A)   Meet jointly with the Valley County planning and zoning commission for
the purposes of recommending a comprehensive plan for the development of the
planning jurisdiction. Other duties are to plan for and recommend the laying
out, widening, extending and locating of streets, roads and highways for the
relief of traffic, for density of population and development of land within the
jurisdiction of the planning jurisdiction, for the future growth, development
and beautification of the planning jurisdiction in respect to its public
buildings, streets, parks, grounds and lands consistent with the future growth
and development of the planning jurisdiction, all in order to promote the
public health, safety, and welfare of the inhabitants thereof, and to give
suggestions and advice to individuals concerning landscaping or location of
buildings, structures or works to be erected, constructed or altered by such
individuals. The commissions shall cooperate with other and like commissions
along the lines and purpose prescribed in sections 50-1101 through 50-1106,
Idaho Code.
   (B)   Recommend amendments to the McCall comprehensive plan and this code,
and develop regulations and other related matters pursuant to section 67-6511,
Idaho Code.
   (C)   Recommend the granting or denial of variances, conditional use
permits, subdivisions, planned unit developments, amendments to the zoning map,
vacation of streets, and other decisions authorized by McCall ordinances, which
recommendations shall only be made in the form of findings of fact and
conclusions of law, pursuant to Idaho Code section 67-6535, and only through
the procedures (including hearings) required by chapters 13 and 15 of this
title.
   (D)   Review and make recommendations for the administration of this title
and title IX, "Subdivision And Development", of this code.
   (E)   Carry out the duties delegated by the city manager and city council
and the Idaho Code.
   (F)   Propose, review and approve any amendments to this title or title IX
of this code before action by the council and/or board.
   (G)   Perform the duties as delineated in chapter 16, "Design Review", of
this title. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
3.12.06: CITY DEPARTMENTS TO COOPERATE:
All departments and employees of the city shall cooperate with the commission,
and furnish to the commission maps, reports and all available data necessary
for the commission properly and adequately to carry out its functions. The
commission is also authorized to appoint such technical and advisory committees
as are necessary to carry out its work, and to call upon the citizens of the
community and the various civic organizations for cooperation and assistance to
the end that a coordinated program of planning jurisdiction planning and zoning
may be promoted. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
3.12.07: RELATION TO OTHER BOARDS:
Nothing in this title shall be construed as infringing upon the authority
previously granted to any existing commission or board, provided that such
commission or board shall coordinate their activities to the end that an
updated comprehensive plan for the planning jurisdiction may be prepared. (Ord.
821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
3.12.08: AUTHORITY TO EXPEND MONEY WITHHELD:
The commission shall have no authority to make expenditures on behalf of the
city, or obligate the city for the payment of any sum of money unless
authorized by the council, who shall specify the administrative method by which
such funds shall be expended. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
CHAPTER 13
PERMITS AND APPLICATIONS
SECTION:
3.13.01: Administrative Approval
3.13.011: Revocation Of Administrative Approval
3.13.012: Lapse Of Administrative Approval
3.13.013: Appeal Of Administrative Actions
3.13.02: Variances Authorized
3.13.021: Variance Standards
3.13.022: Variance Application
3.13.023: Lapse Of Variance
3.13.024: Violation Of Conditions Of Approval Of Variance
3.13.025: Variance Application Environmental Assessment
3.13.026: Recordation Of Variances
3.13.03: Conditional Use Permit Standards
3.13.031: Additional Conditional Use Permit Standards For Camps
3.13.032: Application For Conditional Use Permit
3.13.033: Conditional Use Permit Environmental Assessment
3.13.034: Expiration Of Conditional Use Permit
3.13.035: Conditional Use Permit Recordation
3.13.036: Additional Conditional Use Permit Standards For Dwelling, Short-Term
Rental With Occupancy Of 20 Or More Guests (Rep. by Ord. 1011, 9-8-2022)
3.13.04: Zoning Ordinance Amendments
3.13.05: Zoning Map Amendments
3.13.051: Procedure For Amendments To Zoning Ordinance Or Map
3.13.052: Application For Zoning Ordinance Amendments
3.13.053: Application For Zoning Map Amendments
3.13.054: Resubmission Of Zoning Map Amendment Application
3.13.06: Zoning Upon Annexation
3.13.07: Development Agreements, Zoning Action
3.13.08: Community Impact Review
3.13.09: Standards For Dwelling, Short-Term Rentals
3.13.01: ADMINISTRATIVE APPROVAL:
Certain types of permitted uses, identified in chapters 3 through 7 of this
title, require administrative approval by the community development director or
an appointed representative. Applications for administrative approval shall be
processed in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (A)   Basis For Approval: The community development director shall approve
or deny applications for administrative approval within thirty (30) working
days after receipt of a completed application. Approval may be made contingent
upon such conditions as are reasonably necessary to secure the public welfare.
The community development director may require guarantees to assure removal of
temporary uses and of any debris or refuse resultant therefrom, so as to
restore the premises to its prior condition and shall establish the date of
such removal. In approving an application for administrative review, the
director’s decision shall be based on the following criteria:
      1.   Applicable provisions of this title and title IX of this code are
met.
      2.   Adequate public facilities and services may be provided.
      3.   No adverse impact to adjoining property will result from the land
use application, or that conditions of approval can mitigate such impacts.
   (B)   Resubmittal Of Application: Any administrative application denied by
the community development director shall not be resubmitted in either the same
or substantially the same form in less than one year from the date of final
action thereon.
   (C)   Permittee Obligations: Unless otherwise stated, the term of an
administrative approval shall not exceed eighteen (18) months. Within this
period, the holder of the permit must:
      1.   Acquire construction permits and commence placement of permanent
structures on or in the ground; or
      2.   Commence the use permitted by the administrative approval in
accordance with the conditions of approval. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-
2006; amd. Ord. 1009, 10-6-2022)
3.13.011: REVOCATION OF ADMINISTRATIVE APPROVAL:
Upon violation of any of the conditions or terms of the administrative approval
issued pursuant to this chapter, the community development director may cause
the approval to be revoked. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
3.13.012: LAPSE OF ADMINISTRATIVE APPROVAL:
An administrative approval shall lapse and become void whenever the building
permit or license either lapses or is revoked, or whenever the use or occupancy
specified has ceased to exist, or has been suspended for one hundred eighty
(180) calendar days or longer. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
3.13.013: APPEAL OF ADMINISTRATIVE ACTIONS:
Appeals of administrative approvals, denials, revocations or any other
administrative actions shall be processed in accordance with the requirements
of chapter 15, "Procedures, Appeals And Action", of this title. (Ord. 821, 2-
23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
3.13.02: VARIANCES AUTHORIZED:
   (A)   Duties Of Commission: The commission will set the date for and hold a
public hearing and subsequently make recommendations to the council for
approval or denial of the request in accordance with the provisions set forth
in chapter 15, "Procedures, Appeals And Actions", of this title. The power to
grant variances does not extend to use regulations.
   (B)   Limitation On Granting: Variances shall not be granted on the grounds
of convenience or profit, and hardships created by a former or present owner of
the property will not justify a variance.
   (C)   Modification Of Requirements: A variance may be granted modifying the
requirements of this title respecting: lot width; lot depth; front, side, and
rear yard setbacks; lot coverage; parking space; height of buildings; or other
ordinance provisions affecting the size or shape of a structure or the
placement of the structure upon lots, or the size or shape of lots. A variance
may not be used to authorize a land use not otherwise allowed in the applicable
zone or to increase the density of development beyond that which is authorized
in the comprehensive plan.
   (D)   Granting Variances Authorized: The commission may grant variances to
the regulations prescribed by this title, and title IX of this code, in
accordance with the procedures prescribed in this chapter, with respect to any
property development standard, performance standard, sign, accessory structure,
wall or fence.
   (E)   Varying Only To Extent Necessary: In the event that a variance is
granted, the restricting zoning regulation(s) shall be varied only to the
extent necessary to relieve the applicant of the immediate hardship; the
existence of hardship does not confer upon the applicant a right to a variance
where the function of the proposed construction can be made to conform to the
requirements of this title.
   (F)   Imposing Conditions: In granting any variance, the commission may
prescribe appropriate conditions of approval in conformity with this title to
reduce the impact of the variance. One such condition of approval shall be a
stated date before which it must be exercised, or lapse. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006,
eff. 3-16-2006)
3.13.021: VARIANCE STANDARDS:
A variance shall not be granted unless the commission makes specific findings
of fact based directly on the particular evidence presented to it which
supports conclusions that the standards and conditions have been met by the
applicant. The commission may grant a variance only upon the following
findings:
   (A)   Special physical conditions and circumstances applicable to the land,
structure or building involved make a literal enforcement of the provisions of
this title an undue hardship; provided, that:
      1.   Economic hardship alone is not to be considered as an undue
hardship; and
      2.   The special conditions and circumstances are peculiar to the land,
structure or building involved, and are not applicable to other lands,
structures or buildings conforming to this title in the vicinity; and
      3.   That these special conditions and circumstances do not result from
the actions of an owner of the land; provided, that for purposes of a variance
as to the characteristics of a building, a subdivider who is not the applicant
is not to be considered an owner for these purposes.
   (B)   Granting the variance would preserve for such property privileges
enjoyed by other property in the vicinity; provided, that:
      1.   No nonconforming use of neighboring lands, structures or buildings
in the same zone, and no use of lands, structures or buildings in other zones,
shall be considered a privilege enjoyed by other property in the vicinity; and
      2.   Granting the variance requested will not confer on the applicant any
special privilege that is denied by this title to other lands, structures or
buildings in the same zone, and affected by the same conditions and
circumstances.
   (C)   Granting the variance would not be in conflict with the public
interest and will not alter the essential character of the neighborhood or
violate the comprehensive plan. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
3.13.022: VARIANCE APPLICATION:
To obtain a variance, an applicant shall follow the procedures in chapter 15 of
this title and submit a written application for a variance to the commission
containing:
   (A)   Description of the nature of the variance requested.
   (B)   A narrative statement demonstrating with specificity that the
requested variance meets each and every standard set out in section
3.13.021 of this chapter.
   (C)   Fees shall be paid by the applicant at the time of filing an
application which shall include application/filing fees, publication fees and
postage. Fees shall be in accordance with a fee schedule established
periodically by the council by resolution.
   (D)   A list of all affected property owners within three hundred feet
(300') of the subject parcel must accompany the application.
   (E)   If the variance is sought by reason of surveyable conditions, a survey
of the lands in question by a registered professional surveyor showing that the
conditions exist. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
3.13.023: LAPSE OF VARIANCE:
   (A)   Variances granted prior to March 16, 2006, shall lapse in accordance
with the terms and conditions of their approval. A variance for a structure,
granted prior to March 16, 2006, the conditions of approval of which had no
stated date before which it must be exercised or lapse, shall lapse only when
and if:
      1.   The variance has not been exercised and the applicant has not
changed position in reliance on the same; and
      2.   The variance related to construction of a structure at a time stated
by the applicant, proof of that statement is in the record of the application,
and one and one-half (1.5) times the period between the date of approval of the
variance and the time stated by the applicant has passed without an application
for a building permit having been submitted, and without further application to
the commission.
   (B)   Variances granted after March 16, 2006, shall be exercised within
twelve (12) calendar months of the date of city council approval of the
variance, unless otherwise provided in the conditions of approval. An
unutilized variance expires after such time has passed. This time limit shall
not be extended. In the event the permit lapses, the applicant must make a new
application for the permit. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
3.13.024: VIOLATION OF CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL OF VARIANCE:
Violation of the conditions of approval of a variance is a violation of this
title subject to civil and criminal sanctions. The council may, further, upon
the recommendation of the commission containing findings of fact that the
conditions of approval are being chronically violated, and in accordance with
the provisions for notice and hearing set forth in chapter 15 of this title,
revoke a variance or modify the conditions of its approval. (Ord. 821, 2-23-
2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
3.13.025: VARIANCE APPLICATION ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT:
The commission may require an environmental assessment to be submitted prior to
the issuance of any variance permit when there is an operation, material or
activity which constitutes a potential threat to public health, safety and
welfare or to the quality of the environment. When requiring such an assessment
the precise nature of the items to be analyzed in the environmental assessment
shall be indicated. The commission may require that the assessment be over the
signature and stamp (where applicable) of one or more individuals or firms with
demonstrated professional competence to make such an assessment. (Ord. 821, 2-
23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
3.13.026: RECORDATION OF VARIANCES:
   (A)   Recordation Of Variances: No variance shall be in effect until the
city records in the office of the Valley County recorder a notice of decision,
findings of fact and conclusions of law of the council. Fees shall be paid by
the applicant at the time of filing an application which shall include
application/filing fees, publication fees and postage. Fees shall be in
accordance with a fee schedule established periodically by the council by
resolution.
   (B)   Funds Provided By Applicant: The applicant shall provide the necessary
funds to the city to pay all fees charged by the recorder and a reasonable
processing fee set by resolution of the council. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-
16-2006)
3.13.03: CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT STANDARDS:
In the various zones, certain uses are permitted, subject to the granting of a
conditional use permit. Because of their unusual characteristics, these uses
require special consideration so that they may be located properly with respect
to the objectives of this title (and title IX of this code) and with respect to
their effects on surrounding properties. In order to achieve these purposes,
the commission is empowered to grant or deny applications for conditional use
permits as are prescribed in this chapter and to impose reasonable conditions
upon the granting of such permits.
   (A)   Public Hearing: The commission will set the date for and hold a public
hearing and subsequently make recommendations to the council for approval or
denial of the request in accordance with the provisions set forth in chapter
15, "Procedures, Appeals And Action", of this title. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff.
3-16-2006)
   (B)   Findings For Granting Permit: A conditional use permit shall be
granted only if the commission finds that the use, as applied for, in fact
will:
      1.   Constitute a conditional use authorized in the zone involved.
      2.   Be harmonious with and in accord with the general objectives and
with any specific objectives of the comprehensive plan and/or this title.
      3.   Be designed, constructed, operated and maintained to be harmonious
and appropriate in appearance with the existing or likely character of the
neighborhood, and that such use will not change the essential character of the
surrounding area.
      4.   Not be detrimental to the health, safety and general welfare of
persons residing or working in the neighborhood of such proposed use.
      5.   Not cause any substantially harmful environmental consequences to
any land or waters within the planning jurisdiction.
      6.   Not create excessive additional public cost for public facilities
and services, and will not be detrimental to the economic welfare of the
community.
      7.   Be served adequately by essential public facilities and services
including highways, streets, police and fire protection, drainage structures,
refuse disposal, water and sewer, and schools. The applicant may be required,
as a condition of approval, to mitigate any deficient public service.
      8.   Not involve uses, activities, processes, materials, equipment or
conditions of operation that will cause unreasonable production of traffic,
noise, smoke, fumes, glare, odors or other forms of pollution.
      9.   Have vehicular approaches to the property so designed as not to
create a detrimental interference with traffic on surrounding public or private
thoroughfares, or adversely affect the pedestrian environment.
      10.   Not result in the destruction, loss or damage of an important
natural, scenic or historic feature.
      11.   Be on a site of sufficient size to accommodate the proposed use,
including the yards, open spaces, snow storage, walls, fences, parking areas,
loading zones and design standards applicable.
      12.   Have a minimal negative economic impact on the neighborhood or
surrounding community. (Ord. 864, 2-12-2009)
   (C)   Required Conditions: The commission may, after review of the
application for a conditional use permit and public hearing, require the
applicant to meet any specific conditions of approval deemed necessary by the
commission to protect the health, safety, general welfare and environment of
the community. Such conditions are not limited to, but may include:
      1.   Limitations on the hours of operation of the use;
      2.   Limitations on the length of time that the conditional use permit
may be exercised before it will expire by its own terms;
      3.   Additional landscaping and building beautification;
      4.   Additional or reduced off street parking or transportation
improvements; and/or
      5.   Execution of a written agreement respecting construction of
necessary improvements similar in form and content to a subdivision agreement,
with its performance secured in the same fashion as performance of a
subdivision agreement.
   (D)   Imposing More Restrictive Standards: Upon recommending approval of a
conditional use permit, the commission may impose more restrictive standards
than those generally required. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
3.13.031: ADDITIONAL CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT STANDARDS FOR CAMPS:
A conditional use for a camp may be approved only if the commission finds that
the use, as applied for:
   (A)   Meets the general standards in section
3.13.03 of this chapter; and
   (B)   Will not have a permanent negative impact on those items listed below
substantially greater than that anticipated from permitted development:
      1.   Pedestrian and vehicular traffic circulation and safety;
      2.   The demand for and availability of public services and facilities;
      3.   Disruption of enjoyment of neighboring properties by excessive
noise;
      4.   Environmental pollution or contamination to air and water resources;
or
      5.   The maintenance of compatible and efficient development patterns and
land use intensities. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
3.13.032: APPLICATION FOR CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT:
   (A)   All Uses: To obtain a conditional use permit for all conditional uses
other than camps, an applicant shall follow the procedures in chapter 15 of
this title and submit a written application for a conditional use permit to the
commission containing:
      1.   Name and address of the applicant.
      2.   Legal description and address of the property.
      3.   A plan of the proposed development, prepared over the signature and
stamp (where applicable) of one or more individuals or firms with demonstrated
professional competence appropriate to the proposed use, including:
         (a)   A plot plan of the property, drawn to scale, to include the type
and location of all existing buildings and structures, parking and landscape
areas and signs. Elevation plans shall be of sufficient detail to indicate the
type and color of materials to be employed, the height of proposed buildings,
methods of illumination for signs, and other information as required by the
administrator. Screening, landscaping and irrigation plans shall be included in
the plans.
         (b)   Relationship of proposed development use to the use indicated in
the comprehensive plan;
         (c)   The relationship of the property to the surrounding area;
         (d)   The plan of subdivision or resubdivision, if any, drawn to
scale;
         (e)   Land uses, building location and number of dwelling units;
         (f)   The arrangement of streets, utilities, and other easements and
pedestrianways, drawn to scale;
         (g)   The location of off street parking spaces and loading or service
areas, drawn to scale;
         (h)   The location of public or communal open space, drawn to scale;
         (i)   Plans for site grading and preservation of existing vegetation;
         (j)   Plans for water supply, sewage disposal, stormwater drainage and
snow storage; and
         (k)   A plan for exterior lighting as required by chapter 14, "Outdoor
Lighting", of this title. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
         (l)   Digital data as required by the digital data submittal standards
policy. (Ord. 899, 5-24-2012)
      4.   A narrative statement evaluating the effects on adjoining property
of such elements as noise, glare, odor, fumes and vibration; a discussion as to
the general compatibility with adjacent and other properties in the zone; and
the relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan.
      5.   Statement indicating the precise manner of compliance with each of
the applicable provisions of this title, together with any other data pertinent
to the findings prerequisite to the granting of a conditional use permit.
      6.   Statement that the applicant is the owner or the authorized agent of
the property on which the use is proposed to be located.
      7.   Fees shall be paid by the applicant at the time of filing an
application which shall include application/filing fees, publication fees and
postage. Fees shall be in accordance with a fee schedule established
periodically by the council by resolution.
   (B)   Camps: The application for a conditional use for a camp shall include
the following materials and information, in lieu of those set out in subsection
(A) of this section:
      1.   Legal description of the property.
      2.   A plan of the proposed development, including:
         (a)   The location within the parcel of the activity areas, and, with
respect to each such area:
            (1)   The activities to occur in it, and the approximate hours
during which such activities are projected to occur. "Activity", for these
purposes, means any human activity or conduct during operation of the camp.
            (2)   The total amount of building floor area, if any, of the fixed
facilities (classrooms, chapels, dining halls, health facilities, offices,
commissary and shop buildings, shower and sanitary buildings, etc.) to be
included within it, and what those facilities are; if such facilities will be
visible from lands exterior to the parcel, either the design of such facilities
is to be included in the application, or the application shall consent to
mandatory design review for approval at such later time as design is
accomplished, and prior to the issuance of any building permit for the same.
            (3)   The total number of projected occupants in each activity area
at any one time.
            (4)   Sanitary facilities, including showers and toilets; where
interior to a fixed facility, so indicate and show the number of each.
         (b)   Principal drainage systems or drainage requirements.
         (c)   Circulation elements; the arrangement of streets, utilities, and
other easements and pedestrianways.
         (d)   Open space, and maintenance of open space.
         (e)   Such other items as may be planned, whether or not described in
this section.
         (f)   Relationship of proposed use to the use indicated in the
comprehensive plan.
         (g)   The relationship of the property to the surrounding area; and
proposed rules for the setback of activity area perimeters and fixed facilities
from the exterior boundary of the parcel.
         (h)   The location of off street parking spaces and loading or service
areas.
         (i)   Plans for site grading and landscaping of areas visible from
public roads.
         (j)   Plans for water supply, sewage disposal, stormwater drainage and
snow storage; if use of public facilities such as water or sewer is
anticipated, the estimate volume of consumption or discharge, as the case may
be, on peak days and at peak hours.
         (k)   The peak number of persons projected to be on the parcel at any
one time, and the average daily population, if different.
      3.   A narrative statement evaluating the effects on adjoining property
of such elements as noise, glare, odor, fumes and vibration; a discussion of
the general compatibility with adjacent and other properties in the vicinity;
and the relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan.
      4.   A narrative statement describing the activities of the camp. (Ord.
821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
      5.   The applicant shall provide the data as required by the digital data
submittal standards policy.
      6.   A statement that no activity will be carried on where the generation
of profit is a principal purpose; thus, a camp approved as a conditional use is
not permitted to operate a de facto motel or tourist facility; nothing in this
subsection is intended to limit a camp in operating a trading post for the sale
of snacks, personal use items, uniforms, equipment, and the like, to campers.
      7.   Fees shall be paid by the applicant at the time of filing an
application which shall include application/filing fees, publication fees and
postage. Fees shall be in accordance with a fee schedule established
periodically by the council by resolution. (Ord. 899, 5-24-2012)
3.13.033: CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT:
The commission may require an environmental assessment to be submitted prior to
the issuance of any conditional use permit when there is an operation, material
or activity which constitutes a potential threat to public health, safety and
welfare or to the quality of the environment. When requiring such an
assessment, the commission shall identify the items that shall be assessed. The
commission may require that the assessment include the signature and stamp
(where applicable) of one or more individuals or firms with demonstrated
professional competence to make such an assessment. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff.
3-16-2006)
3.13.034: EXPIRATION OF CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT:
   (A)   Conditional use permits granted prior to March 16, 2006, shall expire
in accordance with the terms and conditions of their approval. A conditional
use granted prior to March 16, 2006, the conditions of approval of which had no
stated date before which it must be exercised or expire, shall expire only when
and if:
      1.   The conditional use has not been exercised and the applicant has not
materially changed position in reliance on the same; and
      2.   The conditional use related to commencement of a use at a time
stated by the applicant, proof of that statement is in the record of the
application, and one and one-half (1.5) times the time between the date of
approval of the conditional use and the time stated by the applicant has passed
without further application to the commission.
   (B)   Conditional use permits granted after March 16, 2006, shall be
conditioned upon exercise within twelve (12) calendar months of the date of
city council approval, unless the council finds that it is unreasonable to
impose that short a time limit and imposes a longer, also specific time limit.
An unutilized conditional use permit shall automatically expire after such time
has passed. The time limit shall not be extended by amendment of existing
conditions of approval. A continuation of a conditional use beyond the stated
expiration date may only be permitted upon an application by the applicant
according to the substance and procedure for a new conditional use. (Ord. 821,
2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
3.13.035: CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT RECORDATION:
   (A)   A conditional use permit shall be in effect when the city records in
the office of the Valley County recorder the findings and conclusions of law
adopted by the council.
   (B)   The applicant shall provide the necessary funds to the city to pay all
fees charged by the recorder and a processing fee set by resolution of the
council. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
3.13.036: ADDITIONAL CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT STANDARDS FOR DWELLING, SHORT-TERM
RENTAL WITH OCCUPANCY OF 20 OR MORE GUESTS:
(Rep. by Ord. 1011, 9-8-2022)
3.13.04: ZONING ORDINANCE AMENDMENTS:
Amendments to this title may be initiated in one of the following ways:
   (A)   By adoption of a motion by the commission.
   (B)   By adoption of a motion by the council.
   (C)   By an application by persons or entities filed with the administrator.
   (D)   All applications will come to the commission for action, and then
proceed for final council action. Final approval of amendments will require the
concurrence of both the commission and the council. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff.
3-16-2006)
3.13.05: ZONING MAP AMENDMENTS:
Amendments to the zoning map may be initiated by the council, by the
commission, or by persons or entities that have an existing majority interest
by area in the property proposed to be rezoned by the amendment. (Ord. 821, 2-
23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
3.13.051: PROCEDURE FOR AMENDMENTS TO ZONING ORDINANCE OR MAP:
   (A)   An application shall be filed in triplicate.
   (B)   The applicant may be required to submit an environmental assessment
prior to approval of a zoning map change, when in the judgment of the
commission the change would permit operations, materials, or activities which
would constitute a potential threat to public health, safety and welfare or to
the quality of the environment. When requiring such an assessment, the precise
nature of the items to be included in the environmental assessment shall be
indicated. The commission may require that the assessment be over the signature
and stamp (where applicable) of one or more individuals or firms with
demonstrated professional competence to make such an assessment.
   (C)   Upon receipt of a request for amendment to the zoning ordinance, or
for amendments of the zoning map, the commission shall:
      1.   Determine if the proposed change would also require an amendment to
the comprehensive plan. The legal notice for public hearing may include notice
for the proposed changes to both the comprehensive plan and the zoning
ordinance.
      2.   Set the date for and hold a public hearing and subsequently make
recommendations to the council for approval or denial of the request in
accordance with the provisions set forth in chapter 15, "Procedures, Appeals
And Actions", of this title. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
3.13.052: APPLICATION FOR ZONING ORDINANCE AMENDMENTS:
Applications for amendments to the zoning ordinance shall include the following
information:
   (A)   Name, address and telephone number of applicant.
   (B)   Proposed amending ordinance approved as to form by the city attorney.
   (C)   Listing of reasons and justification for the proposed amendment.
   (D)   A statement how the proposed changes relate to the comprehensive plan.
   (E)   Such further information shall be submitted as the commission, upon
examination of the application, may require.
   (F)   Fees shall be paid by the applicant at the time of filing an
application which shall include application/filing fees, publication fees and
postage. Fees shall be in accordance with a fee schedule established
periodically by the council by resolution. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-
2006)
3.13.053: APPLICATION FOR ZONING MAP AMENDMENTS:
Applications for amendments to the zoning map and/or comprehensive plan shall
contain at least the following information:
   (A)   Name, address and telephone number of applicant.
   (B)   Proposed amending ordinance and map, approved as to form by the city
attorney.
   (C)   Present land use.
   (D)   Present zoning classification.
   (E)   Proposed use by reason for which map amendment is sought.
   (F)   Proposed zoning classification.
   (G)   A vicinity map at a scale to sufficiently illustrate the property in
question and surrounding properties, road and geographical features and
including the following:
      1.   North arrow.
      2.   Scale.
      3.   Names of adjacent property owners on the respective parcels.
      4.   Existing and proposed zoning.
      5.   Other information as the commission may require.
   (H)   A list of all property owners and their mailing addresses, owning
property any part of which is within, or within three hundred feet (300') of,
the external boundaries of the land being considered, according to the Valley
County assessor.
   (I)   A statement how the proposed changes relate to the comprehensive plan,
availability of public facilities and compatibility with the surrounding area.
   (J)   An environmental assessment, in the event requested by the commission,
complying with section
3.13.033 of this chapter.
   (K)   Fees shall be paid by the applicant at the time of filing an
application. Fees shall be in accordance with a fee schedule established
periodically by the council by resolution.
   (L)   Such further information shall be submitted as the commission, upon
examination of the application, may require. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-
2006)
3.13.054: RESUBMISSION OF ZONING MAP AMENDMENT APPLICATION:
A zoning map amendment that has been denied by the council shall not be
resubmitted in either substantially the same form or with reference to
substantially the same premises within a period of one year from the denial,
unless there is an amendment to the comprehensive plan which results in a
change in conditions applying to the specific property under consideration.
(Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
3.13.06: ZONING UPON ANNEXATION:
Prior to annexation of an unincorporated area, the council shall request and
receive a recommendation from the commission respecting the potential zoning of
the unincorporated area. Both the commission and the council shall follow the
notice and hearing procedures provided in Idaho Code section 67-6509 for
hearing the issue of zoning upon annexation. Concurrently, or immediately
following the adoption of annexation, the council shall amend as necessary the
comprehensive plan and zoning map. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
3.13.07: DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS, ZONING ACTION:
A rezoning may be made upon the condition that the applicant and the property
owner, if a different person, make one or more written commitments concerning
the use or development of the subject parcel, as follows:
   (A)   Subject to the remainder of this section, a zoning map amendment may
include and be subject to a written development agreement setting out
commitments by the applicant and the owner of the property that restrict
structures, or the use of land or structures, to a greater degree than
otherwise provided for within a zone affected by the amendment.
   (B)   A written development agreement may include commitments for one or
more of the following purposes:
      1.   To prohibit structures, or uses of land or structures, that would
adversely affect the surrounding neighborhood or conflict with the
comprehensive plan;
      2.   To conform the zoning map amendment to the comprehensive plan;
      3.   To conform development under the zoning map amendment to existing
patterns of development in the surrounding neighborhood;
      4.   To mitigate the adverse effects of development under the zoning map
amendment on the surrounding neighborhood and on public facilities and
services; or
      5.   To narrow the permitted uses in the zone to the end that what is
permitted to occur is that which is represented by the applicant to be the
purpose of the amendment.
   (C)   A development agreement shall set out commitments to do one or more of
the following:
      1.   Limit residential density; or prohibit structures, or uses of land
or structures, otherwise permitted in a zone;
      2.   Require compliance with a site plan and/or design standards for
structures and other site features;
      3.   Require compliance with a site plan approved by the council either
in conjunction with the rezoning or under the procedures for a conditional use;
      4.   Require the construction and installation of improvements, including
public improvements; or
      5.   Impose time limits for taking subsequent development actions.
   (D)   A zoning action subject to a development agreement shall be identified
on the zoning map by the suffix "DA", and the number of the ordinance applying
the development agreement.
   (E)   Where a commitment in a development agreement conflicts with any less
restrictive provision of this title, the commitment governs.
   (F)   The development agreement may be suggested by the applicant as part of
the application for the zoning map amendment, or may be suggested by the
commission or council. A development agreement may not be imposed without the
consent of both the owner of the property and the council. The negotiation of a
development agreement, and its signature by the applicant and the owner, does
not commit the council to the adoption of the zoning map amendment; a zoning
map amendment subject to a development agreement, in turn, shall not be
effective until such time as all parties have signed the development agreement,
and a notice of development agreement has been recorded.
   (G)   The development agreement shall take the form of a written contract
between the owner, the applicant (if not the owner), and the city of McCall,
setting out the commitments in a form satisfactory to the administrator and the
city attorney.
   (H)   The applicant shall provide the necessary funds to the city to pay all
costs of preparing the development agreement, and a reasonable processing fee
set by resolution of the council.
   (I)   A development agreement may be modified, or terminated, only in accord
with notice and hearing according to the procedures for a conditional use.
   (J)   A breach of a development agreement by the owner or occupant of the
affected land is a violation of this title.
   (K)   A development agreement shall terminate, and the zoning map amendment
of which it is a part shall be reversed, upon the expiration of a therein
stated time during which the rezoning was to have been exercised in accord with
the development agreement, without such an exercise having been made. Such a
nonexercise, or a failure by the owner to meet conditions in the development
agreement, is, by the Idaho Code, consent of the owner to a rezone of the
subject parcel to the zone in which it was classified prior to the zoning map
amendment which gave rise to the development agreement. In the event of such a
rezone, nothing located or done on the subject parcel shall thereby be deemed a
nonconforming use or structure (as opposed to an illegal use or structure),
unless it was a nonconforming use or structure prior to the zoning map
amendment which gave rise to the development agreement.
   (L)   When executed, a notice of decision, findings of fact and conclusions
of law of the council shall be recorded at the applicant's expense in the
office of the recorder for Valley County. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
3.13.08: COMMUNITY IMPACT REVIEW:
A community impact review, when required by the commission or the council, will
be prepared by an independent expert chosen by the city, with the costs of the
assessment being paid by the applicant. The review will include those of the
following potential impacts to the city as applicable to the specific project
and as selected by the commission or the council. To be included in the review
are projected costs or benefits to the city as well as other impacts.
   (A)   The projected costs arising from the demand for (including staff
resources) and required improvements to public services and infrastructure,
including streets;
   (B)   The value of improvements to public services and facilities to be
provided by the project;
   (C)   The projected tax increase or loss in revenues to be generated by the
project;
   (D)   The projected impact on property values in the community (especially
those located in the NC, CC, CBD, and CV zones);
   (E)   The projected net job loss or creation caused by the project;
   (F)   An estimate of how much revenue generated by the project will be
retained and redirected back into the economy of the city;
   (G)   An estimate of the impact on other local public agencies (fire
department, public schools, hospital, etc.); and
   (H)   An estimate of the impact to any community housing program then in
place. The review will be accompanied by a statement of proposed mitigation for
each reported impact as applicable. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
3.13.09: STANDARDS FOR DWELLING, SHORT-TERM RENTALS:
   (A)   Purposes: The purposes of these requirements for a Short-Term Rental
Dwelling are:
      1.   To ensure that the use of Short-Term Rental Dwellings have no
greater impacts than would be created by long-term residential occupancy of the
Dwelling;
      2.   To protect the health, safety and general welfare of occupants of
Short-Term Rental Dwellings and the surrounding property owners through an
inspection of Short-Term Rental Dwelling structures in compliance with MCC
Title 2 and the applicable codes referenced therein; and
      3.   To protect the rights of property owners adjacent to Short-Term
Rental Dwellings to a quiet, safe and neighborly environment free from
nuisances that would not exist or would be less intensive but for the use of a
Dwelling as a Short-Term Rental.
   (B)   Permit Required: Prior to advertising or operating a Dwelling as a
Short-Term Rental, any property owner or property manager who leases, rents or
otherwise makes available for compensation a Short-Term Rental Dwelling, such
property owner or manager must first obtain a Short-Term Rental Permit pursuant
to MCC Title 4.
   (C)   Standards: All Dwelling Short-Term Rentals shall comply with the
following requirements:
      1.   Access: Owners shall maintain access to the property and structures
that is safe and free from obstructions for pedestrians and vehicles and shall
be adequately sized and designed so that access to other properties is not
impacted nor are unsafe conditions on public streets created contrary to the
standards adopted by the McCall Fire District and the City Council.
      2.   Parking: All parking for the unit is contained on the site, not more
than one (1) parking space per bedroom is provided, all trailers and vehicles
shall be parked on an improved surfaced area and shall not allow parking on the
public right-of way.
      3.   Occupancy: Short-Term Rentals shall contain no more than two (2)
persons per bedroom, plus two additional persons, as identified in the Short-
Term Rental Permit application and as defined by McCall City Code Section
3.2.02. Total maximum occupancy of the Short-Term Rental shall not exceed ten
(10) persons without the issuance of a conditional use permit pursuant to MCC
3.13.03.
      4.   Noise: Loud music, outdoor activities or any other source of noise
that can be heard beyond the perimeter of the Short-Term Rental premises shall
not be generated between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. the following
day.
      5.   Health and Safety Inspection: Protection of the health and safety of
occupants of a Short-Term Rental Dwelling and surrounding property owners shall
be ensured through an inspection and approval of the Short-Term Rental Dwelling
by the Fire Code Official for the McCall Fire Protection District prior to the
issuance of a business license pursuant to MCC Title 4, Chapter 2. Such
inspection shall be subject to a fire, health and safety checklist developed by
the Fire Code Official and approved from time-to-time by resolution of the City
Council.
      6.   Posted Notice: A written notice shall be posted in a conspicuous
location within the unit that describes restrictions on use of the unit. Such
notice shall include, but is not limited to the structure’s maximum occupancy,
parking requirements, solid waste and fireplace ash disposal, quiet hours,
noise restrictions, and restrictions on outdoor activity. A written notice
shall also be posted detailing the emergency exiting plan approved by the Fire
Code Official, Short-Term Rental business permit number, and the name and phone
number of Local Contact Person and property owner.
      7.   Events: No Events shall be located at a Short-Term Rental without
first obtaining a conditional use permit.
      8.   Accessory Dwelling Unit: If the Short-Term Rental is located on a
parcel that contains an accessory dwelling unit and a primary residence, then
one of the dwellings must be owner occupied or a local housing, non-Short-Term
Rental, dwelling unit.
      9.   Exterior Changes: No exterior changes shall be made to the
structures or site conditions at a Short-Term Rental that would eliminate its
appearance or use as a Dwelling Unit for long term residency.
   (D)   Application Process: An application for a Short-Term Rental business
license shall be submitted to the City in compliance with the procedures set
forth in Title 4.
   (E)   Compliance:
      1.    All Owners wishing to operate a Short-Term Rental must be in
immediate compliance with the provisions of this Section as well as the
provisions of Title 4 applicable to Short-Term Rentals as follows:
         a.   All Owners of Short-Term Rentals may continue to operate under
existing business licenses through December 31, 2022.
         b.   Owners of existing Short-Term Rentals wishing to operate in 2023
or at any time thereafter must submit an application for a Short-Term Rental
Permit to the City according to the provisions of Title 4.
         c.   Any Owner shall submit an application for a Short-Term Rental
Permit after October 1, 2022 and must be in general compliance with all the
Short-Term Rental regulations in this chapter and Title 4 by January 1, 2024.
All permits will expire on December 31 of each year and must be renewed
annually.
   (F)   Enforcement of the requirements set forth in this section shall follow
the enforcement provisions of MCC Title 4. (Ord. 1011, 9-8-2022)
CHAPTER 14
OUTDOOR LIGHTING
SECTION:
3.14.01: Purpose
3.14.02: Guidelines
3.14.03: Applicability
3.14.04: Definitions
3.14.05: Outdoor Lighting Standards
3.14.050: General Standards
3.14.051: Type Of Luminaires
3.14.052: Placement And Height Of Luminaires
3.14.053: Luminance And Type Of Lamp
3.14.054: Tables And Information Sheets
3.14.06: Procedure
3.14.07: Violations And Legal Actions
3.14.08: Exemptions
3.14.09: Figures And Tables
3.14.01: PURPOSE:
   (A)   This chapter shall be known as the CITY OF McCALL OUTDOOR LIGHTING
ORDINANCE.
   (B)   The general purpose of this chapter is to protect and promote the
public health, safety and welfare, the quality of life, and the ability to view
the night sky, by establishing regulations and a process for review of exterior
lighting. This chapter establishes standards for exterior lighting in order to
accomplish the following:
      1.   To provide safe roadways for motorists, cyclists and pedestrians;
      2.   To protect against direct glare and excessive lighting;
      3.   To ensure that sufficient lighting can be provided where needed to
promote safety and security;
      4.   To prevent light trespass in all areas of the city and the city area
of impact;
      5.   To protect and reclaim the ability to view the night sky;
      6.   To allow for flexibility in the style of lighting fixtures;
      7.   To provide lighting guidelines;
      8.   To provide assistance to property owners and occupants in bringing
nonconforming lighting into conformance with this chapter; and
      9.   To work with other jurisdictions within Valley County to meet the
purposes of this chapter. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
3.14.02: GUIDELINES:
Outdoor lighting has a significant impact to the safety, security and visual
quality of a development and the community. Following are some general
guidelines recommended to provide lighting that balances safety and energy
conservation with fixtures that complement the development and the surrounding
neighborhood.
   (A)   Design outdoor lighting to provide a uniform distribution of light
without compromising safety and security.
   (B)   The total cutoff of light should occur within the property lines of
the parcel to be developed.
   (C)   Select lighting and posts that are complementary to the general
architectural style of the development and surrounding neighborhood.
   (D)   Select light poles that are in scale with proposed or surrounding
buildings.
   (E)   Lighting should not conflict with trees within landscaped islands.
   (F)   Accent unique or special features of the site or building with
landscape lighting effects.
   (G)   Ensure that all lighting is efficiently directed to the objects or
surfaces to be illuminated and not to the surrounding properties or the night
sky. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
3.14.03: APPLICABILITY:
   (A)   New Lighting: All exterior lighting installed after the effective date
of this chapter shall conform to the standards established by this chapter.
   (B)   Existing Lighting: All existing exterior lighting installed before the
effective date hereof shall be brought into conformance with this chapter,
except section
3.14.052 of this chapter, as follows:
      1.   All existing exterior lighting located on a subject property that is
part of an application for a conditional use permit, subdivision approval,
approval of a PUD, or a building permit is required to be brought into
conformance with this chapter before issuance of a certificate of occupancy,
final inspection or final plat recordation, when applicable. For other permits,
the applicant shall have a maximum of thirty (30) days from date of permit
issuance to bring the lighting into conformance.
      2.   All other existing exterior lighting that is not in conformance with
this chapter shall, when replaced for any reason, be brought into conformance
with this chapter. (Ord. 940, 2-11-2016)
3.14.04: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter shall
be interpreted so as to give them the meanings they have in common usage and to
give this chapter the most reasonable application.
AREA LIGHT: A luminaire equipped with a lamp that produces over one thousand
eight hundred (1,800) lumens. Area lights include, but are not limited to,
streetlights, parking lot lights and yard lights. (See section
3.14.09,
table 1 of this chapter, for light output of various lamps.)
AVERAGE HORIZONTAL FOOT-CANDLE: The average level of luminance for a given
situation (with snow cover if that is to be expected in the given situation)
measured at ground level with the light meter placed parallel to the ground.
BUILDING OFFICIAL: The city of McCall building inspector.
EIGHTY FIVE DEGREE CUTOFF TYPE OF LUMINAIRES: Luminaires that do not allow
light to escape above an eighty five degree (85°) angle measured from a
vertical line from the center of the lamp extended to the ground (see section
3.14.09,
figure 2 of this chapter).
EXTERIOR LIGHTING: Temporary or permanent lighting that is installed, located
or used in such a manner to cause light rays to shine outdoors. Luminaires that
are indoors that are intended to light something outside are considered
exterior lighting for the purpose of this chapter.
FLOODLIGHT: A lamp that produces up to one thousand eight hundred (1,800)
lumens and is designed to flood a well defined area with light. (See section
3.14.09,
table 1 of this chapter for light output of various lamps.)
FOOT-CANDLE (fc): The unit used to measure the total amount of light cast on a
surface (luminance). One foot-candle is equivalent to the luminance produced by
a source of one candle at a distance of one foot (1'). One foot-candle is
approximately equal to ten (10) lux, the British unit used to measure
luminance.
FULL CUTOFF LUMINAIRES: A luminaire designed and installed where no light is
emitted at or above a horizontal plane running through the lowest point on the
luminaire. (See section
3.14.09,
figure 1 of this chapter.)
FULLY SHIELDED: The luminaire incorporates a solid barrier (the shield), which
permits no light to escape through the barrier. (See section
3.14.09,
figure 4 of this chapter).
GLARE: Stray, unshielded light striking the eye that may result in: a) nuisance
or annoyance glare such as light shining into a window; b) discomfort glare
such as bright light causing squinting of the eyes; c) disabling glare such as
bright light reducing the ability of the eyes to see into shadows; or d)
reduction of visual performance.
HOLIDAY LIGHTING: Strings of individual lamps, where the lamps are at least
three inches (3") apart and the output per lamp is not greater than fifteen
(15) lumens.
IESNA: Illuminating Engineering Society Of North America (IES or IESNA), the
professional society of lighting engineers.
IESNA RECOMMENDED PRACTICES: The current publications of the IESNA setting
forth luminance levels.
LED: A type of lamp which uses one or more light emitting diodes which can be
of any of several colors.
LAMP: The generic term for an artificial light source, to be distinguished from
the whole assembly (see definition of Luminaire), or commonly referred to as
"bulb".
LIGHT: The form of radiant energy acting on the retina of the eye to make sight
possible.
LIGHT POLLUTION: Any adverse effect of manmade light including, but not limited
to, discomfort to the eye or diminished vision due to glare, light trespass,
uplighting, the uncomfortable distraction to the eye, or any manmade light that
diminishes the ability to view the night sky.
LIGHT TRESPASS: Light falling on the property of another or the public right of
way when it is not required to do so.
LIGHTING: Any or all parts of a luminaire that function to produce light.
LIGHTING ADMINISTRATOR: A city official designated by the city manager to
administer, interpret, and enforce the provisions of this chapter and make
recommendations thereunder.
LUMEN: The unit used to quantify the amount of light energy produced by a lamp
at the lamp. Lumen output of most lamps is listed on the packaging. For
example, a sixty (60) watt incandescent lamp produces nine hundred fifty (950)
lumens while a fifty five (55) watt low pressure sodium lamp produces eight
thousand (8,000) lumens.
LUMINAIRE: A complete lighting unit, consisting of a lamp or lamps together
with the parts designed to distribute the light, to position and protect the
lamps and to connect the lamps to the power. When used, includes ballasts and
photocells. Also commonly referred to as "fixture".
LUMINANCE: The amount of light falling on any point of a surface measured in
foot-candles or lux.
MAINTAINED LUMINANCE: The condition that occurs after two hundred (200) hours
of lamp use prior to a point where luminaire cleaning is necessary.
Measurements are taken at ground level with sensor parallel to the ground for
horizontal luminance and measured at five feet (5') above ground with sensor
perpendicular to the ground for vertical luminance.
NONESSENTIAL LIGHTING: Lighting that is not necessary for an intended purpose
after the purpose has been served. Does not include any lighting used for
safety and/or public circulation purposes.
PARTIALLY SHIELDED: The luminaire incorporates a translucent barrier, the
"partial shield" around the lamp that allows some light to pass through the
barrier while concealing the lamp from the viewer. (See section
3.14.09,
figure 3 of this chapter.)
SKY GLOW: The overhead glow from light emitted sideways and upward. Sky glow is
caused by the reflection and scattering of light by dust, water vapor and other
particles suspended in the atmosphere. Sky glow reduces one's ability to view
the night sky.
TEMPORARY LIGHTING: Lighting that is intended to be used for a special event
for seven (7) days or less.
UPLIGHTING: Fully shielded lighting that is directed in such a manner as to
shine light rays above the horizontal plane. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-
2006)
3.14.05: OUTDOOR LIGHTING STANDARDS:
3.14.050: GENERAL STANDARDS:
   (A)   Exterior Lighting: All exterior lighting shall be designed, located
and lamped in order to prevent:
      1.   Overlighting;
      2.   Energy waste;
      3.   Glare;
      4.   Light trespass;
      5.   Sky glow.
   (B)   Nonessential Lighting: All nonessential exterior commercial and
residential lighting is encouraged to be turned off after business hours and/or
when not in use. Lights on a timer are encouraged. Sensor activated lights are
encouraged to replace existing lighting that is desired for security purposes.
   (C)   Canopy Lights: Canopy lights, such as service station lighting shall
be fully recessed or fully shielded so as to ensure that no light source is
visible from or causes glare on public rights of way or adjacent properties.
   (D)   Area Lights: All area lights are encouraged to be eighty five degree
(85°) full cutoff type luminaires.
   (E)   Installation After Effective Date: Idaho Power shall not install any
luminaires after the effective date hereof that lights the public right of way
without first receiving approval for any such application by the lighting
administrator. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
3.14.051: TYPE OF LUMINAIRES:
All exterior lighting shall use full cutoff luminaires with the light source
downcast and fully shielded, with the following exceptions:
   (A)   Luminaires With Maximum Output Of One Thousand Lumens: Luminaires that
have a maximum output of one thousand (1,000) lumens per fixture, regardless of
number of lamps (equal to one 60-watt incandescent light), the bulb is not
visible, and the luminaire has an opaque top or is under an opaque structure.
(See section
3.14.09,
figure 3 of this chapter.)
   (B)   Floodlights: Floodlights with external shielding shall be angled;
provided, that no light is directed above a twenty five degree (25°) angle
measured from the vertical line from the center of the light extended to the
ground, and only if the luminaire does not cause glare or light to shine on
adjacent property or public rights of way (see section
3.14.09,
figure 6 of this chapter). Photocells with timers that allow a floodlight to go
on at dusk and off by eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. are encouraged.
   (C)   Residential Holiday Lighting: Residential holiday lighting from
November 1 to February 1. Flashing holiday lights on residential properties are
discouraged. Holiday lights are encouraged to be turned off by eleven o'clock
(11:00) P.M.
   (D)   Commercial Holiday Lighting: Commercial holiday lighting from November
1 to March 15. Holiday lights are encouraged to be controlled by timers.
   (E)   Sensor Activated Luminaires: Sensor activated luminaires shall be
permitted, provided:
      1.   It is located in such a manner as to prevent glare and lighting onto
properties of others or into a public right of way;
      2.   The luminaire is set to only go on when activated and to go off
within five (5) minutes after activation has ceased;
      3.   The luminaire shall not be triggered by activity off the property.
      4.   Full cutoff luminaires are used with the light source downcast and
fully shielded.
   (F)   Emergency Lighting: Vehicular lights and all temporary emergency
lighting needed by the fire and police departments, or other emergency
services.
   (G)   Uplighting For Flags: Uplighting for flags, provided the flag is of a
government and the maximum lumen output is one thousand three hundred (1,300)
lumens. Flags are encouraged to be taken down at sunset to avoid the need for
lighting.
   (H)   Lighting Of Communication Towers: Lighting of radio, communication and
navigation towers, provided the owner or occupant demonstrates that the federal
aviation administration (FAA) regulations can only be met through the use of
lighting that does not comply with this chapter.
   (I)   Airport Lighting: Lighting at the McCall Municipal Airport, provided
the owner or occupant demonstrates that the federal aviation administration
(FAA) regulations can only be met through the use of lighting that does not
comply with this chapter.
   (J)   Neon Lights: Neon lights permitted pursuant to chapter 9, "Signs", of
this title.
   (K)   Luminaires Used For Playing Fields: Luminaires used for playing fields
shall be exempt from the height restriction, provided all other provisions of
this chapter are met and the light is used only while the field is in use.
(Ord. 940, 2-11-2016)
3.14.052: PLACEMENT AND HEIGHT OF LUMINAIRES:
   (A)   Parking Areas: Parking area luminaires shall be no taller than
seventeen feet (17') from the ground to their tallest point. Parking area
lights are encouraged to be greater in number, lower in height and lower in
light level, as opposed to fewer in number, higher in height and higher in
light level.
   (B)   Private Property: Freestanding luminaires on private property in
residential zones shall be mounted at a height equal to or less than the sum of
H = (D/3)+3, where D is the distance in feet to the nearest property boundary,
but shall not be higher than fifteen feet (15') from ground level to the top of
the luminaire, whichever is less.
Example:
 
Pole Height Distance To Property Line
15 feet     36 feet (36/3 = 12 + 3 = 15)
12 feet     27 feet (27/3 = 9 + 3 = 12)
9 feet      18 feet (18/3 = 6 + 3 = 9)
 
   (C)   Arterial Roads: Streetlights used on arterial roads may exceed twenty
feet (20') in height, with the recommendation by the city council and only with
a finding that exceeding twenty feet (20') is necessary to protect the safety
of the residents of McCall.
   (D)   Playing Fields: Luminaires used for playing fields shall be exempt
from the height restriction, provided all other provisions of this chapter are
met and the light is used only while the field is in use. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006,
eff. 3-16-2006)
3.14.053: LUMINANCE AND TYPE OF LAMP:
   (A)   Luminance levels for parking lots, sidewalks, and other walkways
affected by side mounted building lights, and freestanding sidewalk lights (not
streetlights) shall not exceed luminance levels listed in the most current
IESNA recommended practices. The city of McCall recognizes that not every such
area will require lighting.
   (B)   Parking lot lighting shall not exceed an overall average illumination
of one and one-half (1.5) foot-candles.
   (C)   Streetlights shall be high pressure sodium, low pressure sodium or
metal halide, unless otherwise determined that another type is more efficient.
Streetlights along residential streets shall be limited to a seventy (70) watt
high pressure sodium (hps) light with a lumen output of six thousand four
hundred (6,400). Streetlights along nonresidential streets or at intersections
shall be limited to one hundred (100) watts hps, with a lumen output of nine
thousand five hundred (9,500) except that lights at major intersections on
state highways shall be limited to two hundred fifty (250) watts hps. If a
light type other than high pressure sodium is permitted, then the equivalent
output shall be the limit for the other light type (see
table 1 in section
3.14.09 of this chapter).
   (D)   All existing and/or new exterior lighting shall not cause light
trespass and shall protect adjacent properties from glare and excessive
lighting.
   (E)   The LED lighting color on new exterior lighting or for replacement
bulbs on existing exterior lighting shall not exceed three-thousand (3,000)
Kelvin. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006; amd. Ord. 1009, 10-6-2022)
3.14.054: TABLES AND INFORMATION SHEETS:
The figures and information sheets in section
3.14.09 of this chapter shall be incorporated as guidelines for the public and
the city for use in enforcing this chapter. The city does not endorse or
discriminate against any manufacturer or company that may be shown, portrayed
or mentioned by the examples. Additional information may be available at the
McCall planning department or a local lighting contractor. (Ord. 821, 2-23-
2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
3.14.06: PROCEDURE:
   (A)   Applications; Lighting Plan Required: All applications for design
review, conditional use permits, planned unit developments, subdivision
approvals, applicable sign permits, or building permits shall include lighting
plans showing location, type, height, lumen output, and luminance levels in
order to verify that lighting conforms to the provisions of this chapter. The
lighting administrator may waive the requirement for luminance level
information only if the lighting administrator finds that the luminance levels
conform to this chapter. For all other exterior lights which must conform to
the requirements of this chapter, an application shall be made to the lighting
administrator, showing location, type, height, lumen output and luminance
levels.
   (B)   Review By Lighting Administrator: The lighting administrator shall
review any new exterior lighting or any existing exterior lighting on subject
property that is part of an application for conditional use permit, planned
unit development, subdivision approval, applicable sign permits or building
permit, to determine whether the exterior lighting complies with the standards
of this chapter.
   (C)   Recommendations Of Administrator: The lighting administrator shall
convey in writing a recommendation whether the exterior lighting complies with
the standards of this chapter to the building official, the commission, or the
McCall city council, as the case may be, before any review or hearing on a
building permit, design view, conditional use permit, planned unit development,
subdivision application, or applicable sign permit.
   (D)   Issuance Of Decision; Right To Appeal: For all other exterior lighting
which must conform to the requirements of this chapter, the lighting
administrator shall issue a decision whether the exterior lighting complies
with the standards of this chapter. All such decisions may be appealed to the
commission within thirty (30) days of the decision. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff.
3-16-2006)
3.14.07: VIOLATIONS AND LEGAL ACTIONS:
If the lighting administrator finds that any provision of this chapter is being
violated, notice shall be given by hand delivery or by certified mail, return
receipt requested, of such violation to the owner and/or to the occupant of
such premises, demanding that the violation be abated within thirty (30) days
of the date of hand delivery or of the date of mailing of the notice. The
planning department staff shall be available to assist in working with the
violator to correct said violation. If the violation is not abated within the
thirty (30) day period, the lighting administrator may institute actions and
proceedings, either legal or equitable, to enjoin, restrain or abate any
violations of this chapter. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
3.14.08: EXEMPTIONS:
   (A)   Exemptions Enumerated: The following are exempt from the provisions of
this chapter:
      1.   Seasonal displays using multiple low wattage bulbs (about 15 lumens,
or less); provided, that they do not constitute a fire hazard, create a
nuisance, and are maintained in a safe and attractive condition.
      2.   Vehicular lights and all temporary emergency lighting needed by the
police department and the fire protection district, or other emergency
services.
      3.   All temporary lighting used for the construction or repair of
roadways, utilities, and other public infrastructure.
      4.   All lighting required by state or federal regulatory agencies.
      5.   Licensed watercraft using normal navigation lighting.
      6.   Agriculture uses during normal harvesting or herding activities.
   (B)   Application For Exemption: The lighting administrator may authorize
additional property specific exemptions when proposed outdoor lighting does not
conflict with the purposes of this chapter. An application for such an
exemption must be made in writing and include an outdoor lighting plan pursuant
to section
3.14.05 of this chapter. Temporary lighting for special events shall be
reviewed in this manner. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
3.14.09: FIGURES AND TABLES:
Figure 1: Cutoff Outdoor Lighting Fixture
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/da309f2534fb351bbed1003b3bd0777eedff815e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1990.png]
What is a true full cutoff outdoor lighting fixture?
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/da309f2534fb351bbed1003b3bd0777eedff815e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1992.png]
Flat glass lens, eliminates or minimizes direct glare, no upward throw of
light. The housings for these fixtures are available in many styles.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/da309f2534fb351bbed1003b3bd0777eedff815e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1994.png]
Same fixture as above mounted incorrectly - defeating the horizontal mounting
design. The fixture now produces direct glare, and can also produce up light at
steeper mounting angles.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/da309f2534fb351bbed1003b3bd0777eedff815e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1996.png]
Known as just "cutoff" center "drop" or "sag" lens with or without exposed
bulb, produces direct glare.
Figure 2: 85° Full Cut-off Fixture
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/da309f2534fb351bbed1003b3bd0777eedff815e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1998.png]
Figure 3: Partially Shielded (Translucent Siding, Bulb Not Visible)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/da309f2534fb351bbed1003b3bd0777eedff815e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2000.png]
Figure 4: Shielded
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/da309f2534fb351bbed1003b3bd0777eedff815e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2002.png]
Figure 5: Unshielded With Opaque Top
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/da309f2534fb351bbed1003b3bd0777eedff815e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2004.png]
Figure 6: Angle Of Floodlight
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/da309f2534fb351bbed1003b3bd0777eedff815e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2006.png]
Figure 7: Directional Floodlight With External Shielding
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/da309f2534fb351bbed1003b3bd0777eedff815e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2008.png]
TABLE 1
INITIAL RATED LIGHT OUTPUT OR VARIOUS LAMPS
(Information from Sylvania #PL-150, General Electric #9200 and Phillips #SG-100
large lamp catalogs)
Lamp Type Lamp Wattage Initial Lumen Output
Lamp Type                                    Lamp Wattage Initial Lumen Output
Incandescent lamp (frosted) (Syl.)           25           235
Incandescent lamp (frosted) (Syl.)           40           375
Incandescent lamp (frosted) (Syl.)           60           890
Incandescent lamp (frosted) (Syl.)           100          1,690
Incandescent lamp (frosted) (Syl.)           150          2,850
Incandescent flood or spot (G.E.)            75           765
Incandescent flood or spot (G.E.)            120          1,500
Incandescent flood or spot (G.E.)            150          2,000
Quartz halogen lamp (frosted) (Syl.)         42           665
Quartz halogen lamp (frosted) (Syl.)         52           885
Quartz halogen lamp (frosted) (Syl.)         72           1,300
Quartz halogen lamp (frosted) (Syl.)         300          6,000
Quartz halogen lamp (frosted) (Syl.)         500          10,500
Quartz halogen lamp (frosted) (Syl.)         1000         21,000
Quartz halogen mini flood or spot (G.E.) (12 20           260
volt MR-16 type)
Quartz halogen mini flood or spot (G.E.) (12 42           630
volt MR-16 type)
Quartz halogen mini flood or spot (G.E.) (12 50           895
volt MR-16 type)
Quarts halogen mini flood or spot (G.E.) (12 75           1,300
volt MR-16 type)
Fluorescent lamp (Phillips)                  7            400
Fluorescent lamp (Phillips)                  9            600
Fluorescent lamp (Phillips)                  13           900
Fluorescent lamp (Phillips)                  22           1,200
Fluorescent lamp (Phillips)                  28           1,600
Fluorescent lamp (G.E. cool white)           40           3,150
Low pressure sodium lamp (Phillips)          18           1,800
Low pressure sodium lamp (Phillips)          35           4,800
Low pressure sodium lamp (Phillips)          55           8,000
Low pressure sodium lamp (Phillips)          90           13,500
Low pressure sodium lamp (Phillips)          135          22,500
Low pressure sodium lamp (Phillips)          180          33,000
High pressure sodium lamp (diffuse) (G.E.)   35           2,250
High pressure sodium lamp (diffuse) (G.E.)   50           4,000
High pressure sodium lamp (diffuse) (G.E.)   70           6,400
High pressure sodium lamp (diffuse) (G.E.)   100          9,500
High pressure sodium lamp (diffuse) (G.E.)   150          16,000
High pressure sodium lamp (diffuse) (G.E.)   250          27,500
High pressure sodium lamp (diffuse) (G.E.)   400          50,000
Mercury vapor lamp (white deluxe) (Syl.)     100          4,500
Mercury vapor lamp (white deluxe) (Syl.)     175          8,500
Mercury vapor lamp (white deluxe) (Syl.)     250          11,100
Mercury vapor lamp (white deluxe) (Syl.)     400          20,100
Metal halide lamp (coated) (G.E.)            32           2,500
Metal halide lamp (coated) (Venture)         50           3,400
Metal halide lamp (coated) (G.E.)            175          15,750
Metal halide lamp (coated) (G.E.)            250          20,500
Metal halide lamp (coated) (G.E.)            400          36,000
 
TABLE 2
MOUNTING HEIGHT/LAMP OUTPUT RECOMMENDATIONS
Table 2 lists the maximum lumen levels standards at various heights above
ground level. It provides specific examples listing the common types of
lighting sources, lumen levels, and permitted mounting heights.
Mounting Height (Feet) Max Lumens
Mounting Height (Feet) Max Lumens
6                      1,000
8                      600 to 1,600
10                     1,000 to 2,000
12                     1,600 to 2,400
16                     2,400 to 6,000
20                     4,000 to 8,000
24                     6,000 to 9,000
28                     8,000 to 12,000
32                     9,000 to 24,000
36                     12,000 to 28,000
40                     16,000 to 32,000
 
TABLE 3
MOUNTING HEIGHT RECOMMENDATIONS PER LAMP TYPE LOW PRESSURE SODIUM
Wattage 180W 135W 90W 55W 35W 18W
Wattage          180W   135W      90W    55W   35W       18W
Mounting heights >40'   30' - 32' 28'    24'   16' - 20' 10'
Initial lumens   33,000 22,500    13,500 8,000 4,800     1,800
Mean lumens      33,000 22,500    13,500 8,000 4,800     1,800
Lamp wattage     180    135       90     55    35        18
Circuit wattage  220    180       125    80    60        30
Initial lum/watt 150    125       108    100   80        60
Mean lum/watt    150    125       108    100   80        60
Annual KWH use   902    738       513    328   216       123
HIGH PRESSURE SODIUM
Wattage 400W 250W 200W 150W 100W 70W 50W 35W
Wattage          400W   250W   200W   150W   100W  70W   50W   35W
Mounting heights >50'   32-36' 30'    28'    24'   20'   16'   12'
Initial lumens   50,000 28,500 22,000 16,000 9,500 6,300 4,000 2,250
Mean lumens      45,000 25,700 19,800 14,400 8,550 5,470 3,600 2,025
Lamp wattage     400    250    200    150    100   70    50    35
Circuit wattage  465    294    246    193    130   88    66    46
Initial lum/watt 108    97     89     83     73    72    61    49
Mean lum/watt    97     87     80     75     66    64    55    44
Annual KWH use   1,907  1,205  1,009  791    533   361   271   189
METAL HALIDE
Wattage 1000W 400W 250W 175W 150W 100W 70W 50W 32W
Wattage          1000W   400W   250W   175W   150W   100W  70W   50W   32W
Mounting         >60'    >36'   >30'   >28'   >24'   >20'  >16'  >12'  >10'
Initial lumens   110,000 36,000 20,500 16,600 13,000 9,000 5,500 3,500 2,500
Mean lumens      88,000  28,800 17,000 10,350 8,700  6,400 4,000 2,500 1,900
Lamp wattage     1,000   400    250    175    150    100   70    50    32
Circuit wattage  1,070   456    295    215    184    115   88    62    43
Initial lum/watt 103     79     69     77     71     78    63    56    58
Mean lum/watt    82      63     58     48     47     56    45    40    44
Annual KWH       4,387   1,870  1,210  882    754    472   361   254   176
(Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
CHAPTER 15
PROCEDURES, APPEALS AND ACTION
SECTION:
3.15.01: Applicant; General Procedures
3.15.02: Preliminary Development Plan Review
3.15.03: Date And Notice Of Public Hearing
3.15.04: Conduct Of Hearings
3.15.05: Action By Commission
3.15.06: Notification To Applicant
3.15.07: Action By City Council
3.15.08: Appeal Or Request For Hearing By Aggrieved Persons
3.15.09: Administrative Appeals
3.15.10: Judicial Review
3.15.01: APPLICANT; GENERAL PROCEDURES:
   (A)   An applicant for an approval required by this title must be the owner
of the subject property or a person who has written permission from the owner
to make application in the name of the owner.
   (B)   Unless waived or excepted by specific provisions of this chapter,
title, or title IX of this code, the procedures in this chapter apply to
preliminary development plan reviews and applications for: an amendment of this
title or title IX of this code, a zoning map amendment (except a legislative
rather than quasi-judicial revision of the zoning map), a variance, a planned
unit development, a conditional use permit, a subdivision, a scenic route
approval, a request to vacate an easement or right of way, appeals, or other
land use decisions referenced by this title and title IX of this code.
   (C)   The provisions of section
3.15.02, "Preliminary Development Plan Review", of this chapter, apply prior,
and in addition, to the formal application for a land use approval. Evidence of
compliance with section
3.15.02 of this chapter must be submitted as part of the application. (Ord.
821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
3.15.02: PRELIMINARY DEVELOPMENT PLAN REVIEW:
   (A)   Presentation Of Plan: The applicant will present to the administrator
and commission, in a scheduled meeting, but a nonpublic hearing, a preliminary
development plan for review and discussion. All materials to be reviewed and
discussed shall be provided, or be available, to commission members at a
regular scheduled meeting of the commission.
   (B)   Neighborhood Meetings: It is required that the applicant organize one,
or more, meetings of neighboring groups before submitting plans for a public
hearing. The purpose of such meetings is to obtain input to improve plans and
reduce negative comment from neighbors.
      1.   Timing: Within 75 days and not less than 7 days prior to the
submittal of an application, the applicant shall conduct a neighborhood
meeting.
      2.   Notification: Notification of the neighborhood meeting shall be sent
by US mail to all property owners within 300' of the site of the proposed
application at least 14 days prior to the date of the meeting. The notice shall
describe the application and invite those property owners to the neighborhood
meeting to discuss the proposal.
      3.   Summary of the Meeting: The application submitted to the City shall
include a summary of the comments received at the meeting and a listing of the
persons attending.
   (C)   Review And Meetings Not Required For Appeals: Preliminary development
plan review and neighborhood meetings are not required for appeals.
   (D)   Waiver Of Requirements: The administrator may waive the requirements
of this section for those applications deemed to be routine in nature or to
have no substantial impact on adjacent properties or the community at large.
(Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006; amd. Ord. 983, 12-19-2019, eff. 1-1-2020)
3.15.03: DATE AND NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING:
   (A)   Date; Quorum: The date for public hearings shall be fixed by the
chairman of the commission within a reasonable time and in no event shall the
date be set later than seventy five (75) days after the receipt of a complete
application and all necessary documents pertinent thereto. Notwithstanding the
absence of a quorum of the commission at the time set for a particular hearing,
members of the commission present may by public announcement at the time and
place of the hearing continue that hearing to a time and place where a quorum
is anticipated to be present, exercising the power of the chair to set the time
of hearing, and thus utilizing actual notice to those who responded to public
notice. Further public notice of such a continued hearing need only be given by
posting at city hall.
   (B)   Public Notice: The commission, through the administrator, shall give
public notice at least fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing date in the
official newspaper of the city. Notice shall be made available to all radio
stations within the county for use as a public service announcement.
   (C)   Notice To Adjacent Property Owners: The applicant shall give notice by
regular first class U.S. mail or personal delivery, and shall provide an
affidavit, or proof, of such notice, to each owner of property of record as
shown on records obtained from the Valley County assessor's office, or a
commercial title company doing business in the county or city, any portion of
which is located within three hundred feet (300') of the exterior boundary of
the subject property, and to all others as required by state law to be entitled
to notice. The notice shall be mailed or delivered at least fourteen (14) days
prior to the scheduled public hearing. The notice shall give the date, time and
place of the hearing, the name(s) of the applicant(s), the relief sought, an
identification of the subject property, and such other information as may be
prescribed by the commission. If the city is the applicant for modification or
revocation of a variance or conditional use, such notice shall also be sent to
the owner of the subject property by certified mail, return receipt requested,
and delivered by hand to the occupant of the property. If an applicant is not
the owner of all of the property affected by the application, as a zoning map
amendment initiated by some but not all owners of the property affected, such
notice shall also be sent to the owner of the subject property by certified
mail, return receipt requested.
   (D)   Notice To Property Owner: In the event that the application has been
filed by a person other than the property owner as such property owner is shown
on the last equalized assessment roll, notice shall be mailed to the property
owner.
   (E)   Request For Notice; Fee: Notice shall be given by first class mail to
any person who has filed a written request with the administrator. Such a
request may be submitted at any time during the calendar year and shall apply
for the balance of such calendar year. The city may impose a reasonable fee on
persons requesting such notice for the purpose of recovering the cost of such
mailing.
   (F)   Additional Notices: If, during the preliminary review of the proposed
project, the commission decides that a greater number of property owners, or
owners with properties more than three hundred feet (300') from the exterior
boundary of the subject property, should be noticed, the commission will so
advise the applicant of the decision and the additional notices required.
   (G)   Failure To Receive Notice: The failure to receive notice by any person
entitled thereto by law or by this chapter does not affect the validity of any
action taken pursuant to the procedures set forth in this chapter.
   (H)   Posting Notice On Property: The applicant shall post notice, in a form
approved by the administrator, conspicuously on the premises which is the
subject of the application, not less than fifteen (15) days prior to the
hearing date. The applicant shall provide photographic evidence of such notice
to the administrator.
   (I)   Published Notice And Map: When notice of a hearing on a proposed
zoning map amendment, conditional use, variance, scenic route application,
planned unit development, or other zoning action is required to two hundred
(200) or more property owners or purchasers of record, notice otherwise
required by subsections (C) and (D) of this section need not be given;
provided, that the published notice under subsection (B) of this section
includes a map identifying the property together with text indicating the
general nature of the zoning change proposed. The format of notice shall be
provided by the administrator.
   (J)   Payment Of Fees: Fees shall be paid by the applicant at the time of
filing an application. Fees shall be in accordance with a fee schedule
established periodically by the council by resolution. These fees shall include
costs of publication, mailing fees, any application fees and other charges as
may be set by the council by resolution. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
3.15.04: CONDUCT OF HEARINGS:
The commission and/or council shall conduct all public hearings under this
title as follows:
   (A)   A sign-in roster shall be kept at the entrance to the hearing room for
all persons who wish to testify at the hearing on a particular application or
issue.
   (B)   The chair of the meeting shall conduct the hearing in accordance with
"Robert's Rules Of Order, Newly Revised", or its most recent revision.
   (C)   A transcribable record shall be taken and maintained, including audio
and written.
   (D)   The chair shall call upon the administrator or staff to make
preliminary presentation of facts and recommendations to the commission,
including a summary of any comments or recommendations from other agencies.
   (E)   The chair shall then invite the applicant to make a presentation of
the proposal to the commission.
   (F)   Every document or tangible thing referred to by any person during
testimony (including charts, maps, photographic evidence or any other evidence)
shall be marked and entered into the record of the proceeding. Such exhibits
shall be maintained at the office of the city clerk during the appeal period,
and if incorporated into or referenced by a condition of approval, thereafter
for as long as necessary to ensure conformance. No exhibit shall be used or
presented by an applicant as expressing the applicant's intent or promise,
unless the applicant intends that compliance with that exhibit may be made a
condition of the approval of the application.
   (G)   After the administrator or staff presentation and presentation by the
applicant, the chair shall open the hearing for public testimony and shall
invite the public to address the commission in the order of names found on the
sign-in roster. If in the opinion of the chair the number of persons testifying
is so large as to unduly delay the process of the hearing, the chair may limit
public testimony to three (3) minutes or such other time for each member of the
public.
   (H)   All persons testifying before the commission or council shall state,
for the record, their full name and address.
   (I)   Members of the commission, council or the attorney assigned to advise
the commission or council may question any person who testified at any time or
may, upon approval of a majority of the members present, recall a person for
further testimony.
   (J)   Before the close of the public testimony, the chair shall ask if any
person attending the hearing who did not sign the roster wishes to be heard and
any such person shall be given one opportunity to testify.
   (K)   At the close of public testimony, the chair shall solicit comments
from administrator or staff for additional facts or clarifications as a result
of the testimony given. After comments from administrator or staff, the
applicant or appellant shall be given an opportunity to address final comments
to the commission or council.
   (L)   After all testimony, the chair shall declare the public hearing closed
and shall bring the matter back before the commission or council for discussion
and action. Audience participation ceases at that time. The public hearing may
be continued upon motion to a date certain which shall be announced to the
public there assembled.
   (M)   The discussion and decision may be deferred until another date certain
which shall be then announced to the public there assembled. (Ord. 821, 2-23-
2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
3.15.05: ACTION BY COMMISSION:
Within thirty five (35) days after the public hearing, the commission shall
recommend to the council either approval, conditional approval, or disapproval
of an application; or, in the case of preliminary approval of a subdivision
plat, make its decision to approve or not to approve such plat, with or without
conditions. Upon making a recommendation, granting or denying an application,
the commission shall specify in the minutes, and forward to the council,
findings of fact and conclusions of law which shall include:
   (A)   The ordinance and standards used in the evaluation of the application.
   (B)   The manner in which the applicant complies or does not comply with the
standards used in evaluating the application.
   (C)   The reasons for the recommendation upon, or approval or denial of the
application.
   (D)   The conditions, if any, upon which a recommendation or an approval was
made.
   (E)   A denial by the commission is a denial of an application, and, unless
appealed to the city council, the application will be terminated and the
application fee forfeited.
   (F)   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to gain approval of
the application.
   (G)   The time limit set forth above for acting on the application may be
extended at the request of the developer and approved by the commission. (Ord.
821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
3.15.06: NOTIFICATION TO APPLICANT:
Within twenty (20) days after a recommendation has been made or a decision has
been rendered, the administrator shall provide the applicant with written
notice of the action. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
3.15.07: ACTION BY CITY COUNCIL:
   (A)   Right To Hearing; Exceptions: Within forty five (45) days after
receipt of a recommendation and findings of fact and conclusions of law from
the commission, the council shall hold a public hearing at which interested
persons shall have the opportunity to be heard, except when:
      1.   The recommendation is for a variance, subdivision, planned unit
development, or conditional use permit; and
      2.   The commission recommended that no second hearing be held; and
      3.   An appeal of the commission's action is not filed.
When these three (3) conditions are met, the council may act on the
commission's recommendation without conducting a second hearing.
   (B)   Public Notice Of Hearing: If a hearing before the council is required,
notice shall be given to the public at least fifteen (15) days prior to the
hearing date, by publication, in the official newspaper of the city. Notice
shall also be made available to all radio stations within the county.
   (C)   Notice To Adjacent Property Owners: Notice of the hearing shall be
given by regular United States mail or personal delivery to each owner of
property as shown on records obtained from the Valley County assessor's office,
or a commercial title company doing business in the county or city, any portion
of which is within three hundred feet (300') of the subject property, and to
such other persons as may be required by state law. The notice shall give the
date, time and place of the hearing; the name(s) of the applicant(s); the
relief sought; an identification of the subject property; and, such other
information as may be required by the council. Notice shall also be posted
conspicuously on the subject property not less than one week prior to the
hearing date. When notice of a hearing on a proposed zoning map amendment,
conditional use, variance, planned unit development, or other zoning action is
required to two hundred (200) or more property owners or purchasers of record,
notice by mail and by posting as stated above need not be given; provided, that
the published notice under subsection (B) of this section includes a map
identifying the property together with text indicating the general nature of
the zoning change proposed.
   (D)   Second Hearing; Fee: When a second hearing is required under any
circumstances, the applicant shall pay a second filing fee, in addition to the
postage and publication fees for the second hearing.
   (E)   Amendment Concerning Lands Within Impact Area: If an amendment to the
zoning map or a planned unit development is proposed with respect to lands in
the impact area, and the action proposed would be of legislative, rather than
quasi-judicial scope as those terms are understood in land use planning law,
then final action must also include approval of the amendment or proposal by
the board, whether by identical county ordinance or by county ordinance
referring to the city ordinance, after public hearing conducted jointly with
the council. Nothing in this subsection shall be read to preclude approval by
both council and board where doubt exists as to the legislative or quasi-
judicial character of a particular action respecting the zoning map or planned
unit development. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
3.15.08: APPEAL OR REQUEST FOR HEARING BY AGGRIEVED PERSONS:
   (A)   Right To Appeal: An aggrieved person may appeal the commission
decision, or request a hearing on the commission recommendation, by filing a
notice of appeal or request for hearing in writing with the city clerk no later
than ten (10) days after the issuance of the findings and conclusions of the
commission. When such notice of appeal or request is received, proceedings
before the council shall be on the record made below. A notice of appeal shall
set out with particularity the decision or part thereof from which the appeal
is being taken, and whether or not facts found by the commission are disputed
by appellant.
   (B)   Time Limits For Actions: The council shall hold a public hearing on
the appeal and the application appealed within forty five (45) days of the
request and shall follow the hearing procedures established in section
3.15.04 of this chapter. When there is no required hearing, the council shall
put the matter down on its agenda upon a date certain for the consideration of
written and oral arguments; notice of such hearing shall be provided to
appellant no later than fifteen (15) days before the hearing; should appellant
desire to file written arguments, appellant shall do so no later than five (5)
days prior to the hearing.
   (C)   Stay Of Proceedings: An appeal or request for hearing stays all
proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed from unless, after the notice
of appeal or request for hearing is filed, the council finds that by reason of
the facts stated in the application, a stay would cause imminent peril to
health, safety or property.
   (D)   Council Action: After the hearing has been held, the council may:
      1.   Grant or deny the appeal or the permit; or
      2.   Delay such decision for no longer than sixty (60) days after the
hearing date for further study or hearing; provided, however, that the council
must render a decision no later than sixty (60) days from the date of the
hearing. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
3.15.09: ADMINISTRATIVE APPEALS:
   (A)   A person aggrieved by a decision by the administrator under this title
may appeal such decision to the commission.
   (B)   Appeals shall be filed within ten (10) days after mailing of notice of
decision by the administrator.
   (C)   Appeals shall be conducted as a public hearing before the commission
in the manner set forth in subsections
3.15.04 and
3.15.08 of this chapter. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006; amd. Ord. 998,
1-14-2021)
3.15.10: JUDICIAL REVIEW:
A person aggrieved by a decision under this title may, after all remedies have
been exhausted under local ordinances, seek judicial review under the
procedures provided by sections 67-5215(b) through (g) and section 67-5216,
Idaho Code. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
CHAPTER 16
DESIGN REVIEW
SECTION:
3.16.01: Purpose
3.16.02: Applicability
3.16.03: Review Bodies And Procedures
3.16.04: Permits
3.16.05: Design Review Process
3.16.06: Design Review Application
3.16.07: Design Review Criteria
3.16.08: Lapse Of Design Review Approval
3.16.01: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to specify the process whereby new construction
and remodeling of structures, landscaping, lighting, and public amenities are
reviewed for compliance with development and design standards prescribed in
title 3 “Planning And Zoning” and title 9 “Subdivision And Development Of The
MCC” and outlined as follows:
   1.   Section
3.3.09 “Residential Zone Special Development Standards” which requires design
review for accessory dwelling units, multifamily residential developments of
two (2) or more units and single-family residential dwelling units greater than
three thousand five hundred (3,500) square feet.
   2.   Section
3.4.031 “Maximum Setback” which allows for exception to the maximum setback
through the design review process.
   3.   Section
3.4.07 “Commercial Zones Special Development Standards” which requires design
review.
   4.   Table
3.5.03 which allows for exceptions to Table 3.5.03 DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS FOR
INDUSTRIAL ZONE PROPERTY through the design review process.
   5.   Section
3.5.04 “Specific Standards For Industrial Development In Any Zone” which
requires design review for industrial development that has a building footprint
area of ten thousand (10,000) square feet or greater, or that proposes a
maximum building height in excess of thirty five feet (35'), or that seeks to
reduce the minimum setback distance.
   6.   Section
3.5.06 “Business Park Zone General Development Standards” which requires design
review and allows for an exception to the maximum building setback through the
design review process.
   7.   Section
3.6.03 “Public Zones General Development Standards” which requires design
review except within the AP Zone.
   8.   Sections
3.7.022 “Permitted Uses” and
3.7.023 “Requirements For Development” which requires design review of any
structure which is visible from specified water bodies or within the Shoreline
and River Environs Overlay Zone as specified by section
3.7.021.
   9.   Sections
3.7.031 “Land Included” and
3.7.032 “Requirements For Development” which requires design review for all
changes or new structures visible or within one hundred fifty feet (150') of a
Scenic Route Overlay Zone.
   10.   Sections
3.8.05(C) and
3.8.05(D) which requires design review for temporary merchandise vendors and
temporary vendor courts.
   11.   
Table 3.8.063 “Minimum Required Bicycle Parking Spaces” which requires
standards for “other categories” of uses to be determined through design
review.
   12.   Section 3.8.111 “Accessory Dwelling Units” which through the design
review process allows for exception to the standard that the accessory dwelling
unit have the same exterior finishing color and textures as the principal
dwelling unit.
   13.   Section
3.8.16 “Other Requirements” which requires sidewalk, curb and gutter and/or
pathways for projects in the commercial zones requiring design review.
   14.   Section
3.8.20 “Special Standards For Garages” which allows for exceptions to the
standards through design review.
   15.   Section
3.13.032 “Application For Conditional Use Permit, (B) Camps,” which allows for
design information to be deferred until after the approval of a conditional use
permit if the applicant agrees to design review.
   16.   Section
9.6.03 “Driveways, Residential” requires design review for shared driveways.
(Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006; amd. Ord. 998, 1-14-2021; Ord. 1009, 10-
6-2022)
3.16.02: APPLICABILITY:
   (A)   The design review process shall apply to all new construction and
remodeling of structures, landscaping, lighting, and public amenities as
outlined in section
3.16.01 within the McCall Area.
   (B)   Design review shall not be required for the following building or site
modifications (although a building permit may be required):
      1.   Interior remodeling of a structure which does not impact the
exterior appearance of the structure or significantly impact the parking,
landscaping or other exterior uses of the property.
      2.   Repairs to an existing building if the outward appearance is not
significantly changed.
      3.   Improvements to or maintenance to an existing building or site where
these do not significantly impact the outward appearance of the building or
site.
   (C)   Applications for nonemergency temporary structures are not subject to
design review, but are subject to the conditional use permit process as set
forth in chapter 13, "Permits And Applications", of this title.
   (D)   Any application within a residential zone which is subject to a
subdivision design approval, and for which the design guidelines of the
subdivision have been reviewed and approved by the commission, shall show
evidence of subdivision design review and approval by the authority of the
subdivision prior to the granting of a building permit. Absent such evidence,
the applicant shall proceed under the procedures below. (Ord. 973, 11-29-2018,
eff. 1-1-2019; amd. Ord. 998, 1-14-2021)
3.16.03: REVIEW BODIES AND PROCEDURES:
All projects to which this chapter applies shall be reviewed by the
Administrator or by the planning and zoning commission as follows:
   (A)   Authority Of The Administrator:
      1.   The Administrator has the authority to approve or deny design review
applications identified in section
3.16.03(A)2.
         a.   The Administrator shall have the discretion of placing
applications on the planning and zoning commission’s consent calendar for any
application where there is some uncertainty about the application’s compliance
with the design and development standards. If the Administrator determines that
the applicant is phasing development or construction in an effort to avoid
compliance with this chapter, the Administrator may require a public hearing as
provided in Chapter 15 of this title.
         b.   In making a decision on a design review application, the
Administrator shall identify the standards used in evaluating the application,
find that the project meets the criteria for approval set forth in section
3.16.07 of this chapter, and determine that the application is in compliance
with all applicable design and development standards.
      2.   Applications which are the authority of the Administrator to review
and make a determination:
         a.   Building heights less than thirty feet (30') in any residential
zone;
         b.   Additions under five hundred (500) square feet;
         c.   Facade and exterior finish changes;
         d.   Accessory structures;
         e.   Minimum required bicycle parking for other uses;
         f.   Changes to the color and type of roofing materials;
         g.   Signs;
         h.   Fencing in certain locations and of specified materials pursuant
to sections
3.8.061(C) and
3.8.10(B);
         i.   Temporary merchandise vendors not located in an overlay zone;
         j.   Temporary vendor courts not located in an overlay zone;
         k.   Structures less than one thousand five hundred (1,500) square
feet in size and located in a commercial district, but not within the scenic
route overlay zone;
         l.   Single family residential structures less than five thousand
(5,000) square feet, and not located in an overlay zone;
         m.   Landscape plans involving no structures; and
         n.   Accessory dwelling units.
      3.   Emergency Approvals: Those applications for projects of an emergency
nature, necessary to guard against imminent peril, provide for the public
safety, or prevent further damage to a property, regardless of zone, shall
receive administrative review and approval, denial, or conditional approval,
subject to criteria set forth in section
3.16.07 of this chapter. The administrator may forward said application to the
commission for review as set forth in subsection (A)1 of this section.
   (B)   Authority Of The Planning And Zoning Commission: Applications for
projects which do not qualify under subsection (A) of this section shall
receive a public hearing before the planning and zoning commission. The
commission shall review and approve, deny, or conditionally approve the project
subject to criteria set forth in section
3.16.07 of this chapter.
   (C)   Appeals: The planning and zoning commission will hear appeals of
administrative decisions. The city council or the board of county commissioners
will hear appeals of any decision made by the commission. All appeals shall be
conducted as a public hearing in compliance with chapter 15 of this title.
(Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006; amd. Ord. 864, 2-12-2009; Ord. 998, 1-14-
2021; Ord. 1009, 10-6-2022)
3.16.04: PERMITS:
No permits shall be issued by the city for construction of any building,
project, or other improvement requiring design review before the requirements
specified by this chapter are met and approval is granted. (Ord. 821, 2-23-
2006, eff. 3-16-2006; amd. Ord. 998, 1-14-2021)
3.16.05: DESIGN REVIEW PROCESS:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/da309f2534fb351bbed1003b3bd0777eedff815e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2226.png]
Step 1. A preapplication conference with the city is recommended. At this
meeting, the representative from the city will familiarize the potential
applicant with the review process that will apply to the project and with
related city regulations and review criteria that may affect the project. The
applicant shall provide site specific information including conceptual drawings
in order to familiarize the city with the specifics of the proposal.
Step 2. A design review application per section
3.16.06 of this chapter shall be submitted for design review. All application
materials must be submitted seventy five (75) days prior to any hearing before
the commission.
Step 3. City department heads will review all projects for conformance with the
criteria set forth in section
3.16.07 of this chapter.
Step 4. Public notice in accordance with chapter 15 of this title must be
provided for all owners of property within three hundred feet (300') in those
cases where a hearing before the commission is to be held.
Step 5. The project is reviewed by the administrator or the commission per
section
3.16.03 of this chapter. The reviewing body will approve, deny or conditionally
approve the applicant's request based on criteria outlined in section
3.16.07 of this chapter.
Step 6. In order for a building permit to be issued, final construction
drawings must be reviewed and approved by the building department. Application
for a building permit must occur within one year of design review approval. The
expiration date may be extended once, for an additional six (6) months, upon
written request to the administrator. Such request must be received prior to
the expiration date. The commission shall review and approve or deny the
request for extension. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006; amd. Ord. 998, 1-
14-2021)
3.16.06: DESIGN REVIEW APPLICATION:
   (A)   All requests for permits and decisions in accordance with this chapter
shall submit an application to the Administrator on forms approved by the
Administrator and provided by the city.
   (B)   At a minimum, the application shall require the following information:
      1.   The project name;
      2.   The legal description of the project;
      3.   Name(s), address and contact information of the property owner,
applicant and representative (if any);
      4.   A written statement describing how the review criteria in section
3.16.07 of this chapter are met; and
      5.   Payment of fees (established by ordinance).
   (C)   For all new construction and substantial remodels, four (4) prints,
and/or an electronic copy of plans as prepared in a professional manner,
showing at a minimum the following:
      1.   Vicinity map, to scale, showing the project location in relationship
to neighboring buildings and the surrounding area.
      2.   Site plan, to scale, showing proposed parking, loading, snow storage
and general circulation.
      3.   If applicable, evidence of subdivision design review specifications
in force and approval granted by the city.
      4.   Detailed elevations of all sides of the proposed building and other
exterior elements.
      5.   Descriptions or details of all materials proposed for the exterior
of the building are required. Samples, including color chips, are recommended.
A minimum scale of one-eighth inch to one foot (1/8" = 1') is recommended.
      6.   Sign plan.
      7.   Landscaping plan.
      8.   Exterior lighting plan, pursuant to chapter 14 of this title.
      9.   Floor plan.
      10.   Utilities plan.
      11.   Drainage plan, including snow storage.
      (These plans may be combined on the same sheets.)
   (D)   An Idaho licensed architect, or a licensed architect of another state
which has an agreement with Idaho shall prepare all design review plans and
drawings for public projects, industrial, commercial projects; and residential
projects containing three (3) or more dwelling units, or new residential
dwelling with structure size, as defined in section
3.2.02 of this title, greater than three thousand five hundred (3,500) square
feet.
   (E)   For design review applications in the shoreline and river environs and
scenic overlay zones, a photo simulation of the proposed development set within
the proposed landscaping may be required as determined by the Administrator.
   (F)   For all other design review permits, the Administrator will determine
the application requirements. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006; amd. Ord.
998, 1-14-2021; Ord. 1009, 10-6-2022)
3.16.07: DESIGN REVIEW CRITERIA:
The commission or administrator shall determine the following before approval
is given:
   (A)   The project is in general conformance with the comprehensive plan.
   (B)   The project does not jeopardize the health, safety or welfare of the
public.
   (C)   The project conforms to the applicable requirements of the zoning
ordinance and subdivision ordinance as enumerated in section
3.16.01 of this chapter.
   (D)   The project will have no substantial impact on adjacent properties or
on the community at large.
   (E)   If applicable, a subdivision design review document has been reviewed
and approved by the commission in lieu of the design guidelines.
   (F)   For projects in the shoreline and river environs zone, the project
will not have an unreasonable and adverse impact on the visual quality of its
setting or the water quality.
   (G)   For projects in the scenic route zone, the project will preserve and
enhance the scenic quality of the street or highway. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff.
3-16-2006; amd. Ord. 998, 1-14-2021)
3.16.08: LAPSE OF DESIGN REVIEW APPROVAL:
A design review approval shall lapse and become void whenever the building
permit either lapses or is revoked, or whenever the applicant has not applied
for a building permit within one year from the date of initial design review
approval. The approval date for design review applications accompanying other
applications requiring council approval shall be the same as the council
approval date of the accompanying application(s). (Ord. 864, 2-12-2009; amd.
Ord. 998, 1-14-2021)
CHAPTER 17
ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
3.17.01: Purpose
3.17.02: Compliance By Issuers Of Permits
3.17.03: City Enforcement
3.17.04: Civil And Criminal Enforcement
3.17.05: Investigations
3.17.06: Penalties
3.17.07: Election Of Remedies
3.17.08: Severability
3.17.01: PURPOSE:
The enforcement of this title shall apply equally to each person and property
in similar circumstances; it shall not, however, be a defense to any particular
enforcement action, that some one or more other persons or properties similarly
situated are not the subject of enforcement action. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff.
3-16-2006)
3.17.02: COMPLIANCE BY ISSUERS OF PERMITS:
All departments, officials, and public employees of the city vested with the
duty or authority to issue permits shall conform to the conditions of this
title, and shall issue no permit, certificate, or license for the use of land,
buildings, or purposes in conflict with the provisions of this title, and such
permit, certificate, or license issued in conflict with the provisions of this
title shall be null and void ab initio. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
3.17.03: CITY ENFORCEMENT:
Whenever it appears to any person, including, but not limited to, the building
official, community development staff, commission members, the city council,
the Valley County prosecuting attorney, city attorney, Valley County sheriff,
or city police that any person is engaging in or about to engage in an act or
practice violating any provisions of this title, the person should orally or in
writing notify the administrator or the administrator's office. The
administrator, with the assistance of staff, the appropriate law enforcement
agency, and attorney, shall cause an investigation to be made of the alleged
violation, as the administrator deems advisable under the circumstances.
   (A)   Administrative Authority: The administrator or the administrator's
staff, or the appropriate law enforcement agency, has the authority to:
      1.   Conduct a program of continuing surveillance and of regular or
periodic inspection of potential or actual violations.
      2.   Enter, at all reasonable times after an application for a building
permit or for a permit under this title has been received, upon any private or
public property for the purpose of inspecting it or to ascertain whether there
is or has been a violation of this title, a permit, or other ordinances
relating hereto.
   (B)   Procedure Upon Determining Violation Exists: If an investigation
discloses that there is a basis for believing that a violation exists, the
administrator, or the appropriate law enforcement agency, shall follow the
following procedure, unless the administrator determines that prompt criminal
prosecution or authorization of prompt civil action should be requested:
      1.   Issue and serve upon the person alleged to have violated this title
a written notice. This notice shall specify the provision of this title,
variance or permit which has been violated; the extent and manner in which this
title, variance or permit has been violated, and the procedure for the person
to contest the allegation. A copy of this notice shall be delivered to the city
attorney, and also, if the property is located in the impact area, the Valley
County prosecuting attorney.
      2.   If a hearing is requested by the person in writing within seven (7)
days of the service of the notice, then the administrator shall schedule a
settlement conference with said person within thirty (30) days from the time
that the administrator has been served with said request for a hearing. The
administrator shall also schedule, within sixty (60) days, a hearing before the
commission on said notice.
      3.   If the allegations of the notice cannot be resolved in the above
mentioned settlement conference, the matter shall be submitted for hearing
before the commission. If the matter can be resolved, then the agreement shall
be accepted or rejected by the commission, and a recommendation forwarded to
city council.
      4.   The conduct of the hearing on the notice shall be as set forth in
chapter 15 of this title.
      5.   The commission shall render its decision, including proposed
findings of fact and conclusion of law within thirty (30) days from the date of
the hearing.
      6.   After the decision of the commission as set forth in subsection (B)5
of this section, any party has the right to appeal the decision to the city
council.
      7.   The city council shall have the right to hear the appeal from the
commission in the same manner as set forth in chapter 15, "Procedures, Appeals
And Action", of this title.
   (C)   Liability For Civil Penalty: If the preventive or corrective measure
is not taken in accordance with the settlement agreement, commission decision,
or order of the city council, then the person in violation of said agreement,
commission decision or order of the city council shall be liable for a civil
penalty not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per day, beginning with
the time fixed for the taking of the preventive or corrective measure set forth
in the agreement, commission decision or order of the city council.
   (D)   Emergency; Dangerous Conditions: If the circumstances of the violation
of this title, permit, or variance constitute an emergency creating conditions
of immediate danger to the public health, safety, welfare or to the quality of
the environment, the administrator shall immediately notify the commission, the
city council and the appropriate attorney. The city council may institute a
civil action for immediate injunction to seek any relief deemed appropriate
under the circumstances as well as a civil penalty not to exceed one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) per day.
   (E)   Factors Considered For Imposition Of Civil Penalty: The administrator
shall consider in any imposition of a civil penalty the following factors:
      1.   The nature of the violation.
      2.   Whether the violation was disclosed to the administrator or staff
prior to its detection.
      3.   Whether the violation was corrected without administrator or staff
action.
      4.   The cost of enforcing and investigating the violation.
      5.   Whether the violation was an isolated occurrence or a multiple
offense.
      6.   Whether there is an undue risk of future violations during the
remaining construction phase of the permit.
      7.   Whether a fine under the circumstances would serve as a deterrent to
this person or other persons similarly situated.
      8.   Whether there were grounds tending to excuse or justify the
violation.
      9.   Whether the person was cooperative and willing to correct the
violation.
   (F)   Settlement Agreement: At any stage of the proceedings, any person to
whom a notice has been served may waive the formal proceedings and enter into a
settlement agreement with approval of the city council. The entry of the city
into a settlement agreement under this chapter, approved by the city council,
shall constitute administrative res judicata and bars any assertion by the city
that acts or omissions of the person entering into such settlement agreement
with the city, which acts or omissions are approved in the settlement
agreement, violate provisions of this title in effect on the date of such
settlement agreement; provided, however, that such settlement agreement is
performed by that person, and provided that the assent of the city to such
settlement agreement was not procured by bribery, misrepresentation, fraud, or
other illegal influence.
   (G)   Other Available Legal Remedies Allowed: Nothing in this title or this
section shall preclude the city council from any other legal or equitable
remedy available.
   (H)   Impact Area; Officials Of Authority: The city council and the board of
county commissioners shall determine from time to time whether enforcement of
this title in court as to the impact area should be entrusted to the office of
the city attorney or the office of the Valley County prosecuting attorney, and
the matter having been so decided, such attorneys shall take all necessary
steps to effectuate that decision. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
3.17.04: CIVIL AND CRIMINAL ENFORCEMENT:
Nothing in this title respecting notice and administrative process or any other
matter shall preclude the city council or board from instituting any cause of
action against any person for any relief legally available under the
circumstances, nor preclude the city attorney or the Valley County prosecuting
attorney from commencing criminal enforcement at the request of the
administrator. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
3.17.05: INVESTIGATIONS:
Any applicant for a variance, conditional use, planned unit development, or
zone map amendment, by filing the related application, consents to inspection
of the subject property by the administrator or the administrator's staff at
all reasonable times, and by the commission during and in the context of a
hearing, for the purpose of ascertaining the completeness and accuracy of
factual assertions in the application; and any person claiming the benefit of
an approved variance or conditional use consents to inspection of the subject
property by the administrator or the administrator's staff at all reasonable
times for the purpose of inspecting or investigating whether or not the
property and use are in compliance with conditions of approval and this title.
(Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
3.17.06: PENALTIES:
   (A)   Criminal Penalties: Criminal penalties shall be as follows:
      1.   Each violation of this title, or of the conditions of approval of a
variance, planned unit development, or conditional use, and each day of each
such violation, shall be considered a separate criminal offense.
      2.   Each person acting as a principal, and each person acting as an
agent, violating this title, or the conditions of approval of a variance,
planned unit development, or conditional use, shall be responsible for the
criminal offense.
      3.   Each criminal offense shall be a misdemeanor punishable by a fine or
imprisonment, or both.
   (B)   Civil Penalties: Civil penalties shall be as follows:
      1.   Each violation of this title, or of the conditions of approval of a
variance, planned unit development, or conditional use, and each day of each
such violation, shall be considered a separate civil offense.
      2.   Each person acting as a principal, and each person acting as an
agent, violating this title, or the conditions of approval of a variance,
planned unit development, or conditional use, shall be responsible for the
civil offense.
      3.   Each civil offense shall be punishable by a civil penalty not to
exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per day or per violation, whichever is
greater.
      4.   The city, and if the property is located in the impact area, Valley
County also, shall be entitled to recover, in any action for a civil penalty,
the actual costs of investigation, enforcement, and mitigation, together with
interest, court costs, and attorney fees at the prevailing hourly rate for
attorneys practicing law in Valley County, notwithstanding that the city
attorney and Valley County prosecuting attorneys are salaried, at the option of
the city or county, as the case may be. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
3.17.07: ELECTION OF REMEDIES:
The city attorney or Valley County prosecuting attorney has the discretion to
enforce the ordinances of the city of McCall either criminally or civilly.
(Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
3.17.08: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this title is for any
reason held to be unconstitutional, or unenforceable for any reason, such
holding shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this title.
The city council hereby declares that they would have passed the ordinance
which created this title and each section, subsection, sentence, clause and
phrase thereof separately and irrespective of the fact that any one or more of
the other sections, subsections, sentences, clauses or phrases be
unconstitutional or unenforceable. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
CHAPTER 18
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
SECTION:
3.18.01: Purpose
3.18.02: Adoption Of Plan
3.18.03: Revision Of Plan
3.18.04: Certified Copies
3.18.01: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to adopt a comprehensive plan for the planning
jurisdiction, pursuant to the provisions of title 67, chapter 65, Idaho Code.
See Idaho Code section 67-6508, "Planning Duties" and section 67-6509,
"Recommendations And Adoption, Amendment, And Repeal Of The Plan". (Ord. 821,
2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
3.18.02: ADOPTION OF PLAN:
   (A)   City Of McCall: The comprehensive plan for McCall, Valley County,
Idaho, dated July 2000, prepared by Science Applications International
Corporation (SAIC), as amended and approved by resolution of the planning
commission of the city on May 16, 2000, after public hearing thereon, and
further amended by the city council, at a public hearing October 12, 2000, is
hereby adopted as the comprehensive plan of the city, and as hereafter amended.
   (B)   Area Of City Impact: That certain mutually agreed upon comprehensive
plan for the impact area dated July 2000, prepared, approved and recommended to
the governing boards of the city of McCall and county of Valley by the nine (9)
persons hereinabove described, be and the same is hereby adopted as the
comprehensive plan for the impact area, and as hereafter amended. (Ord. 821, 2-
23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
3.18.03: REVISION OF PLAN:
Following the receipt of a request for revision of the comprehensive plan, the
administrator will initiate the required notice and hearings, following the
same process as for the amendment to the zone map. See section
3.13.05 of this title. The request for a revision can be made by any member of
the council, commission, the city staff, or the general public using the
appropriate form provided by the city. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
3.18.04: CERTIFIED COPIES:
Not less than three (3) copies of the comprehensive plan described above, duly
certified by the city clerk, shall be on file for use and examination by the
public in the office of the city clerk. (Ord. 821, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
CHAPTER 19
WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITIES
SECTION:
3.19.01: Purpose
3.19.02: General Locations
3.19.03: Development Standards
3.19.04: Prohibitions
3.19.05: Permits And Applications
3.19.06: Operation, Modification And Abandonment
3.19.01: PURPOSE:
   (A)   Title: This chapter shall be known as the wireless communications
facilities chapter.
   (B)    Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to ensure that the placement,
design and operation of wireless communication facilities are consistent with
the goal of the McCall Area Comprehensive Plan to ensure a broad range of
communications services, while promoting the sharing of facilities and the
efficient use of land; minimizing the use of towers; avoiding conflict with
other public facilities and utilities; and assuring compatibility with adjacent
and nearby land use. This chapter establishes standards for wireless
communication facilities in order to accomplish the following:
      1.   To identify appropriate locations for wireless communication
facilities with preference given to appropriate public locations.
      2.   To identify criteria for the placement of camouflaged facilities on
existing structures and existing utility poles, camera standards, and sign
structures and such structures that may be enlarged to accommodate wireless
antennas in public rights-of-way and on public properties.
      3.   To encourage shared use (collocation) of new wireless communication
facilities and limit locations to key areas in the McCall Area.
      4.   To recognize that, because of the need to have wireless
communication facilities that are compatible with surrounding areas, optimal
coverage may not be feasible for every wireless service at every location in
the McCall Area.
      5.   To screen and camouflage wireless communication poles to reduce
visual impact.
   (C)   Applicability:
      1.   The provisions of this chapter apply to all wireless communication
facilities existing, proposed, or modified located within the McCall Area, on
public or privately-owned land or within the public right-of-way.
      2.   Exclusions: These provisions and criteria do not apply to non-
commercial satellite dish antennae, radio and television transmitters and
antennae, and facilities incidental only to residential use. See section
3.8.08 for provisions for these antennas. (Ord. 987, 4-9-2020)
3.19.02: GENERAL LOCATIONS:
   (A)   Preference Locations:
      1.   Wireless communication facilities should be located within public
zoning districts whenever feasible and appropriate.
      2.   Wireless communication facilities should be located on existing
nonresidential buildings and existing utility poles or monopoles.
      3.   Major wireless communication facilities should be located at least
one thousand feet (1,000') in distance from schools, child daycare centers,
hospitals, and residential structures.
      4.   Where facilities can be consolidated onto a site and meet the
standards of this chapter, such collocation is encouraged.
   (B)   Zoning District Locations:
      1.   The use regulation tables that appear in this Title 3 for each
zoning district identify the zoning districts where wireless communication
facilities are allowed through an administrative or conditional use permit.
      2.   Major wireless communication facilities are not allowed in any
shoreline and scenic route overlay districts.
   (C)   Public Right-Of-Way Locations:
      1.   Small scaled wireless communication facilities are allowed within
the public right-of-way with a preference for mid-block over intersection
locations.
      2.   Major wireless communication facilities are allowed in the public-
right-of-way adjacent to the CC, I, AF, CV, and AP zoning districts. (Ord. 987,
4-9-2020)
3.19.03: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS: 
   (A)   Dimensional Standards: Wireless communication facilities shall comply
with all dimensional requirements for structures within the applicable zoning
district, except as allowed through the conditional use permit, and including
additional provisions as set forth in subsections 1 and 2 below.
       1.   Additional setback provisions are as followed:
         a.   There are no setback requirements for small scale wireless
communication facilities installed on utility, street or light poles.
         b.   The maximum projection for a wireless communication facility
attached to a building façade is eighteen inches (18").
         c.   Facilities attached to a building roof shall be setback a
distance equal to the facility height or ten feet (10') from the building roof
edge, whichever is more.
         d.   Setbacks for monopoles shall be one hundred and twenty- five
percent (125%) of the tower height as measured from the ground level and from
the base of the pole to the property line of the parcel on which it is located.
      2.   Additional height provisions are as follows:
         a.   Roof attached facilities shall not exceed five feet (5') above
the highest portion of the roof, except for the wireless antenna and support
system for whip antennas shall not exceed ten feet (10') above the highest
portion of the roof.
         b.   Facade attached facilities shall not exceed five feet (5') above
the facade to which it is attached.
         c.   Utility, street or light pole attached facilities shall not
extend more than six feet (6') above the existing pole.
   (B)   Small scale wireless communication facilities shall meet the following
dimensional requirements:
      1.   Each wireless antenna shall fit within an enclosure of no more than
three (3) cubic feet in volume.
      2.   All other wireless equipment associated with the antenna,
cumulatively exceeds no more than twenty-eight (28) cubic feet in volume.
      3.   The height of the pole, including the small-scale wireless facility,
shall not exceed the height allowed in the zoning district where the pole is
located.
   (C)   Stealth Design: Wireless communication facilities shall be designed to
visually and operationally blend into the surrounding area, in a manner
compatible with the local community character by following these requirements:
      1.   If used, any noise generating equipment shall not emit more than
fifty (50) decibels.
      2.   All mono poles shall be designed as a "mono-pine" that resembles a
pine tree with the following design:
         a.   The monopine branches shall begin above vertical grade and
continue to the top of the structure and have a branch density that matches the
surrounding trees.
         b.   All branches shall be arranged in natural order with the widest
branches at the lowest portion of the monopine tapering to the shortest
branches at the top of the monopine.
         c.   Wireless antennas shall be mounted within the foliage of the
monopine and all branches at the height of the antennas shall extend beyond the
panels and mounting hardware.
         d.   All wireless antennas shall have camouflaged foliage covers with
needles and branches to provide maximum camouflage.
         e.   The center structure shall be painted a brown color or textured
to match the existing trees. The color of the needles shall be complimentary to
the surrounding vegetation.
      3.   Small scale wireless communication antennas mounted on buildings
shall blend with the existing building's architecture by painting or shielding
with material which is consistent with the design features and materials of the
building.
      4.   Small scale wireless communication antennas located on street poles
shall be either fully concealed within the street pole or camouflaged to appear
to be an integrated part of the street pole. An antenna not flush mounted on
the side of the street pole shall be centered on the top of the street pole to
which it is attached and camouflaged or disguised.
   (D)   Location Standards:
      1.   Any stand-alone small-scale wireless facility shall not block
windows, primary walkways, or any building entrances, and shall be located to
ensure proper sight distance for both vehicles and pedestrians.
      2.   When located within a city right-of-way, wireless communication
facilities shall not impede existing and future facilities, including
sidewalks, stormwater infrastructure, water infrastructure, and electric
infrastructure, and other infrastructure included in adopted city plans.
      3.   Major wireless communication facilities shall be located on sites
within stands of trees to blend in with the natural surroundings.
   (E)   Screening: All accessory equipment shall be screened from adjacent
properties to be compatible with the surrounding built and/or manmade
surroundings, including by locating the equipment within a structure or
enclosure with parapet walls, screen walls, fencing, landscaping and/or
berming.
   (F)   Landscaping: All major wireless communication facilities shall provide
a landscape plan for approval through the design review process. Landscaping
shall comply with the following requirements:
      1.   Impacts to existing mature landscaping shall be minimized and if
required to be removed, replacement shall be provided of equivalent species and
size at maturity.
      2.   Landscaping shall be sufficient to screen the above ground support
structures and associated equipment from public view.
      3.   The landscape plan shall identify the location of landscaping to be
removed and that to be planted by species and size, and the landscaping planned
to buffer and screen the site.
   (G)   Structural Integrity: All installations of wireless communication
facilities, free-standing, as an addition to an existing pole or on a building,
shall demonstrate that the installation is engineered to maintain structural
integrity. (Ord. 987, 4-9-2020)
3.19.04: PROHIBITIONS: 
   (A)   Towers, typically consisting of a structure with three (3) or four (4)
support legs, and lattice work for lateral support, shall be prohibited.
   (B)   No freestanding wireless communication facilities, including equipment
enclosures shall be located between the face of a habitable building and a
public street, trail, or park.
   (C)   No wireless communication equipment shall be mounted on any decorative
pole. (Ord. 987, 4-9-2020)
3.19.05: PERMITS AND APPLICATIONS:
   (A)   Major wireless communication facilities proposed in all zoning
districts shall require design review approval as set forth in Chapter 16
Design Review of this Title.
   (B)   Major wireless communication facilities proposed in all zoning
districts shall require approval of a conditional use permit as set forth in
Chapter
3.13.03 Conditional Use Permit of this Title. In addition to the application
requirements set forth in Chapter
3.13.032, the following submittals are required:
      1.   A description of the location, type, capacity, field strength or
power density, and calculated geographic service area of the proposed wireless
antenna or antenna array. In instances of applications that generate public
controversy, the city retains the right to retain experts, at the applicant's
expense, to review and assess the technical data.
      2.   Documentation that the applicant has obtained and follows all
applicable licenses, permits or authorizations required by the Federal
Communications Commission.
      3.   Location of all existing, proposed and anticipated wireless
communication facilities in the applicant's network located in the city, or
within one (1) mile of the city limits, in any direction.
      4.   A description of how the proposed facility fits into, and is a
necessary part of, the applicant's network.
      5.   If the proposal does not include collocation, written documentation
of all efforts made to collocate at another site, and a justification for the
decision not to collocate.
      6.   In the instance where a facility is proposed within one thousand
feet (1,000') of any school, child daycare center, hospital or residential
dwelling, the applicant shall submit a narrative description of alternative
sites considered, if any, and include specific reasons these alternative sites
were deemed infeasible.
      7.   Documentation of the potential for any interference with the city or
any public safety wireless communication systems.
   (C)   All wireless communication facilities proposed for location within the
public right-of-way shall obtain a public works permit from the City Public
Works Department. (Ord. 987, 4-9-2020)
3.19.06: OPERATION, MODIFICATION AND ABANDONMENT:
   (A)   Lighting: All lighting shall comply with the provisions of Chapter 14
Outdoor Lighting of this Title. Security lighting shall be kept to a minimum
and should only be triggered by a motion detector where practical.
   (B)   Maintenance: All facilities, landscaping, and related equipment shall
be maintained in a safe and responsible working order and free from trash,
debris, graffiti and designed to discourage vandalism. Stealth design features,
including color and camouflage, shall also be maintained. Any damaged equipment
shall be repaired or replaced within thirty (30) calendar days. Damaged, dead
or decaying plant materials shall be removed and replaced within thirty (30)
calendar days.
   (C)   Modifications:
      1.   Modifications, including colocation of new equipment, or the removal
or replacement of equipment that does not substantially change the physical
dimensions of the facility are allowed up to ten percent (10%) of any
dimensional standard set forth in Section
3.19.03.
      2.   Any modification that effects existing elements of the design
intended to conceal the facility or does not comply with the findings of fact,
conclusions of law or conditions of the decision on the original application
shall require a modification approval of the conditional use permit.
   (D)   Abandonment: Any facility that ceases operating for more than ninety
(90) consecutive days shall be considered abandoned. In such an event, the
applicant must either: a) apply for all permits required at the time of
expiration to reactivate the operation; or b) remove all elements of the
facility and restore the site. In the event the applicant fails to apply for
permits or perform the removal and restoration within these ninety (90) days,
the property owner shall have the facility removed. (Ord. 987, 4-9-2020)
CHAPTER 20
HISTORIC PRESERVATION
SECTION:
3.20.010: Purpose
3.20.020: Historic Preservation Commission
3.20.030: Organization, Officers, Rules, Meetings
3.20.040: Powers, Duties And Responsibilities
3.20.100: Designation Of Historical Districts, Including Historical Districts,
Residential
3.20.110: Designation Of Historic Property Or Historic Landmarks
3.20.120: Ordinary Repairs, Public Safety
3.20.130: Acquisition Of Property
3.20.140: Acquisition Of Historic Easements
3.20.150: Notice To City Departments And Other Agencies; Register Of Historical
Districts, Properties And Landmarks
3.20.160: Amendment Or Rescission Of Historic Designation On Recommendation Of
Commission
3.20.170: Demolition Or Removal Of Historic Structures
3.20.200: Exemption From Fire Or Building Codes
3.20.210: Adoption Of Code Compliance With The Uniform Code For Building
Conservation
3.20.300: Penalties
3.20.010: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Chapter is to promote the educational, cultural, economic
and general welfare of the public of the McCall Area, through the
identification, evaluation, designation and protection of those buildings,
sites, areas, structures and objects which reflect significant elements of the
City's, the region's, the State's and the nation's historic architectural,
archaeological and cultural heritage. (Ord. 989, 4-23-2020)
3.20.020: HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION:
   (A)   There shall be a Historic Preservation Commission which shall consist
of five (5) members who shall be appointed by the Mayor with the advice and
consent of the Council.
   (B)   All members of the Commission shall have a demonstrated interest,
competence or knowledge in history or historic preservation. The Mayor and
Council shall endeavor to appoint members with due regard to the proper
representation of such fields as history, architecture, urban planning,
archaeology and law.
   (C)   Initially, two (2) members shall be appointed for a term of one (1)
year, two (2) members shall be appointed for a term of three (3) years. The
fifth and all subsequent appointments shall be made for three (3) year terms.
Commission members may be reappointed. Vacancies shall be filled in the same
manner as original appointments, and the appointee shall serve for the
remainder of the unexpired term.
   (D)   The members of the Commission shall serve without pay, but shall be
reimbursed by the City for necessary expenses incurred in connection with their
duties if and when prior written authority in accord with prior appropriations
has been obtained from the City Manager. (Ord. 989, 4-23-2020)
3.20.030: ORGANIZATION, OFFICERS, RULES, MEETINGS:
   (A)   The Historic Preservation Commission shall have the power to make
whatever rules are necessary for the execution of its duties as set forth in
this Chapter. Rules of procedure and bylaws adopted by the Commission shall be
available for public inspection.
   (B)   The Commission shall elect officers from among the Commission members.
The chairperson shall preside at meetings. The vice chairperson shall, in the
absence of the chairperson, perform the duties of the chairperson.
   (C)   All meetings of the Commission shall be open to the public and follow
the requirements of Idaho's open meeting laws. The Commission shall keep
minutes and other appropriate written records of its resolutions, proceedings
and actions.
   (D)   The Commission may recommend to the Council, within the limits of its
funding, the employment of or the contracting with other parties for the
services of technical experts or other persons as it deems necessary to carry
on the functions of the Commission. (Ord. 989, 4-23-2020)
3.20.040: POWERS, DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
The Historic Preservation Commission shall be advisory to the City Council and
shall be authorized to:
   (A)   Conduct a survey of local historic properties.
   (B)   Recommend the acquisition of fee and lesser interests in historic
properties, including adjacent or associated lands, by purchase, bequests or
donation.
   (C)   Recommend methods and procedures necessary to preserve, restore,
maintain and operate historic properties under the ownership or control of the
City.
   (D)   Recommend the lease, sale, other transfer or disposition of historic
properties subject to the rights of public access and other covenants and in a
manner that will preserve the property.
   (E)   Contract, with the approval of the Council, with the State or Federal
government or any agency of either, or with any other organization.
   (F)   Cooperate with the Federal, State and local governments in the
pursuance of the objectives of historic preservation.
   (G)   Make recommendations in the planning processes undertaken by the
County, the City, the State or the Federal government and the agencies of these
entities.
   (H)   Recommend ordinances and otherwise provide information for the
purposes of historic preservation in the McCall Area
   (I)   Promote and conduct an educational and interpretive program on
historic preservation and historic properties in the McCall Area.
   (J)   Members, employees or agents of the Commission may enter private
property, buildings or structures in the performance of its official duties
only with the express consent of the owner or occupant thereof.
   (K)   Review nominations of properties to the National Register of Historic
Places for properties within the McCall Area jurisdiction.
   (L)   Act as the Building Conservation Advisory and Appeals Board under
section 207 of the Uniform Code for Building Conservation. As such the
Commission shall adopt reasonable rules of procedure for conducting its
business and shall render all decisions and findings in writing to the
appellant with a copy to the Building Official. Copies of all rules of
procedure adopted by the Board shall be delivered to the Building Official, who
shall make them freely accessible to the public. Any applicant aggrieved by a
determination of the Commission may appeal to the Council, and an appeal from
the Council may be taken to a court of competent jurisdiction. Make
recommendations to the Administrator on the exemption of nonconforming
historically significant structures from the limitations on repairs and
maintenance pursuant to this Title 3. (Ord. 989, 4-23-2020)
3.20.100: DESIGNATION OF HISTORICAL DISTRICTS, INCLUDING HISTORICAL DISTRICTS,
RESIDENTIAL:
Historical districts shall be designated by ordinance and in accordance with
the following requirements:
   (A)   The buildings, structures, features, sites, objects and surroundings
of an historical district shall meet one (1) or more of the following four (4)
criteria:
      1.   Historical, Cultural Or Educational:
         a.   Has significant character, interest, or value, as part of the
development, heritage or cultural characteristics of the City, County, State or
nation; or is associated with the life of a person significant in the past; or
         b.   Is the site of an historic event with a significant effect upon
society; or
         c.   Exemplifies the cultural, political, economic, social,
educational or historic heritage of the community; or
      2.   Architectural, Engineering Importance:
         a.   Portrays the environment in an era of history characterized by a
distinctive architectural style; or
         b.   Embodies those distinguishing characteristics of an architectural
type or engineering specimen; or
         c.   Is the work of a designer whose individual work has significantly
influenced the development of McCall; or
         d.   Contains elements of design, detail, materials or craftsmanship
which represent a significant innovation; or
      3.   Geographical Importance:
         a.   By being part of or related to a street, square, park or other
distinctive area, should be developed or preserved according to a plan based on
historic, cultural or architectural motif; or
         b.   Owing to its unique location or singular physical characteristic,
represents an established and familiar visual feature of the neighborhood,
community or McCall Area; or
      4.   Archaeological Importance:
         a.   Has yielded or may be likely to yield, information important in
pre-history or history.
   (B)   The Historic Preservation Commission, either on its own initiative, or
upon the request of the City Council or County Commission, or upon the request
of one (1) or more owners of property residing in the area of a proposed
historical district, may recommend the designation of one (1) or more
historical districts. Prior to recommending designation the Historic
Preservation Commission shall conduct studies, research and investigations
based on the relevant criteria given in subsection A of this Section regarding
buildings, structures, features, sites, objects and surroundings of such
proposed historical district or districts. Thereafter, the Commission shall
prepare a report containing recommendations concerning the area or areas to be
included in the proposed historical district or districts.
   (C)   Copies of the report shall be transmitted for review and
recommendation to the Planning and Zoning Commission, and within sixty (60)
days after the date of transmittal of such report to the Planning and Zoning
Commission, the Historic Preservation Commission shall hold a public hearing
thereon. Notice of the time, place and purpose of such hearing shall be given
as provided in Chapter 15 of this Title and by postage prepaid, given to the
owners as shown in the property tax records of all properties to be included in
the district or districts.
   (D)   After such hearing, the Historic Preservation Commission shall submit
a final report with its recommendations and a draft of a proposed ordinance to
the City Council and County Commission.
   (E)   The City Council shall act upon the report and recommendation in
accordance with the provisions of Title 3, Chapter 32 of this Title. (Ord. 989,
4-23-2020)
3.20.110: DESIGNATION OF HISTORIC PROPERTY OR HISTORIC LANDMARKS:
Historic properties or historic landmarks shall be designated by ordinance and
in accordance with the following requirements:
   (A)   The building, structure, feature, site or object proposed for such
designation shall meet one (1) or more of the criteria required in subsection
3.20.100A of this Chapter. In addition, it must meet the criteria established
for inclusion in the National Register of Historic Places as such criteria are
applied to historic properties in the State by the Idaho Historic Sites Review
Board.
   (B)   The Historic Preservation Commission, either on its own initiative, or
upon the request of the City Council or County Commission, or upon the request
of the owner of the property proposed to be designated, may recommend the
designation of an historic property or historic landmark. Prior to recommending
the designation, the Historic Preservation Commission shall conduct studies,
research and investigations based on the relevant criteria given in subsection
3.20.100A of this Chapter. The Commission shall informally notify
representative owners of specific properties of the Commission's intent to
explore designation of those properties as an historical landmark, and invite
such property owners to provide views and information about the property; any
inadequacy, real or perceived, in the identification of such representative
owners, shall not affect the validity of subsequent action. Thereafter, the
Commission shall prepare a report containing recommendations concerning the
property proposed to be designated and draft of a proposed ordinance to the
City Council or County Commission. The report of the Commission shall include
comments regarding the suitability of the property for preservation or
restoration. In case there is a question of an adaptive or alternative use of
the property, the report shall include a statement regarding the
appropriateness of such adaptive or alternative use. The report shall also
include a statement regarding the administrative and financial responsibility
of the person or organization proposing to undertake all or a portion of the
cost of acquisition, restoration, maintenance, operation or repair, or the cost
of adaptive or alternative use of the property to the extent that any such
considerations apply to the property proposed for designation.
   (C)   For each designated historic property or landmark, an ordinance shall
require the waiting period prescribed by subsection
3.20.100B of this Section to be observed prior to its demolition, material
alteration, remodeling or removal. The ordinance shall also provide guidelines
for a suitable sign or marker on or near the property or landmark indicating
that the property has been so designated.
   (D)   The City Council or County Commission shall hold a public hearing on
the proposed ordinance, after having given written notice to the owners and
occupants of the property and the publication of such notice in the time and
manner required by Chapter 15 of this Title.
   (E)   Following such public hearing, the Council or County Commission may
act on the ordinance.
   (F)   The Clerk shall give notice of such designation to the Tax Assessor of
Valley County, Idaho. (Ord. 989, 4-23-2020)
3.20.120: ORDINARY REPAIRS, PUBLIC SAFETY:
Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed to prevent the ordinary maintenance
or repair of any exterior feature of any building or structure in an historical
district, or of any historic property or landmark which does not involve a
change in design, material, color or outer appearance thereof, nor to prevent
the construction, reconstruction, alteration, restoration or demolition of any
such feature of a structure, building or landmark when the Building Official
shall certify such is required for the public safety because of an unsafe or
dangerous condition. (Ord. 989, 4-23-2020)
3.20.130: ACQUISITION OF PROPERTY:
All lands, buildings, structures, sites, or areas acquired by funds
appropriated by the City, shall be acquired in the name of the City and such
historic properties or landmarks shall be maintained by or under the
supervision and control of the City; nothing herein shall be read to preclude
leasing such property for use in accord with historic preservation. (Ord. 989,
4-23-2020)
3.20.140: ACQUISITION OF HISTORIC EASEMENTS:
The City or County Commission may acquire, by purchase or donation, historic
easements in any area within the jurisdiction of the McCall Area wherever and
to the extent the Council determines that the acquisition will be in the public
interest. (Ord. 989, 4-23-2020)
3.20.150: NOTICE TO CITY DEPARTMENTS AND OTHER AGENCIES; REGISTER OF HISTORICAL
DISTRICTS, PROPERTIES AND LANDMARKS:
In addition to all other transmittals and notices required by this Chapter, the
Historic Preservation Commission shall notify the departments of the City and
other agencies regarding the designation or removal of designation of
historical district, properties, and landmarks and shall maintain a register of
such districts, properties and landmarks.
   (A)   After the designation by ordinance of any historical district,
property or landmark, the Commission shall notify all departments of the City
and other governmental agencies having a regulatory or legally prescribed duty
affecting such district, property or landmark. The notice shall state the fact
of such designation, identify the boundary of the district, or the address of
the property or landmark, and shall summarize the effect such designation will
have.
   (B)   The Commission shall maintain a current register and map of all
historical districts, properties and landmarks which have been designated by
ordinance. Such register and map shall be made public and available to the City
departments, other governmental agencies and any interested person. (Ord. 989,
4-23-2020)
3.20.160: AMENDMENT OR RESCISSION OF HISTORIC DESIGNATION ON RECOMMENDATION OF
COMMISSION:
   (A)   The City Council or County Commission, upon the recommendation of the
Historic Preservation Commission, may amend the boundary of a designated
historical district or rescind the designation of an historical district,
historic property or historic landmark. All amendments or rescission of
historic designations shall be by ordinance.
   (B)   If, in the judgment of the Historic Preservation Commission, when any
building, structure, feature, site or object included within a designated
historical district, or any building, structure or site designated as an
historic property or historic landmark, has ceased to comply with the
designation criteria or no longer exhibits the characteristics which qualified
the property for inclusion within an historical district or for designation as
an historic property or landmark, such property or properties may be
recommended for exclusion from the boundary of such district, or if the
district, as a whole, no longer complies with such criteria, it may be
recommended for rescission of its historic designation, or such property or
landmark may be recommended for rescission of its historic designation.
   (C)   The procedure of the Commission with respect to a recommendation for
amendment of rescission of historic designation shall be affected in the same
manner as required for the original designation as prescribed in Sections
3.20.100 and
3.20.110 of this Chapter.
   (D)   Within five (5) days after the removal of designation by ordinance of
any historical district, property or landmark, the Commission shall notify all
departments of McCall City and other governmental agencies having a regulatory
or legally prescribed duty affecting such district, property or landmark. The
notice shall state the fact of such removal of designation, the effective date
thereof and shall identify the boundary or such district of the address of the
property or landmark.(Ord. 989, 4-23-2020)
3.20.170: DEMOLITION OR REMOVAL OF HISTORIC STRUCTURES:
   (A)   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to:
      1.   Further the purposes of the Comprehensive Plan and this Chapter to
preserve historic buildings which are important to the architectural,
historical and neighborhood significance of the City; and
      2.   Afford the City, interested persons, historical societies or
organizations the opportunity to acquire or to arrange for preservation of such
structures.
   (B)   Prior to demolishing or removing a structure designated as an historic
property or landmark pursuant to Section
3.20.110 of this Chapter, a four (4) month notice of the proposed demolition
shall be given before a permit to demolish or remove the structure is issued.
      1.   The owner of the affected structure shall provide a notice published
in a newspaper of general local circulation at least two (2) times prior to
demolition or removal.
      2.   The first notice shall be published no later than fifteen (15) days
after the application for a permit for demolition or removal is filed and the
final notice shall be published approximately fifteen (15) days prior to the
date of demolition or removal.
   (C)   Negotiation To Avoid Demolition: During this four (4) month period,
the staff and/or the Historic Preservation Commission may negotiate with the
owner of the property and with any other parties in an effort to find a means
of preserving the property. Such negotiations may include relocation to a new
site, or inducements to interested third parties to purchase the property for
the purpose of preserving it. (Ord. 989, 4-23-2020)
3.20.200: EXEMPTION FROM FIRE OR BUILDING CODES:
In order to promote the preservation and restoration of historic resources, the
City Council or County Commission, in order to promote the preservation and
restoration of any historic properties, landmarks or property within an
historical district, may upon the recommendation of the Commission, exempt an
historic property, landmark, or property within an historical district from the
application of the City Fire or Buildings Codes. Such exemption shall be based
upon the recommendation of the Historic Preservation Commission, upon
compliance with the criteria for exemption set forth in said Building Codes and
upon a finding that non-exemption would prevent or seriously hinder the
preservation or restoration of said historic property, landmark, or property in
an historical district. Upon rescission of an historic designation, any
approved code exemption herein granted shall be revoked effective the date of
rescission. (Ord. 989, 4-23-2020)
3.20.210: ADOPTION OF CODE COMPLIANCE WITH THE UNIFORM CODE FOR BUILDING
CONSERVATION:
The rules, regulations and ordinances of a general and permanent character
contained in the provisions of the Uniform Code for Building Conservation
International Existing Building Code; as adopted and amended by Section
2-1-070 of the City Code, shall govern the change of occupancy and alteration
or repair of existing buildings and structures at and within the City. Copies
of the Uniform Code for Building Conservation are now on file in the Office of
the Clerk for inspection, and it shall be unlawful to change occupancy or alter
or repair existing buildings or structures in violation without complying with
the same. (Ord. 989, 4-23-2020)
3.20.300: PENALTIES:
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this Chapter shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided in Section
5-2-020 of the City Code.
   (B)   For the purpose of this Chapter, each day during which there exists
any violation of any provision herein will constitute a separate violation.
(Ord. 989, 4-23-2020)
CHAPTER 21
URBAN RENEWAL PLAN
SECTION:
3.21.010: Introduction
3.21.020: Description Of Project Area
3.21.030: Proposed Redevelopment Actions
3.21.040: Uses Permitted In The Project Area
3.21.050: Methods Of Financing The Project
3.21.060: Actions By The City
3.21.070: Enforcement
3.21.080: Duration Of This Plan, Termination, And Asset Review
3.21.090: Procedure For Amendment Or Modification
3.21.100: Severability
3.21.110: Annual Report And Other Reporting Requirements
3.21.120: Appendices, Attachments, Exhibits, Tables
3.21.010: INTRODUCTION:
   (A)   Introduction:
      1.   This is the Urban Renewal Plan (the "Plan") for the Downtown West
Urban Renewal Project (the "Project") in the City of McCall (the "City"), State
of Idaho. Attachments 1 through 5.5 attached to Ord. 982 (collectively, the
"Plan Attachments") are incorporated herein and shall be considered a part of
this Plan.
      2.   The term "Project" is used herein to describe the overall activities
defined in this Plan and conforms to the statutory definition of an urban
renewal project. Reference is specifically made to Idaho Code §§ 50-2018(10)
and 50-2903(13) for the various activities contemplated by the term "Project."
Such activities include both private and public development of property within
the urban renewal area. The Downtown West Project Area is also referred to as
the "Project Area."
      3.   This Plan was prepared by the Board of Commissioners (the "Agency
Board") of the Urban Renewal Agency of the City of McCall, Idaho, also known as
the McCall Redevelopment Agency (the "Agency"), its consultants, and staff, and
reviewed and recommended by the Agency pursuant to the Idaho Urban Renewal Law
of 1965, Chapter 20, Title 50, Idaho Code, as amended (the "Law"), the Local
Economic Development Act, Chapter 29, Title 50, Idaho Code, as amended (the
"Act"), and all applicable local laws and ordinances.
      4.   Idaho Code § 50-2905 identifies what information the Plan must
include with specificity as follows:
         (a)   A statement describing the total assessed valuation of the base
assessment roll of the revenue allocation area and the total assessed valuation
of all taxable property within the municipality.
         (b)   A statement listing the kind, number, and location of all
proposed public works or improvements within the revenue allocation area.
         (c)   An economic feasibility study.
         (d)   A detailed list of estimated project costs.
         (e)   A fiscal impact statement showing the impact of the revenue
allocation area, both until and after the bonds are repaid, upon all taxing
districts levying taxes upon property on the revenue allocation area.
         (f)   A description of the methods of financing all estimated project
costs and the time when related costs or monetary obligations are to be
incurred.
         (g)   A termination date for the plan and the revenue allocation area
as provided for in §50-2903(20), Idaho Code. In determining the termination
date, the plan shall recognize that the agency shall receive allocation of
revenues in the calendar year following the last year of the revenue allocation
provision described in the urban renewal plan.
         (h)   A description of the disposition or retention of any assets of
the agency upon the termination date. Provided however, nothing herein shall
prevent the agency from retaining assets or revenues generated from such assets
as long as the agency shall have resources other than revenue allocation funds
to operate and manage such assets.
   This Plan includes the above information with specificity.
The proposed development of the Project Area as described in this Plan conforms
to the 2018 McCall Area Comprehensive Plan (the "Comprehensive Plan"), as may
be amended from time to time, and adopted by the McCall City Council (the "City
Council"). Subject to the land use and zoning authority of the City, the Agency
intends to rely heavily on any applicable design standards set forth in the
McCall Downtown Master Plan, adopted by the City Council on December 19, 2013
(the "Downtown Framework"). The Downtown Framework sets forth key design
guidelines and principals, preferred development concepts, mobility concepts,
open space concepts and public utility/infrastructure framework concepts to
guide redevelopment and development in the Project Area. To further support
increasing local housing options, the Agency intends to implement the
strategies set forth in the 2018 City of McCall Housing Strategy. Finally, the
Agency will rely on the 2017 McCall Area Transportation Master Plan, which
establishes guidelines for connectivity and preferred development concepts to
support transportation and mobility options.
This Plan is subject to the Plan modification limitations and reporting
requirements set forth in Idaho Code §50-2903A. Subject to limited exceptions
as set forth in Idaho Code §50-2903A, if this Plan is modified by a City
Council ordinance, then the base value for the year immediately following the
year in which modification occurs shall be reset to include the current year's
equalized assessed value of the taxable property in the revenue allocation
area, effectively eliminating the Agency's revenue stream. Should the Agency
have any outstanding financial obligations, the City shall not adopt an
ordinance modifying this Plan unless written consent has been obtained by any
creditors, including but not limited to developers who have entered into
reimbursement agreements with the Agency.
A modification shall not be deemed to occur when "[t]here is a plan amendment
to make technical or ministerial changes to a plan that does not involve an
increase in the use of revenues allocated to the agency." (Idaho Code § 50-
2903A(1)(a)(i)) Annual adjustments as more specifically set forth in the
Agency's annual budget will be required to account for more/less estimated
revenue and prioritization of projects. Any adjustments for these stated
purposes are technical and ministerial and are not modifications under Idaho
Code §50-2903A.
This Plan provides the Agency with powers, duties, and obligations to implement
and further the program generally formulated in this Plan for the development,
redevelopment, rehabilitation, and revitalization of the area within the
boundaries of the Project Area. The Agency retains all powers allowed by the
Law and Act. This Plan presents a process and a basic framework within which
plan implementation, including contracts, agreements and ancillary documents
will be presented and by which tools are provided to the Agency to fashion,
develop, and proceed with plan implementation. The Plan has balanced the need
for flexibility over the twenty (20)-year timeframe of the Plan to implement
the improvements identified in Attachment 5.1 of Ord. 982, with the need for
specificity as required by Idaho Code § 50-2905. The Plan narrative addresses
the required elements of a plan set forth in Idaho Code § 50-2905(1), (5), (7)
and (8). Attachments 5.1-5.5 of Ord. 982, together with the Plan narrative,
meet the specificity requirement for the required plan elements set forth in
Idaho Code § 50-2905(2)-(6), recognizing that actual Agency expenditures are
prioritized each fiscal year during the required annual budgeting process.
Allowed projects are those activities which comply with the Law and the Act and
meet the overall objectives of this Plan. The public-private relationship is
crucial in the successful development and redevelopment of the Project Area.
Typically, the public will fund enhanced public improvements like utilities,
streets, and sidewalks which, in turn, create an attractive setting for
adjacent private investment for mixed-use residential (single-family
residential and increased density), retail, office, and commercial facilities.
The purposes of the Law and Act will be attained through, and the major goals
of this Plan, are:
      (a)   The installation and construction of public improvements, including
streets and pedestrian plazas; improvements to roadways, intersections, curbs,
gutters and streetscapes, which for purposes of this Plan, the term
"streetscapes" includes sidewalks, lighting, landscaping, benches and other
street furniture, bike racks, public art and similar amenities between the curb
and right of way line; installation and/or improvements to fiber optic
facilities; public utilities including water and sewer improvements, and fire
protection systems; other related public improvements, including improvements
to pedestrian crossing facilities and parking facilities; removal, burying, or
relocation of overhead utilities; extension of electrical distribution lines
and transformers; improvement of irrigation and drainage ditches and laterals;
and improvement of storm drainage facilities;
         (b)   To support or partner in projects expanding local housing
options and leveraging the McCall Local Housing Program;
         (c)   To support or partner in the development of a community and/or
recreation center;
         (d)   To support or partner in the development of a public market;
         (e)   To support or partner in projects providing additional public
access to Payette Lake and the installation of other waterfront amenities,
including public docks, waterfront parks and adjacent plazas, and pedestrian
pathways. This includes projects supporting environmental protection of Payette
Lake;
         (f)   The replanning, redesign, and development of undeveloped or
underdeveloped areas which are stagnant or improperly utilized because of
limited traffic access, underserved utilities, and other site conditions;
         (g)   The strengthening of the economic base of the Project Area and
the community by the installation of needed public improvements to stimulate
new private development providing employment and economic growth;
         (h)   The provision of adequate land for open space, parks, street
rights-of-way, pedestrian rights-of-way, including pathways, pedestrian plazas
and other outdoor public event space;
         (i)   The reconstruction and improvement of street corridors to allow
traffic flows and pedestrians to move through the Project Area along with the
accompanying utility connections throughout the Project Area;
         (j)   The provision of public service utilities such as broadband,
water system improvements, sewer system improvements and improvements to storm
drainage facilities (which may be located outside the Project Area);
         (k)   In conjunction with the City, the establishment and
implementation of performance criteria to assure high site design standards and
environmental quality and other design elements which provide unity and
integrity to the entire Project Area, including commitment of funds for
planning studies, achieving high standards of development, and leveraging such
development to achieve public objectives and efficient use of scarce resources;
         (l)   The strengthening of the tax base by encouraging private
development, thus increasing the assessed valuation of properties within the
Project Area as a whole and benefitting the various taxing districts in which
the urban renewal area is located;
         (m)   The funding of necessary public infrastructure to accommodate
both public and private development;
         (n)   To acquire real property as may be necessary to support the
above-mentioned goals; and
         (o)   Construction and maintenance of public parking facilities.
   (B)   General Procedures Of The Agency:
      1.   The Agency is a public body, corporate and politic, as defined and
described under the Law and the Act. The Agency is also governed by its bylaws
as authorized by the Law and adopted by the Agency. Under the Law, the Agency
is governed by the Idaho Open Meeting Law; the Public Records Act; the Ethics
in Government Act of 2015, Chapters 1, 2 and 4 of Title 74, Idaho Code;
reporting requirements pursuant to Idaho Code §§67-450B, 67-450E, 50-2903A and
50-2913; and the competitive bidding requirements under Chapter 28, Title 67,
Idaho Code, as well as other procurement or other public improvement delivery
methods.
      2.   Subject to limited exceptions, the Agency shall conduct all meetings
in open session and allow meaningful public input as mandated by the issue
considered or by any statutory or regulatory provision.
      3.   The Agency may adopt separate policy statements. Any modification to
any policy statement is a technical or ministerial adjustment and is not a
modification to this Plan under Idaho Code §50-2903A.
   (C)   Provisions Necessary To Meet State And Local Requirements: Conformance
with Idaho Code §§50-2008 and 50-2906.
      1.   Idaho law requires that the City Council, by resolution, must
determine a geographic area be a deteriorated area or a deteriorating area or a
combination thereof and designate such area as appropriate for an urban renewal
project prior to preparation of an urban renewal plan. A consultant was
retained to study a proposed project area and prepare an eligibility report.
The eligibility report was submitted to the Agency. The Agency accepted the
eligibility report by Agency Resolution No. 01-2018 on June 19, 2018, and
thereafter submitted the eligibility report to the City Council for its
consideration.
      2.   The area studied, which was larger than the Project Area, was deemed
by the City Council to be a deteriorating area and/or a deteriorated area and
therefore eligible for an urban renewal project by adoption of Resolution No.
18-14 on June 28, 2018. With the adoption of Resolution No. 18-14, the City
Council authorized the preparation of an urban renewal plan.
      3.   The Plan was prepared and submitted to the Agency for its review and
approval. The Agency approved the Plan by the adoption of Agency Resolution No.
2-2019 on August 19, 2019, and submitted the Plan to the City Council with its
recommendation for adoption.
      4.   In accordance with the Law, this Plan was submitted to the Planning
and Zoning Commission of the City. After consideration of the Plan, the
Commission reported to the City Council that this Plan is in conformity with
the City's Comprehensive Plan.
      5.   Pursuant to the Law and Act, the City Council having published due
notice thereof, a public hearing was held on this Plan. Notice of the hearing
was duly published in the Star News, a newspaper having general circulation in
the City. The City Council adopted this Plan on
                                   , 2019, by Ordinance No.             .
   (D)   History And Current Conditions Of The Area:
      1.   This Project Area includes approximately 52.4 acres, exclusive of
rights-of-way, and encompasses a portion of the City's central business
district (CBD) extending south along Third Street (Highway 55) to Stibnite
Street. Despite recent investment in the broader CBD, the Valley County
Assessor's data indicates approximately seventy-four percent (74%) of the
parcels consisting of forty-nine percent (49%) of the land area are either
vacant, deteriorated or deteriorating.
      2.   The Project Area is zoned primarily for mixed-use commercial and
residential uses. A significant impediment to development is the extent of
infrastructure necessary to develop the area. Development potential within the
Project Area is currently restricted due to the costs to update existing
infrastructure to current standards. The street surfaces are failing throughout
the Project Area. The pedestrian facilities, such as the sidewalks throughout
the Project Area, are broken and create hazardous walking surfaces. There
continue to be sections where sidewalks do not exist forcing pedestrians to
compete with vehicular traffic on narrow paved surfaces. Additionally, there is
the lack of adequate storm drainage facilities, creating dangerous ponding
during periods of rain and snow melt, which exacerbates the deteriorating
condition of the roadways. Similarly, the lack of stormwater facilities impacts
the water quality of Payette Lake (drinking water source).
      3.   The Plan proposes installation and improvements to public
infrastructure and other publicly owned assets throughout the Project Area, as
more specifically set forth in Attachment 5.1 of Ord. 982, including but not
limited to participation in the engineering, design and construction of
roadways, including streetscapes, streetlights, curbs, gutters sidewalks and
other related pedestrian amenities; parking improvements; water and sewer
improvements; improvements to the fiber system; storm drainage system
improvements; and the development or preservation of parks and open space,
including pedestrian/bike paths, creating the framework for the development of
a mixed-use residential, commercial, office and retail area; improvements to
the waterfront; and other community development projects.
      4.   The Project Area is underdeveloped and is not being used to its
highest and best use due to the presence of a substantial number of
deteriorated or deteriorating structures, deterioration of site, age or
obsolescence, predominance of defective or inadequate street layout, outmoded
street patterns, need for modern traffic requirements, faulty lot layout in
relation to size, adequacy, accessibility or usefulness, insanitary and unsafe
conditions, unsuitable topography, diversity of ownership, and defective or
unusual conditions of title. The foregoing conditions have arrested or impaired
the sound growth in the Project Area and have resulted in economic
underdevelopment of the Project Area.
      5.   The preparation and approval of an urban renewal plan, including a
revenue allocation financing provision, gives the City additional resources to
solve the public infrastructure and development impediment issues in this area.
Revenue allocation financing should help to improve the situation. In effect,
property taxes generated by new developments within the Project Area may be
used by the Agency to finance a variety of needed public improvements and
facilities. Finally, some of the new developments may also generate new jobs in
the community that would, in turn, benefit area residents.
   (E)   Purpose Of Activities:
      1.   Attachment 5.1 of Ord. 982 includes the Project Area Improvement
List identifying with specificity the proposed public improvements and projects
contemplated in the Project Area. The description of activities, public
improvements, and the estimated costs of those items are intended to create an
outside limit of the Agency's activity. Due to the inherent difficulty in
projecting future levy rates, future taxable value, and the future costs of
construction, the Agency reserves the right to:
         (a)   Change funding amounts from one project to another.
         (b)   To re-prioritize the projects described in this Plan and the
Plan Attachments.
         (c)   Retain flexibility in funding the various activities in order to
best meet the Plan and the needs of the Project Area.
         (d)   Retain flexibility in determining whether to use the Agency's
funds or funds generated by other sources.
         (e)   Site the location of proposed improvements to support
development when it occurs. Attachment 5.5 of Ord. 982 provides limited
information on the proposed location of a few proposed improvements, which
presents a realistic development scenario recognizing it is difficult to
project with any certainty where the improvements will be sited until the
future project submits plans to the City for compliance with land use
regulations.
      2.   The Agency intends to discuss and negotiate with any owner or
developer of the parcels within the Project Area seeking Agency assistance.
During such negotiation, the Agency will determine the eligibility of the
activities sought for Agency funding, the amount the Agency may fund by way of
percentage or other criteria including the need for such assistance. The Agency
will also take into account the amount of revenue allocation proceeds estimated
to be generated from the developer's activities. The Agency also reserves the
right to establish by way of policy, its funding percentage or participation,
which would apply to all developers and owners.
      3.   Throughout this Plan, there are references to Agency activities,
Agency funding, and the development, and contribution of public improvements.
Such references do not necessarily constitute a full, final, and formal
commitment by the Agency but, rather, grant to the Agency the discretion to
participate as stated subject to achieving the objectives of this Plan and
provided such activity is deemed eligible under the Law and the Act. The
activities listed in Attachments 5.1-5.5 of Ord. 982 will be determined or
prioritized as the overall Project Area develops and through the annual budget
setting process.
      4.   The activities listed in Attachments 5.1-5.5 of Ord. 982 are also
prioritized by way of importance to the Agency by the amounts funded, and by
year of funding, with earlier years reflecting the more important activities,
achievement of higher objectives, long term goals, and commitments. As required
by the Law and Act, the Agency will adopt more specific budgets annually. The
projected timing of funding is primarily a function of the market conditions
and the availability of financial resources but is also strategic, considering
the timing of private development partnership opportunities and the ability of
certain strategic activities to stimulate development at given points in time
within the planned 20-year period of the urban renewal district and revenue
allocation area.
      5.   The study (Attachments 5.1-5.5 of Ord. 982) has described a list of
prioritized public improvements and other related activities with an estimated
cost in 2018 dollars of approximately fifteen million three hundred ninety
thousand dollars ($15,390,000.00). This amount does not take into account
inflationary factors which would increase that figure depending on when the
Agency is able to develop, construct or initiate those activities. The study
has concluded the capacity of revenue allocation funds through the term of the
Plan based on the assumed development projects and assessed value increases
will likely generate fifteen million eight hundred sixty thousand one hundred
eighty-eight dollars ($15,860,188.00). The Agency reserves the discretion and
flexibility to use revenue allocation proceeds in excess of the amounts
predicted in the event higher increases in assessed values occur during the
term of the Plan for the improvements and activities identified. Additionally,
the Agency reserves the discretion and flexibility to use other sources of
funds unrelated to revenue allocation to assist in the funding of the
identified improvements and activities.
   (F)   [Reserved]. (Ord. 982, 10-24-2019)
3.21.020: DESCRIPTION OF PROJECT AREA:
The boundaries of the Project Area and the Revenue Allocation Area are shown on
the Boundary Map of Urban Renewal Project Area and Revenue Allocation Area,
attached hereto as Attachment 1 of Ord. 982 and incorporated herein by
reference, and are described in the Legal Description of Urban Renewal Project
Area and Revenue Allocation Area, attached hereto as Attachment 2 of Ord. 982
and incorporated herein by reference. For purposes of boundary descriptions and
use of proceeds for payment of improvements, the boundary shall be deemed to
extend to the outer boundary of rights-of-way or other natural boundary unless
otherwise stated. The Agency also intends to use revenue allocation funds to
improve the waterfront, including improvements that extend into Payette Lake,
such as docks and other amenities. (Ord. 982, 10-24-2019)
3.21.030: PROPOSED REDEVELOPMENT ACTIONS:
   (A)   General:
      1.   The Agency proposes to eliminate and prevent the spread of
deteriorating conditions and deterioration in the Project Area by employing a
strategy to improve and develop public and private lands, and to grow the
economy in the Project Area. Implementation of the strategy includes, but is
not limited to the following actions:
         (a)   The engineering, design, installation, construction, and/or
reconstruction of storm water management infrastructure to support compliance
with federal, state and local regulations for storm water discharge and to
support private development;
         (b)   The provision for participation by property owners and
developers within the Project Area to achieve the objectives of this Plan;
         (c)   The engineering, design, installation, construction, and/or
reconstruction of:
            (1)   Streets, intersections and other pedestrian crossing
facilities;
            (2)   Water and sewer system improvements;
            (3)   Other utility improvements, including removal, burying, or
relocation of overhead or underground utilities;
            (4)   Extension of electrical distribution lines and transformers;
            (5)   Improvement of irrigation and drainage ditches and laterals;
            (6)   Installation or improvements to fiber optic facilities and/or
other communication systems;
            (7)   Parking facilities and electric charging stations;
            (8)   Fire protection systems;
            (9)   Public art;
            (10)   Curbs, gutters, and streetscapes, which for purposes of this
Plan, the term streetscapes includes sidewalks, lighting, landscaping, benches
and other street furniture, bike racks, and similar amenities between the curb
and right-of-way line;
            (11)   Other public improvements that may be deemed appropriate by
the Board, including, but not limited to, walkways, public open spaces, outdoor
public event spaces, parks, waterfront improvements, plazas, including but not
limited to the City Hall/Library pedestrian plaza, and other similar amenities
that may be deemed appropriate by the Board;
         (d)   The acquisition of real property from the City or others for
right-of-way improvements, public parks, pedestrian facilities and trails,
recreational access points and to encourage development opportunities
consistent with the Plan, including but not limited to future disposition to
qualified developers, in part to encourage development of local housing
options;
         (e)   The disposition of real property through a competitive process
in accordance with this Plan, Idaho law, including Idaho Code § 50-2011, and
any disposition policies adopted by the Agency;
         (f)   The management of any property acquired by and under the
ownership and control of the Agency;
         (g)   The development or redevelopment of land by private enterprise
or public agencies for uses in accordance with this Plan;
         (h)   The construction and financial support of infrastructure
necessary for the provision of improved transit and alternative transportation;
         (i)   To support or partner in the engineering, design, installation,
construction of a public community and/or recreation center;
         (j)   To support or partner in the development of a robust public
market to encourage pedestrian activity in the CBD;
         (k)   The provision of financial and other assistance to encourage and
attract business enterprise including but not limited to start-ups and
microbusinesses, mid-sized companies and large-scale corporations;
         (l)   The provision of financial and other assistance to encourage
greater density, and to encourage construction of local housing options
pursuant to the McCall Local Housing Program;
         (m)   The rehabilitation of structures and improvements by present
owners, their successors, and the Agency;
         (n)   The preparation and assembly of adequate sites for the
development and construction of facilities for commercial, office, retail,
residential, and governmental use;
         (o)   In collaboration with property owners and other stakeholders,
working with the City to amend zoning regulations (if necessary) and standards
and guidelines for the design of waterfront amenities, streetscape, festival
streets, plazas, multi-use pathways, parks and open space and other like public
spaces applicable to the Project Area as needed to support implementation of
this Plan;
         (p)   The demolition or removal of certain buildings and/or
improvements for public right-of-way and streetscape improvements, utility
undergrounding, extension, upgrades, public parks, open space, plazas, multi-
use trails, public facilities, and to encourage and enhance transportation and
mobility options, decrease underutilized parcels, to eliminate unhealthful,
unsanitary, or unsafe conditions, eliminate obsolete or other uses detrimental
to the public welfare or otherwise to remove or to prevent the spread of
deteriorating or deteriorated conditions;
         (q)   In conjunction with the City, the establishment and
implementation of performance criteria to assure high site design standards and
environmental quality and other design elements which provide unity and
integrity to the entire Project Area, including commitment of funds for
planning studies, achieving high standards of development, and leveraging such
development to achieve public objectives and efficient use of scarce resources;
         (r)   To the extent allowed by law, lend or invest federal funds to
facilitate development and/or redevelopment;
         (s)   To make improvements to utilities (within and outside of the
Project Area) to encourage development throughout the Project Area;
         (t)   To support or partner in projects providing additional public
access to Payette Lake and the installation of other waterfront amenities,
including public docks, waterfront parks and adjacent plazas, and pedestrian
pathways. This includes projects supporting environmental protection of Payette
Lake; and
         (u)   To encourage and support public wayfinding projects.
      2.   In the accomplishment of these purposes and activities and in the
implementation and furtherance of this Plan, the Agency is authorized to use
all the powers provided in this Plan and all the powers now or hereafter
permitted by Law and Act.
   (B)   Urban Renewal Plan Objectives:
      1.   Urban renewal activity is necessary in the Project Area to combat
problems of physical deterioration or deteriorating conditions. As set forth in
greater detail in the attachments to Ord. 982, the Project Area has a history
of a slow-growing tax base based on deteriorated and/or deteriorating
conditions that have arrested or impaired or will arrest or impair growth in
the Project Area.
      2.   As set forth in greater detail in the attachments to Ord. 982, the
construction of public facilities, installation and construction of public
infrastructure, or improvements thereto, the installation, construction and
improvements to pedestrian amenities, waterfront improvements and/or
development, improvements to water and sewer facilities (within and outside of
the Project Area), fire protection updates, as well as remediating any drainage
issues will enhance the overall development of the Project Area.
      3.   Hence, the Plan for the Project Area is a proposal for public
improvements to provide an improved environment for new commercial, office,
retail, and residential uses; improvements to public open space and facilities;
the elimination of unsafe conditions; and to otherwise prevent the extension of
deterioration and reverse the deteriorating action of the Project Area.
      4.   Less than fee acquisition may be utilized by the Agency when and if
necessary to promote redevelopment in accordance with the objectives of the
Plan.
      5.   Temporary project improvements shall be provided, if necessary, to
facilitate adequate vehicular and pedestrian circulation.
      6.   The provisions of this Plan are applicable to all public and private
property in the Project Area. The provisions of the Plan shall be interpreted
and applied as objectives and goals, recognizing the need for flexibility in
interpretation and implementation, while at the same time not in any way
abdicating the rights and privileges of the property owners which are vested in
the present and future zoning classifications of the properties. All
development under an owner participation agreement shall conform to those
standards specified in the attachments to Ord. 982.
      7.   This Plan must be practical in order to succeed. Particular
attention has been paid to how it can be implemented, given the changing nature
of market conditions. Transforming the Project Area into a vital, thriving part
of the community requires an assertive strategy. The following list represents
the key elements of that effort:
         (a)   Initiate simultaneous projects designed to revitalize the
Project Area. From street and utility improvements to significant new public or
private development, the Agency plays a key role in creating the necessary
momentum to get and keep things going.
         (b)   Develop new mixed-use residential, retail, commercial, and
office opportunities and encourage economic development.
         (c)   Secure and improve certain public open space in critical areas.
         (d)   Initiate projects designed to encourage a mixture of housing
stock including varying density, market-rate, workforce and local housing
options.
      8.   Without direct public intervention, much of the Project Area could
conceivably remain unchanged and in a deteriorated and/or deteriorating
condition for the next twenty (20) years. The Plan creates the necessary
flexible framework for the Project Area to support the City's economic
development while complying with the "specificity" requirement set forth in
Idaho Code § 50-2905.
      9.   Land use in the Project Area will be modified to the extent that
underutilized, underdeveloped, and vacant land and land now devoted to uses
inconsistent with the future land uses of the area will be converted to
residential, commercial, retail and office uses. In implementing the activities
described in this Plan, the Agency shall give due consideration to the
provision of adequate open space, park and recreational areas and facilities
that may be desirable for neighborhood improvement, with special consideration
for the health, safety, and welfare of residents in the general vicinity of the
site covered by the Plan.
   (C)   Participation Opportunities And Agreement:
      1.   Participation Agreements:
         (a)   The Agency shall enter into various development participation
agreements with any existing or future owner of property, in the event the
property owner seeks and/or receives assistance from the Agency in the
development or redevelopment of the property. The term "owner participation
agreement" or "participation agreement" is intended to include all
participation agreements with a property owner, including reimbursement
agreements, grant agreements or other participation agreements.
         (b)   Each structure and building in the Project Area to be
constructed as a condition of the owner participation agreement between the
Agency and the owner pursuant to this Plan will be considered to be
satisfactorily rehabilitated and constructed, and the Agency will so certify,
if the rehabilitated or new structure meets the standards set forth in an
executed owner participation agreement and meets the conditions described
below:
            (1)   Any such property within the Project Area shall be required
to conform to all applicable provisions, requirements, and regulations of this
Plan. The owner participation agreement may require as a condition of financial
participation by the Agency a commitment by the property owner to meet the
greater objectives of the land use elements identified in the Comprehensive
Plan, the Downtown Framework, and applicable zoning ordinances. Upon completion
of any rehabilitation, each structure must be safe and sound in all physical
respects and be refurbished and altered to bring the property to an upgraded
marketable condition that will continue throughout an estimated useful life for
a minimum of twenty (20) years.
            (2)   All such buildings or portions of buildings which are to
remain within the Project Area shall be rehabilitated or constructed in
conformity with all applicable codes and ordinances of the City.
            (3)   Any new construction shall also conform to all applicable
provisions, requirements, and regulations of this Plan, as well as to all
applicable codes and ordinances of the City.
         (c)   All owner participation agreements will address phasing issues,
justification and eligibility of project costs, and achievement of the
objectives of the Plan. The Agency shall retain its discretion in the funding
level of its participation. Obligations under owner participation agreements
shall terminate no later than the termination date of this Plan, December 31,
2039. The Agency shall retain its discretion to negotiate an earlier date to
accomplish all obligations under any owner participation agreement.
         (d)   In all participation agreements, participants who retain real
property shall be required to join in the recordation of such documents as may
be necessary to make the provisions of this Plan applicable to their
properties. Whether or not a participant enters into a participation agreement
with the Agency, the provisions of this Plan are applicable to all public and
private property in the Project Area.
         (e)   In the event a participant fails or refuses to rehabilitate,
develop, use, and maintain its real property pursuant to this Plan and a
participation agreement, the real property or any interest therein may be
acquired by the Agency in accordance with the attachments to Ord. 982 and sold
or leased for rehabilitation or development in accordance with this Plan.
         (f)   Owner participation agreements may be used to implement the
following objectives:
            (1)   Encouraging property owners to revitalize and/or remediate
deteriorated areas or deteriorating areas of their parcels to accelerate
development in the Project Area.
            (2)   Subject to the limitations of the Law and the Act, providing
incentives to property owners to encourage utilization and expansion of
existing permitted uses during the transition period to prevent a decline in
the employment base and a proliferation of vacant and deteriorated parcels in
the Project Area during the extended redevelopment of the Project Area.
            (3)   To accommodate improvements and expansions allowed by City
regulations.
            (4)   Subject to the limitations of the Law and Act, providing
incentives to improve nonconforming properties so they implement the design
guidelines contained in this Plan to the extent possible and to encourage an
orderly transition from nonconforming to conforming uses through the term of
the Plan.
            (5)   Provide for advance funding by the developer/owner
participant of those certain public improvements related to or needed for the
private development. In that event, the Agency will agree as set out in the
participation agreement to reimburse a portion of, or all of, the costs of
public improvements identified in the participation agreement from the revenue
allocation generated by the private development.
   (D)   Cooperation With Public Bodies:
      1.   Certain public bodies are authorized by State law to aid and
cooperate, with or without consideration, in the planning, undertaking,
construction, or operation of this Project. The Agency shall seek the aid and
cooperation of such public bodies and shall attempt to coordinate this Plan
with the activities of such public bodies in order to accomplish the purposes
of redevelopment and the highest public good.
      2.   The Agency, by law, is not authorized to acquire real property owned
by public bodies without the consent of such public bodies. The Agency will
seek the cooperation of all public bodies which own or intend to acquire
property in the Project Area. All plans for development of property in the
Project Area by a public body shall be subject to Agency approval, in the event
the Agency is providing any financial assistance.
      3.   Subject to applicable authority, the Agency may impose on all public
bodies the planning and design controls contained in this Plan to ensure that
present uses and any future development by public bodies will conform to the
requirements of this Plan. The Agency is authorized to financially (and
otherwise) assist any public entity in the cost of public land, buildings,
facilities, structures, or other improvements of the Project Area as allowed by
the Law and Act.
      4.   The Agency specifically intends to cooperate to the extent allowable
with the City for the construction of street, streetscape, utility, pedestrian
improvements and waterfront improvements and development. The Agency shall also
cooperate with the City on various relocation, screening, or underground
projects, the providing of fiber optic capability, and the funding of water and
sewer improvements. The Agency shall also cooperate with any public entity
having jurisdiction over rights-of-way for the improvement of streets within
the Project Area and with the public bodies responsible for water and sewer
improvements. The Agency may also cooperate and seek available assistance from
State and Federal sources for economic development.
      5.   In the event the Agency is participating in the public development
by way of financial incentive or otherwise, the public body shall enter into a
participation agreement with the Agency and then shall be bound by the Plan and
other land use elements and shall conform to those standards specified in the
attachments to Ord. 982.
      6.   This Plan does not financially bind or obligate the Agency to any
project or property acquisition; rather, for purposes of determining the
economic feasibility of the Plan certain projects and expenditures have been
estimated and included in the analysis. Agency revenue and the ability to fund
reimbursement of eligible project costs is more specifically detailed in any
owner participation agreement and in the annual budget adopted by the Agency
Board.
   (E)   Property Acquisition:
      1.   Real Property:
         (a)   Only as specifically authorized herein, the Agency may acquire,
through the voluntary measures described below, but is not required to acquire,
any real property located in the Project Area where it is determined that the
property is needed for construction of public improvements, required to
eliminate or mitigate the deteriorated or deteriorating conditions, to
facilitate economic development, including acquisition of real property
intended for disposition to qualified developers through a competitive process,
and as otherwise allowed by law. The acquisition shall be by any means
authorized by law, including, but not limited to, the Law, the Act, and the
Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of
1970, as amended, but shall not include the right to invoke eminent domain
authority except as authorized herein. The Agency is authorized to acquire
either the entire fee or any other interest in real property less than a fee,
including structures and fixtures upon the real property, without acquiring the
land upon which those structures and fixtures are located.
         (b)   The Agency intends to acquire any real property through
voluntary or consensual gift, devise, exchange, or purchase. Such acquisition
of property may be for the development of the public improvements identified in
this Plan. Such properties may include properties owned by private parties or
public entities. This Plan anticipates the Agency's use of its resources for
property acquisition, in part, for the construction of public improvements and
to support local housing projects.
         (c)   In the event the Agency identifies certain property which should
be acquired to develop certain public improvements intended to be constructed
under the provisions of this Plan, the Agency shall coordinate such property
acquisition with any other public entity (e.g., without limitation, the City,
the State of Idaho, or any of its authorized agencies), including the
assistance of the Agency of funds to acquire said property either through a
voluntary acquisition or the public entity's invoking of its eminent domain
authority as limited by Idaho Code §7-701A.
         (d)   The Agency is authorized by this Plan to acquire the properties
identified in Attachment 3 of Ord. 982, including but not limited to property
to be acquired for the extension or expansion of certain rights-of-way.
         (e)   The Agency is authorized by this Plan and Idaho Code §§ 50-2010
and 50-2018(12) to acquire the properties identified in Attachment 3 of Ord.
982 for the purposes set forth in this Plan. The Agency has identified its
intent to acquire and/or participate in the development of certain public
improvements, including, but not limited to streets, streetscapes, water and
sewer improvements, environmental remediation/site preparation, public parking,
public art, local housing, community facilities, including but not limited to
public open space, parks, plazas, pedestrian/bike paths and trails, waterfront
improvements and docks, multi-purpose community and/or recreation facilities,
and other public facilities. Further, the Agency may acquire real property to
facilitate commercial development and/or housing opportunities by assembling
and disposing of developable parcels. The Agency's property acquisition will
result in remediating deteriorating conditions in the Project Area by
facilitating the development of mixed-use, residential, commercial, retail and
office areas. The public improvements are intended to be dedicated to the City
upon completion. The Agency reserves the right to determine which properties
identified, if any, should be acquired.
         (f)   It is in the public interest and may be necessary, in order to
eliminate the conditions requiring redevelopment and in order to execute this
Plan, for the power of eminent domain to be employed by the Agency to acquire
real property in the Project Area for the public improvements identified in
this Plan, which cannot be acquired by gift, devise, exchange, purchase, or any
other lawful method.
         (g)   Under the provisions of the Act, the urban renewal plan "shall
be sufficiently complete to indicate such land acquisition, demolition, and
removal of structures, redevelopment, improvements, and rehabilitation as may
be proposed to be carried out in the urban renewal area." (Idaho Code § 50-2018
(12)) The Agency has generally described those properties by use as set out in
Attachment 3 of Ord. 982 for acquisition for the construction of public
improvement, to facilitate commercial development, and to support the
development of local housing projects. The Agency may also acquire property for
the purpose of developing streetscape and public utilities. The Agency reserves
the right to determine which properties, if any, should be acquired.
      2.   Personal Property: Generally, personal property shall not be
acquired. However, where necessary in the execution of this Plan, the Agency is
authorized to acquire personal property in the Project Area by any lawful
means, including eminent domain for the purpose of developing the public
improvements described in section (E)1.
   (F)   Property Management: During the time real property, if any, in the
Project Area is owned by the Agency, such property shall be under the
management and control of the Agency. Such property may be rented or leased by
the Agency pending its disposition for redevelopment, and such rental or lease
shall be pursuant to such policies as the Agency may adopt.
   (G)   Relocation Of Persons (Including Individuals And Families), Business
Concerns, And Others Displaced By The Project:
      1.   If the Agency receives federal funds for real estate acquisition and
relocation, the Agency shall comply with 24 C.F.R. Part 42, implementing the
Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of
1970, as amended.
      2.   In the event the Agency's activities result in displacement, the
Agency shall comply with, at a minimum, the standards set forth in the Law. The
Agency shall also comply with all applicable State laws concerning relocation
benefits. The Agency shall also coordinate with the various local, State, or
Federal agencies concerning relocation assistance.
   (H)   Demolition, Clearance And Site Preparation:
      1.   The Agency is authorized (but not required) to demolish and clear
buildings, structures, and other improvements from any real property in the
Project Area as necessary to carry out the purposes of this Plan.
      2.   Further, the Agency is authorized (but not required) to prepare, or
cause to be prepared, as building sites any real property in the Project Area
owned by the Agency including site preparation. In connection therewith, the
Agency may cause, provide for, or undertake the installation or construction of
streets, utilities, parks, pedestrian walkways, parking facilities, drainage
facilities, and other public improvements necessary to carry out this Plan.
   (I)   Property Disposition And Development:
      1.   Disposition By The Agency:
         (a)   For the purposes of this Plan, the Agency is authorized to sell,
lease, lease/purchase, exchange, subdivide, transfer, assign, pledge, encumber
by mortgage or deed of trust, or otherwise dispose of any interest in real
property under the reuse provisions set forth in Idaho Code § 50-2011. To the
extent permitted by law, the Agency is authorized to dispose of real property
by negotiated lease, sale, or transfer without public bidding.
         (b)   Real property acquired by the Agency may be conveyed by the
Agency and, where beneficial to the Project Area, without charge to any public
body as allowed by law. All real property acquired by the Agency in the Project
Area shall be sold or leased to public or private persons or entities for
development for the uses permitted in this Plan.
      2.   Disposition And Development Agreements:
         (a)   To provide adequate safeguards to ensure that the provisions of
this Plan will be carried out and to prevent the recurrence of deteriorating
conditions, all real property sold, leased, or conveyed by the Agency is
subject to the provisions of this Plan.
         (b)   The Agency shall reserve such powers and controls in the
disposition and development documents as may be necessary to prevent transfer,
retention, or use of property for speculative purposes and to ensure that
development is carried out pursuant to this Plan.
         (c)   Leases, lease/purchases, deeds, contracts, agreements, and
declarations of restrictions of the Agency may contain restrictions, covenants,
covenants running with the land, rights of reverter, conditions subsequent,
equitable servitudes, or any other provisions necessary to carry out this Plan.
Where appropriate, as determined by the Agency, such documents, or portions
thereof, shall be recorded in the office of the Recorder of Valley County,
Idaho.
         (d)   All property in the Project Area is hereby subject to the
restriction that there shall be no discrimination or segregation based upon
race, color, creed, religion, sex, age, national origin, or ancestry in the
sale, lease, sublease, transfer, use, occupancy, disability/handicap, tenure,
or enjoyment of property in the Project Area. All property sold, leased,
conveyed, or subject to a participation agreement shall be expressly subject by
appropriate documents to the restriction that all deeds, leases, or contracts
for the sale, lease, sublease, or other transfer of land in the Project Area
shall contain such nondiscrimination and nonsegregation clauses as required by
law.
         (e)   As required by law or as determined in the Agency's discretion
to be in the best interest of the Agency and the public, the following
requirements and obligations shall be included in the disposition and
development agreement.
         (f)   That the developers, their successors, and assigns agree:
            (1)   That a detailed scope and schedule for the proposed
development shall be submitted to and agreed upon by the Agency.
            (2)   That the purchase or lease of the land and/or subterranean
rights and/or air rights is for the purpose of redevelopment and not for
speculation.
            (3)   That the building of improvements will be commenced and
completed as jointly scheduled and determined by the Agency and the developer
(s).
            (4)   That the site and construction plans will be submitted to the
Agency for review as to conformity with the provisions and purposes of this
Plan.
            (5)   All new construction shall have a minimum estimated life of
no less than twenty (20) years.
            (6)   That rehabilitation of any existing structure must assure
that the structure is safe and sound in all physical respects and be
refurbished and altered to bring the property to an upgraded marketable
condition which will continue throughout an estimated useful life for a minimum
of twenty (20) years.
            (7)   That the Agency receives adequate assurance acceptable to the
Agency to ensure performance under the contract for sale.
            (8)   All such buildings or portions of the buildings which are to
remain within the Project Area shall be reconstructed in conformity with all
applicable codes and ordinances of the City.
            (9)   All disposition and development documents shall be governed
by the provisions laid out in the attachments to Ord. 982.
            (10)   All other requirements and obligations as may be set forth
in any participation policy established and/or amended by the Agency.
         (g)   The Agency also reserves the right to determine the extent of
its participation based upon the achievements of the objectives of this Plan.
Obligations under any disposition and development agreement and deed covenants,
except for covenants which run with the land beyond the termination date of
this Plan, shall terminate no later than December 31, 2039. The Agency shall
retain its discretion to negotiate an earlier date to accomplish all
obligations under any disposition and development agreement.
      3.   Development By The Agency:
         (a)   To the extent now or hereafter permitted by law, the Agency is
authorized to pay for, develop, or construct public improvements within the
Project Area for itself or for any public body or entity, which public
improvements are or would be of benefit to the Project Area. Specifically, the
Agency may pay for, install, or construct the public improvements authorized
under Idaho Code §§50-2007, 50-2018(10) and (13), and 50-2903(9), (13), and
(14), and as otherwise identified in Attachments 5.1-5.5, attached to Ord. 982
and incorporated herein by reference, and may acquire or pay for the land
required therefore.
         (b)   The Agency may enter into contracts, leases, and agreements with
the City or other public body or private entity pursuant to this section, and
the obligation of the Agency under such contract, lease, or agreement shall
constitute an indebtedness of the Agency as described in Idaho Code § 50-2909
which may be made payable out of the taxes levied in the Project Area and
allocated to the Agency under Idaho Code §50-2908(2)(b) and the attachments to
Ord. 982 or out of any other available funds.
   (J)   Development Plans: All development plans (whether public or private)
prepared, pursuant to an owner participation or disposition and development
agreement, shall be submitted to the Agency Board for approval and
architectural review. All development in the Project Area must conform to those
standards specified in the attachments to Ord. 982. Additionally, development
must be consistent with all City ordinances.
   (K)   [Reserved].
   (L)   [Reserved].
   (M)   Participation With Others:
      1.   Under the Law, the Agency has the authority to lend or invest funds
obtained from the federal government for the purposes of the Law if allowable
under federal laws or regulations. The federal funds that may be available to
the Agency are governed by regulations promulgated by the Department of Housing
and Urban Development for the Idaho Community Development Block Grant Program
("ICDBG"), the Economic Development Administration, the Small Business
Administration, or other federal agencies. In order to enhance such grants, the
Agency's use of revenue allocation funds is critical.
      2.   Under those regulations the Agency may participate with the private
sector in the development and financing of those private projects that will
attain certain federal objectives.
      3.   The Agency may, therefore, use the federal funds for the provision
of assistance to private for-profit business, including, but not limited to,
grants, loans, loan guarantees, interest supplements, technical assistance, and
other forms to support, for any other activity necessary or appropriate to
carry out an economic development project.
      4.   As allowed by law, the Agency may also use funds from any other
sources for any purpose set forth under the Law or Act.
      5.   The Agency may enter into contracts, leases, and agreements with the
City, or other public body or private entity, pursuant to this section, and the
obligation of the Agency under such contract, lease, or agreement shall
constitute an indebtedness of the Agency as described in Idaho Code § 50-2909
which may be made payable out of the taxes levied in the Project Area and
allocated to the Agency under Idaho Code §50-2908(2)(b) and the attachments to
Ord. 982 or out of any other available funds.
   (N)   Conforming Owners: The Agency may, at the Agency's sole and absolute
discretion, determine that certain real property within the Project Area
presently meets the requirements of this Plan, and the owner of such property
will be permitted to remain as a conforming owner without a participation
agreement with the Agency, provided such owner continues to operate, use, and
maintain the real property within the requirements of this Plan.
   (O)   Arts Funding: The Agency encourages public art and performing arts
through joint ventures with private developers and in cooperation with the
City. Whenever possible, any Agency arts funding will be used to leverage
additional contributions from developers, other private sources, and public or
quasi-public entities for purposes of including public art within the
streetscape projects or other areas as identified in this Plan. (Ord. 982, 10-
24-2019)
3.21.040: USES PERMITTED IN THE PROJECT AREA:
   (A)   Designated Land Uses: The Agency intends to rely upon the overall land
use designations and zoning classifications of the City, as depicted on
Attachment 4 of Ord. 982 and as set forth in the McCall Area Comprehensive Plan
Land Use Map, including the future land use map and zoning classifications, as
may be amended. For the most part, the Project Area is proposed as mixed-use
residential, commercial, retail and office development. Provided, however,
nothing herein within this Plan shall be deemed to be granting any particular
right to zoning classification or use.
   (B)   [Reserved].
   (C)   Public Rights-Of-Way:
      1.   The Project Area includes portions of the City's main arterial
street, Third Street and Lake Street (State Highway 55), as well as a number of
collector streets and local roads as shown on Attachment 1 of Ord. 982. Any new
City or State roadways will be constructed in conjunction with any applicable
policies and design standards of the City (and State and Federal standards if
applicable) regarding dedicated rights-of-way. Additional public streets,
alleys, and easements may be created in the Project Area as needed for proper
development.
      2.   Additional improvements to existing streets and easements may be
created, improved, or extended in the Project Area as needed for development.
Existing dirt roadways, streets, easements, and irrigation or drainage laterals
or ditches may be abandoned, closed, or modified as necessary for proper
development of the Project Area, in conjunction with any applicable policies
and standards of the City regarding changes to dedicated rights-of-way, and
appropriate irrigation or drainage districts regarding changes to laterals or
ditches.
      3.   Any development, maintenance and future changes in the interior or
exterior street layout shall be in accordance with the objectives of this Plan,
Public Works Department review, and the City's design standards as set forth in
the 2017 McCall Area Transportation Master Plan, as may be amended in the
future, as well as the City of McCall Complete Streets Policy; shall be
effectuated in the manner prescribed by State and local law; and shall be
guided by the following criteria:
         (a)   A balancing of the needs of proposed and potential new
developments for adequate vehicular access, vehicular parking, and delivery
loading docks with the similar needs of any existing developments permitted to
remain. Such balancing shall take into consideration the rights of existing
owners and tenants under the rules for owner and tenant participation adopted
by the Agency for the Project and any participation agreements executed
thereunder;
         (b)   The requirements imposed by such factors as topography, traffic
safety, and aesthetics; and
         (c)   The potential need to serve not only the Project Area and new or
existing developments, but to also serve areas outside the Project Area by
providing convenient and efficient vehicular access and movement.
   The public rights-of-way may be used for vehicular and/or pedestrian
traffic, as well as for public improvements, public and private utilities, and
activities typically found in public rights-of-way.
   (D)   Interim Uses: Pending the ultimate development of land by developers
and participants, the Agency is authorized to use or permit the use of any land
in the Project Area for interim uses that are not in conformity with the uses
permitted in this Plan. However, any interim use must comply with applicable
City Code.
   (E)   Development In The Project Area Subject To The Plan: All real property
in the Project Area, under the provisions of either a disposition and
development agreement or an owner participation agreement, is made subject to
the controls and requirements of this Plan. No such real property shall be
developed, rehabilitated, or otherwise changed after the date of the adoption
of this Plan, except in conformance with the provisions of this Plan.
   (F)   Construction Shall Comply With Applicable Federal, State, And Local
Laws And Ordinances And Agency Development Standards:
      1.   All construction in the Project Area shall comply with all
applicable state laws, the McCall City Code, as may be amended from time to
time, and any applicable City Council ordinances pending codification,
including but not limited to, regulations concerning the type, size, density
and height of buildings; open space, landscaping, light, air, and privacy; the
undergrounding of utilities; limitation or prohibition of development that is
incompatible with the surrounding area by reason of appearance, traffic, smoke,
glare, noise, odor, or similar factors; parcel subdivision; off-street loading
and off-street parking requirements.
      2.   In addition to applicable codes, ordinances, or other requirements
governing development in the Project Area, additional specific performance and
development standards may be adopted by the Agency to control and direct
redevelopment activities in the Project Area in the event of a disposition and
development agreement or owner participation agreement.
   (G)   [Reserved].
   (H)   Nonconforming Uses:
      1.   The Agency may permit an existing use to remain in an existing
building and site usage in good condition, which use does not conform to the
provisions of this Plan, provided that such use is generally compatible with
existing and proposed developments and uses in the Project Area. The owner of
such a property must be willing to enter into an owner participation agreement
and agree to the imposition of such reasonable restrictions as may be necessary
to protect the development and use of the Project Area.
      2.   The Agency may authorize additions, alterations, repairs, or other
improvements in the Project Area for uses which do not conform to the
provisions of this plan where such improvements are within a portion of the
Project Area where, in the determination of the Agency, such improvements would
be compatible with surrounding Project uses and development.
      3.   All nonconforming uses shall also comply with the City codes and
ordinances.
   (I)   Design Guidelines For Development Under A Disposition And Development
Agreement Or Owner Participation Agreement:
      1.   Under a disposition and development agreement and an owner
participation agreement, the design guidelines and land use elements of the
Plan shall be achieved to the greatest extent feasible, though the Agency
retains the authority to grant minor variations under this Plan and subject to
a negotiated agreement between the Agency and the developer or property owner.
      2.   Under those agreements, the architectural, landscape, and site plans
shall be submitted to the Agency and approved in writing by the Agency. In such
agreements, the Agency may impose additional design controls. One of the
objectives of this Plan is to create an attractive pedestrian environment in
the Project Area. Therefore, such plans shall give consideration to good design
and amenities to enhance the aesthetic quality of the Project Area. These
additional design standards or controls will be implemented through the
provisions of any owner participation agreement or disposition and development
agreement. These controls are in addition to any standard and provisions of any
applicable City building or zoning ordinances; provided, however, each and
every development shall comply with all applicable City zoning and building
ordinances. (Ord. 982, 10-24-2019)
3.21.050: METHODS OF FINANCING THE PROJECT:
   (A)   General Description Of The Proposed Financing Method:
      1.   The Agency is authorized to finance this project with revenue
allocation funds, financial assistance from the City (loans, grants, other
financial assistance), State of Idaho, Federal Government or other public
entities, interest income, developer advanced funds, donations, loans from
private financial institutions (bonds, notes, line of credit), the lease or
sale of Agency-owned property, public parking revenue, or any other available
source, public or private, including assistance from any taxing district or any
public entity.
      2.   The Agency is also authorized to obtain advances, lines of credit,
borrow funds, and create indebtedness in carrying out this Plan. The Agency may
also consider an inter-fund transfer from other urban renewal project areas and
a grant from the City. The principal and interest on such advances, funds, and
indebtedness may be paid from any funds available to the Agency. The City, as
it is able, may also supply additional assistance through City loans and grants
for various public facilities.
      3.   The City or any other public agency may expend money to assist the
Agency in carrying out this Project.
      4.   As allowed by law and subject to restrictions as are imposed by law,
the Agency is authorized to issue notes or bonds from time to time, if it deems
appropriate to do so, in order to finance all or any part of the project.
Neither the members of the Agency nor any persons executing the bonds are
liable personally on the bonds by reason of their issuance.
   (B)   Revenue Allocation Financing Provisions:
      1.   The Agency hereby adopts revenue allocation financing provisions as
authorized by the Act, effective retroactively to January 1, 2019. These
revenue allocation provisions shall apply to all taxing districts which are
located in or overlap the Revenue Allocation Area shown and described on
Attachments 1 and 2 to this Plan, as attached to Ord. 982. The Agency shall
take all actions necessary or convenient to implement these revenue allocation
financing provisions. The Agency specifically finds that the equalized assessed
valuation of property within the Revenue Allocation Area is likely to increase
as a result of the initiation of the Project.
      2.   The Agency, acting by one (1) or more resolutions adopted by its
Board, is hereby authorized to apply all or any portion of the revenues
allocated to the Agency pursuant to the Act to pay as costs are incurred (pay-
as-you-go) or to pledge all or any portion of such revenues to the repayment of
any moneys    borrowed, indebtedness incurred, or notes or bonds issued by the
Agency to finance or to refinance the Project Costs (as defined in Idaho Code
§50-2903(14)) of one (1) or more urban renewal projects.
      3.   Upon enactment of a City Council ordinance finally adopting these
revenue allocation financing provisions and defining the Revenue Allocation
Area described herein as part of the Plan, there shall hereby be created a
special fund of the Agency into which the County Treasurer shall deposit
allocated revenues as provided in Idaho Code §50-2908. The Agency shall use
such funds solely in accordance with Idaho Code §50-2909 and solely for the
purpose of providing funds to pay the project costs, including any incidental
costs, of such urban renewal projects as the Agency may determine by resolution
or resolutions of its Board.
      4.   A statement listing proposed public improvements and facilities, a
schedule of improvements, an economic feasibility study, estimated project
costs, fiscal impact upon other taxing districts, and methods of financing
project costs required by Idaho Code §50-2905 is included in this Plan and in
Attachments 5.1-5.5 of Ord. 982. This statement necessarily incorporates
estimates and projections based on the Agency's and consultants' present
knowledge and expectations. The Agency is hereby authorized to adjust the
presently anticipated urban renewal projects and use of revenue allocation
financing of the related project costs if the Board deems such adjustment
necessary or convenient to effectuate the general objectives of the Plan in
order to account for revenue inconsistencies and unknown future costs. Agency
revenue and the ability to fund reimbursement of eligible project costs is more
specifically detailed in the annual budget.
      5.   The Agency may appropriate funds consisting of revenue allocation
proceeds on an annual basis without the issuance of notes or bonds. The Agency
may also obtain advances or loans from the City or Agency, or from the Agency's
other revenue allocation area, or private entity and financial institutions in
order to immediately commence construction of certain of the public
improvements. Revenues will continue to be allocated to the Agency until
termination of the revenue allocation area as set forth in the attachments to
Ord. 982. Attachments 5.1-5.5 of Ord. 982 incorporate estimates and projections
based on the Agency's and its consultants' present knowledge and expectations
concerning the length of time to complete the improvements and estimated future
revenues. The activity may take longer depending on the significance and
timeliness of development. Alternatively, the activity may be completed earlier
if revenue allocation proceeds are greater than estimated or if the Agency
obtains additional funds from another source.
      6.   The revenue allocation proceeds are hereby irrevocably pledged for
the payment of the principal and interest on the advance of monies or making of
loans or the incurring of any indebtedness such as bonds, notes, and other
obligations (whether funded, refunded, assumed, or otherwise) by the Agency to
finance or refinance the Project in whole or in part.
      7.   The Agency is authorized to make such pledges as to specific
advances, loans, and indebtedness as appropriate in carrying out the project.
      8.   The Agency reserves the right to either pay for project costs from
available revenue (pay as you go basis) or borrow funds by incurring debt
through notes or other obligations.
      9.   Revenue allocation proceeds are deemed to be only a part of the
proposed funding sources for the payment of public improvements and other
project improvements. Additionally, project funding is proposed to be phased
for the improvements, allowing of funds to be accumulated for use.
   (C)   Economic Feasibility Study: Attachment 5.2 of Ord. 982 constitutes the
Economic Feasibility Study ("Study"), as supported by Attachments 5.1, 5.3,
5.4, and 5.5 of Ord. 982, for the urban renewal area prepared by Phil Kushlan,
Kushlan Associates. The study constitutes the financial analysis required by
the Act and is based upon existing information from the developers, the Agency,
the City and others. Projections are based upon input from the Agency, property
owners, developers, City and other public entities.
   (D)   Assumptions And Conditions/Economic Feasibility Statement:
      1.   The information contained in Attachments 5.1-5.5 of Ord. 982 assumes
certain completed and projected actions. All debt is projected to be repaid no
later than the duration period of the Plan. The total amount of indebtedness
(and all other loans or indebtedness) and the amount of revenue generated by
revenue allocation are dependent upon the extent and timing of private
development. Should all of the development take place as projected, the project
indebtedness could be extinguished earlier, dependent upon other legal
obligations. Should private development take longer to materialize, or should
the private development be substantially less than projected, then the amount
of revenue generated will be substantially reduced and debt may continue for
its full term.
      2.   The Plan and the Plan Attachments to Ord. 982 incorporate estimates
and projections based on the Agency's and consultants' present knowledge and
expectations. The Plan proposes certain public improvements as set forth in
Attachments 5.1 through 5.5 of Ord. 982, which will facilitate development in
the Revenue Allocation Area.
      3.   The assumptions set forth in the study are based upon the best
information available to the Agency and its consultants through public sources
or discussions with property owners, developers, City staff and others. The
information has been analyzed by the Agency and its consultants in order to
provide an analysis that meets the requirements set forth under the Law and
Act. At the point in time when the Agency may seek a loan from lenders or
others, a more detailed and then-current financial pro forma will be presented
to those lenders or underwriters for analysis to determine the borrowing
capacity of the Agency. As set forth herein, the Agency reserves the right to
fund the Project on a "pay as you go" basis. The Agency Board will prioritize
the activities set forth in this Plan and determine what funds are available
and what activities can be funded. The Agency will establish those priorities
through its mandated annual budgetary process.
      4.   The assumptions concerning revenue allocation proceeds are based
upon certain assessed value increases and assumed tax levy rates, as more
specifically set forth in Attachments 5.1-5.5 of Ord. 982. The types of new
construction expected in the Project Area are: commercial, office, residential,
including residential above retail and office, live-work residences, local
housing projects, higher density townhome and single-family homes, lodging and
retail. Developers have identified significant interest in these development
types. The Project Area has potential for a significant increase in residential
growth due to the McCall Local Housing Program to encourage a year-round
downtown economy, particularly with regard to the close access and walkability
to the downtown. Other owners have expressed interest in developing their
properties or selling to a developer. However, without a method to construct
the identified public improvements such as main water and sewer lines and
street infrastructure, development is unlikely to occur in much of the Project
Area.
      5.   The financial analysis set forth in Attachments 5.3-5.4 of Ord. 982
has taken into account and excluded levies that do not flow to the Agency
consistent with Idaho Code §50-2908.
      6.   It is understood that application of certain exemptions, including
the homeowner's exemption and Idaho Code § 63-602K, which provides for personal
property tax exemption to businesses may have the effect of reducing the
increment value, which in turn reduces revenue.
   (E)   Ten Percent Limitation 1:
      1.   Under the Act, the base assessed valuation for all revenue
allocation areas cannot exceed gross/net ten percent (10%) of the current
assessed taxable value for the entire City. According to the Valley County
Assessor, the assessed taxable value for the City as of January 1, 2018, less
homeowners' exemptions, is one billion two hundred seventy-five million six
hundred ninety-seven thousand six hundred forty-six dollars
($1,275,697,646.00). Therefore, the ten percent (10%) limit is one hundred
twenty-seven million five hundred sixty-nine thousand seven hundred sixty-four
dollars and sixty cents ($127,569,764.60).
      2.   The adjusted base assessed value of the existing revenue allocation
area as of January 1, 2018, is as follows:
Railroad Avenue Area Urban Renewal District: $9,641,150.00
      3.   The estimated base value for the proposed Downtown West District is
fifty-three million three hundred nineteen thousand five hundred seventy-seven
dollars ($53,319,577.00). The adjusted base values for the combined revenue
allocation areas total sixty-two million nine hundred sixty thousand seven
hundred twenty-seven dollars ($62,960,727.00), which is less than ten percent
(10%) of the City's 2018 value.
   (F)   Financial Limitation:
      1.   The study identifies several capital improvement projects. Use of
any particular funding source for any particular purpose is not assured or
identified. Use of the funding source shall be conditioned on any limitations
set forth in the Law, the Act, or by contract. If revenue allocation funds are
unavailable, then the Agency will need to use a different funding source for
that improvement.
      2.   The amount of funds available to the Agency from revenue allocation
financing is directly related to the assessed value of new improvements within
the Revenue Allocation Area. Under the Act, the Agency is allowed the revenue
allocation generated from inflationary increases and new development value.
Increases have been assumed based upon the projected value of new development
as that development occurs along with possible land reassessment based on a
construction start.
      3.   The study, with the various estimates and projections, constitutes
an economic feasibility study. Costs and revenues are analyzed, and the
analysis shows the need for public capital funds during the project. Multiple
financing sources including annual revenue allocations and interfund loan are
shown. This study identifies the kind, number, and location of all proposed
public works or improvements, a detailed list of estimated project costs, a
description of the methods of financing illustrating project costs, and the
time when related costs or monetary obligations are to be incurred. See Idaho
Code § 50-2905. Based on these funding sources, the conclusion is that the
Project is feasible.
      4.   The information contained in the study assumes certain projected
actions. First, the Agency has projected an inter-district loan from the
Agency's existing project area to assist with the administrative costs for
establishing the new Project Area. That loan is anticipated to be repaid to the
existing Project Area in full, with interest. Second, under the provisions of
the Act, the revenue allocation may continue until the end of the Plan term.
Third, the total amount of indebtedness and the amount of revenue generated by
revenue allocation is dependent upon the extent and timing of private
development. The study considered and assessed the amount of geographic area in
the Project Area that was highly probable to redevelop during the term of the
Plan and Project Area. The potential maximum development capacity pursuant to
the City Code was assessed for the area most likely to develop. To be
conservative, the potential build-out value was limited to twenty percent
(20%), which formed the basis for the annual new development estimates.
Additional value was added in years 2023 and 2026 based on anticipated projects
that have been discussed at a high-level and are reasonable to assume will
occur at some point in the near future. Finally, it is assumed the Agency may
re-prioritize projects and the location of those projects pursuant to market
conditions, project timing, funding availability, etc. as more specifically
detailed in the annual budget.
      5.   The proposed timing for the public improvements may very well have
to be adjusted depending upon the availability of some of the funds and the
Agency's ability to finance any portion of the Project. Any adjustment to
Project timing or funding is technical or ministerial in nature and shall not
be considered a modification of the Plan pursuant to Idaho Code §50-2903A.
      6.   Attachments 5.1-5.2 of Ord. 982 list those public improvements the
Agency may directly fund in whole, or reimburse a future developer and/or
public entity for through the term of the Plan. The costs of improvements are
estimates only as it is impossible to know with any certainty what the costs of
improvements will be in future years. There is general recognition that
construction costs fluctuate and are impacted by future unknowns, such as the
cost of materials and laborers. Final costs will be determined by way of
construction contract public bidding or by an agreement between the developer/
owner and Agency. The listing of public improvements does not commit the Agency
to any particular level of funding; rather, identification of the activity in
the Plan allows the Agency to negotiate the terms of any reimbursement with the
developer and/or the public entities. This Plan does not financially bind or
obligate the Agency to any project or property acquisition; rather, for
purposes of determining the economic feasibility of the Plan, certain projects
and expenditures have been estimated and included in the analysis. Agency
revenue and the ability to fund reimbursement of eligible project costs is more
specifically detailed in any participation agreement and in the annual budget
adopted by the Agency Board. The proposed location of parking, waterfront
improvements and the pedestrian plaza in the Project Area is generally shown in
Attachment 5.5 of Ord. 982 recognizing that the specific location of
improvements, including but not limited to roads and utilities, will depend on
the type and timing of development. The change in the location of the
improvements shown on Attachment 5.5 of Ord. 982 plus the actual siting of the
improvements identified in Attachments 5.1 and 5.2 of Ord. 982 does not
constitute a modification to the Plan.
      7.   The Agency reserves its discretion and flexibility in deciding which
improvements are more critical for development or redevelopment, and the Agency
intends to coordinate its public improvements with associated development by
private developers/owners. Where applicable, the Agency also intends to
coordinate its participation in the public improvements with the receipt of
certain grants or loans which may require the Agency's participation in some
combination with the grant and loan funding.
      8.   Generally, the Agency expects to develop those improvements
identified in Attachments 5.1-5.2 of Ord. 982 first, in conjunction with
private development within the Project Area generating the increment as
identified in Attachments 5.3-5.4 of Ord. 982.
      9.   The Plan has shown that the equalized valuation of the Revenue
Allocation Area as defined in the Plan is likely to increase as a result of the
initiation and completion of urban renewal projects pursuant to the Plan.
   (G)   [Reserved].
   (H)   Participation With Local Improvement Districts And Business
Improvement Districts: Under the Idaho Local Improvement District Code, Chapter
17, Title 50, Idaho Code, the City has the authority to establish local
improvement districts for various public facilities, including, but not limited
to, streets, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, storm drains, landscaping, and other
like facilities. To the extent allowed by the Law and the Act, the Agency
reserves the authority to participate in the funding of local improvement
district facilities. This participation may include either direct funding to
reduce the overall cost of the local improvement district or to participate as
an assessed entity to finance the local improvement district project.
Similarly, to the extent allowed by the Law and the Act, the Agency reserves
the authority, but not the obligation, to participate in the funding of the
purposes specified under the Business Improvement Districts, Chapter 26, Title
50, Idaho Code.
   (I)   Issuance Of Debt And Debt Limitation: Any debt incurred by the Agency
as allowed by the Law and Act shall be secured by revenue allocation funds as
allowed by the Act. All such debt shall be repaid within the duration of this
Plan, except as may be authorized by law.
   (J)   Impact On Other Taxing Districts And Levy Rate:
      1.   An estimate of the overall impact of the revenue allocation project
on each taxing district is shown in the study through the new development
projections.
      2.   The assessed value for each property in a revenue allocation area
consists of a base value and an increment value. The base value is the assessed
value as of January 1 of the year in which a revenue allocation area is
approved by a municipality, with periodic adjustments allowed by Idaho law. The
increment value is the difference between the adjusted base assessed value and
current assessed value in any given year while the property is in a revenue
allocation area. Under Idaho Code § 63-802, taxing entities are constrained in
establishing levy rates by the amount each budget of each taxing district can
increase on an annual basis. Taxing entities submit proposed budgets to the
County Board of Commissioners, which budgets are required to comply with the
limitations set forth in Idaho Code § 63-802. Therefore, the impact of revenue
allocation on the taxing entities is more of a product of the imposition of
Idaho Code § 63-802, then the effect of urban renewal.
      3.   The County Board of Commissioners calculates the levy rate required
to produce the proposed budget amount for each taxing entity using the assessed
values which are subject to each taxing entity's levy rate. Assessed values in
urban renewal districts which are subject to revenue allocation (incremental
values) are not included in this calculation. The combined levy rate for the
taxing entities is applied to the incremental property values in a revenue
allocation area to determine the amount of property tax revenue which is
allocated to an urban renewal agency. The property taxes generated by the base
values in the urban renewal districts and by properties outside revenue
allocation areas are distributed to the other taxing entities. Properties in
revenue allocation areas are subject to the same levy rate as they would be
outside a revenue allocation area. The difference is how the revenue is
distributed. If the overall levy rate is less than assumed, the Agency will
receive fewer funds from revenue allocation.
      4.   In addition, without the Revenue Allocation Area and its ability to
pay for public improvements and public facilities, fewer substantial
improvements within the Revenue Allocation Area would be expected during the
term of the Plan; hence, there would be lower increases in assessed valuation
to be used by the other taxing entities.
      5.   One result of new construction occurring outside the revenue
allocation area (Idaho Code §§ 63-802 and 63-301A) is the likely reduction of
the levy rate as assessed values increase for property within each taxing
entity's jurisdiction. From and after December 31, 2006, Idaho Code § 63-301A
prohibits taxing entities from including, as part of the new construction roll,
the increased value related to new construction within a revenue allocation
area until the revenue allocation authority is terminated. Any new construction
within the Project Area is not available in the short-term for inclusion by the
taxing entities to increase their budget capacity. Upon termination of this
Plan or deannexation of area, the taxing entities will be able to include the
accumulated new construction roll value in setting the following year's budget
and revenue from such value is not limited to the three percent (3%) increase
allowed in Idaho Code § 63-802(1)(a).
      6.   As the 2019 certified levy rates are not determined until late
September 2019, the 2018 certified levy rates have been used in the study for
purposes of the analysis. For tax year 2018 1 , those districts and rates for
the parcels located within the City are as follows2:
Taxing Districts Levy Rates:
Taxing Districts                     Levy Rates:
Valley County                     .001681086
City of McCall                       .004689208
McCall-Donnelly School District #421 .001592135
Valley County Emergency Medical      .000219031
McCall Cemetery                      .000016076
McCall Fire                          .000992805
McCall Hospital                      .000344840
Payette Lakes Rec. Water & Sewer     .000193412
Valley County Road & Bridge          .000000000
TOTAL LEVY 3                        .009728593
      7.   The study has made certain assumptions concerning the levy rate.
First, for purposes of the study, the levy rate is estimated to be a
conservative .0087, which is less than the 2018 combined certified levy rates
and the levy rate is estimated to stay level for the life of the revenue
allocation area. In part, a conservative levy rate is used in the study as the
actual impact of the termination of the existing revenue allocation area during
the term of this Plan and Project Area is unknown. Further, the impact of
property value fluctuations on the levy rate is also unknown. The annual
increment value is expected to increase by approximately two percent (2%) over
the term of the Plan once the improvements have been completed and fully
assessed by the County. If the overall levy rate is less than projected, or if
expected development fails to occur as estimated, the Agency shall receive
fewer funds from revenue allocation.
      8.   Pursuant to Idaho Code § 50-2908, the Agency is not entitled to
revenue allocation proceeds from certain levy increases which are allowed by
either specific statutory authorization or approved by an election of the
qualified electors of the particular taxing district. Therefore, for any levy
election, the Agency will not receive revenue allocation funds which would have
been generated by imposing that levy on the assessed valuation within the
Project Area. The study has taken this statute into account. It is important to
note that pursuant to Idaho Code § 50-2908, the Agency receives an allocation
from the McCall-Donnelly School District #421 budget stabilization and tort
levies.
   (K)   Phasing And Other Fund Sources: The Agency anticipates funding only a
portion of the entire cost of the public improvements shown on Attachments 5.1-
5.5 of Ord. 982. Other sources of funds shall include City and developer
participation. Agency participation shall be determined by the amount of
revenue allocation funds generated.
   (L)   Lease Revenue And Bonds:
      1.   Under the Law (Idaho Code § 50-2012), the Agency is authorized to
issue revenue bonds to finance certain public improvements identified in the
Plan. Under that type of financing, the public entity would pay the Agency a
lease payment annually which provides certain funds to the Agency to retire the
bond debt. Another variation of this type of financing is sometimes referred to
as conduit financing, which provides a mechanism where the Agency uses its
bonding authority for the Project, with the end user making payments to the
Agency to retire the bond debt. These sources of revenues are not related to
revenue allocation funds and are not particularly noted in the study, because
of the "pass through" aspects of the financing. Under the Act, the economic
feasibility study focuses on the revenue allocation aspects of the Agency's
financial model.
      2.   These financing models typically are for a longer period of time
than the 20-year period set forth in the Act. However, these financing models
do not involve revenue allocation funds, but rather funds from the end users
which provide a funding source for the Agency to continue to own and operate
the facility beyond the term of the Plan as allowed by Idaho Code § 50-2905(8)
as those resources involve funds not related to revenue allocation funds.
   (M)   Membership Dues And Support Of Community Economic Development: The Act
is premised upon economic development being a valid public purpose. To the
extent allowed by the Law and the Act, the Agency reserves the authority to use
revenue allocation funds to contract with non-profit and charitable
organizations established for the purpose of supporting economic development
and job creation. Additionally, the Agency reserves the authority to expend
revenue allocation funds to join, participate and support nonprofit
organizations established to support Agency best practices and administration.
The line item of district operating expenses within the study shall be deemed
to include expenditures for the purposes described in this section as may be
deemed appropriate during the annual budgetary process. (Ord. 982, 10-24-2019)
3.21.060: ACTIONS BY THE CITY:
   (A)   The City shall aid and cooperate with the Agency in carrying out this
Plan and shall take all actions necessary to ensure the continued fulfillment
of the purposes of this Plan and to prevent the recurrence or spread in the
area of conditions causing deterioration. Actions by the City may include, but
not be limited to, the following:
      1.   Institution and completion of proceedings necessary for changes and
improvements in private and publicly owned public utilities within or affecting
the Project Area.
      2.   Revision of zoning (if necessary) within the Project Area to permit
the land uses and development authorized by this Plan.
      3.   Imposition wherever necessary of appropriate controls within the
limits of this Plan upon parcels in the Project Area to ensure their proper
development and use.
      4.   Provision for administrative enforcement of this Plan by the City
after development. The City and the Agency may develop and provide for
enforcement of a program for continued maintenance by owners of all real
property, both public and private, within the Project Area throughout the
duration of this Plan.
      5.   Building Code enforcement.
      6.   Performance of the above actions and of all other functions and
services relating to public peace, health, safety, and physical development
normally rendered in accordance with a schedule which will permit the
redevelopment of the Project Area to be commenced and carried to completion
without unnecessary delays.
      7.   Institution and completion of proceedings necessary for the
establishment of a local improvement district under Chapter 17, Title 50, Idaho
Code.
      8.   The undertaking and completing of any other proceedings necessary to
carry out the Project.
      9.   Administration of Idaho Community Development Block Grant funds that
may be made available for this Project.
      10.   Appropriate agreements with the Agency for administration,
supporting services, funding sources, and the like.
      11.   The waiver of any hookup or installation fee for water, or other
utility services for any facility owned by any public agency, including any
Agency facility.
      12.   Joint funding of certain public improvements, including those
identified on the Project Area Improvement List set forth in Attachment 5.1 of
Ord. 982.
      13.   Use of public entity labor, services, and materials for
construction of the public improvements listed in this Plan.
      14.   The waiver of any city impact fee for development within the
Project Area.
      15.   Assist with coordinating and implementing the public improvements
in the Project Area identified in the study.
   The foregoing actions, if taken by the City, do not constitute any
commitment for financial outlays by the City.
   (B)   Maintenance Of Public Improvements: The Agency has not identified any
commitment or obligation for long-term maintenance of the public improvements
identified. The Agency will need to address this issue with the appropriate
entity, public or private, who has benefited from or is involved in the ongoing
preservation of the public improvement. (Ord. 982, 10-24-2019)
3.21.070: ENFORCEMENT:
The administration and enforcement of this Plan, including the preparation and
execution of any documents implementing this Plan, shall be performed by the
Agency and/or the City. (Ord. 982, 10-24-2019)
3.21.080: DURATION OF THIS PLAN, TERMINATION, AND ASSET REVIEW:
   (A)   Except for the nondiscrimination and nonsegregation provisions which
shall run in perpetuity, the provisions of this Plan shall be effective, and
the provisions of other documents formulated pursuant to this Plan, shall be
effective for twenty (20) years from the effective date of the Plan subject to
modifications and/or extensions set forth in Idaho Code § 50-2904. The revenue
allocation authority will expire on December 31, 2039, except for any revenue
allocation proceeds received in calendar year 2040, as contemplated by Idaho
Code § 50-2905(7). The Agency may use proceeds in 2040 to complete the projects
set forth herein. As stated in the Plan, any owner participation agreement or
disposition and development agreement obligations will cease as of December 31,
2039.
   (B)   Idaho Code § 50-2093(5) provides the Agency shall adopt a resolution
of intent to terminate the revenue allocation area by September 1. In order to
provide sufficient notice of termination to the affected taxing districts to
allow them to benefit from the increased budget capacity, the Agency will use
its best efforts to provide notice of its intent to terminate this Plan and its
revenue allocation authority by May 1, 2040, or if the Agency determines an
earlier terminate date, then by May 1 of the early termination year:
      1.   When the Revenue Allocation Area plan budget estimates that all
financial obligations have been provided for, the principal of and interest on
such moneys, indebtedness, and bonds have been paid in full or when deposits in
the special fund or funds created under this Chapter are sufficient to pay such
principal and interest as they come due, and to fund reserves, if any, or any
other obligations of the Agency funded through revenue allocation proceeds
shall be satisfied and the Agency has determined no additional project costs
need be funded through revenue allocation financing, the allocation of revenues
under Idaho Code § 50-2908 shall thereupon cease; any moneys in such fund or
funds in excess of the amount necessary to pay such principal and interest
shall be distributed to the affected taxing districts in which the Revenue
Allocation Area is located in the same manner and proportion as the most recent
distribution to the affected taxing districts of the taxes on the taxable
property located within the Revenue Allocation Area; and the powers granted to
the urban renewal agency under Idaho Code § 50-2909 shall thereupon terminate.
      2.   In determining the termination date, the Plan shall recognize that
the Agency shall receive allocation of revenues in the calendar year following
the last year of the revenue allocation provision described in the Plan.
      3.   For the fiscal year that immediately predates the termination date,
the Agency shall adopt and publish a budget specifically for the projected
revenues and expenses of the Plan and make a determination as to whether the
Revenue Allocation Area can be terminated before January 1 of the termination
year pursuant to the terms of Idaho Code § 50-2909(4). In the event that the
Agency determines that current tax year revenues are sufficient to cover all
estimated expenses for the current year and all future years, by May 1, but in
any event, no later than September 1, the Agency shall adopt a resolution
advising and notifying the local governing body, the County Auditor, and the
State Tax Commission, recommending the adoption of an ordinance for termination
of the Revenue Allocation Area by December 31 of the current year, and
declaring a surplus to be distributed as described in Idaho Code § 50-2909
should a surplus be determined to exist. The Agency shall cause the ordinance
to be filed with the office of the County Recorder and the Idaho State Tax
Commission as provided in Idaho Code § 63-215.
   (C)   Upon termination of the revenue allocation authority of the Plan to
the extent the Agency owns or possesses any assets, subject to the following
paragraph, the Agency intends to dispose of any remaining assets by granting or
conveying or dedicating such assets to the City, unless based on the nature of
the asset, disposition to another public entity is more appropriate.
   (D)   As allowed by Idaho Code § 50-2905(8), the Agency may retain assets or
revenues generated from such assets as long as the Agency shall have resources
other than revenue allocation funds to operate and manage such assets.
Similarly, facilities which provide a lease income stream to the Agency for
full retirement of the facility debt will allow the Agency to meet debt
services obligations and provide for the continued operation and management of
the facility. (Ord. 982, 10-24-2019)
3.21.090: PROCEDURE FOR AMENDMENT OR MODIFICATION:
To the extent there is any outstanding obligation, this Plan shall not be
modified pursuant to the provisions set forth in Idaho Code § 50-2903A.
Modification of this Plan results in a reset of the base value for the year
immediately following the year in which modification occurs to include the
current year's equalized assessed value of the taxable property in the revenue
allocation area as more fully set forth in Idaho Code § 50-2903A subject to
certain limited exceptions contained therein. As more specifically identified
above, the Agency's projections are based on estimated values, estimated levy
rates, estimated future development, and estimated costs of future
construction/improvements. Annual adjustments as more specifically set forth in
the Agency's annual budget will be required to account for more/less estimated
revenue and prioritization of projects (if necessary). Any adjustments for
these stated purposes are technical and ministerial and is not deemed a
modification under Idaho Code § 50-2903A. (Ord. 982, 10-24-2019)
3.21.100: SEVERABILITY:
If any one or more of the provisions contained in this Plan to be performed on
the part of the Agency shall be declared by any court of competent jurisdiction
to be contrary to law, then such provision or provisions shall be null and void
and shall be deemed separable from the remaining provisions in this Plan and
shall in no way affect the validity of the other provisions of this Plan. (Ord.
982, 10-24-2019)
3.21.110: ANNUAL REPORT AND OTHER REPORTING REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   Under the Law, the Agency is required to file with the City, on or
before March 31 of each year, a report of the Agency's activities for the
preceding calendar year, which report shall include a complete financial
statement setting forth its assets, liabilities, income, and operating expenses
as of the end of such calendar year. This annual report shall be considered at
a public meeting to report these findings and take comments from the public.
   (B)   Additionally, the Agency must comply with certain other reporting
requirements as set forth in Idaho Code § 67-450E, the local government
registry portal, Idaho Code § 50-2913, the Tax Commission Plan Repository, and
Idaho Code § 50-2903A, the Tax Commission's Plan Modification Annual
Attestation. Failure to report the information requested under any of these
statutes results in significant penalties, including loss of increment revenue,
and the imposition of other compliance measures by the Valley County Board of
County Commissioners. (Ord. 982, 10-24-2019)
3.21.120: APPENDICES, ATTACHMENTS, EXHIBITS, TABLES:
All attachments and tables referenced in this Plan as attached to Ord. 982,
passed 10-24-2019, are incorporated herein by their reference. All other
documents referenced in this Plan but not attached to Ord. 982 are incorporated
by their reference as if set forth fully herein. (Ord. 982, 10-24-2019)
TITLE IV
BUSINESS REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
PURPOSE; DEFINITIONS; AND PENALTIES
SECTION:
4.1.1: Purpose
4.1.2: Definitions
4.1.3: Violations And Penalties
4.1.1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to define terms and penalties that are used
throughout this title. (Ord. 938, 12-17-2015)
4.1.2: DEFINITIONS:
APPLICANT: The one person or legal entity who is responsible for the permit or
license being applied for.
BUSINESS: All activities, trades, and pursuits conducted or engaged in
including, without limitation, wholesale businesses, retail businesses,
personal service businesses and professions, and businesses conducted as home
occupations in any and all situations where suppliers, vendors, customers,
clients, and/or members of the general public visit or frequent the premises
where the business or occupation is conducted.
CHILD DAYCARE: Any person, persons, or organization that provides care for
seven (7) or more children, not related by blood, and receives compensation for
even one of those children.
CITY: The city of McCall, Idaho.
CITY CLERK: The city clerk of the city of McCall, Idaho, or designated agent.
CITY COUNCIL: The city council of the city of McCall, Idaho.
CITY PARKS: Those parcels of land that are owned or managed by the city of
McCall and are held for public use or as open or green space, including, but
not limited to, city parks and parking lots.
CRAFT FAIRS AND BAZAARS: An event, market, or group of stalls and/or booths
organized and managed by an organization consisting of open air showing at
which objects made by crafters and miscellaneous articles are offered for sale.
EXEMPT NONPROFIT ORGANIZATION: An organization which is exempt from federal
income tax as a charitable or nonprofit organization. To establish such exempt
nonprofit status, when the permittee and the recipient are not both known by
the city clerk to be on the face of the matter exempt from federal income tax,
such as national youth organizations, churches, or recognized service clubs
such as Rotary, or the Lions, the organizer shall file with its application for
the permit:
   (A)   A copy of its tax exempt status determination letter from the IRS, or
   (B)   A certification from a certified public accountant licensed in Idaho
that such organizer files an information return with the IRS as a tax exempt
organization, or
   (C)   A certification from a certified public accountant licensed in Idaho
that such organizer is not required to file an income tax information return
because it is a tax exempt organization with less than the threshold amount of
income necessary to trigger a filing requirement.
FARM PRODUCE: All agricultural, horticultural, viticultural, and vegetable
products of the soil, apiary products, eggs, and cheese; but, not timber and
timber products, livestock, poultry, poultry products other than eggs, dairy
products other than cheese, field grains, dried beans, dried peas, hops or
seeds.
FARM PRODUCER: Any person engaged in the business or avocation of growing or
producing any farm products.
FARMERS' MARKET: A street oriented event, market, or group of stalls and booths
organized and managed by an exempt nonprofit organization consisting of open
air showing where farmers and sometimes other vendors sell their products
directly to consumers and also the place where the related activity occurs.
GOODS, SALE AND SELL: Have the same definitions as under the uniform commercial
code, except that the time and the location of the sale is not determined by
the passage of title or by the terms of delivery, but by the time at which and
location at which the agreement was made to enter into the purchase and sale.
PAWNBROKERS: Every person, firm, association or corporation who makes it a
business to loan money on deposit or purchase of personal property or other
valuable thing, or who deals in the purchase of personal property or other
valuable thing on condition of selling the same back again at a stipulated
price, or who loans money secured by security agreement or personal property,
having possession of the property, or any portion or part thereof so secured or
who advertises by use of "three ball", or pawnbroker's sign, or by advertising
"unredeemed pledges", or by using the term "uncle", or by any other expression
designating pawnbroker's business, shall, for all intents and purposes under
this title be declared to be a pawnbroker within the meaning of this title.
PEDDLER: Any person, whether a resident of the city or not, traveling by foot,
motor vehicle, or any other type of conveyance, from place to place, from house
to house, or from street to street, carrying, conveying, offering, or exposing
goods or services for sale or rent, or offering to purchase goods; excluding
from this definition a person making delivery of goods previously ordered by
the customer; and excluding from this definition a person who is not a peddler
and whose activity in major part is thus driving a regular route to the
location of existing customers who have arranged for return visits; and
excluding from this definition any school age child fundraising for their
school, sport, or activity such as, but not limited to, Boy Scouts and Girl
Scouts.
PERMANENT PLACE OF BUSINESS: A building or significant portion of a building
which is the primary business location within McCall, and which building or
portion of a building is owned (or leased for the majority of the year) by, and
in the exclusive possession of the person who owns the business being
conducted.
POLICE CHIEF: The chief of police for the city of McCall, Idaho, or designated
agent.
SALES REPRESENTATIVE: A person employed to represent a business and to sell its
merchandise or someone who demonstrates an article to a prospective buyer.
SHORT TERM RENTALS: A residence, including single-family or a multi-family
unit, and any single rooms of the aforementioned, which is rented for the
purpose of overnight lodging for compensation, money, rent or other bargained
for consideration for a period of one or more days and not more than thirty
(30) consecutive days. Short term rentals are also commonly referred to as
tourist or vacation rentals.
SNOW REMOVAL CONTRACTOR: A person or company contracted, for compensation, to
clear snow from a road or driveway after a snowfall to make travel easier and
safer.
SPECIAL EVENT: The temporary use of private or public property, including
streets, parking lots, parks and waterways, for the purpose of conducting
certain public events such as, but not limited to, art shows, music concerts,
fundraising events, amusement attractions, circuses, carnivals, rodeos, craft
fairs, contests, dances, tournaments, walk-a-thons, marathons, races,
exhibitions, fairs, shows, citywide celebrations and festivals or related
activities and may involve a street closure, attraction of an anticipated fifty
(50) or more people at any one time, or where two (2) or more vendors are
gathered. In addition, a "special event" is any public event which could
reasonably be interpreted to cause significant public impact via disturbance,
crowd, traffic/parking or disruption of the normal routine of the community or
affected neighborhood.
STAND: A cart, parked vehicle, tables, shelves, booth, stall, rack, or any
other temporary business location, exterior to a building, and located on a
public right of way or on private property adjacent thereto; a vehicle is
parked within the meaning of this definition when it is not moving at the time
of the solicitation of the sale.
STREET CLOSURE: The deliberate or incidental temporary blockage of all, or a
portion of, a public or private street, alley, highway, public right of way,
parking lot, or other thoroughfare used for pedestrian or vehicular
circulation.
TAXICABS AND COMMERCIAL TRANSPORTATION SERVICES: Any service regularly used for
the purpose of transporting persons for hire, which receives or discharges
passengers within the city limits, or advertises for such use, whether or not
such service or services are engaged in carrying passengers entirely within the
city limits; and as further defined in section
4.4.1 of this title.
VENDOR: Every person who offers goods or services for sale or rent, or offers
to purchase goods, on the streets, or from a vehicle or a stand, or acts as an
itinerant vendor, and who does not have a permanent place of business within
the city of McCall which offers the same type of goods or services for sale or
rent; and excluding from this definition a person whose activities are covered
by a concession or lease contract with the city for activities on city property
such as a park. (Ord. 945, 8-11-2016)
4.1.3: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this title, unless otherwise
stated, shall receive a notice of violation and shall pay a fine of one hundred
fifty dollars ($150.00), if the violation has not been paid within fourteen
(14) days after service of the notice of violation the fine shall double to
three hundred dollars ($300.00). If the fine is not paid within thirty (30)
days after service of the notice of violation then such person or persons shall
be guilty of an infraction punishable by the courts and a fine of three hundred
dollars ($300.00). (Ord. 938, 12-17-2015)
CHAPTER 2
GENERAL BUSINESS LICENSE
SECTION:
4.2.1: Purpose
4.2.2: Trade, Business, And Profession Defined
4.2.3: Licenses Required
4.2.4: Payment Of Fees, Application For License, Issuance
4.2.5: Contents And Authority Of Licenses
4.2.6: Approval Requirements
4.2.7: Trash Service
4.2.8: Term Of License; Renewal
4.2.9: More Than One Business At One Location
4.2.1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to maintain an accurate listing of the trades,
businesses, and professions located in the city in order to:
   (A)   Further the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of McCall, so
that the city, especially the police, paramedics, and firefighters, have
knowledge of the materials and activities present within such businesses in the
event of emergencies; and
   (B)   Allow the city and other interested parties to better communicate with
the McCall business community and comprehend the business categories that may
be over or under served in the area. (Ord. 938, 12-17-2015)
4.2.2: TRADE, BUSINESS, AND PROFESSION DEFINED:
As used in this chapter trade, business, and profession shall be defined as
those persons, entities, or activities, which hold themselves out to the public
as businesses, trades, or professions regardless of size including such trades,
businesses, or professions that constitute home occupations as defined in title
III of this code. Excluding vendors, peddlers, events, or street carnivals as
defined in this title. (Ord. 938, 12-17-2015)
4.2.3: LICENSES REQUIRED:
No person shall engage in, prosecute, or carry on any trade, business, or
profession within the limits of the city until such person or entity has
obtained a license as described in this chapter. (Ord. 938, 12-17-2015)
4.2.4: PAYMENT OF FEES, APPLICATION FOR LICENSE, ISSUANCE:
Every business, trade, or profession shall pay in advance to the city clerk the
required fees as adopted by resolution of the city council. An application for
such license shall be made to the city clerk in such form and manner as
provided by the city clerk's office. With the receipt of such fee, the city
clerk shall issue a license to the parties applying therefor. If a business
allows their license to lapse then they shall pay a reinstatement fee equal to
that of a new business license fee to be set from time to time by resolution of
the city council. (Ord. 938, 12-17-2015)
4.2.5: CONTENTS AND AUTHORITY OF LICENSES:
Every license issued pursuant to this chapter shall contain and set forth the
name, location, and type of each trade, business, or profession for which such
license is granted. Said license shall authorize the continuance of the
business named therein for the term of such license, unless the place licensed
shall be closed, in which case the city clerk shall be notified of the change
and shall note the same in the register of licenses. (Ord. 938, 12-17-2015)
4.2.6: APPROVAL REQUIREMENTS:
Every license issued pursuant to this chapter shall require approval from
community development, building inspector, fire chief, and public works to
ensure all current city codes are being followed. Every licensee shall abide by
the building and land use requirements as defined in titles II and III of this
code. (Ord. 938, 12-17-2015)
4.2.7: TRASH SERVICE:
All businesses, trades, or professions regardless of size as described within
this title shall comply with trash removal services as described in title V,
chapter 8 of this code. This includes short term rentals that may be included
under a general license of a property management company. (Ord. 938, 12-17-
2015)
4.2.8: TERM OF LICENSE; RENEWAL:
All licenses shall expire the last day of each calendar year, and shall be
dated from the first day issued until the last day of the current year. Each
such general business license may be renewed before the end of each calendar
year by notice to the city clerk in writing, with payment of fees as set forth
in section
4.2.4 of this chapter. (Ord. 938, 12-17-2015)
4.2.9: MORE THAN ONE BUSINESS AT ONE LOCATION:
In every case where more than one business, trade, or profession shall be
pursued or carried on in the same place by the same person at the same time,
each business shall require a license. (Ord. 938, 12-17-2015)
CHAPTER 3
SNOW REMOVAL LICENSES
SECTION:
4.3.1: License Required; Application; And Procedure
4.3.2: Snow Removal Contractor Responsibility
4.3.3: Snow Removal Contractor List
4.3.1: LICENSE REQUIRED; APPLICATION; AND PROCEDURE:
   (A)   Any person who engages in the business of snow removal unless without
first obtaining a valid general business license per McCall City Code
4.2.3 and a permit for commercial snow removal service within the City Limits,
shall be fined in the amount indicated on the fine schedule approved by the
City Council and maintained by the City Clerk. Any such person may request
reconsideration of the fine and business license revocation to the City Clerk
using the same process as applicable to a Notice of Snow Storage Violation
provided in this chapter.
   (B)   An application for such permit for commercial snow removal service
shall be made to the City Clerk in such form and manner as provided by the City
Clerk’s Office and shall include:
      1.   Name and description of the applicant;
      2.   If the applicant is an association, company, or corporation, then it
shall submit a list naming each natural person who will be acting as a snow
removal contractor in the City, and each shall receive and maintain license
documentation;
      3.   Address, both legal and local;
      4.   A description of the vehicle or equipment to be used;
      5.   The name of the contact person in case of issues related to their
services within the City;
      6.   Proof of insurance showing the snow removal contractor has a policy
of liability and property damage insurance covering the work of the snow
removal contractor and the contractor’s employees. The insurance policy should
also list the City as an additional insured party in a sum not less than
provided by Idaho Code section 6-926 et seq.
   (C)   At the time of filing an application, the fee for a general business
license and permit for commercial snow removal shall be paid and is
nonrefundable. The fee shall be set from time to time by resolution of the City
Council. (Ord. 953, 12-1-2016; amd. Ord. 1013, 9-22-2022)
4.3.2: SNOW REMOVAL CONTRACTOR RESPONSIBILITY:
   (A)   The snow removal contractor shall be responsible for the work
performed under the provisions of this section and comply with the rules and
regulations pertaining to snow removal within the City.
      1.   The public right-of-way is used by the City for storage of snow
plowed from the streets. It is not available for snow storage for individuals.
      2.   Under no circumstances can snow be plowed or blown in a manner that
interferes with City or Idaho Transportation Department snow removal
operations, or with the public’s normal use of City streets.
      3.   Under no circumstances can snow be plowed onto adjacent private
property without written permission from the property owner.
      4.   Under no circumstances can snow from private property be stored on
public property without written permission from the City’s Public Works
Department.
   (B)   The snow removal contractor shall keep a log of the properties served
which will be provided to the City upon request of the City.
   (C)   Comply with all City, County, State, and Federal laws.
   (D)   All contractors shall have in their possession during snow removal
operations, the appropriate snow removal permit documentation (i.e., sticker,
identification card, etc.) as provided by the City.
   (E)   Any contractor found to have violated this section, shall, on the
first offense, be subject to a fine in the amount indicated on the fine
schedule approved by the City Council and maintained by the City Clerk. Failure
to timely pay on a violation will constitute an infraction. Any contractor
found to have violated this section a second time within 365 days of the first
offense shall be subject suspension of their snow removal contractor’s license
for a period of sixty (60) days. Any such person may request reconsideration of
the fine and business license revocation by the city clerk using the same
process as applicable to snow storage violations provided McCall City Code
8.5.040. (Ord. 953, 12-1-2016; amd. Ord. 1013, 9-22-2022)
4.3.3: SNOW REMOVAL CONTRACTOR LIST:
The City of McCall shall maintain a list of snow removal contractors that have
been approved to remove snow from private property within the McCall City
limits. (Ord. 953, 12-1-2016)
CHAPTER 4
TAXICABS AND COMMERCIAL TRANSPORTATION SERVICES
SECTION:
4.4.1: Statement Of Purpose And Findings; Definitions
4.4.2: Business License Required
4.4.3: Application
4.4.4: Fees
4.4.5: Investigation And Driver's License Required
4.4.6: Vehicle Inspection
4.4.7: Insurance Required
4.4.8: Unlawful Practices
4.4.9: Signs, Designation, And Inspection
4.4.10: Inaccurate Taximeters Prohibited
4.4.11: Taximeters Optional; Schedule Of Flat Rate Fares
4.4.12: Smoking Prohibited While Taxicab Service Is Being Provided
4.4.13: Fare
4.4.14: Revocation Of Business License
4.4.15: Drivers To Be Licensed
4.4.16: Colored Copy Of Driver's License To Accompany Application
4.4.17: Driver's License And Renewal
4.4.18: Revocation Of Driver's License
4.4.19: Appeals
4.4.1: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE AND FINDINGS; DEFINITIONS:
The council finds that the public health, safety, and welfare require safe
vehicles, trustworthy drivers, and insurance on vehicles involved in commercial
transportation. The public is justifiably concerned about, and requires
protection from, pricing that is arbitrary, unfair, or imposed under inequality
of bargaining power or duress. The council further finds that opportunities for
passenger transport within the city are increasing, and hereby declares that
commercial ventures attempting to enter this market should not be restrained or
overregulated except to afford basic protections to the public and ensure a
level playing field with respect to government regulation.
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words, and
derivations shall have the meanings given herein. When not inconsistent with
the context, words used in the present tense include the future, words in the
plural number include the singular number, and words in the singular number
include the plural number. The word "shall" is always mandatory and not merely
directory.
The following terms as used in this chapter mean:
APPLICANT: A person making an application for a license or the renewal thereof
under this chapter.
BUS: A motor vehicle used for the purpose of transporting people with a minimum
capacity of sixteen (16) passengers which is hired to provide services for a
passenger or group of passengers traveling from one location to another for a
common purpose or which provides regular route service from one location to
another and which is subject to the federal motor carrier safety regulations
under the jurisdiction of the Idaho state police and Idaho transportation
department.
COMMERCIAL TRANSPORTATION SERVICES BUSINESS DRIVER'S LICENSE: A license to
drive, operate, or have charge of a commercial transportation vehicle pursuant
to and in conjunction with a valid commercial transportation service business
license.
COMMERCIAL TRANSPORTATION SERVICES BUSINESS LICENSE: A license to engage in a
business operating one or more commercial transportation vehicles for the
purpose of a limousine service, shuttle service, touring vehicle service, or
any other service for the purpose of transporting passengers between specified
points on either a regular route or at the direction of the passenger at fares
agreed upon by the passenger and business. Such a service does not include
taxicabs, which are regulated separately under this chapter. Such service does
not include buses or courtesy vehicle services as defined herein. Such service
does not include horsedrawn vehicles, which are regulated separately.
COMMERCIAL TRANSPORTATION VEHICLE: Any vehicle, powered by gasoline engine,
electric motor, human powered, or by any other means, used to transport
passengers for hire or any other consideration. This definition includes
vehicles used by a limousine service, touring vehicle service, shuttle service,
pedicab, rickshaw, and any other vehicle other than taxicabs, buses, and those
operated by a courtesy vehicle service which transports passengers. This
definition does not include the use of taxicabs operated pursuant to this
chapter, courtesy vehicles, service vehicles, or vehicles operated as part of a
governmentally sponsored program. A commercial transportation vehicle shall
only be operated by a driver possessing a commercial transportation service
driver's license pursuant to a commercial transportation service business
license.
COURTESY VEHICLES SERVICE: Any service operating one or more commercial
transportation vehicles on behalf of a business such as a hotel, convention
center, or other business entity for the purpose of transporting passengers who
are patronizing that business, to or from the business. Such vehicles are not
for hire by the general public at any time and shall be clearly marked with the
business' name or logo, owned by, leased by, or contracted for by the business,
and exclusively dedicated to serve the business and patrons of the business, at
no charge to the patron. Courtesy vehicles may not provide transportation to
any passenger for a charge. Tips or gratuities may be offered to the driver at
the conclusion of the service, at the sole discretion of the passenger, but may
not be solicited or negotiated by the driver at any time.
DRIVER: Any person who drives or who is in actual physical control of any
taxicab or commercial transportation vehicle. "Actual physical control" as used
in this chapter shall be defined as being in the driver's position of the
taxicab or commercial transportation vehicle with the motor running or with the
vehicle moving, if no motor exists in the vehicle.
FARE: Money or other value given in exchange for transporting a person or
passenger pursuant to a taxi or commercial transportation business license,
based upon agreement between the passenger and business.
LICENSING OFFICE: The city clerk or his/her designee.
LIMOUSINE SERVICE: Any business operating one or more commercial transportation
vehicles for hire by prearranged appointment only at hourly, daily, or weekly
rates as agreed upon between the passenger and business, which is conducted or
maintained for the purpose of providing luxury transportation with services
carrying passengers for hire, and which transports passengers between points
and over such routes as may be directed by a passenger, and not a fixed route.
Such vehicles include, but are not limited to, limousines, luxury town cars,
"party buses", and stretch sport utility vehicles.
PERSONS: Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company, or
any organization of any kind.
PREARRANGED APPOINTMENT: Transportation for a passenger, or group of
passengers, that is arranged in advance, or pursuant to a regular route between
specified points, and is provided in a commercial transportation vehicle.
SCHEDULE OF FLAT RATE FARES: A posting inside of a taxicab clearly indicating
the amount to be charged one-way, per passenger, from the point of origin to
the destination. A taximeter is the alternative to a schedule of flat rate
fares.
SHUTTLE SERVICES: Any business operating one or more commercial transportation
vehicles for hire by prearranged appointment and not on a regular route and
charged on a per passenger basis, which may make multiple stops, picking up one
or more fare paying passengers on the way to one or more destinations.
TAXICAB: Any motor vehicle regularly used for the purpose of transporting
persons for hire, which receives or discharges passengers within the city
limits, or advertises for such use, whether or not such vehicle or vehicles are
engaged in carrying passengers entirely within the city limits; providing that
"taxicab" as defined in this section does not include a school bus or other
motor vehicle used exclusively for the transportation of children to and from
school, nor a motor bus operated by a public transit system, nor a motor bus
with a seating capacity of over seven (7) passengers operated on a regular
schedule over regularly designated streets, nor courtesy cars provided free of
charge to the hotel/motel guests for transport to and from the airport, nor
vehicles operating for the purpose of carrying United States mail or other
United States property.
TAXIMETER: An instrument attached to a taxicab by means of which the charge
authorized for hire of such vehicle is mechanically calculated in dollars and
cents either on a basis of distance traveled or for waiting time, or a
combination thereof. A schedule of flat rate fares is the alternative to a
taximeter.
TOURING VEHICLE SERVICES: Any business operating one or more commercial
transportation vehicles, other than one rented without a driver, or a taxicab,
bus, or limousine, or incident to a governmentally sponsored program, used for
the transportation of more than four (4) passengers for hire for sightseeing,
educational tours or other such similar excursions; the charges for which are
determined by the length of time for which the vehicle is engaged, the distance
traveled, a fixed fee, or any combination of such methods of determining such
charges. (Ord. 938, 12-17-2015)
4.4.2: BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIRED:
It is unlawful to operate any taxicab business or commercial transportation
business without first having obtained a business license from the city clerk.
(Ord. 938, 12-17-2015)
4.4.3: APPLICATION:
Every person, before providing taxicab service or commercial transportation,
shall apply to the city for a business license and a taxicab or a commercial
transportation driver's license as required by this chapter. Every applicant
for a taxicab or a commercial transportation driver's license shall supply a
full set of fingerprints with every application, except that fingerprints will
not be required for any renewal that occurs within five (5) years of the latest
submittal of fingerprints by the applicant. Every applicant for a taxicab or
commercial transportation business license shall supply a completed vehicle
inspection as provided in section
4.4.6 of this chapter for each vehicle to be used for services. The city, upon
receipt of payment of the proper taxicab service or commercial transportation
license fees, and other required information as specified, and upon compliance
with the requirements of this chapter, shall issue a taxicab or commercial
transportation business license or a taxicab or commercial transportation
driver's license. (Ord. 938, 12-17-2015)
4.4.4: FEES:
   (A)   Every taxicab service or commercial transportation business shall pay
in advance to the city clerk the required fees.
   (B)   At the time of filing an application, the fees shall be paid and is
nonrefundable. The fees shall be set from time to time by resolution of the
city council. (Ord. 938, 12-17-2015)
4.4.5: INVESTIGATION AND DRIVER'S LICENSE REQUIRED:
Upon receipt of an application for any taxi or commercial transportation
driver's license under this chapter, the application shall be referred to the
McCall police department which shall conduct an investigation to determine the
suitability of the applicant to be licensed. The investigation shall require an
applicant to provide information and fingerprints necessary to obtain criminal
history information from the Idaho state police and the federal bureau of
investigation pursuant to Idaho Code section 67-3008 and congressional
enactment public law 92544. The McCall police department shall submit a set of
fingerprints obtained from the applicant and the required fees to the Idaho
state police bureau of criminal identification for a criminal records check of
state and national databases. The submission of fingerprints and information
required by this section shall be on forms prescribed by the Idaho state
police. The McCall police department is authorized to receive criminal history
information from the Idaho state police and from the federal bureau of
investigation for the purpose of evaluating the fitness of an applicant for
licensure. As required by state and federal law, further dissemination or other
use of the criminal history information is prohibited. The applicant shall pay,
in advance, the fees required by the Idaho state police bureau of criminal
identification for the criminal records check.
It is unlawful for any person to drive any taxicab or commercial transportation
vehicle upon the streets of the city without first complying with the following
requirements and obtaining a taxicab or commercial transportation vehicle
driver's license. No person shall be issued a license to drive, operate, or
have charge of a taxicab or commercial transportation vehicle when that person:
   (A)   Is under the age of eighteen (18) years.
   (B)   Is required to register as a sex offender, pursuant to the sexual
offender registration notification and community right-to-know act, Idaho Code
section 18-8301 et seq., and the juvenile sex offender registration
notification and community right-to-know act, Idaho Code section 18-8401 et
seq.
   (C)   Has been, within five (5) years prior to the date of making
application for such license, convicted of, paid any fine, been placed on
probation, or is currently on probation or parole, received a deferred
sentence, received a withheld judgment, sentenced to confinement (including
options in lieu of confinement), or suffered the forfeiture of a bond for a
felony involving the use or threat of violence against the person of another,
or any felony involving the sexual enticement of minors.
   (D)   Has been, within five (5) years prior to the date of making
application for such license, convicted of, paid any fine, placed on probation,
or currently is on probation or parole, received a deferred sentence, received
a withheld judgment, sentenced to confinement (including options in lieu of
confinement), or suffered the forfeiture of a bond for any misdemeanor,
involving:
      1.   Driving under the influence of alcohol (DUI) and/or drugs or
reckless driving;
      2.   The use of force against the persons or property of another;
      3.   The threat of force against the persons of another;
      4.   Theft or larceny;
      5.   Stalking, telephone harassment, or violations of protection orders
or no contact orders;
      6.   The use, possession, or sale of illegal drugs; or possession of
paraphernalia;
      7.   Contributing to the delinquency of a minor;
      8.   Possession of a concealed weapon; or
      9.   Illegal sexual activity.
   (E)   Has an outstanding warrant at the time of such application.
   (F)   Has had a similar license revoked by the city or any other city of
this state or of the United States within the preceding five (5) years. No
license shall be granted to any applicant nor may a licensee maintain an
existing license in good standing where satisfactory proof is submitted that
such applicant operates motor vehicles in an unskilled, dangerous or reckless
manner; or habitually uses intoxicating liquor or drugs; or who repeatedly
violates the laws of the city relating to traffic or to this chapter; or who
violates the laws of the city while engaged in the business activity regulated
by this chapter.
   (G)   A taxicab or a commercial transportation service driver's license
shall not be issued to a person who, at the time of application for renewal of
a license issued hereunder would not be eligible or qualified for such license
upon a first application; and a licensee must continue to have and maintain all
the qualifications; and none of the disqualifications provided herein
throughout the license period. It shall be the duty of the licensee to
immediately notify the clerk's office if any event, subsequent to the issuance
of a taxicab or a commercial transportation service driver's license, renders
the licensee ineligible or unqualified for such a license. Failure to
continually maintain said requirements throughout the duration of the license
may result in revocation of the taxicab or a commercial transportation service
driver's license.
   (H)   Fails or refuses to provide the information or fingerprints requested
during the investigative portion of the process conducted by the McCall police
department.
   (I)   Fails the investigative portion of the process conducted by the McCall
police department. (Ord. 938, 12-17-2015)
4.4.6: VEHICLE INSPECTION:
No vehicle shall be used as a taxicab or a commercial transportation vehicle
until that vehicle has been inspected in accordance with the requirements of
the insurance carrier providing insurance on that vehicle, and found to be in
acceptable condition. Any use by a licensed taxicab business or commercial
transportation business of a vehicle as a taxicab or commercial vehicle prior
to its having been inspected and approved in accordance with these requirements
shall constitute grounds for revocation of the license of said taxicab business
or commercial transportation business. It shall be unlawful to substitute
equipment or parts subsequent to inspection unless such substituted equipment
or parts are in equal or better condition than the equipment or parts being
substituted or replaced. (Ord. 938, 12-17-2015)
4.4.7: INSURANCE REQUIRED:
Before issuing any person a license as a taxicab business or commercial
transportation business, such person shall file with the city clerk public
liability and property damage insurance with some good and reliable insurance
company for the vehicle being utilized for such taxicab or commercial
transportation service, with combined single limits of three hundred thousand
dollars ($300,000.00), or with split limits of not less than one hundred
thousand dollars ($100,000.00) for personal injuries to one person; and not
less than three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000.00) for personal injuries
caused by any one accident and not less than fifty thousand dollars
($50,000.00) for property damage caused by any one accident. No person shall
provide a taxicab or commercial transportation service without underinsured and
uninsured motorist insurance for the vehicle being utilized in such service.
The city shall not issue a license to any applicant for a taxicab business or
commercial transportation business until the applicant has furnished proof
satisfactory to the clerk that insurance of the type and in the amount required
by this chapter has been purchased for the vehicle to be utilized in such
taxicab or commercial transportation business service and that the city has
been made an insurance certificate holder in such insurance. (Ord. 938, 12-17-
2015)
4.4.8: UNLAWFUL PRACTICES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Permit or allow any person to ride on the fenders, hood, or any place
on the outside of a taxicab or commercial transportation vehicle;
   (B)   Permit more persons to be carried in a taxicab or commercial
transportation vehicle as passengers than the rated seated capacity of the
taxicab or commercial vehicle;
   (C)   Verbally attempt to divert patronage from one hotel, motel, or
business to another unless requested by the customer;
   (D)   Violate any parking laws, rules, regulations, or management practices
authorized by law regulating parking within the city;
   (E)   Permit any person other than a person licensed by this chapter to
operate or drive a taxicab or commercial transportation vehicle while in
service;
   (F)   Solicit any person, assist in the solicitation of any person, or
participate in any illicit, immoral, or unlawful sex act;
   (G)   Operate or drive a taxicab or commercial transportation vehicle while
consuming, or affected in any way by, any alcoholic beverage, illegal drug, or
legal drug which impairs the ability to operate a motor vehicle; or to sell,
provide, or buy for, any alcoholic beverage or illegal drug to a passenger;
   (H)   Fail or neglect to visually display in the vehicle while driving,
operating, or having charge of a taxicab or commercial transportation vehicle
within the city limits the following:
      1.   Business license,
      2.   Taxicab or commercial transportation driver's license, and
      3.   Idaho driver's license;
   (I)   Permit use or possession of his/her taxicab or commercial
transportation vehicle license by another;
   (J)   Fail or refuse upon demand of any city officer, police officer, peace
officer, sheriff, sheriff deputy, or passenger to exhibit his/her taxicab or
commercial transportation vehicle license for inspection;
   (K)   Solicit passengers or business for the taxicabs, limousine service,
shuttle service, touring vehicle service, or a particular commercial
transportation vehicle except by lawful advertisement, handheld signs seeking
to establish contact with a prearranged passenger or passengers, or some other
lawful means;
   (L)   Charge any passenger a fare, fee, or rate in excess of the fare, fee,
or rates agreed upon between the passenger and business;
   (M)   Misrepresent the nature or purpose of the service being provided.
(Ord. 938, 12-17-2015)
4.4.9: SIGNS, DESIGNATION, AND INSPECTION:
All vehicles licensed and used by any taxicab business or commercial
transportation business shall be designated as such and identifiable by a sign
on both sides of the vehicle or by a top light stating that the vehicle is a
taxicab or commercial transportation service. The vehicles shall be subject to
periodic inspections as required by the insurance carrier in order to ensure
that the vehicles and equipment are being maintained in a proper manner for the
safety of the public. Copies of the annual inspections must be submitted to the
clerk's office upon license renewal. Failure to meet the minimum reasonable
standards of safety will cause the vehicle to be ordered out of service until
repaired or replaced. (Ord. 938, 12-17-2015)
4.4.10: INACCURATE TAXIMETERS PROHIBITED:
The use of any inaccurate taximeter is prohibited. It is the duty of the
taxicab business licensee to keep taximeters accurate, and taximeters are
subject to inspection at all times by the chief of police or his/her authorized
representative. (Ord. 938, 12-17-2015)
4.4.11: TAXIMETERS OPTIONAL; SCHEDULE OF FLAT RATE FARES:
It is unlawful for any driver or operator of any taxicab to present his/her
vehicle as a taxicab unless it is either equipped with a taximeter in working
order duly inspected and approved as in this chapter provided, or posted with a
schedule of flat rate fares which signify the fare charged per person for a
one-way ride. Taxicabs may have both taximeters and a schedule of flat rate
fares and it shall be the duty of the driver or operator to clearly indicate to
the passenger(s) at the beginning of the ride whether the passenger is being
charged by using the taximeter or by a flat rate fare. Each passenger in the
taxicab may be charged the flat rate fare. (Ord. 938, 12-17-2015)
4.4.12: SMOKING PROHIBITED WHILE TAXICAB SERVICE IS BEING PROVIDED:
Smoking in taxicabs shall be prohibited at all times any passenger is present
during the provision of taxicab service. (Ord. 938, 12-17-2015)
4.4.13: FARE:
Fares charged by a person receiving a taxi or commercial transportation
services business license shall be no greater than those agreed upon by the
passenger and the business. Fares, rates, and fees must be specified in
sufficient detail and prominently displayed to allow the passenger to make an
informed decision about the total fare, rate, or fee to be paid prior to or
following service. Any additional fares, rates, or fees and the circumstances
under which such fees or fares may be assessed must be made known and available
to the passenger prior to service.
All drivers of taxi or commercial transportation vehicles employed to carry
passengers to a definite point shall take the most direct route possible that
will carry the passenger safely and expeditiously to his/her destination, and
no other method or means of measuring or computing distance or time shall be
used or employed except as set forth in this chapter. (Ord. 938, 12-17-2015)
4.4.14: REVOCATION OF BUSINESS LICENSE:
Failure upon the part of any person possessing a taxicab or commercial
transportation business license to comply with the provisions of this chapter,
the traffic rules and regulations of the city and the state and the laws of the
city and state, shall be just and sufficient cause for revoking the license. A
report by the chief of police shall be submitted to council setting forth
violations that have occurred. (Ord. 938, 12-17-2015)
4.4.15: DRIVERS TO BE LICENSED:
It is unlawful for the owner of any taxicab or commercial transportation
business to permit any taxicab or commercial transportation vehicle to be
driven upon the streets of the city by any person without such person being
licensed as a taxicab driver or commercial transportation driver. This
provision does not apply to the taxicab or commercial transportation vehicle
not in service. (Ord. 938, 12-17-2015)
4.4.16: COLORED COPY OF DRIVER'S LICENSE TO ACCOMPANY APPLICATION:
Each applicant for a taxicab or commercial transportation driver's license must
file with his/her application a colored copy of his/her driver's license. The
photograph shall be so attached that it cannot be removed and another
photograph substituted without detection. Each licensed driver shall at all
times have his/her driver's license with him/her and shall exhibit the same
upon request. (Ord. 938, 12-17-2015)
4.4.17: DRIVER'S LICENSE AND RENEWAL:
Upon compliance with the foregoing provisions, a taxicab or commercial
transportation license shall be issued in such form as to contain a colored
copy of his/her driver's license and also the signature of the licensee. Such
license shall be issued as of the issuance date and shall be valid to and
including December 31 of the year issued; once a license has been obtained,
license will be from January 1 to December 31 of each and every year unless
sooner revoked by the city or surrendered by the holder. (Ord. 938, 12-17-2015)
4.4.18: REVOCATION OF DRIVER'S LICENSE:
A taxicab or commercial transportation driver's license may be revoked by the
city clerk upon recommendation of the chief of police and upon violation of
traffic rules and regulations, including, but not limited to, suspension of
state driver's license, conviction of a DUI or any grounds specified in section
4.4.5 of this chapter. (Ord. 938, 12-17-2015)
4.4.19: APPEALS:
Appeals of any decision of the city clerk pursuant to this chapter shall be
submitted in writing to the city clerk's office within ten (10) days of said
decision, and shall be heard by the city manager. (Ord. 938, 12-17-2015)
CHAPTER 5
PAWNBROKERS LICENSES
SECTION:
4.5.1: License Required; Application; And Procedure
4.5.2: Fees
4.5.3: Coverage Of Chapter
4.5.4: Records
4.5.5: Minors And Intoxicated Persons
4.5.6: Sales
4.5.7: Disclosures
4.5.8: Notice From Police Department
4.5.9: Closing Hours
4.5.10: Stolen Property; Return To True Owner
4.5.1: LICENSE REQUIRED; APPLICATION; AND PROCEDURE:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of a
pawnbroker unless a valid license therefor has been issued as provided for in
this chapter and which is in full force and effect.
   (B)   An application for such license shall be made to the city clerk in
such form and manner as provided by the city clerk's office.
   (C)   Upon receipt of an application for a license, the city clerk shall
cause an investigation to be made of the applicant by the police department.
   (D)   Upon completion of such investigation, the city clerk shall issue,
subject to city council approval, a license which shall expire on December 31
of the year of its issuance, unless sooner revoked or surrendered.
   (E)   Licenses shall be transferable only as to place, a location found
appropriate on the same basis as in the case of the issuance of a new license;
the license transfer fee to be paid upon such a transfer shall be set from time
to time by the city council by resolution with the intent of reimbursing the
city its administrative costs.
   (F)   The police chief may refuse to issue a license for any premises which,
in the opinion of the police chief, is not suitably located for enforcement
purposes having due regard to the type and character of business and traffic in
the locale of the proposed business. In the event that the police chief refuses
to issue a license, the police chief shall provide the applicant a written
explanation of the specific reasons for the denial.
   (G)   No license shall be issued to any person who is not eighteen (18)
years of age or older, nor to any person who has within the last ten (10)
years, been convicted of any form of theft, including also possession of stolen
property; or been convicted of any crime involving transfer by the person to
another of any controlled substance contrary to law; or had a pawnbroker's
license revoked by this or any other jurisdiction. (Ord. 938, 12-17-2015)
4.5.2: FEES:
   (A)   Every pawnbroker business shall pay in advance to the city clerk the
required fees.
   (B)   At the time of filing an application the fee for the license or permit
shall be paid and is nonrefundable. The fee shall be set from time to time by
resolution of the city council. (Ord. 938, 12-17-2015)
4.5.3: COVERAGE OF CHAPTER:
The requirements, restrictions, and prohibitions of this chapter shall apply
only to the business of "pawnbroking", as defined in section
4.1.2 of this title. In the event that any licensee who falls within the
coverage of this chapter conducts business not covered by section
4.1.2 of this title, on the same premises or at a separate location, said
separate business or businesses shall be exempt from the terms of this chapter,
and, the city shall have no regulatory power over said separate business or
businesses by means of this chapter. (Ord. 938, 12-17-2015)
4.5.4: RECORDS:
   (A)   Every pawnbroker shall keep a record of every article pledged with or
sold to the pawnbroker, and this record shall be open to the inspection of any
police officer at any reasonable time during the hours of business. Such record
shall provide the following information:
      1.   Name, address, and license number of the pawnbroker;
      2.   The pledgor or seller's motor vehicle operator's or chauffeur's
license number and the state of issue;
      3.   The date of the transaction, the article pledged or sold together
with its description, serial number or other identification, and the amount and
terms of the loan;
      4.   Signature lines or space for the execution by both pawnbroker and
pledgor or seller.
   (B)   Every record shall be executed by the pawnbroker and the pledgor or
seller, and at the time of execution, the pawnbroker shall compare the
signature upon the operator's license with that upon the record.
   (C)   Every pawnbroker shall be required to ascertain title in and to any
article pledged or sold to the pawnbroker. This section shall apply to all
secondhand purchases for resale, but shall not apply to articles of new
merchandise purchased by a pawnbroker in the ordinary channels of trade.
   (D)   All records shall be made in triplicate, with one of the three (3)
said copies to be separately filed by date, and retained for inspection by the
police department as allowed herein. (Ord. 938, 12-17-2015)
4.5.5: MINORS AND INTOXICATED PERSONS:
No pawnbroker shall knowingly:
   (A)   Have any business dealings as a pawnbroker with any person less than
eighteen (18) years of age, except with the written consent of the parent or
guardian of the minor as to each particular transaction, and in that event the
parent or guardian must execute the record required by section
4.5.4 of this chapter, and furnish proof of identification as any pledgor or
seller of any article with such being recorded upon the aforesaid record.
   (B)   Employ a person less than eighteen (18) years of age to assist the
pawnbroker in their business.
   (C)   Have any business dealings as a pawnbroker with an intoxicated person.
(Ord. 938, 12-17-2015)
4.5.6: SALES:
Upon notice from an appropriate police agency that an item of a particular
description (including model number and serial number, if available) has
allegedly been stolen and is the subject of an investigation by said agency,
then any pawnbroker purchasing at their place of business an item meeting said
description, shall:
   (A)   Promptly notify the particular agency of their receipt of said item;
and
   (B)   Hold at their place of business and not sell said item for at least
ninety (90) days. (Ord. 938, 12-17-2015)
4.5.7: DISCLOSURES:
It shall be the duty of every "pawnbroker" as herein defined to provide to each
person accepting a loan an explicit and clear explanation of the exact terms,
conditions, and options of the particular transaction and the precise
consequences of default thereon. (Ord. 938, 12-17-2015)
4.5.8: NOTICE FROM POLICE DEPARTMENT:
Whenever the chief of police or any member of the police department, shall
notify any pawnbroker in writing within twenty four (24) hours of the execution
by a complainant of a complaint or report of allegedly stolen goods, not to
sell any property so received, deposited or purchased by the pawnbroker, or
permit the same to be redeemed, such property shall not be sold or be permitted
to be redeemed for a period of ninety (90) days from the date of such notice
but such notice may be renewed for an additional ninety (90) day period or
periods. Further, a notice may be terminated at any time in writing by the
chief of police. (Ord. 938, 12-17-2015)
4.5.9: CLOSING HOURS:
Every "pawnbroker" as herein defined shall discontinue and cease conducting
their "pawnbroking" business, as herein defined, between the hours of ten
o'clock (10:00) P.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. of each and every day, with
the exception that on Saturday night, said business may be conducted until
twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight. (Ord. 938, 12-17-2015)
4.5.10: STOLEN PROPERTY; RETURN TO TRUE OWNER:
   (A)   Any article pledged or sold, to a pawnbroker, which is subsequently
determined by a law enforcement agency to have been stolen shall be transferred
to the custody of such agency upon the agency's request.
   (B)   Upon the return of stolen property to the true owner, by a law
enforcement agency, the pawnbroker shall complete such documentation as may be
necessary or required to affect the transfer of the property including such
documents pertaining to the registration of firearms as may be required by
local, state, or federal authorities. (Ord. 938, 12-17-2015)
CHAPTER 6
CHILD DAYCARE LICENSES
SECTION:
4.6.1: Policy
4.6.2: Fees
4.6.1: POLICY:
Any person, persons, or organization wishing to obtain a city business license
to operate a child daycare must abide by Idaho Code title 39, chapter 11, basic
day care license and provide a copy of their Idaho state license prior to
approval of their city business license. (Ord. 938, 12-17-2015)
4.6.2: FEES:
   (A)   Every child daycare business shall pay in advance to the city clerk
the required fees.
   (B)   At the time of filing an application the fee for the license or permit
shall be paid and is nonrefundable. The fee shall be set from time to time by
resolution of the city council. (Ord. 938, 12-17-2015)
CHAPTER 7
LIMITED DURATION BUSINESS LICENSES
SECTION:
4.7.1: Purpose
4.7.2: Vendor's Licenses; Fee And Permit; Application
4.7.3: Peddler's Licenses; Fee, Permit, Application; And Investigation Required
4.7.4: Farmers' Market; Application, Permit, And Fee
4.7.5: Animal Drawn Vehicles; Application, Permit, And Fee
4.7.6: Craft Fairs And Bazaars; Application, Permit, And Fee
4.7.1: PURPOSE:
   (A)   The primary purpose of the public streets, sidewalks and other public
ways is for use by vehicular and pedestrian traffic.
   (B)   Reasonable regulation of vending on public ways is necessary to
protect the public health, safety, and welfare.
   (C)   The economic base of the city is tourism and related services such as,
but not limited to, vending, and that maintaining and enhancing the appearance,
character and beauty of the city is necessary to protect and promote the
economic base and the general welfare of the community.
   (D)   It is the policy of the city to promote the protection of the public
health, safety, and welfare by the regulation of off site vendors operating
inside the city.
   (E)   Reasonable regulation of off site vendors is necessary to ensure that
any stand or structure design and construction for purpose of off site vending
is safe, orderly, and harmonious with the appearance and character of the
neighborhood and the city, and provides for safe and adequate pedestrian and
vehicular traffic.
   (F)   Reasonable regulation of off site vendors is necessary to protect and
conserve the economic base of the community, including property values.
   (G)   The regulations contained in this chapter are not intended to prohibit
or hamper speech which is protected by the first amendment, but merely to
regulate specific activities which are commercial in nature. (Ord. 938, 12-17-
2015)
4.7.2: VENDOR'S LICENSES; FEE AND PERMIT; APPLICATION:
   (A)   No person shall do business as a "vendor" as defined in section
4.1.2 of this title, or as part of a "public event" as defined in section
4.8.1 of this title within the city of McCall without first obtaining a permit
as a vendor from the city clerk and paying a license fee for the permit.
Excluded are vendors of farmers' markets and sales representatives.
   (B)   The application for such permit shall be filed with the city clerk not
less than seventy two (72) hours prior to the first day upon which sales are
intended to occur. An application for such license shall be made to the city
clerk in such form and manner as provided by the city clerk's office and will
include the following:
      1.   Name and description of the applicant; if the applicant is an
association, company, or corporation, then it shall submit a separate
application for each natural person who will be acting as a vendor in the city,
and each shall receive and maintain a separate permit;
      2.   Address, both legal and local;
      3.   A brief description of the nature of the business and of the goods
or services to be sold or rented, or the goods to be purchased, and in the case
of products of farm or orchard, whether produced or grown by the applicant;
      4.   The date or dates for which the permit is requested which must
include days when the stand is left in place, whether or not open for business;
      5.   The proposed method of operation;
      6.   If a vehicle is to be used, a description of the same, together with
its registered license plate number and to whom it is registered;
      7.   State sales tax number, federal tax number, and driver's license
number of applicant;
      8.   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has been convicted of
a violation of any federal, state or municipal law, the nature of the offense
and the date, and the punishment or penalty assessed therefor;
      9.   When the applicant proposes to sell any prepared food product for
human consumption (other than frozen products not intended for immediate
consumption), an approval from Central district health that the proposed method
of food preparation and service meets applicable health standards;
      10.   The property description of each location of sale, rental, or
purchase activity, and written and notarized permission of the owner or owners
of such real property to engage in or conduct business on such property; if
there is any question of the ownership of the property, it is the duty of the
applicant to furnish satisfactory proof of the same;
      11.   A photograph of any stand which the applicant will use to conduct
sales from and a photograph of any signage;
      12.   The license application fee.
   (C)   The fee for the license or permit shall be set from time to time by
resolution of the city council, and shall provide for per diem and for per
annum fees. Such fees shall be nonrefundable.
   (D)   A person holding a vendor's permit or license which is part of another
licensed street carnival or event during a winter carnival issued by the
organizers of such carnival or event, shall not be required to hold a permit
issued by the city under this section.
   (E)   A person which is a part of a craft fair or bazaar shall not be
required to hold a permit issued by the city under this section.
   (F)   The city's or event organizer's permit shall in the case of a vendor
be posted upon the stand at all times when the stand is open for business. The
activities conducted by the vendor must conform to the description in the
application for the permit. No sign shall be on or about a vendor's stand
making any statement that is untrue or is at variance from the application; for
one example: A sign shall not state "local produce" if either in fact or
according to the application the produce was not grown on land in Long Valley
within Valley County, Idaho, or Meadows Valley within Adams County, Idaho. If a
statement made in the application for a vendor's license is false, or if a
statement made by a sign at a vendor's stand is false, the permit shall be
void.
   (G)   Doing business as a vendor without a valid vendor's permit, or making
a false statement in a submitted application; or purporting to be an applicant,
when in fact merely selling one's ability to obtain a permit or to obtain a
permit at a lesser fee; or falsely certifying the status of a group as exempt
from federal income tax; are all misdemeanors, and each day the violation
continues is a separate offense. The police department is authorized to require
a vendor doing business as a vendor without a vendor's permit displayed on the
vehicle or stand, forthwith to remove their vehicle or stand from the city.
   (H)   All persons doing business as a vendor must abide by the following for
signage:
      1.   Limit the square footage of allowable vendor signage to fifteen (15)
total square feet.
      2.   The maximum square footage includes A-frame portable signs so long
as they are not located on a sidewalk or public pathway and are within twenty
five feet (25') from the point of sale.
      3.   The maximum square footage includes flags or banners, so long as the
flags or banners are not freestanding (i.e., should be mounted to the vendor's
tent, truck, table, booth, etc.).
   (I)   The permitting process for a nonprofit organization vendor shall be
the same as a for profit vendor.
   (J)   Those exempt from requiring a vendor's permit are school age children
selling various fundraising items including, but not limited to, Girl and Boy
Scouts, school sponsored sporting or music events, school age clubs such as
Optimists. (Ord. 946, 8-11-2016)
4.7.3: PEDDLER'S LICENSES; FEE, PERMIT, APPLICATION; AND INVESTIGATION
REQUIRED:
   (A)   Every person, acting as a "peddler" as defined in section
4.1.2 of this title, shall apply to the city for a peddler's license as
required by this chapter. The application for such permit shall be filed with
the city clerk not less than eight (8) weeks prior to the first day upon which
sales are intended to occur. An application for such license shall be made to
the city clerk in such form and manner as provided by the city clerk's office
and will include the following:
      1.   Name and description of the applicant; if the applicant is an
association, company, or corporation, then it shall submit a separate
application for each natural person who will be acting as a peddler in the
city, and each shall receive and maintain a separate permit;
      2.   Address, both legal and local;
      3.   A brief description of the nature of the business and of the goods
or services to be sold or rented, or the goods to be purchased;
      4.   If employed, the name and address of the employer, together with
credentials establishing the exact relationship between the employer and the
applicant; and, if the net income of the peddler's operations will be payable
to someone other than the peddler, but not an employer, the name and address of
that payee;
      5.   The date or dates for which the permit is requested;
      6.   If a vehicle is to be used, a description of the same, together with
its registered license plate number and to whom it is registered;
      7.   The proposed method of operation;
      8.   State sales tax number, federal tax number, and driver's license
number of applicant;
      9.   Submit to a photograph to be used as identification of the
applicant, showing the head and shoulders of the applicant in a clear and
distinguishable manner;
      10.   The license application fee.
   (B)   The fee for the license or permit shall be set from time to time by
resolution of the city council, and shall provide for per diem and for per
annum fees. Such fees shall be nonrefundable.
   (C)   Upon receipt of an application for a peddler's license under this
chapter, the application shall be referred to the McCall police department
which shall conduct an investigation to determine the suitability of the
applicant to be licensed. The investigation shall require an applicant to
provide information and fingerprints necessary to obtain criminal history
information from the Idaho state police and the federal bureau of investigation
pursuant to Idaho Code section 67-3008 and congressional enactment public law
92544. The McCall police department shall submit a set of fingerprints obtained
from the applicant and the required fees to the Idaho state police bureau of
criminal identification for a criminal records check of state and national
databases. The submission of fingerprints and information required by this
section shall be on forms prescribed by the Idaho state police. The McCall
police department is authorized to receive criminal history information from
the Idaho state police and from the federal bureau of investigation for the
purpose of evaluating the fitness of an applicant for licensure. As required by
state and federal law, further dissemination or other use of the criminal
history information is prohibited. The applicant shall pay, in advance, the
fees required by the Idaho state police bureau of criminal identification for
the criminal records check.
   (D)   It is unlawful for any person to act as a "peddler" as defined in
section
4.1.2 of this title within McCall city limits without first complying with the
following requirements and obtaining a peddler's license. No person shall be
issued a peddler's license when that person:
      1.   Is under the age of eighteen (18) years.
      2.   Is required to register as a sex offender, pursuant to the sexual
offender registration notification and community right-to- know act, Idaho Code
section 18-8301 et seq., and the juvenile sex offender registration
notification and community right- to-know act, Idaho Code section 18-8401 et
seq.
      3.   Has been, within five (5) years prior to the date of making
application for such license, convicted of, paid any fine, been placed on
probation, or is currently on probation or parole, received a deferred
sentence, received a withheld judgment, sentenced to confinement (including
options in lieu of confinement), or suffered the forfeiture of a bond for a
felony involving the use or threat of violence against the person of another,
or any felony involving the sexual enticement of minors.
      4.   Has been, within five (5) years prior to the date of making
application for such license, convicted of, paid any fine, placed on probation,
or currently is on probation or parole, received a deferred sentence, received
a withheld judgment, sentenced to confinement (including options in lieu of
confinement), or suffered the forfeiture of a bond for any misdemeanor,
involving:
         (a)   The use of force against the persons or property of another;
         (b)   The threat of force against the persons of another;
         (c)   Theft or larceny;
         (d)   Stalking, telephone harassment, or violations of protection
orders or no contact orders;
         (e)   The use, possession, or sale of illegal drugs; or possession of
paraphernalia;
         (f)   Contributing to the delinquency of a minor;
         (g)   Possession of a concealed weapon; or
         (h)   Illegal sexual activity.
      5.   Has an outstanding warrant at the time of such application.
      6.   Has had a similar license revoked by the city or any other city of
this state or of the United States within the preceding five (5) years. No
license shall be granted to any applicant nor may a licensee maintain an
existing license in good standing where satisfactory proof is submitted that
such applicant violates the laws of the city while engaged in the business
activity regulated by this chapter.
      7.   A peddler's license shall not be issued to a person who, at the time
of application for renewal of a license issued hereunder would not be eligible
or qualified for such license upon a first application; and a licensee must
continue to have and maintain all the qualifications; and none of the
disqualifications provided herein throughout the license period. It shall be
the duty of the licensee to immediately notify the city clerk's office if any
event, subsequent to the issuance of a peddler's license, renders the licensee
ineligible or unqualified for such a license.
      8.   Fails or refuses to provide the information or fingerprints
requested during the investigative portion of the process conducted by the
McCall police department.
      9.   Fails the investigative portion of the process conducted by the
McCall police department.
   (E)   The city, upon receipt of payment of the proper peddler's license
fees, and other required information as specified, and upon compliance with the
requirements of this chapter, shall issue a peddler's license.
   (F)   Those exempt from requiring a peddler's license are school age
children selling various fundraising items including, but not limited to, Girl
and Boy Scouts, school sponsored sporting or music events, school age clubs
such as Optimists. Also exempt are those affiliated with religion and politics.
(Ord. 938, 12-17-2015)
4.7.4: FARMERS' MARKET; APPLICATION, PERMIT, AND FEE:
   (A)   No charge or assessment of any kind shall be made or levied by the
city on any wagon or vehicle or on the owner bringing farm produce to any
farmers' market that may be established in the city. A permit for a farmers'
market may be issued for a location on private property, on city right of way,
or other city property, provided that insurance is provided with the city as a
coinsured if on city property or right of way. A farmers' market shall pay a
license fee as set from time to time by resolution of the city council.
   (B)   To qualify as a farmers' market, the market organizers must comply
with the market development division of the Idaho state department of
agriculture and its definition of a farmers' market as outlined in the "Idaho
Farmers Market Manual".
   (C)   Allowable signage for a farmers' market are no more than two (2)
directional A-frame signs, each a maximum of twelve (12) square feet placed
within the public right of way of the nearest intersections, but so as not to
impede pedestrian or vehicle traffic. Individual farmers' market vendors are
limited to signage displayed within their allotted vending space within the
farmers' market.
   (D)   To receive a farmers' market permit from the city an application for
such license shall be made to the city clerk in such form and manner as
provided by the city clerk's office and will include the following:
      1.   The name, resident address and contact information of the applicant
which, if a copartnership, shall include the name and resident address of each
partner; if a corporation, association or group acting as a unit, the name and
resident address of the officers and the board of directors, trustees or other
governing board;
      2.   Proof of 501(c) status;
      3.   State sales tax number and federal tax number;
      4.   The date or dates for which the permit is requested;
      5.   If on city property proof of liability insurance;
      6.   When the applicant proposes to sell any prepared food product for
human consumption (other than frozen products not intended for immediate
consumption), an approval from Central district health that the proposed method
of food preparation and service meets applicable health standards;
      7.   The property description of the location of the farmers' market, and
written and notarized permission of the owner or owners of such real property
to engage in or conduct business on such property; if there is any question of
the ownership of the property, it is the duty of the applicant to furnish
satisfactory proof of the same;
      8.   Evidence of a valid electrical inspection for any electrical wiring
which is part of the stand and for any connection to an external power source;
and
      9.   The license fee.
   (E)   The fee for the license or permit shall be set from time to time by
resolution of the city council. Such fees shall be nonrefundable. (Ord. 938,
12-17-2015)
4.7.5: ANIMAL DRAWN VEHICLES; APPLICATION, PERMIT, AND FEE:
   (A)   No person shall operate for hire on the public streets and rights of
way, whether for hire by the ride, per person or otherwise, a wagon or other
vehicle drawn by one or more animals, without first obtaining and paying for a
license from the city clerk.
   (B)   To receive an animal drawn vehicle license from the city an
application for such license shall be made to the city clerk in such form and
manner as provided by the city clerk's office and will include the following:
      1.   Name of business;
      2.   Name of business owner;
      3.   Tax identification number;
      4.   Physical and mailing address;
      5.   Contact information;
      6.   Description of vehicle;
      7.   Proof of insurance;
      8.   A map of the route;
      9.   The license fee.
   (C)   The license fee shall be set from time to time by resolution of the
city council.
   (D)   Such vehicle shall at all time display such lights, reflectors and
other safety devices as may be required by state traffic laws.
   (E)   Each animal used to draw such a vehicle shall wear a device which
prevents deposit of feces on the ground, and such device shall be emptied from
time to time at premises owned by the vehicle owner or some other place with
the agreement of the owner thereof, and in either case and any event in accord
with public health laws and regulations. (Ord. 938, 12-17-2015)
4.7.6: CRAFT FAIRS AND BAZAARS; APPLICATION, PERMIT, AND FEE:
   (A)   A permit for craft fairs and bazaars may be issued for a location on
private property, on a city right of way, or other city property, provided that
insurance is provided with the city as a coinsured if on city property or right
of way. A craft fair or bazaar shall pay a license fee as set from time to time
by resolution of the city council.
   (B)   The craft fair and bazaar organizers must collect all state and local
applicable taxes and remit within the required time frame.
   (C)   Allowable signage for craft fairs and bazaars:
      1.   Limit the square footage of allowable vendor signage to fifteen (15)
total square feet.
      2.   The maximum square footage includes A-frame portable signs so long
as they are not located on a sidewalk or public pathway and are within twenty
five feet (25') from the point of sale.
      3.   The maximum square footage includes flags or banners, so long as the
flags or banners are not freestanding (i.e., should be mounted to the vendor's
tent, truck, table, booth, etc.).
      4.   Individual vendors are limited to signage displayed within their
allotted vending space within the event.
   (D)   To receive a permit for craft fairs and bazaars from the city an
application for such license shall be made to the city clerk in such form and
manner as provided by the city clerk's office and will include the following:
      1.   Name and description of the applicant;
      2.   Address, both legal and local;
      3.   Location of event;
      4.   The date or dates for which the permit is requested;
      5.   Expected attendance;
      6.   When the applicant proposes to have vendors who sell any prepared
food product for human consumption (other than frozen products not intended for
immediate consumption), an approval from Central district health that the
proposed method of food preparation and service meets applicable health
standards for each vendor;
      7.   When the applicant proposes to have vendors who sell any products
they must collect all applicable state and local taxes;
      8.   The license fee.
   (E)   The fee for the license or permit shall be set from time to time by
resolution of the city council. Such fees shall be nonrefundable. (Ord. 947, 8-
11-2016)
CHAPTER 8
PUBLIC EVENTS
SECTION:
4.8.1: Public Event Definition
4.8.2: Event Licenses; Permit Application; Fee
4.8.3: Hours Of Operation
4.8.4: Conditions And Public Safety
4.8.5: Signage
4.8.1: PUBLIC EVENT DEFINITION:
A "public event" refers to any event open for the general public on private or
public property. (Ord. 938, 12-17-2015)
4.8.2: EVENT LICENSES; PERMIT APPLICATION; FEE:
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person, persons, corporation, or organization,
to plan a public event on public property unless a valid city permit has been
obtained for the public event. An exception would be events held in public
parks which are subject to the guidelines for commercial activity and
concessions in McCall city parks. Public events on private property do not
require a permit unless the public event is a carnival, circus, or street
event.
   (B)   The application for such permit shall be filed with the city clerk not
less than two (2) weeks prior to the first day upon which the event is intended
to occur and shall be in such form and manner as provided by the city clerk's
office and will include the following:
      1.   Name and description of the applicant.
      2.   Address, both legal and local.
      3.   General event information to include expected attendance.
      4.   A detailed site plan.
      5.   If a catering permit for alcohol will be submitted in conjunction
with this application a detailed alcohol plan that addresses how the applicant
will avoid service of minors must be included.
      6.   A detailed plan for trash collection and removal during and after
the event.
      7.   Detailed noise controls plan if the event is scheduled to go beyond
ten o'clock (10:00) P.M.
      8.   If this is an athletic event, a clear route map and written
description of the route must be provided. If the athletic event will take
place on a public street and police assistance will be needed it must be stated
at the time of application.
      9.   When the applicant proposes to have vendors who sell any prepared
food product for human consumption (other than frozen products not intended for
immediate consumption), an approval from Central district health that the
proposed method of food preparation and service meets applicable health
standards for each vendor.
      10.   When the applicant proposes to have vendors who sell any products
they must collect all applicable state and local taxes.
      11.   When the applicant proposes to have a street closure, or there will
be an impact to the traffic on public streets, then a street closure form must
be approved prior to the permit being issued for the public event.
   (C)   The fee for the license or permit shall be set from time to time by
resolution of the city council and shall be nonrefundable. No permit shall be
granted for a period of more than two (2) consecutive days, expiring at twelve
o'clock (12:00) midnight on the second day. The basic permit fee shall be
retained by the city whether a permit is granted, denied, or withdrawn. (Ord.
938, 12-17-2015)
4.8.3: HOURS OF OPERATION:
No outdoor assembly shall be conducted in the city during the hours of one
minute after twelve o'clock (12:01) A.M. and nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. The
participants shall be required to have cleared the public event area and its
immediate environs no later than one o'clock (1:00) A.M. of the day following
the public event. (Ord. 938, 12-17-2015)
4.8.4: CONDITIONS AND PUBLIC SAFETY:
Any person, persons, or organization, hereafter referred to as organizer,
orchestrating a public event must promptly reimburse the city for any and all
damage of any kind to any property of the city which may result from the public
event, and any organizer will not hold liable the city for or in account of any
loss or damage to property owned by, or controlled by the organizer, or for or
on account of any loss or damage sustained by the organizer as a result of
injuries to employees or agents of the organizer. (Ord. 938, 12-17-2015)
4.8.5: SIGNAGE:
   (A)   All public events must abide by the following for signage:
      1.   Limit the square footage of allowable vendor signage to fifteen (15)
total square feet per vendor.
      2.   The maximum square footage includes A-frame portable signs so long
as they are not located on a sidewalk or public pathway and are within twenty
five feet (25') from the point of sale.
      3.   The maximum square footage includes flags or banners, so long as the
flags or banners are not freestanding (i.e., should be mounted to the vendor's
tent, truck, table, booth, etc.).
      4.   Individual vendors are limited to signage displayed within their
allotted vending space within the event. (Ord. 938, 12-17-2015)
CHAPTER 9
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
SECTION:
4.9.1: Definitions
4.9.2: License
4.9.3: Applications
4.9.4: Application Hearing And Determination By City Clerk
4.9.5: Qualifications
4.9.6: Continuance Of Qualifications
4.9.7: Regulations
4.9.8: Payment Of License Filing Fees
4.9.9: Term And Expiration
4.9.10: Renewal
4.9.11: License Transfer
4.9.12: Consumption On And Off Premises
4.9.13: Misrepresentation Of Age
4.9.14: Sale Prohibited
4.9.15: Revocation Of License
4.9.16: Police; Access To Premises
4.9.17: Liquor Catering Permit
4.9.18: Open Containers At Catered Events
4.9.19: Open Containers On Public Property For Permitted Business Premises
4.9.1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter the following words and phrases shall have the
following meanings when not inconsistent with the context. Words used in the
present tense include the future, words in the plural number include the
singular number, and words in the singular number include the plural. The word
shall is always mandatory and not merely directory. All words and phrases shall
be given the same interpretation as that provided by state statute, except
where otherwise provided by this chapter. All other words and phrases used in
this chapter, the definition of which is not herein given, shall be given their
ordinary and commonly understood and accepted meaning.
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE: Any beverage containing alcohol which is a product of
distillation of any fermented liquor, or synthetic ethyl alcohol, including
beer, wine, spirits, or any liquid containing alcohol, beer, wine or spirits.
BEER: Any beverage obtained by alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
decoction of barley, malt, and/or other ingredients in drinkable water.
BEER GARDEN: A geographically designated or enclosed area surrounded by
fencing, with posted signage restricting consumption, approved by the city
council upon recommendation of the police chief, where persons twenty one (21)
years of age or older may consume or possess alcoholic beverages in compliance
with the provisions of this chapter and state law.
BOTTLED BEER: Beer sold or disposed of while securely, tightly, and adequately
sealed in a glass, metal or other container of a capacity not to exceed two (2)
gallons.
CATERING PERMIT: A permit issued by the city clerk to serve and sell alcoholic
beverages, valid for no more than three (3) consecutive days and may be
designated for less by the city clerk or city council.
CITY: The city of McCall, Idaho.
CITY CLERK: The city clerk of the city of McCall, Idaho, or designated agent.
CITY COUNCIL: The city council of the city of McCall, Idaho.
LICENSE: A license issued by the McCall city clerk to a qualified person, under
which it shall be lawful for the licensee to sell and dispense alcoholic
beverages, as provided by this chapter.
LICENSEE: The person to whom a license is issued under the provisions of this
chapter and who holds a valid state of Idaho alcohol beverage license and a
valid Valley County alcohol beverage license.
LIQUOR: All kinds of liquor sold by and in a state liquor store of the state of
Idaho.
OFF PREMISES BEER OR WINE LICENSE: A license authorizing a person to sell beer
or wine at retail for consumption off of the licensed premises.
ON PREMISES BEER OR WINE LICENSE: A license to sell beer or wine by the
individual glass or opened bottle at retail for consumption on the premises
only.
PERSON: Includes an individual, firm, copartnership, association, limited
liability company, corporation, or any group or combination acting as a unit,
and includes the plural as well as the singular unless the intent to give a
more limited meaning is disclosed by the context in which it is used.
PLACE OF BUSINESS: The place where business is carried on by the owners or
agents of owners and under the control of those owners or agents.
POLICE CHIEF: The chief of police for the city of McCall, Idaho, or designated
agent.
POLICE DEPARTMENT: The McCall city police department.
PREMISES: The business place in which the sale of any alcoholic beverage is
authorized under this chapter and pursuant to Idaho statute.
RETAILER: Any person engaged in the sale or distribution of alcoholic beverages
to the consumer, with the exception of keg beer sold by Idaho state license
wholesalers, and to whom a retail license has been issued.
SPIRITS: Any beverage which contains alcohol obtained by distillation mixed
with drinkable water or other substances in solution, including, among other
things, brandy, rum, whiskey, vodka, and gin.
STATE: The state of Idaho.
WINE: Any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of the natural sugar
content of fruits (grapes, apples, etc.) or other agricultural products
containing sugar (honey, milk, etc.) containing not more than fourteen percent
(14%) alcohol by volume. (Ord. 938, 12-17-2015)
4.9.2: LICENSE:
It shall be unlawful for any person or licensee to sell, keep for sale, or
dispense any alcoholic beverage without first obtaining the appropriate license
or permit required by law. Further, it shall be unlawful for licensees to give
away or otherwise dispose of any liquor in the original containers or otherwise
than by retail sale by the drink. (Ord. 938, 12-17-2015)
4.9.3: APPLICATIONS:
Prior to the issuance of a license, as herein provided, the applicant shall
file with the city clerk an application, in writing, signed by the applicant
and containing such information and statements relative to the applicant and
the premises (in existence or to be constructed in accordance with plans and
specifications approved by the city) where the alcoholic beverages are to be
sold. In order to be licensed for the retail sale of liquor or wine, the
applicant must also be licensed for the retail sale of beer. The application
shall be verified by the affidavit of the person making the same and shall be
accompanied with the license filing fees herein required. In addition to
setting forth the qualifications required by other provisions of this chapter,
the application must show:
   (A)   The name, resident address and contact information of the applicant
which, if a copartnership, shall include the name and resident address of each
partner; if a corporation, association or group acting as a unit, the name and
resident address of the officers and the board of directors, trustees or other
governing board.
   (B)   The street address of the premises for which a license is sought.
   (C)   If the premises to be licensed is not owned by the applicant, then a
certified copy of a document showing that the owner consents to the sale of
alcoholic beverages on such premises.
   (D)   If during the period of any license issued hereunder any change shall
take place in any of the requirements of this section, the licensee shall
forthwith make a verified report of such change to the city clerk.
   (E)   Such application shall be accompanied with a copy of the license
issued by the director of the Idaho state police for the premises and for the
time for which the application is made.
   (F)   Such application shall be accompanied with a copy of the license
issued by the board of county commissioners for the premises and for the time
for which the application is made. (Ord. 938, 12-17-2015)
4.9.4: APPLICATION HEARING AND DETERMINATION BY CITY CLERK:
   (A)   The city council has determined that the city clerk shall be delegated
the authority to process and grant or deny all alcoholic beverage license
applications, other than certain circumstances involving catering permits, as
provided in this chapter.
   (B)   Whenever the city clerk shall determine that an application for
alcoholic beverage license transfer or renewal is complete, the city clerk
shall approve or deny such application.
   (C)   Whenever the city clerk or city council shall deny any application,
the city clerk shall specify in writing:
      1.   The statutes, ordinances and standards used in evaluating the
application;
      2.   The reasons for denial; and
      3.   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain the
license transfer or renewal thereof.
   (D)   A transcribable verbatim record of all appeals of denials of license
transfer or renewal shall be kept for six (6) months from the date of appeal.
Appeals shall be heard before the city council.
   (E)   The city clerk shall issue a license to the applicant, which license
or licenses shall at all times be prominently displayed in the place of
business of the licensee and shall be issued only for the particular premises
therein described.
   (F)   All decisions of the city clerk shall be reported to the city council
at the next regularly scheduled city council meeting after such decision. (Ord.
938, 12-17-2015)
4.9.5: QUALIFICATIONS:
No person shall sell or dispense alcoholic beverages at retail until licensed
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, and no retailer's license
shall be issued to any applicant, or such license transferred to any person,
including the executor, administrator or trustee in bankruptcy of the estate of
the holder of a retail license, when that person:
   (A)   Is under the age of twenty one (21) years;
   (B)   Is not the bona fide owner of such business;
   (C)   Is not a citizen of the United States, or has not been a bona fide
resident of the state for at least thirty (30) days next preceding the date of
application for a license, provided, that if the applicant is:
      1.   A partnership, all members thereof shall be citizens of the United
States or have been residents of the state for at least thirty (30) days
preceding the date of application for a license; or
      2.   A corporation or association, it must be organized under the laws of
the state or qualified under the laws of the state to do business in the state
and the principal officers and the members of the governing board must be
citizens of the United States or residents of the state for at least thirty
(30) days next preceding the date of application for such license;
   (D)   Does not otherwise possess all of the qualifications necessary to
obtain a license from the director of the Idaho state police, as prescribed by
the laws of the state of Idaho and maintain such qualifications throughout the
period for which such license is issued. The possession of licenses regularly
issued by the director of the Idaho state police and the county of Valley in
addition to a city beer license shall be prima facie evidence of the
applicant's qualifications to receive a license hereunder. (Ord. 938, 12-17-
2015)
4.9.6: CONTINUANCE OF QUALIFICATIONS:
A retailer licensee must continue throughout the license period to have all of
the qualifications and none of the disqualifications provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 938, 12-17-2015)
4.9.7: REGULATIONS:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to suffer or permit any person
under twenty one (21) years of age to consume beer in or upon their premises,
or for any person to sell, serve or dispense beer to or by any person under
twenty one (21) years of age or to any person who is intoxicated, a habitual
drunkard, or an interdicted person according to the laws of the state of Idaho.
However, any person who is nineteen (19) years of age or older may sell, serve,
possess and dispense liquor, beer or wine in the course of their employment in
any place as defined in section 23-942, Idaho Code, or other place where
liquor, beer or wine are lawfully present so long as such place is the place of
employment for such person under twenty one (21) years of age.
   (B)   Any person under the age of twenty one (21) years, or other
disqualified person, who, and any person who shall aid or abet such person to,
knowingly misrepresent their qualifications for the purpose of obtaining liquor
from any licensee shall upon conviction be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee to sell, keep for sale, dispense
or give away, or otherwise dispose of any liquor in the original containers or
otherwise than retail sale by the drink.
   (D)   Every person to whom a license shall be granted shall at all times
conduct a quiet and orderly place of business.
   (E)   All licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter shall be
posted in a conspicuous place on the premises, and kept posted during the full
period of time for which the same is issued, and that said license shall not be
sold, transferred or assigned without the written consent of the city clerk;
that in case of the receivership, assignment, bankruptcy, or incompetence of
the licensee, the licensee's business may be carried on under the license by
the duly appointed, qualified and acting receiver, assignee, trustee in
bankruptcy, guardian, executor or administrator of the licensee, providing that
such receiver, assignee, trustee, guardian, executor or administrator shall
file with the city clerk a certified copy of their appointment and secure the
written consent of the city clerk.
   (F)   The licensee or any person employed by or acting on behalf of the
licensee who serves another an alcoholic beverage has the duty to routinely
check valid driver's licenses, state identification cards, or military
identification cards to verify the age of those served alcoholic beverages. Any
person who fails to check appropriate identification which subsequently results
in the serving of an alcoholic beverage to a person under the age of twenty one
(21) years shall be guilty of an infraction for a first time offense, or a
misdemeanor for second and subsequent offenses occurring within two (2) years
of a prior offense of the same nature. (Ord. 938, 12-17-2015)
4.9.8: PAYMENT OF LICENSE FILING FEES:
Each application shall be accompanied by the required license filing fees.
License filing fees, to be collected by the city clerk, shall be in an amount
established by the McCall city council by resolution. (Ord. 938, 12-17-2015)
4.9.9: TERM AND EXPIRATION:
For the purpose of this chapter, the city of McCall retail alcohol beverage
license year shall commence on September 1. All licenses issued for the retail
sale of alcoholic beverages within the city shall expire at twelve o'clock (12:
00) midnight on August 31 of the year following unless application for renewal
has been made. If application for renewal has been made, the current license
shall remain in force until the city clerk has acted on the application for
renewal and has given notice of the action taken. (Ord. 938, 12-17-2015)
4.9.10: RENEWAL:
Renewal of a license shall be on forms prescribed and furnished by the city
clerk. Renewal forms shall be submitted thirty (30) days prior to the
expiration of the current license. The required license filing fees and an
affidavit verifying that the information contained in the original application
is unchanged must accompany a renewal form. (Ord. 938, 12-17-2015)
4.9.11: LICENSE TRANSFER:
A license may be transferred, but the transferee, including any executor,
administrator, or trustee in bankruptcy of the estate of the retailer shall not
be authorized to retail alcoholic beverages thereunder until the transferee
shall have filed with the city clerk, under oath, an application therefor
containing the same information required in an application for a license. If
the transferee possesses the qualifications and none of the disqualifications
of a retailer as provided in this chapter, the license shall be endorsed over
to the proposed transferee by said licensee for the remainder of the period for
which the license has been issued, and the city clerk shall approve such
transfer and amend the license to reflect the transfer.
Each such alcohol beverage license shall be accompanied with a transfer fee of
thirty three percent (33%) of annual license filing fees. Application to
transfer an alcohol beverage license from one authorized location to another
shall be made to the city clerk on forms prescribed and furnished by the city
clerk. Each application for transfer of location shall be accompanied by a
transfer fee of twenty five percent (25%) of annual license filing fees. (Ord.
938, 12-17-2015)
4.9.12: CONSUMPTION ON AND OFF PREMISES:
In order to hold a valid license for the retail sale of liquor, which includes
wine by the glass, a retailer must first hold a valid license for the retail
sale of beer. Retailers holding a valid liquor license may sell liquor by the
glass and wine by the glass, but only on the licensed premises. In order to
sell wine by the glass without holding a valid liquor license, a retailer must
hold a valid beer license and a valid license for the sale of wine by the
glass. Retailers holding only off premises beer and/or wine licenses may sell
the beer and/or wine only in their original unbroken containers. Wine sold by
the glass for consumption on premises may be sold only during the hours and on
the days liquor by the glass may be sold pursuant to the laws of this state.
Wine sold for consumption off premises may be sold only during the hours that
beer may be sold pursuant to the laws of this state. (Ord. 938, 12-17-2015)
4.9.13: MISREPRESENTATION OF AGE:
   (A)   No person under the age of twenty one (21) years may purchase,
consume, or possess alcoholic beverages.
   (B)   No person shall give, sell, or deliver alcoholic beverages to any
person under the age of twenty one (21) years.
   (C)   No person under the age of twenty one (21) years shall by any means
represent to any retailer or distributor or to any agent or employee of such
retailer or distributor that he or she is twenty one (21) years or more of age
for the purpose of inducing such retailer or distributor, or their agent or
employee, to sell, serve or dispense alcoholic beverages to such person.
   (D)   No person shall, by any means, represent to any retailer or
distributor or the agent or employee of such retailer or distributor, that any
other person is twenty one (21) years or more of age, when in fact such person
is under the age of twenty one (21) years, for the purpose of inducing such
retailer or distributor, or the agent or employee of such retailer or
distributor, to sell, serve or dispense alcoholic beverages to such person.
(Ord. 938, 12-17-2015)
4.9.14: SALE PROHIBITED:
No liquor shall be sold, offered for sale, or given away upon any licensed
premises during the following days and hours:
   (A)   Christmas from one o'clock (1:00) A.M. to ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. of
the following day;
   (B)   On any other day between two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and ten o'clock (10:
00) A.M. of said day. (Ord. 938, 12-17-2015)
4.9.15: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
The right shall be and remain at all times vested in the city clerk, and mayor
and city council, and the city clerk and mayor and city council may, as
hereinafter provided, revoke or cancel any license for fraud or
misrepresentation in its procurement, or for a violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter, or for any conduct or act of the licensee or their
employees or any conduct or act permitted by the licensee or them on the
premises where such business is conducted, or in connection therewith or
adjacent thereto, tending to render such business or such premises where the
same is conducted as a public nuisance or a menace to the health, peace, safety
or general welfare of the city; provided, that revocation or suspension of the
state license by the commissioner of law enforcement shall be deemed prima
facie evidence for revocation or suspension of the license issued herein. (Ord.
938, 12-17-2015)
4.9.16: POLICE; ACCESS TO PREMISES:
All police officers of the city, of Valley County, of the state of Idaho, or of
the United States shall have the right at any time to enter in and upon any
such licensed premises, and it shall be unlawful to refuse any officer of the
police force of the city, county, state, or United States admittance to or
access to such premises for the purpose of police control, regulation and
inspection of such premises. (Ord. 938, 12-17-2015)
4.9.17: LIQUOR CATERING PERMIT:
   (A)   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to provide a procedure and
guidelines for obtaining an alcoholic beverage catering license pursuant to
Idaho Code title 23, chapter 9.
   (B)   Catering Permits Required; Fees:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to serve and sell any alcoholic
beverage retail by the drink at a party or convention upon an unlicensed
premises, without first obtaining a catering permit issued by the city clerk or
their designee pursuant to these provisions.
      2.   A filing fee in the amount of twenty dollars ($20.00) for each day
the permit is to be effective shall be paid to the city clerk or their
designee, which shall not be refunded in any event.
   (C)   Application For Permit:
      1.   Filing Application: Any person holding an Idaho retail liquor
license, retail beer or wine license, or permit issued pursuant to Idaho Code
section 23-1007A may obtain an application for a catering permit at the office
of the city clerk and fill out the application completely where designated on
the application. The application must be executed by the applicant and filed
with the city clerk not less than three (3) days prior to the catering date(s)
requested. Failure to complete the required portions of the application may
result in a denial of the application.
      2.   Consideration: Where an application is filed within three (3) days
prior to the catering date(s), the applicant may execute a waiver of procedural
appeal rights in order to allow for the consideration of the granting of a
catering permit. A waiver of procedural appeal rights is not a guarantee or
promise that the permit can or shall be processed or granted. The filing fee is
not refundable.
      3.   Application Information: The application for permit shall provide
the following information:
         (a)   Name, address, and phone number of the applicant;
         (b)   The number of their Idaho state retail liquor license, Idaho
state retail beer or wine license, or permit issued pursuant to Idaho Code
section 23-1007A, and the number of their county retail alcohol beverage
license;
         (c)   A photocopy of the Idaho state retail liquor license, Idaho
state retail beer or wine license, or permit issued pursuant to Idaho Code
section 23-1007A and a photocopy of the county alcohol beverage license, when
requested by the city clerk;
         (d)   Dates and hours requested during which the permit is to be
effective, not to exceed three (3) consecutive days;
         (e)   The names of the organizations, groups, or persons sponsoring
the event; and the name of the applicant's designee who will be present at the
event;
         (f)   An alcohol control plan to ensure minors are not served must
accompany the catering permit application;
         (g)   The address at which the alcoholic beverages are to be served;
         (h)   The number of anticipated people who will attend the party or
event;
         (i)   Signatures of the licensee, the police chief, and the city
clerk.
      4.   Persons Not Qualified For Catering Permit: No catering permit shall
be issued to:
         (a)   Any person who does not possess a valid Idaho state retail
liquor license, Idaho state retail beer or wine license, or a benevolent,
charitable, or public purpose permit from the state pursuant to Idaho Code
title 23, chapter 9, 10 or 13;
         (b)   An individual who has been convicted of or received a withheld
judgment for any offense deemed a felony by the laws of the United States, the
state of Idaho, or any other state of the United States, within the last five
(5) years;
         (c)   Any individual who has a judgment, conviction or determination
for a drug or alcohol related violation, whether criminal, civil or
administrative, in violation of the laws of the United States, the state of
Idaho, or any other state of the United States, or of the resolutions or
ordinances of any county or city of this state within the last three (3) years;
         (d)   An applicant who wilfully files any false or misleading
statement which applicant knows to be or reasonably should have known to be
false or misleading in any part of said application or any subsequent report;
         (e)   An applicant who is required to obtain a special event permit as
provided by this code and who has not obtained approval of said permit;
         (f)   Any application for catering permit for more than three (3)
consecutive days by Idaho Code as provided.
   (D)   Applications Reviewed:
      1.   City Clerk To Review: The city clerk shall review the application
for catering permit for completeness and forward said application to the police
chief;
      2.   Recommendation Of The Police Chief: The police chief upon receipt of
the application shall make a recommendation to the city clerk to approve or
deny the application.
         (a)   The police chief may recommend approval of the catering permit
to promote and carry out the policies of the city.
         (b)   The police chief may recommend denial of a catering permit to
protect the health, safety, welfare of the public, to prevent unlawful
disturbances, public nuisance, or to promote and carry out the policies of the
city.
         (c)   The police chief may recommend conditions, terms or a reduction
in the number of requested dates or times as determined reasonable to carry out
the policies of the city, which include protection of the health, safety, and
welfare of the public, or to prevent an unlawful disturbance or nuisance. Such
conditions may include execution of an indemnification agreement, posting of
appropriate signs; and hiring at applicant's expense additional bonded security
personnel.
         (d)   Where the police chief determines that due to the anticipated
number of participants, location, or presence of minors requiring limitation of
the premises for enforcement purposes, he may recommend a beer garden and its
specifications be maintained as a condition of the permit.
         (e)   When the event is on city property the applicant shall be
required to maintain in full force and effect comprehensive general liability
insurance with liability limits of not less than five hundred thousand dollars
($500,000.00) for the term of the applied for catering permit. The insurance
policy shall name the city of McCall as an "additional named insured" and a
copy of the insurance binder shall be filed with the city clerk prior to the
issuance of the said permit.
         (f)   This insurance provision may be waived by the city clerk upon a
showing of good cause for doing so.
   (E)   Permits Issued:
      1.   The city council has determined the city clerk or designee shall be
delegated the authority to grant all catering permits where the police chief
recommends approval.
      2.   Except as otherwise provided, the city clerk shall upon the advice
and recommendation of the police chief approve or deny the application and
indicate the determination on the face of the application by endorsement signed
by the city clerk on behalf of the city council. All decisions of the city
clerk shall be reported to the city council at the next regularly scheduled
city council meeting after such decision. Any person aggrieved by the city
clerk's decision may appeal the same to the city council by filing notice of
appeal with the city clerk within ten (10) days of the city clerk's decision.
      3.   Copies of the application with signed endorsements thereon shall be
mailed or delivered immediately to the police chief. The city clerk shall mail
or deliver a copy of the signed original to the applicant.
      4.   An application approved in this manner shall constitute a permit,
unless disapproved by the director of the department of law enforcement by
notice served upon the applicant for the retail sale by the drink, of liquor,
beer, and wine for the period authorized by the permit. The director of the
department of law enforcement shall immediately notify the police chief in the
event of disapproval.
      5.   Any catering permit is not transferable and shall be valid under the
conditions and terms approved by city council and only within the city of
McCall, state of Idaho.
   (F)   Permit Display Required: The applicant or the applicant's designee is
required to carry, display or post the original catering permit issued and must
be personally present at the approved catering premises at all times during the
life of the catering permit.
   (G)   Grounds For Revocation: The city clerk, the mayor and city council or
the police chief may revoke a catering permit when, subsequent to the approval
of the permit, it is determined that the applicant did not meet the
requirements set forth in this section.
   (H)   Procedure For Denial, Revocation, And Appeal: Except as otherwise
provided in this section, the procedures for denial, revocation, and appeal
shall be followed.
   (I)   Exigent Circumstances For Revocation: Where there exists a clear
endangerment to the health, safety and welfare of the public resulting from the
use of the permit, or where the applicant or their agents fail to perform in
conformance with the conditions and terms set forth on the permit, the city
council, the city clerk, or the police chief may revoke the catering permit
issued under the provisions of this section by immediately demanding and
seizing the permit from the applicant or coapplicant.
Upon receipt of the revoked permit, or where the permit cannot be seized due to
unavailability of the applicant, or where the applicant or coapplicant refuses
to surrender said permit, the chief of police may direct the seizure of all
alcoholic beverages and remove the same and keep the same as evidence, and upon
conviction of the person for violation of the provisions hereof, the said
liquor and all packages, or receptacles containing the same, shall be forfeited
to the state of Idaho.
   (J)   Violations: In addition to the regulations stated in section
4.9.7 of this chapter, the following violations apply to catering permits:
      1.   A person failing to obtain, display, or surrender a catering permit
as provided in this section shall be guilty of an infraction for a first time
offense.
      2.   A person holding a catering permit, or any person employed or acting
on the behalf of the person holding a catering permit, who wilfully endangers
the health, safety, public welfare by permitting, allowing, or failing to
correct conduct in violation of the conditions or terms of a catering permit is
guilty of an infraction for a first time offense.
      3.   Any person holding a catering permit or any person acting on behalf
of that person who permits, allows, or invites another person under twenty one
(21) years of age into a beer garden is guilty of an infraction for a first
time offense.
      4.   All beverages, whether alcoholic or not, served and sold in a public
place or an outdoor private place open to the public, shall be served and sold
in containers made of paper or plastic. Any person who shall use, carry, or be
in possession of any beverage container made of glass in violation of this
section shall be guilty of an infraction for a first time offense.
      5.   A violation of any of the provisions of this section by any agent,
employee, servant, or other person on behalf of the person holding the catering
permit, shall be presumed a violation by the person holding the catering
permit. (Ord. 938, 12-17-2015)
4.9.18: OPEN CONTAINERS AT CATERED EVENTS:
By resolution, the city council may authorize the possession of an open
"container of an alcoholic beverage" (as defined in subsection
5-5-030(F) of this code), and suspend the effect of subsection
5-5-030(F) of this code, for a specified temporary period, upon specified
portions of the public streets, ways, parks or places:
   (A)   Upon condition that a catering permit or a permit under title 23 of
Idaho state code has been issued or be obtained for the same time and place;
   (B)   Upon finding such temporary and limited suspension would be in the
public interest and would further McCall's economic well being or development;
and
   (C)   Upon providing the city clerk with a certificate of insurance showing
that the city is an additional insured on a liquor liability policy with a
combined single limit in an amount satisfactory to the city clerk. (Ord. 938,
12-17-2015)
4.9.19: OPEN CONTAINERS ON PUBLIC PROPERTY FOR PERMITTED BUSINESS PREMISES:
Any business holding a valid revocable encroachment issued by the city, and a
valid license to sell alcoholic beverages as required by Section
4.9.2 of this code, may allow the possession of open containers of alcoholic
beverages on its business premises including such public space or property set
forth in that revocable encroachment permit. (Ord. 994, 9-24-2020)
CHAPTER 10
PRODUCTS CONTAINING PHOSPHORUS
SECTION:
4.10.1: Purpose
4.10.2: Definitions
4.10.3: Commercial Sale Prohibited
4.10.4: Labeling Required
4.10.5: Exemptions
4.10.1: PURPOSE:
It is hereby determined and declared to be necessary and conducive to and for
the protection of the health, safety, and welfare of the public and inhabitants
of the city to ban, within the city limits, the commercial sale of household
cleaning products containing more than a trace level of phosphorus. (Ord. 938,
12-17-2015)
4.10.2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following mean:
CITY: The city of McCall, Valley County, Idaho.
HOUSEHOLD CLEANING PRODUCT: Any domestic or commercial cleaning product,
including, but not limited to, soaps, detergents, laundry bleaches and laundry
additives used for domestic or commercial cleaning purposes, including, but not
limited to, the cleaning of fabrics, dishes, food utensils and household and
commercial premises. Household cleaning product does not mean foods, drugs,
cosmetics or personal care items such as toothpaste, shampoo or hand soap.
MAY: Is permissive (see definition of Shall).
PERSON: Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation, or
group.
PHOSPHORUS: Elemental phosphorus.
SHALL: Is mandatory (see definition of May).
TRACE QUANTITY: An incidental amount of phosphorus that is not part of the
household cleaning product formulation and is present only as a consequence of
manufacturing and does not exceed five- tenths percent (0.5%) of the content of
the product by weight expressed as elemental phosphorus. (Ord. 938, 12-17-2015)
4.10.3: COMMERCIAL SALE PROHIBITED:
No household cleaning product that contains more than a trace quantity of
phosphorus shall be sold, offered, distributed, or exposed for commercial sale
within the city limits. (Ord. 938, 12-17-2015)
4.10.4: LABELING REQUIRED:
All household cleaning products sold within the city limits shall have affixed
thereto labeling that clearly indicates the percent of phosphorus contained in
the product to the nearest one-tenth of one percent (0.1%) accuracy. Household
cleaning products that contain only a trace quantity of phosphorus may be
labeled "contains no phosphorus", "contains no phosphates", or similar labeling
that makes a clear statement that no prohibitive quantity of phosphorus is
present in the product. (Ord. 938, 12-17-2015)
4.10.5: EXEMPTIONS:
The following products are specifically exempt from the provisions of this
chapter:
   (A)   Existing stocks of household cleaning products;
   (B)   Automatic dishwater detergent containing eight and seven- tenths
percent (8.7%) or less phosphorus by weight expressed as elemental phosphorus;
and
   (C)   Those products used for cleaning medical or surgical equipment or
supplies in licensed acute care or long term healthcare medical facilities.
(Ord. 938, 12-17-2015)
CHAPTER 11
ONE PERCENT AND THREE PERCENT NONPROPERTY TAXES
SECTION:
4.11.1: Findings
4.11.2: Definitions
4.11.3: Imposition And Rate Of Certain Nonproperty Sales Taxes
4.11.4: Duration Of Taxes
4.11.5: Purposes For Which The Revenues Derived From Said Nonproperty Taxes
Shall Be Used
4.11.6: Establishment Of General And Enterprise Fund Capital Infrastructure
Budgets
4.11.7: Authorization For City Clerk To Administer, Regulate, And Collect Said
Nonproperty Taxes
4.11.8: Creation Of A Property Tax Relief Fund
4.11.9: Permits Required And Issuance Of Permits
4.11.10: Method For Payment Of Taxes
4.11.11: Audits; Deficiency Determinations
4.11.12: Redetermination Of Deficiency
4.11.13: Appeals, Interest On Deficiency
4.11.14: Collections And Enforcement
4.11.15: Refunds, Limitations, And Interest
4.11.16: Responsibility For Payment Of Taxes
4.11.17: Period Of Limitation Upon Assessment And Collection
4.11.18: Successors' Liability
4.11.19: General Administration By City Clerk
4.11.20: Penalties
4.11.21: Penalty Charges
4.11.22: Exemptions
4.11.23: Confidentiality Of Information
4.11.24: Severability
4.11.1: FINDINGS:
The city council of the city of McCall hereby finds that said city has a
population not in excess of ten thousand (10,000) according to the most recent
census and is a city that derives the major portion of its economic well being
from businesses catering to recreational needs and meeting needs of people
traveling to said destination city for an extended period of time; that said
city has a significant economic dependence upon visitors and travelers passing
through or staying in the community and said city; and, that said visitors and
travelers require services of said city which place an undue burden upon the
taxpayers of said city. (Ord. 938, 12-17-2015)
4.11.2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words, and
derivations shall have the meanings given herein. Except as specifically noted
herein, the terms used in this chapter shall have the same definitions as such
terms have been defined in the Idaho sales tax act, found at Idaho Code title
63, chapter 36, as that legislation may from time to time be amended; and the
Idaho sales and use tax regulations as adopted by the department of revenue and
taxation, state tax commission, as those regulations may from time to time be
amended; and the retail sale of liquor by the drink act as that legislation and
regulation may from time to time be amended. Whenever in the definitions
contained in the Idaho sales tax act or the Idaho sales and use tax
regulations, reference is made to the "state of Idaho", "tax collector", "Idaho
sales tax act" or "act" or "tax commission", such reference shall be deemed to
be to the city of McCall, city clerk, this chapter, city of McCall,
respectively, unless the context of the reference clearly demonstrates that
such interpretation is unreasonable.
GROCERIES: Any items of food and/or beverages sold in a grocery store, and does
not include:
   (A)   Alcoholic beverages;
   (B)   Tobacco;
   (C)   Any food product which is prepared and sold for consumption at any
eating place;
   (D)   Any sandwiches and foods prepared and sold by retailer for immediate
human consumption; or
   (E)   Any food product sold through a vending machine.
IN THE CITY OF MCCALL: Within the municipal boundaries of the city of McCall,
Valley County, Idaho.
PERSON: Means and includes any individual, firm, copartnership, joint venture,
association, social club, fraternal organization, corporation, estate, trust,
business trust, receiver, trustee, syndicate, cooperative, assignee, or any
other group or combination acting as a unit.
PURCHASE: Any transfer, rental, exchange, or barter, conditional or otherwise,
in any manner or by any means whatsoever, of tangible personal property for a
consideration. A transaction whereby the possession of property is transferred
but the seller retains the title as security for the payment of the price is a
purchase. A transfer for a consideration of any publication or of tangible
personal property which has been produced, fabricated, or printed to the
special order of the customer is also a purchase.
RETAIL SALE - SALE AT RETAIL: A sale for any purpose other than resale in the
regular course of business or lease or rental of property in the regular course
of business where such rental or lease is taxable under section 63-3612(2)(h),
Idaho Code.
   (A)   All persons engaged in constructing, altering, repairing, or improving
real estate, are consumers of the material used by them; all sales to or use by
such persons of tangible personal property are taxable whether or not such
persons intend resale of the improved property.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the sale or purchase of personal
property incidental to the sale of real property or used mobile homes is deemed
a sale of real property.
RETAILER: Means and includes:
   (A)   Every seller who makes any retail sale or sales of tangible personal
property and every person engaged in the business of making retail sales at
auction of tangible personal property owned by the person or others.
   (B)   Every person engaged in the business of making sales for storage, use,
or other consumption or in the business of making sales at auction of tangible
personal property owned by the person or others for storage, use, or other
consumption.
   (C)   Every person making more than two (2) retail sales of tangible
personal property during any twelve (12) month period, including sales made in
the capacity of assignee for the benefit of creditors, or receiver or trustee
in bankruptcy, or every person making fewer sales who holds himself out as
engaging in the business of selling such tangible personal property at retail
or who sells a motor vehicle.
   (D)   When the city clerk determines that it is necessary for the efficient
administration of this act to regard any salesmen, representatives, peddlers,
or canvassers as agents of the dealers, distributors, supervisors, or employers
under whom they operate or from whom they obtain the tangible personal property
sold by them, irrespective of whether they are making sales on their own behalf
or on behalf of such dealers, distributors, supervisors, or employers, the city
clerk may so regard them and may regard the dealers, distributors, supervisors,
or employers as retailers for the purpose of this act.
   (E)   Persons conducting both contracting and retailing activities. Such
persons must keep separate accounts for the retail portion of their business
and pay tax in the usual fashion on this portion.
ROOM OCCUPANCY CHARGE: Means and includes the total amount charged for, or
allocated to, the rental, use or temporary occupancy of a room, hotel, motel,
condominium, campground, or other sleeping accommodation or living unit, valued
in money, whether paid in money or otherwise, without any deduction.
SALE: Any transfer of title, exchange, or barter, conditional or otherwise, of
tangible personal property for a consideration and shall include any similar
transfer of possession found by the city clerk to be in lieu of, or equivalent
to, a transfer of title, exchange, or barter. "Sale" shall also include the
following transactions when a consideration is transferred, exchanged, or
bartered:
   (A)   Producing, fabricating, processing, printing, or imprinting of
tangible personal property for consumers who furnish, either directly or
indirectly, the tangible personal property used in the producing, fabricating,
processing, printing, or imprinting.
   (B)   Furnishing, preparing, or serving food, meals, or drinks and
nondepreciable goods and services directly consumed by customers included in
the charge thereof.
   (C)   A transfer of possession of property where the seller retains the
title as security for the payment of the sales price.
   (D)   A transfer of the title or possession of tangible personal property
which has been produced, fabricated, or printed to the special order of the
customer, or of any publication.
   (E)   Admission to a place or for an event in Idaho, provided that an
organization conducting an exempt function as defined in section 527 or
exempted by section 501(c)(3) of the internal revenue code, as incorporated in
section 63-3004, Idaho Code, and collecting any charges for attendance at the
aforementioned event, shall not have those admission charges be defined as a
sale if the event:
1. Is not predominately recreational or commercial; and
2. Any included entertainment value is minimal when compared to the charge for
attendance; and
3. Such entity has paid sales and use tax on taxable property or services used
during the event.
   (F)   The use of or the privilege of using tangible personal property or
facilities for recreation.
   (G)   Providing hotel, motel, and/or short term rental accommodations,
nondepreciable goods directly consumed by customers and included services,
except where residence is maintained continuously under the terms of a lease or
similar agreement for a period in excess of thirty (30) days.
   (H)   The lease or rental of tangible personal property.
   (I)   The intrastate transportation for hire by air of freight or
passengers, except: 1) as part of a regularly scheduled flight by a certified
air carrier, under authority of the United States, or 2) when providing air
ambulance services.
SALES PRICE: The total amount for which tangible personal property, including
services agreed to be rendered as a part of the sale, is sold, rented or
leased, valued in money, whether paid in money or otherwise, without any
deduction on account of any of the following:
   (A)   The cost of the property sold. However, in accordance with such rules
as the city clerk may prescribe, a deduction may be taken if the retailer has
purchased property for some purpose other than resale or rental, has reimbursed
his vendor for tax which the vendor is required to pay to the city or has paid
the use tax with respect to the property, and has resold or rented the property
prior to making any use of the property other than retention, demonstration or
display while holding it for sale in the regular course of business. If such a
deduction is taken by the retailer, no refund or credit will be allowed to his
vendor with respect to the sale of the property.
   (B)   The cost of materials used, labor or service cost, losses, or any
other expense.
   (C)   The cost of transportation of the property prior to its sale.
   (D)   The face value of manufacturer's discount coupons. A manufacturer's
discount coupon is a price reduction coupon presented by a consumer to a
retailer upon purchase of a manufacturer's product, the face value of which may
only be reimbursed by the manufacturer to the retailer.
The sales price of a "new manufactured home" or a "modular building" as defined
in the sales tax act shall be limited to and include only fifty five percent
(55%) of the sales price as otherwise defined herein.
Taxes previously paid on amounts represented by accounts found to be worthless
may be credited upon a subsequent payment of the tax provided in this chapter
or, if no such tax is due, refunded. If such accounts are thereafter collected,
a tax shall be paid upon the amount so collected.
Tangible personal property when sold at retail for more than eleven cents
($0.11) but less than one dollar one cent ($1.01) through a vending machine
shall be deemed to have sold at a sales price equal to one hundred seventeen
percent (117%) of the price which is paid for such tangible personal property
and/or its component parts including packaging by the owner or operator of the
vending machines.
Sales price shall not include a gratuity or tip received when paid to the
service provider of a meal. The gratuity or tip can be either voluntary or
mandatory, but must be given for the service provided and as a supplement to
the service provider's income.
The term "sales price" does not include any of the following:
   (A)   Retailer discounts allowed and taken on sales, but only to the extent
that such retailer discounts represent price adjustments as opposed to cash
discounts offered only as an inducement for prompt payment.
   (B)   Any sums allowed on merchandise accepted in payment of other
merchandise, provided that this allowance shall not apply to the sale of a "new
manufactured home" or a "modular building" as defined in the sales tax act.
   (C)   The amount charged for property returned by customers when the amount
charged therefor is refunded either in cash or credit; but this exclusion shall
not apply in any instance when the customer, in order to obtain the refund, is
required to purchase other property at a price greater than the amount charged
for the property that is returned.
   (D)   The amount charged for labor or services rendered in installing or
applying the property sold, provided that said amount is stated separately and
such separate statement is not used as a means of avoiding imposition of this
tax upon the actual sales price of the tangible personal property; except that
charges by a manufactured homes dealer for set up of a manufactured home shall
be included in the "sales price" of such manufactured home.
   (E)   The amount of any tax (not including, however, any manufacturers' or
importers' excise tax) imposed by the United States upon or with respect to
retail sales whether imposed upon the retailer or the consumer.
   (F)   The amount charged for finance charges, carrying charges, service
charges, time-price differential, or interest on deferred payment sales,
provided such charges are not used as a means of avoiding imposition of this
tax upon the actual sales price of the tangible personal property.
   (G)   Delivery and handling charges for transportation of tangible personal
property to the consumer, provided that the transportation is stated separately
and the separate statement is not used as a means of avoiding imposition of the
tax upon the actual sales price of the tangible personal property; except that
charges by a manufactured homes dealer for transportation of a manufactured
home shall be included in the "sales price" of such manufactured home.
   (H)   Manufacturers' rebates when used at the time of a retail sale as a
down payment on or reduction to the retail sales price of a motor vehicle to
which the rebate applies. A manufacturer's rebate is a cash payment made by a
manufacturer to a consumer who has purchased or is purchasing the
manufacturer's product from the retailer.
   (I)   The amount of any fee imposed upon an outfitter as defined in section
36-2102, Idaho Code, by a governmental entity pursuant to statute for the
purpose of conducting outfitting activities on land or water subject to the
jurisdiction of the governmental entity, provided that the fee is stated
separately and is presented as a use fee paid by the outfitted public to be
passed through to the governmental entity.
   (J)   The amount of any discount or other price reduction on
telecommunications equipment when offered as an inducement to the consumer to
commence or continue telecommunications service, or the amount of any
commission or other indirect compensation received by a retailer or seller as a
result of the consumer commencing or continuing telecommunications service.
SALES TAX ACT: The Idaho sales tax act, Idaho Code 63-3601 et seq., including
subsequent amendments thereto, which is hereby adopted by reference. The
definitions provided herein may be amended from time to time in accordance with
corresponding amendments that may be made to the sales tax act.
SELLER: Every person making sales at retail or retail sales to a buyer or
consumer, whether as agent, broker, or principal.
SHORT TERM OCCUPANCY CHARGE: Means and includes the total sales price for the
rental use or temporary occupancy of a short term rental.
SHORT TERM RENTAL: Means and includes the rental or leasing of lodging to
members of the public for a fee of any hotel room, motel room, campground, RV
resort, campground, condominium, home, room, or any other residential unit,
except where a residence is maintained continuously under terms of a lease or
similar agreement for a period in excess of thirty (30) days.
TANGIBLE PERSONAL PROPERTY: Personal property which may be seen, weighed,
measured, felt, or touched, or which is in any other manner perceptible to the
senses. The term "tangible personal property" includes any computer software
except the following: custom computer programs; computer software that is
delivered electronically; remotely accessed computer software; and computer
software that is delivered by the load and leave method where the vendor or its
agent loads the software at the user's location but does not transfer any
tangible personal property containing the software to the user. As used in this
subsection, the term "remotely accessed computer software" means computer
software that a user accesses over the internet, over private or public
networks, or through wireless media, where the user has only the right to use
or access the software by means of a license, lease, subscription, service or
other agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing exclusions of certain types of
computer software from the definition of tangible personal property, tangible
personal property shall include computer software that constitutes digital
music, digital books, digital videos and digital games when the purchaser has a
permanent right to use such software and, regardless of the method of delivery
or access. If the right to use digital music, digital books, digital videos or
digital games is conditioned upon continued payment from the purchaser it is
not a permanent right of use.
   (A)   As used in this subsection, the term "computer software" means any
computer program, part of a program or any sequence of instructions for
automatic data processing equipment or information stored in an electronic
medium. Computer software is deemed to be tangible personal property for
purposes of this chapter regardless of the method by which the title,
possession, or right to use the software is transferred to the user.
   (B)   As used in this subsection, the term "custom computer program" means
any "computer software" (as defined in this definition) which is written or
prepared exclusively for a customer and includes those services represented by
separately stated charges for the modification of existing prewritten programs
when the modifications are written or prepared exclusively for a customer. The
term does not include a "canned" or prewritten program which is held or
existing for general or repeated sale, lease or license, even if the program
was initially developed on a custom basis or for in-house use. Modification to
an existing prewritten program to meet the customer's needs is custom computer
programming only to the extent of the modification, and only to the extent that
the actual amount charged for the modification is separately stated on
invoices, statements, and other billing documents supplied to the purchaser.
The term "tangible personal property" does not include advertising space when
sold to an advertiser or its agent by the publisher of the newspaper or the
magazine in which the advertisement is displayed or circulated.
TAX: Any nonproperty sales tax imposed by this chapter.
TAXPAYER: Any person subject to or liable for any taxes imposed by this
chapter. (Ord. 938, 12-17-2015)
4.11.3: IMPOSITION AND RATE OF CERTAIN NONPROPERTY SALES TAXES:
The city of McCall hereby imposes and shall collect certain local option
nonproperty sales taxes, as follows:
   (A)   A municipal sales tax is hereby imposed upon each sale at retail
within the city of McCall, Idaho, at the rate of one percent (1%) of the sales
price of all property subject to taxation under Idaho Code 63-3601 et seq.,
Idaho sales tax act, including subsequent amendments thereto; excluding
"groceries" as defined within this chapter and motor vehicle sales which are
titled by the Idaho department of motor vehicles.
   (B)   An additional three percent (3%) hotel-motel room occupancy sales tax
on receipts from all short term rental charges for hotel rooms, motel rooms,
condominium units, tourist homes, campgrounds, and the like within the city.
The hotel-motel, short term rental occupancy tax shall apply to and be computed
on the rental of all hotel-motel, short term rental including all credit,
installment, conditional or similar rental or lease fees at the time the room
occupancy charge is charged. The hotel- motel, short term rental occupancy tax
shall be collected by the owner of the hotel-motel, short term rental or the
authorized agent from the renter or lessee.
   (C)   When the sale price involves a fraction of a dollar, said local option
nonproperty taxes shall be collected on that fractional portion of the price by
adding thereto the tax based upon a bracket system. The bracket system for the
collection of the one percent (1%) sales tax shall be as set forth in exhibit
A, attached to the ordinance codified herein and made a part hereof by
reference. The bracket system for the collection of the three percent (3%)
nonproperty tax shall be as set forth in exhibit B, attached to the ordinance
codified herein and made a part hereof by reference. The retailer shall
calculate the tax upon the entire amount of purchases of the consumer made at a
particular time subject to this chapter, and not separately upon each item
purchased. The retailer may retain any amount collected under said bracket
system which is in excess of the amount of tax for which they are liable to the
city during the period as compensation for the work of collecting said tax.
   (D)   All monies collected and/or retained under the provisions of this
chapter shall be held in trust for the city of McCall and for payment thereof
to the city clerk in the manner and at the times provided in this chapter.
   (E)   This chapter, in conjunction with Idaho law, provides that when there
is a retail sales transaction within the city of McCall, a local option sales
tax is imposed. For a sale of goods, a sale is made in the city when title
passes to the buyer in the city. When delivery of goods occurs in the city of
McCall title passes at the time of delivery. If goods are shipped from outside
the city of McCall into the city, the sale is subject to the local option sales
tax. Alternatively, when goods are delivered by a seller from within the city
of McCall to a location outside the city, then no local sales tax is owed to
the city. (Ord. 938, 12-17-2015)
4.11.4: DURATION OF TAXES:
The nonproperty taxes authorized and collected under this chapter are hereby
imposed for a duration of ten (10) years from the effective date hereof. (Ord.
938, 12-17-2015)
4.11.5: PURPOSES FOR WHICH THE REVENUES DERIVED FROM SAID NONPROPERTY TAXES
SHALL BE USED:
The local option nonproperty tax revenue derived from and collected under this
chapter shall be used for direct costs to collect and enforce the tax and only
for the following purposes:
   (A)   Street replacement, repair, and maintenance thereof shall be as set
forth in the streets plan exhibit C attached to the ordinance codified herein
and made a part hereof by reference;
   (B)   Sidewalks installation, when appropriate, replacement, repair, and
maintenance, along streets in commercial areas to comply with ADA standards;
   (C)   Matching funds to leverage revenue bonds or general obligation bonds
(when approved by the electorate), grant funding, local improvement district,
or business improvement district for subsections (A) and (B) of this section.
(Ord. 938, 12-17-2015)
4.11.6: ESTABLISHMENT OF GENERAL AND ENTERPRISE FUND CAPITAL INFRASTRUCTURE
BUDGETS:
In addition to the revenue collected from the taxes imposed by this chapter,
the city council will establish in each fiscal year's budget a specific line
item, apart and separate from the revenue generated by this chapter, for the
replacement, repair, and maintenance (where maintenance will extend the life of
existing capital infrastructure) of capital infrastructure funded by this tax.
The intent of this provision is to also use some of the city's existing revenue
sources for repair, replacement, and maintenance of the capital infrastructure.
(Ord. 938, 12-17-2015)
4.11.7: AUTHORIZATION FOR CITY CLERK TO ADMINISTER, REGULATE, AND COLLECT SAID
NONPROPERTY TAXES:
The city clerk of the city of McCall is hereby authorized and empowered to
administer, regulate, and collect payment of all nonproperty taxes adopted and
imposed by this chapter. Said clerk shall have all of the powers set forth in
this chapter together with those additional powers necessary and proper to
carry out the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 938, 12-17-2015)
4.11.8: CREATION OF A PROPERTY TAX RELIEF FUND:
Pursuant to Idaho Code section 50-1045, there is hereby created in the office
of the city clerk a fund to be designated as the "municipal property tax relief
fund". Any revenues collected under this chapter in excess of the amount
budgeted by the city council for the use of said revenues, shall be placed by
the city clerk into the municipal property tax relief fund. Such excess
revenues shall be used to replace city property taxes in the ensuing fiscal
year by the amount of all excess revenues placed in said municipal property tax
relief fund. (Ord. 938, 12-17-2015)
4.11.9: PERMITS REQUIRED AND ISSUANCE OF PERMITS:
   (A)   Every person desiring to engage in or conduct business of retail
sales, and/or a hotel-motel or short term rental, within this city shall file
with the city clerk an application for a city of McCall local option
nonproperty tax permit for each place of business. A separate permit is
required for each place of business within the city. Every application for said
permit shall be made upon a form prescribed by the city clerk and shall set
forth the name under which the applicant transacts or intends to transact
business, the location of the business or places of businesses, and such other
information as the city may require. The application shall be signed by the
owner, if they are a natural person; or in the case of an association or
partnership, by a member or partner, in the case of a corporation, by an
executive officer or other person authorized by the corporation to sign the
application.
   (B)   Upon filing an application meeting the requirements set out above, the
city clerk shall issue to each applicant a permit for each place of business. A
permit shall not be assignable, and shall be valid only for the person in whose
name it is issued and for the transaction of business at the place designated
therein. It shall at all times be conspicuously displayed at the location for
which it was issued. Issuance of a permit may be subject to additional
requirements as set forth in this chapter.
   (C)   On the face of the permit shall be fixed a municipal nonproperty tax
number which shall be used by the applicant as an identifying number on all
filing, payment, and correspondence with regard to the nonproperty tax imposed
under this chapter. (Ord. 938, 12-17-2015)
4.11.10: METHOD FOR PAYMENT OF TAXES:
   (A)   The taxes imposed by this chapter shall be computed and paid for each
calendar month. Said taxes are due and payable to the city clerk on or before
the twentieth day of the succeeding month. The amount of tax paid shall be
computed on all sales subject to taxation under this chapter. Each person
required to hold a city of McCall local option nonproperty tax permit and
number shall file a city of McCall local option nonproperty tax return and a
copy of their Idaho state sales tax return for the month at the same time said
taxes are paid to the city clerk, unless said person has been permitted in
writing by the Idaho state tax commission to file quarterly sales or use tax
returns. Persons who have been permitted to file other than monthly returns
shall notify the city clerk in writing and the city clerk thereupon may require
reporting of state tax returns over some other period, but shall require
payment of taxes on a monthly basis.
   (B)   The first payment of taxes under this chapter shall be due and payable
together on February 20, 2016, for that period beginning January 1, 2016 and
ending January 31, 2016. Thereafter all payments shall be made monthly.
   (C)   A city of McCall local option nonproperty tax return shall be filed
each and every month by every person engaging in sales subject to taxation
under this chapter regardless of whether or not any tax is due. Returns shall
be signed by the person required to file the return or by a duly authorized
agent.
   (D)   A valid sales tax exemption certificate issued by the Idaho state tax
commission upon filing a copy thereof with the city clerk shall have the same
effect to exempt the sale from the taxes imposed hereunder as in the Idaho
sales tax act. (Ord. 938, 12-17-2015)
4.11.11: AUDITS; DEFICIENCY DETERMINATIONS:
   (A)   The city clerk may order an audit of any taxpayer under this chapter
for the purpose of ascertaining the correctness or completeness of any return
or payment.
   (B)   If any error or omission is discovered in such audits or in any other
way, the city clerk may compute and determine the amount of tax due upon the
basis of facts obtained from such information within its possession and assert
a deficiency. One or more deficiency determinations may be made for the amount
due for one or for more than one period. In making such a determination, the
city clerk may offset overpayments against amounts due. Further, said
determinations shall be made for the period or periods in respect to which the
person fails to make a return and shall be based upon any information which is
in the city clerk's possession.
   (C)   The city clerk shall give written notice of its determination and the
amount of its deficiency, including interest, at the rate of twelve percent
(12%) per annum from the date due, to the person from whom such deficiency
amount is due. Such notice may be given personally or mailed to the person at
the address furnished to the city clerk in the nonproperty tax permit
application. (Ord. 938, 12-17-2015)
4.11.12: REDETERMINATION OF DEFICIENCY:
   (A)   Any person against whom a deficiency determination is made under this
chapter, or any person directly interested, may petition in writing for a
redetermination within thirty (30) days after service upon the person of notice
thereof. If the petition for redetermination is not filed within the thirty
(30) day period, the determination becomes final at the expiration of the
period.
   (B)   If a petition for redetermination is filed with the thirty (30) day
period the city clerk shall reconsider the determination and, if the person so
requests in the petition, grant the person an oral hearing and give said person
ten (10) days' notice of the time and place of the hearing personally or by
mail addressed to the person at the address furnished to the city clerk in said
person's application for a nonproperty tax permit. (Ord. 938, 12-17-2015)
4.11.13: APPEALS, INTEREST ON DEFICIENCY:
   (A)   When a redetermination is made, the city clerk shall give notice to
the taxpayer against whom the redetermination is made. Within thirty (30) days
of the date upon which such notice of redetermination is mailed or served, the
taxpayer may file an appeal with the city council or may file a complaint with
the district court for review of the city clerk's redetermination. There shall
be no right of review to the city council nor to the district court on the
determination of taxes due made by the city clerk unless a redetermination has
been timely filed. No assessment of a deficiency in respect to the tax imposed
by this chapter or proceeding to collect for its collection shall be made,
begun or prosecuted until such notice has been mailed to the taxpayer and
expiration of such thirty (30) day period after notice of redetermination, nor
if a protest is filed until a decision on the protest becomes final. If the
taxpayer does not protest to the city council or file an action in district
court within the time prescribed in this section, the deficiency shall be
assessed and shall become due and payable upon notice and demand from the city
clerk.
   (B)   Interest upon any deficiency shall be assessed at the same time as the
deficiency and shall become due and payable upon notice and demand from the
city clerk and shall be collected as part of the tax at the rate of twelve
percent (12%) per annum from the date prescribed for payment of the tax. (Ord.
938, 12-17-2015)
4.11.14: COLLECTIONS AND ENFORCEMENT:
As soon as practical after monthly city of McCall local option nonproperty tax
return and payment is filed, the city clerk shall examine the same and
determine the correct amount of the tax. For the purpose of ascertaining the
correctness of any payment determining the amount of tax due where none has
been made, determining liability of any person for any tax payable under this
chapter, or the liability at law or in equity of any person in respect to any
tax provided by this chapter or collecting any such liability, the city clerk,
or duly authorized deputy, is authorized: a) to examine the books, papers,
records, or other data which may be relevant or material to the inquiry; b) to
summon the person liable for the tax or any officer, agent or employee of such
person, or any person having possession, custody or care of books of accounting
containing entries relating to the business of the person liable for the tax,
to appear before the city clerk, or deputy, at a time and place named in its
summons to produce such books, papers, records or other data and/or give such
testimony under oath as may be relevant or material to such inquiry. (Ord. 938,
12-17-2015)
4.11.15: REFUNDS, LIMITATIONS, AND INTEREST:
   (A)   If the city clerk determines that any amount due under this chapter
has been paid more than once or has been erroneously or illegally collected or
computed, the city clerk shall set forth that fact in its records and the
excess amount paid or collected may be credited on any amount due or payable to
the city clerk for nonproperty taxes from that person, and any balance refunded
to the person by whom it was paid or to his successors, administrators or
executors.
   (B)   No such credit or refund shall be allowed or made after one year from
the time the payment was made unless before the expiration of such period a
claim therefor is filed by the taxpayer.
   (C)   Interest shall be allowed on the amount of such credits or refunds at
the rate of twelve percent (12%) per annum from the date which such tax was
paid.
   (D)   Appeal from the city clerk's decision denying in part or in whole a
claim for refund shall be made in accordance with the laws of the state of
Idaho with regard to claims against municipalities. (Ord. 938, 12-17-2015)
4.11.16: RESPONSIBILITY FOR PAYMENT OF TAXES:
Every person with a duty to account for or pay over any tax imposed by this
chapter on behalf of a corporation, as an officer employee of the corporation,
or on behalf of a partnership, as a member employee of the partnership, or on
behalf of a limited liability company, as a member or manager of the limited
liability company, shall be personally liable for payment of such tax, plus
penalties and interest. (Ord. 938, 12-17-2015)
4.11.17: PERIOD OF LIMITATION UPON ASSESSMENT AND COLLECTION:
   (A)   The amount of taxes imposed under this chapter shall be assessed
within three (3) years of the time the return upon which the tax asserted to be
due was or should have been filed, whichever is later; provided, however, if a
deficiency determination or assessment has been made within the prescribed
time, such tax may be collected within a period of six (6) years after
assessment. The running of limitations provided by this section shall be
suspended for the period during which the city clerk is prohibited from making
the assessment or from collecting or proceeding in court due to a petition for
redetermination or an appeal therefrom, and for thirty (30) days hereafter.
   (B)   In the case of taxes due during the lifetime of a decedent, the tax
shall be assessed, and any proceeding in court without assessment for the
collection of such tax shall be begun, within six (6) months after written
request therefor (filed after the return is made) by the executor,
administrator, or other fiduciary representing the estate of such decedent
unless the assessment is stayed by a petition for redetermination or any appeal
therefrom.
   (C)   In the case of a false or fraudulent return with intent to evade tax,
or of a failure to file a return, the tax may be assessed, or a proceeding in
court for collection of such tax may be begun without assessment, at any time
within three (3) years after the date of the discovery of the facts
constituting the fraud. (Ord. 938, 12-17-2015)
4.11.18: SUCCESSORS' LIABILITY:
   (A)   If a vendor liable for any amount of tax under this chapter sells out
his business or stocks and goods, the vendee shall make an inquiry to the city
clerk and withhold from the purchase price any amount of tax that may be due
under this chapter until such time as the vendor produces a receipt stating
that no amount is due.
   (B)   If the purchaser of business or stock of goods fails to withhold from
the purchase price as above required, they are personally liable for the
payment of the amount required to be withheld by them. (Ord. 938, 12-17-2015)
4.11.19: GENERAL ADMINISTRATION BY CITY CLERK:
   (A)   The city clerk shall enforce the provisions of this chapter and may
prescribe, adopt and enforce rules and regulations relating to its
administration and enforcement. The city clerk may employ qualified auditors
for examination of taxpayers' books and records, and shall also employ such
accountants, investigators, assistants, clerks, and other personnel as are
necessary for the efficient administration of this chapter, and may delegate
authority to its representatives to conduct hearings, or perform other duties
imposed by this chapter.
   (B)   Taxpayers in the city of McCall shall keep such records, receipts,
invoices, and other pertinent papers as the city clerk may require. Each such
taxpayer who files tax payments required under this chapter shall keep all such
records for not less than four (4) years after making such payments unless the
city clerk in writing authorizes their destruction.
   (C)   The city clerk, or any person authorized in writing by the clerk, may
examine the books, papers, records, and equipment of any taxpayer or any person
liable for any tax, and may investigate the character of the business of the
person in order to verify the accuracy of any return made, or if no return is
made by the person, to ascertain and determine the amount required to be paid.
Any taxpayer whose pertinent records are kept outside of the city must bring
the records to the city for examination by the city clerk upon request of the
latter, or by agreement with the city clerk permit an auditor designated by the
city clerk to visit the place where the records are kept, and there audit such
records. (Ord. 938, 12-17-2015)
4.11.20: PENALTIES:
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor, punishable by up to one year in the county jail, and/or three
hundred dollar ($300.00) fine, or both. Furthermore, each month in which a
person fails to report, or intentionally fails to accurately compute, or
intentionally fails to accurately disclose the total amount of sales or rentals
or the amount of tax to be paid, as imposed under this chapter, shall be
considered a separate offense.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall have his
city of McCall local option nonproperty tax permit and tax number revoked. The
city clerk shall send written notice of revocation of said permit and tax
number to the permit holder by mailing the same by certified mail to the
address given on the permit application. The permit holder shall have ten (10)
days from the date said notice is mailed to file a written request of appeal
with the city council, challenging said revocation. If no appeal is timely made
said revocation becomes final. Whenever a person subject to this chapter has
had said permit and tax number revoked, the city clerk shall not reissue said
permit nor issue a new permit to said person until said person places with the
city clerk a bond or other sufficient security in the amount equal to three (3)
times the actual, determined, or estimated average monthly amount of tax
payable by such person pursuant to this chapter.
   (C)   The city clerk, whenever it is deemed necessary to ensure compliance
with this chapter, may require any person subject to this chapter to place with
it such security as it may determine. The amount of said security shall not be
greater than three (3) times the estimated average monthly amount payable by
such persons pursuant to this chapter. The amount of the security may be
increased or decreased by the city clerk at any time, subject to the
limitations set forth above.
   (D)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall have all
city of McCall local option nonproperty tax permits revoked.
   (E)   Any amount of tax due under this chapter for which a person fails to
report or accurately compute, shall became a lien upon the property of said
taxpayer on the date that the same becomes due, and the city may seek to
enforce said lien and collect all taxes and interest due, together with the
reasonable costs of collection, including attorney fees, in a court of
competent jurisdiction.
   (F)   For the purposes of proper administration of this chapter, and to
prevent evasion of said local option nonproperty taxes, the burden of proving
that a sale or rental is not a sale under this chapter is upon the person who
makes the sale or rental in question. (Ord. 938, 12-17-2015)
4.11.21: PENALTY CHARGES:
   (A)   Any person who is required to collect and pay over any tax imposed by
this chapter and fails or refuses to pay over to the city the same when due in
accordance with section
4.11.10 of this chapter shall be liable and pay a penalty charge equal to five
percent (5%) of the tax not paid, or a minimum of ten dollars ($10.00)
(whichever is greater). The city clerk shall assess and collect said fee at the
time any delinquent tax payment is tendered. The permit holder shall have ten
(10) days from the date payment is made to file a written appeal with the city
council challenging said penalty determination. If no appeal is timely made as
herein provided, said penalty determination shall be final.
   (B)   Any person who is required to collect, truthfully account for, and pay
over any tax imposed by this chapter and who wilfully fails to collect such a
tax or truthfully account for or pay over such a tax, or wilfully attempts in
any manner to evade or defeat such a tax or payment thereof, shall, in addition
to other penalties provided by law, be liable to a penalty equal to the amount
of the tax evaded, or not collected, or not accounted for or paid over. The
city clerk shall determine and assess such penalties, and the same shall become
due and payable upon notice and demand from the city clerk. The city clerk
shall send written notice of such penalty charge to the permit holder by
mailing the same by certified mail to the address given on the permit
application. The permit holder shall have ten (10) days from the date said
notice is mailed to file a written request of appeal with the city council
challenging said penalty charge determination. If no appeal is timely made as
herein provided, said penalty charge determination shall be final. (Ord. 938,
12-17-2015)
4.11.22: EXEMPTIONS:
Only those transactions which are exempted from the taxes imposed by the state
of Idaho pursuant to the sales tax act, as that act may be amended, are also
exempt from the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 938, 12-17-2015)
4.11.23: CONFIDENTIALITY OF INFORMATION:
   (A)   No city clerk of the city of McCall, Valley County, Idaho, nor any
duly authorized deputy city clerk, agent or employee shall divulge or make
known to any persons, in any manner, any information whatsoever submitted or
obtained, directly or indirectly, pursuant to this chapter, or to permit any
nonproperty tax return or information supplied with regard thereto, or any copy
thereof, or any paper or book so obtained, to be seen or examined by any person
except as provided by law; provided that in any action or proceeding brought
for the collection, remission, cancellation, or refund of the whole or any part
of a tax imposed under this chapter, or for enforcing the penalties prescribed
for making false or fraudulent returns, any and all information contained in or
provided with said returns may be made accessible to the elected and appointed
officials, officers, and representatives of said city charged with enforcing or
defending the same, all such returns, information, statements and
correspondence relating thereto may be produced into evidence in any action,
civil or criminal, directly pertaining to such returns or the tax imposed on
the basis of such returns.
   (B)   The McCall city council, under such rules and provisions as it may
prescribe, may permit, notwithstanding the provisions of this chapter as to
secrecy, the commission of internal revenue of the United States or his
delegate or the proper officer of any state imposing a tax to inspect the
nonproperty tax returns or information provided or obtained in connection
therewith, or may furnish to such officer, or his authorized agent, copies or
an abstract thereof.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a taxpayer, or authorized
representative upon proper identification, from inspecting and copying his own
nonproperty tax returns and information supplied therewith. (Ord. 938, 12-17-
2015)
4.11.24: SEVERABILITY:
It is hereby declared to be the legislative intent that the provisions, and
parts thereof, of this chapter shall be severable. Should any section,
subsection, paragraph, clause or phrase of this chapter, or any particular
application thereof, be declared invalid or unconstitutional for any reason by
a court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the remaining
portions of said section, subsection, paragraph, clause, or phrase of this
chapter. (Ord. 938, 12-17-2015)
CHAPTER 12
THREE PERCENT NONPROPERTY TAXES
SECTION:
4.12.1: Findings
4.12.2: Definitions
4.12.3: Imposition And Rate Of Certain Nonproperty Taxes
4.12.4: Duration Of Taxes
4.12.5: Purposes For Use Of Revenues Derived From Taxes
4.12.6: Local Option Tax Commission Appointment - Term Of Office -
Responsibilities
4.12.7: City Clerk To Administer, Regulate, And Collect Taxes
4.12.8: Creation Of Property Tax Relief Fund
4.12.9: Permits Required And Issuance Of Permits
4.12.10: Method For Payment Of Taxes
4.12.11: Audits; Deficiency Determinations
4.12.12: Redetermination Of Deficiency
4.12.13: Appeals, Interest On Deficiency
4.12.14: Collections And Enforcement
4.12.15: Refunds, Limitations, And Interest
4.12.16: Responsibility For Payment Of Taxes
4.12.17: Period Of Limitation Upon Assessment And Collection
4.12.18: Successors' Liability
4.12.19: General Administration By City Clerk
4.12.20: Penalties
4.12.21: Penalty Charges
4.12.22: Exemptions
4.12.23: Confidentiality Of Information
4.12.1: FINDINGS:
The City Council of the City of McCall hereby finds: a) that said City has a
population not in excess of ten thousand (10,000) according to the most recent
census and is a City that derives the major portion of its economic well being
from businesses catering to recreational needs and meeting needs of people
traveling to said destination City for an extended period of time; b) that said
City has a significant economic dependence upon visitors and travelers passing
through or staying in the community and said City; and c) that said visitors
and travelers require services of said City which place an undue burden upon
the taxpayers of said City. (Ord. 965, 3-8-2018, eff. 1-1-2019)
4.12.2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and
derivations shall have the meanings given herein:
HOTEL-MOTEL OCCUPANCY CHARGE: Means and includes the total sales price for the
rental use or temporary occupancy of a hotel-motel rental.
HOTEL-MOTEL RENTAL: Means and includes the rental or leasing of lodging to
members of the public for a fee of any hotel room, motel room, condominium,
home, room, or any other residential unit, except where a residence is
maintained continuously under terms of a lease or similar agreement for a
period in excess of thirty (30) days.
IN THE CITY OF MCCALL: Within the municipal boundaries of the City of McCall,
Valley County, Idaho.
PERSON: Includes any individual, firm, co-partnership, joint venture,
association, social club, fraternal organization, limited liability company,
corporation, estate, trust, business trust, receiver, trustee, syndicate,
cooperative, assignee, or any other group or combination acting as a unit.
TAXPAYER: Any person subject to or liable for any taxes imposed by this
chapter. (Ord. 965, 3-8-2018, eff. 1-1-2019)
4.12.3: IMPOSITION AND RATE OF CERTAIN NONPROPERTY TAXES:
The City of McCall hereby imposes and shall collect certain local option
nonproperty taxes, as follows:
   (A)   An additional three percent (3%) Occupancy Tax on the hotel, motel,
and short term rental occupancy charge from all hotel-motel rentals and short
term rentals; and
   (B)   When the sales price involves a fraction of a dollar, said local
option nonproperty taxes shall be collected on that fractional portion of the
price by adding thereto the tax based upon a bracket system. The bracket system
for the collection of the three percent (3%) Occupancy Tax shall be as set
forth in exhibit A, on file in the City and made a part hereof. The retailer
shall calculate the tax upon the entire amount of purchases of the consumer
made at a particular time subject to this chapter, and not separately upon each
item purchased. The retailer may retain any amount collected under said bracket
system which is in excess of the amount of tax for which they are liable to the
City during the period as compensation for the work of collecting said tax.
   (C)   All monies collected and/or retained under the provisions of this
chapter shall be held in trust for the City of McCall and for payment thereof
to the City Clerk in the manner and at the times provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 965, 3-8-2018, eff. 1-1-2019)
4.12.4: DURATION OF TAXES:
The nonproperty taxes authorized and collected under this chapter are hereby
imposed for a duration of ten (10) years from the effective date hereof. (Ord.
965, 3-8-2018, eff. 1-1-2019)
4.12.5: PURPOSES FOR USE OF REVENUES DERIVED FROM TAXES:
The local option non-property tax revenue derived from and collected under this
chapter shall be used for direct costs to collect and enforce the tax and only
for the following public purposes:
   (A)   Streets, sidewalks and pathways, public transit, pedestrian
crosswalks, and public transportation;
   (B)   Construction and maintenance of cultural and recreational facilities;
   (C)   Services for community recreational and cultural activities;
   (D)   Public parks maintenance, development, and beautification;
   (E)   Shelter and/or spay and/or neuter of stray animals found in the City;
   (F)   Local housing program as recommended in the McCall Housing Strategy;
   (G)   Services for McCall marketing, advertising, tourism development, and
event promotion;
   (H)   Mitigate the effects of tourism on the City that the General Fund
cannot accommodate. (Ord. 965, 3-8-2018, eff. 1-1-2019)
4.12.6: LOCAL OPTION TAX COMMISSION APPOINTMENT - TERM OF OFFICE -
RESPONSIBILITIES:
   (A)   There shall be a Local Option Tax Commission ("LOT Commission") whose
members shall be appointed by the City Council.
   (B)   The LOT Commission shall be comprised of two (2) members of different
City advisory committees, one senior citizen representative, two (2)
representatives from businesses in McCall, and two (2) at large residents of
the City. The initial appointment of one City advisory committee, one business
and one at large resident Commissioner shall be for terms of two (2) years and
the initial appointment of other one City advisory committee, the other one
business and the other one at large resident Commissioner and the senior
citizen representative shall be for terms of four (4) years. Subsequent
appointments shall be made for four (4) years from the date of appointment, and
until their successors are appointed.
   (C)   Members of the LOT Commission shall serve without salary, but may
receive their actual and necessary budgeted expenses while engaged in
authorized business of the LOT Commission.
   (D)   The members of the LOT Commission shall have the responsibility to
make specific recommendations for the funding of written requests for the use
of the local option non-property tax revenues derived from the taxes assessed
pursuant to this chapter, in accordance with the uses specified in section
4.12.5 of this chapter.
   (E)   The LOT Commission will annually:
      1.   On or before March 15th review the City Clerk's estimates of non-
property taxes anticipated to be collected in the next fiscal year; and
estimate of the amount of the direct costs to enforce and collect the non-
property taxes; and
      2.   Set a deadline on or before April 30th for the filing of written
requests with the City Clerk (using a form approved by the City Council) for
the use of non-property taxes. The City Clerk shall publish notice of the
deadline for the filing of written requests at least twice with the first
publication not less than twenty one (21) days prior to the deadline.
      3.   Set a date, time, and location for the conduct of at least one
public meeting to be held on or before May 31st to hear presentations and to
review written requests. The City Clerk shall publish notice of the public
meeting at least two (2) weeks in advance of the first public meeting.
      4.   On or before June 30th formalize its recommendations to the City
Council for the appropriation of non-property taxes for funding written
requests, which in the judgment of the LOT Commission are the best use of those
funds (subject to a total amount as estimated by the City Clerk), in accordance
with the purposes for the permitted use of those funds as set forth in section
4.12.5 of this chapter.
      5.   The Chairperson of the LOT Commission shall attend the City's staff
level budget meetings in a capacity equivalent to that of a department head
when the annual budget is developed. (Ord. 965, 3-8-2018, eff. 1-1-2019)
4.12.7: CITY CLERK TO ADMINISTER, REGULATE, AND COLLECT TAXES:
The City Clerk of the City of McCall is hereby authorized and empowered to
administer, regulate and collect payment of all nonproperty taxes adopted and
imposed by this chapter. Said Clerk shall have all of the powers set forth in
this chapter together with those additional powers necessary and proper to
carry out the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 965, 3-8-2018, eff. 1-1-2019)
4.12.8: CREATION OF PROPERTY TAX RELIEF FUND:
Pursuant to Idaho Code section 50-1045, there is hereby created in the Office
of the City Clerk a fund to be designated as the "Municipal Property Tax Relief
Fund". Any revenues collected under this chapter in excess of the amount
budgeted by the City Council for the use of said revenues shall be placed by
the City Clerk into the Municipal Property Tax Relief Fund. Such excess
revenues shall be used to replace City Property Taxes in the ensuing fiscal
year by the amount of all excess revenues placed in said Municipal Property Tax
Relief Fund. (Ord. 965, 3-8-2018, eff. 1-1-2019)
4.12.9: PERMITS REQUIRED AND ISSUANCE OF PERMITS:
   (A)   Every person desiring to engage in or conduct the business of a hotel-
motel rental or short term rental within this City shall file with the City
Clerk an application for a City of McCall local option nonproperty tax permit
for each place of business. A separate permit is required for each place of
business within the City. Every application for said permit shall be made upon
a form prescribed by the City Clerk and shall set forth the name under which
the applicant transacts or intends to transact business, the location of the
business or places of businesses, and such other information as the City may
require. The application shall be signed by the owner, if they are a natural
person; or in the case of an association or partnership, by a partner; in the
case of a limited liability company, by a member; in the case of a corporation,
by an executive officer or other person authorized by the corporation to sign
the application.
   (B)   Upon filing an application meeting the requirements set out in
subsection (A) of this section, the City Clerk shall issue to each applicant a
permit for each place of business. A permit shall not be assignable, and shall
be valid only for the person in whose name it is issued and for the transaction
of business at the place designated therein. It shall at all times be
conspicuously displayed at the location for which it was issued. Issuance of a
permit may be subject to additional requirements as set forth in this chapter.
   (C)   On the face of the permit shall be affixed a Municipal nonproperty tax
number which shall be used by the applicant as an identifying number on all
filing, payment and correspondence with regard to the nonproperty tax imposed
under this chapter. (Ord. 965, 3-8-2018, eff. 1-1-2019)
4.12.10: METHOD FOR PAYMENT OF TAXES:
   (A)   The taxes imposed by this chapter shall be computed and paid for each
calendar month or quarterly, based on State requirement for submission. Said
taxes are due and payable to the City Clerk on or before the twentieth day of
the succeeding month. The amount of tax paid shall be computed on all sales
subject to taxation under this chapter. Each person required to hold a City of
McCall local option nonproperty tax permit and number shall file a City of
McCall local option nonproperty tax return and a copy of their Idaho State
Sales Tax return for the month at the same time said taxes are paid to the City
Clerk, unless said person has been permitted in writing by the Idaho State Tax
Commission to file quarterly Sales or Use Tax returns. Persons who have been
permitted to file other than monthly returns shall notify the City Clerk in
writing and the City Clerk thereupon may require reporting of State Tax returns
over some other period.
   (B)   For monthly taxpayers the first payment of taxes under this chapter
shall be due and payable together on February 20, 2019, for payments for that
period beginning January 1, 2019, and ending January 31, 2019. For quarterly
taxpayers, the first payment of taxes under this chapter shall be due and
payable together on April 20, 2019, for that period beginning January 1, 2019
and ending March 31, 2019. Thereafter all payments shall be made monthly or
quarterly, based on State requirement for submission.
   (C)   A City of McCall local option nonproperty tax return shall be filed
each and every month or quarter, based on State requirement for submission, by
every person engaging in sales subject to taxation under this chapter
regardless of whether or not any tax is due. Returns shall be signed by the
person required to file the return or by a duly authorized agent.
   (D)   A valid Sales Tax exemption certificate issued by the Idaho State Tax
Commission upon filing a copy thereof with the City Clerk shall have the same
effect to exempt the sale from the taxes imposed hereunder as in the Idaho
Sales Tax Act. (Ord. 965, 3-8-2018, eff. 1-1-2019)
4.12.11: AUDITS; DEFICIENCY DETERMINATIONS:
   (A)   The City Clerk may order an audit of any taxpayer under this chapter
for the purpose of ascertaining the correctness or completeness of any return
or payment.
   (B)   If any error or omission is discovered in such audits or in any other
way, the City Clerk may compute and determine the amount of tax due upon the
basis of facts obtained and assert a deficiency. One or more deficiency
determinations may be made for the amount due for one or for more than one
period. In making such a determination, the City Clerk may offset overpayments
against amounts due. Further, said determinations shall be made for the period
or periods in respect to which the person fails to make a return and shall be
based upon any information which is in the City Clerk's possession.
   (C)   The City Clerk shall give written notice of the determination and the
amount of the deficiency, including interest, at the rate of twelve percent
(12%) per annum from the date due, to the person from whom such deficiency
amount is due. Such notice may be given personally or mailed to the person at
the address furnished to the City Clerk in the nonproperty tax permit
application. (Ord. 965, 3-8-2018, eff. 1-1-2019)
4.12.12: REDETERMINATION OF DEFICIENCY:
   (A)   Any person against whom a deficiency determination is made under this
chapter, or any person directly interested, may petition in writing for a
redetermination within thirty (30) days after service upon the person of notice
thereof. If the petition for redetermination is not filed within the thirty
(30) day period, the determination becomes final at the expiration of the
period.
   (B)   If a petition for redetermination is filed within the thirty (30) day
period, the City Clerk shall reconsider the determination and, if the person so
requests in the petition, grant the person an oral hearing and give said person
ten (10) days' notice of the time and place of the hearing personally or by
mail addressed to the person at the address furnished to the City Clerk in said
person's application for a nonproperty tax permit. (Ord. 965, 3-8-2018, eff. 1-
1-2019)
4.12.13: APPEALS, INTEREST ON DEFICIENCY:
   (A)   When a re-determination is made, the City Clerk shall give notice to
the taxpayer. Within thirty (30) days of the date upon which such notice of re-
determination is mailed or served, the taxpayer may file an appeal with the
City Council or may file a complaint with the District Court for review of the
City Clerk's re-determination. There shall be no right of review by the City
Council nor by the District Court on the determination of taxes due made by the
City Clerk unless a petition for re-determination has been timely filed. No
assessment of a deficiency in respect to the tax imposed by this chapter or
proceeding to collect for its collection shall be made, begun or prosecuted
until such notice of re- determination has been mailed to the taxpayer and
expiration of such thirty (30) day period after notice of re- determination,
nor, if an appeal is filed, until a decision on the appeal becomes final. If
the taxpayer does not appeal to the City Council or file an action in District
Court within the time prescribed in this section, the deficiency shall be
assessed and shall become due and payable upon notice and demand from the City
Clerk.
   (B)   Interest upon any deficiency shall be assessed at the same time as the
deficiency and shall become due and payable upon notice and demand from the
City Clerk and shall be collected as part of the tax at the rate of twelve
percent (12%) per annum from the date prescribed for payment of the tax. (Ord.
965, 3-8-2018, eff. 1-1-2019)
4.12.14: COLLECTIONS AND ENFORCEMENT:
As soon as practical after each monthly or quarterly (based on State
requirement for submission) City of McCall local option nonproperty tax return
and payment is filed, the City Clerk shall examine the same and determine the
correct amount of the tax. For the purpose of ascertaining the correctness of
any payment determining the amount of tax due where none has been made,
determining liability of any person for any tax payable under this chapter, or
the liability at law or in equity of any person in respect to any tax provided
by this chapter or collecting any such liability, the City Clerk, or duly
authorized Deputy, is authorized: a) to examine the books, papers, records, or
other data which may be relevant or material to the inquiry; b) to summon the
person liable for the tax or any officer, agent or employee of such person, or
any person having possession, custody or care of books of accounting containing
entries relating to the business of the person liable for the tax, to appear
before the City Clerk, or Deputy, at a time and place named in its summons to
produce such books, papers, records or other data and/or give such testimony
under oath as may be relevant or material to such inquiry. (Ord. 965, 3-8-2018,
eff. 1-1-2019)
4.12.15: REFUNDS, LIMITATIONS, AND INTEREST:
   (A)   If the City Clerk determines that any amount due under this chapter
has been paid more than once or has been erroneously or illegally collected or
computed, the City Clerk shall set forth that fact in the records and the
excess amount paid or collected may be credited on any amount due or payable to
the City Clerk for nonproperty taxes from that person, and any balance refunded
to the person by whom it was paid or to his successors, administrators or
executors.
   (B)   No such credit or refund shall be allowed or made after one year from
the time the payment was made unless, before the expiration of such period, a
claim therefor is filed by the taxpayer.
   (C)   If the City does not issue a credit or refund within thirty (30) days
after the error is discovered by the City or a written request for credit or
refund is made by the taxpayer, then interest shall be allowed on the amount of
such credits or refunds at the rate of twelve percent (12%) per annum from the
date that such tax was paid.
   (D)   Appeal from the City Clerk's decision denying in part or in whole a
claim for refund shall be made in accordance with the laws of the State of
Idaho with regard to claims against municipalities. (Ord. 965, 3-8-2018, eff.
1-1-2019)
4.12.16: RESPONSIBILITY FOR PAYMENT OF TAXES:
Every person with a duty to account for or pay over any tax imposed by this
chapter on behalf of a corporation, as an officer employee of the corporation,
or on behalf of a partnership, as a partner or employee of the partnership, or
on behalf of a limited liability company, as a member or employee of the same,
shall be personally liable for payment of such tax, plus penalties and
interest. (Ord. 965, 3-8-2018, eff. 1-1-2019)
4.12.17: PERIOD OF LIMITATION UPON ASSESSMENT AND COLLECTION:
   (A)   The amount of taxes imposed under this chapter shall be assessed
within three (3) years of the time the return upon which the tax asserted to be
due was or should have been filed, whichever is later; provided, however, if a
deficiency determination or assessment has been made within the prescribed
time, such tax may be collected within a period of six (6) years after
assessment. The running of limitations provided by this section shall be
suspended for the period during which the City Clerk is prohibited from making
the assessment or from collecting or proceeding in court due to a petition for
re-determination or an appeal therefrom, and for thirty (30) days thereafter.
   (B)   In the case of taxes due during the lifetime of a decedent, the tax
shall be assessed, and any proceeding in court without assessment for the
collection of such tax shall be begun, within six (6) months after written
request therefor (filed after the return is made) by the executor,
administrator, or other fiduciary representing the estate of such decedent
unless the assessment is stayed by a petition for redetermination or any appeal
therefrom.
   (C)   In the case of a false or fraudulent return with intent to evade tax,
or of a failure to file a return, the tax may be assessed, or a proceeding in
court for collection of such tax may be begun without assessment, at any time
within three (3) years after the date of the discovery of the facts
constituting the fraud. (Ord. 965, 3-8-2018, eff. 1-1-2019)
4.12.18: SUCCESSORS' LIABILITY:
   (A)   If a vendor liable for any amount of tax under this chapter sells out
his business, the vendee shall make an inquiry to the City Clerk and withhold
from the purchase price any amount of tax that may be due under this chapter
until such time as the vendor produces receipt stating that no amount is due.
   (B)   If the purchaser of business fails to withhold from the purchase price
as above required, the purchaser is personally liable for the payment of the
amount required to be withheld by them. (Ord. 965, 3-8-2018, eff. 1-1-2019)
4.12.19: GENERAL ADMINISTRATION BY CITY CLERK:
   (A)   The City Clerk shall enforce the provisions of this chapter and may
prescribe, adopt and enforce rules and regulations relating to its
administration and enforcement. The City Clerk may employ qualified auditors
for examination of taxpayers' books and records, and shall also employ such
accountants, investigators, assistants, clerks, and other personnel as are
necessary for the efficient administration of this chapter, and may delegate
authority to other representatives to conduct hearings, or perform other duties
imposed by this chapter.
   (B)   Taxpayers in the City of McCall shall keep such records, receipts,
invoices, and other pertinent papers as the City Clerk may require. Each such
taxpayer who files tax payments required under this chapter shall keep all such
records for not less than four (4) years after making such payments unless the
City Clerk in writing authorizes their destruction.
   (C)   The City Clerk, or any person authorized in writing by the Clerk, may
examine the books, papers, records, and equipment of any taxpayer or any person
liable for any tax, and may investigate the character of the business of the
person in order to verify the accuracy of any return made, or if no return is
made by the person, to ascertain and determine the amount required to be paid.
Any taxpayer whose pertinent records are kept outside of the City must bring
the records to the City for examination by the City Clerk upon request of the
latter, or by agreement with the City Clerk permit an auditor designated by the
City Clerk to visit the place where the records are kept, and there audit such
records. (Ord. 965, 3-8-2018, eff. 1-1-2019)
4.12.20: PENALTIES:
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor, punishable by up to one year in the County Jail, and/or three
hundred dollar ($300.00) fine, or both. Furthermore, each month in which a
person fails to report, or intentionally fails to compute accurately, or
intentionally fails to disclose accurately the total amount of sales or rentals
or the amount of tax to be paid, as imposed under this chapter, shall be
considered a separate offense.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall have his
City of McCall local option nonproperty tax permit and tax number revoked. The
City Clerk shall send written notice of revocation of said permit and tax
number to the permit holder by mailing the same by certified mail to the
address given on the permit application. The permit holder shall have ten (10)
days from the date said notice is mailed to file a written request of appeal
with the City Council, challenging said revocation. If no appeal is timely
made, said revocation becomes final. Whenever a person subject to this chapter
has had said permit and tax number revoked, the City Clerk shall not reissue
said permit nor issue a new permit to said person until said person places with
the City Clerk a bond or other sufficient security in the amount equal to three
(3) times the actual, determined, or estimated average monthly amount of tax
payable by such person pursuant to this chapter. If such person continues to do
business after the City permit is revoked, the City may apply to the District
Court for the Fourth Judicial District for a temporary restraining order and/or
injunction seeking to restrict the business of such person until that person
complies with the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   The City Clerk, whenever it is deemed necessary to ensure compliance
with this chapter, may require any person subject to this chapter to place with
her such security as she may determine. The amount of said security shall not
be greater than three (3) times the estimated average monthly amount payable by
such persons pursuant to this chapter. The amount of the security may be
increased or decreased by the City Clerk at any time, subject to the
limitations set forth above.
   (D)   Any amount of tax due under this chapter for which a person fails to
report or accurately compute shall become a lien upon the property of said
taxpayer on the date that the same becomes due, and the City may seek to
enforce said lien and collect all taxes and interest due, together with the
reasonable costs of collection, including attorney fees, in a court of
competent jurisdiction.
   (E)   For the purposes of proper administration of this chapter, and to
prevent evasion of said local option nonproperty taxes, the burden of proving
that an alleged rental is not a rental under this chapter is upon the person
who operates the rental in question. (Ord. 965, 3-8-2018, eff. 1-1-2019)
4.12.21: PENALTY CHARGES:
   (A)   Any person who is required to collect and pay over any tax imposed by
this chapter and fails or refuses to pay over to the City the same when due in
accordance with section
4.12.10 of this chapter shall be liable and pay a penalty charge equal to five
percent (5%) of the tax not paid, or a minimum of ten dollars ($10.00)
(whichever is greater). The City Clerk shall assess and collect said fee at the
time any delinquent tax payment is tendered. The permit holder shall have ten
(10) days from the date payment is made to file a written appeal with the City
Council challenging said penalty determination. If no appeal is timely made as
herein provided, said penalty determination shall be final. If payment and
penalties are not paid within the ten (10) days then the permit holder will be
in violation and the Clerk shall assess penalties pursuant to section
4.1.3 of this title.
   (B)   Any person who is required to collect, truthfully account for, and pay
over any tax imposed by this chapter and who willfully fails to collect such a
tax or truthfully account for or pay over such a tax, or wilfully attempts in
any manner to evade or defeat such a tax or payment thereof, shall, in addition
to other penalties provided by law, be liable to a penalty equal to the amount
of the tax evaded, or not collected, or not accounted for or paid over. The
City Clerk shall determine and assess such penalties, and the same shall become
due and payable upon notice and demand from the City Clerk. The City Clerk
shall send written notice of such penalty charge to the permit holder by
mailing the same by certified mail to the address given on the permit
application. The permit holder shall have ten (10) days from the date said
notice is mailed to file a written request of appeal with the City Council
challenging said penalty charge determination. If no appeal is timely made as
herein provided, said penalty charge determination shall be final. (Ord. 965,
3-8-2018, eff. 1-1-2019)
4.12.22: EXEMPTIONS:
Only those transactions which are exempted from the taxes imposed by the State
of Idaho pursuant to the Sales Tax Act, as that Act may be amended, are also
exempt from the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 965, 3-8-2018, eff. 1-1-2019)
4.12.23: CONFIDENTIALITY OF INFORMATION:
   (A)   No City Clerk of the City of McCall, Valley County, Idaho, nor any
duly authorized Deputy City Clerk, agent or employee shall divulge or make
known to any persons, in any manner, any information whatsoever submitted or
obtained, directly or indirectly, pursuant to this chapter, or to permit any
nonproperty tax return or information supplied with regard thereto, or any copy
thereof, or any paper or book so obtained, to be seen or examined by any person
except as provided by law; provided, that in any action or proceeding brought
for the collection, remission, cancellation, or refund of the whole or any part
of a tax imposed under this chapter, or for enforcing the penalties prescribed
for making false or fraudulent returns, any and all information contained in or
provided with said returns may be made accessible to the elected and appointed
officials, officers, and representatives of said City charged with enforcing or
defending the same, all such returns, information, statements and
correspondence relating thereto may be produced into evidence in any action,
civil or criminal, directly pertaining to such returns or the tax imposed on
the basis of such returns.
   (B)   The McCall City Council, under such rules and provisions as it may
prescribe, may permit, notwithstanding the provisions of this chapter as to
secrecy, the Commission of Internal Revenue of the United States or its
delegate or the proper officer of any state imposing a tax to inspect the
nonproperty tax returns or information provided or obtained in connection
therewith, or may furnish to such officer, or his authorized agent, copies or
an abstract thereof.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a taxpayer, or authorized
representative upon proper identification, from inspecting and copying his own
nonproperty tax returns and information supplied therewith. (Ord. 965, 3-8-
2018, eff. 1-1-2019)
CHAPTER 13
SHORT-TERM RENTAL PERMITS
SECTION:
4.13.01: Purpose
4.13.02: Definitions
4.13.03: Permit Required
4.13.04: Penalties
4.13.01: PURPOSE:
   A.   The purpose of this Chapter is to establish permit requirements for the
use of Dwelling Units as Short-Term Rentals, to safeguard the public health,
safety and general welfare, to protect the integrity of the City’s
neighborhoods, to establish a system to track the Short-Term Rental inventory
in the City, to ensure compliance with local ordinances and laws, and to allow
private property owners the right to fully and efficiently utilize their
property without undue regulation or interference.
   B.   Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed so as to nullify or override
any prior or current lease agreements, or covenants, conditions, and
restrictions applicable to any property within the City of McCall that may
prohibit or restrict such property’s use for Short-Term Rental purposes. (Ord.
1011, 9-8-2022)
4.13.02: DEFINITIONS:
 
          A Dwelling Unit, including single-family or a multi-family unit, which is
DWELLING, rented for the purpose of overnight lodging for compensation, money, rent or
SHORT-    other bargained for consideration for a period of one or more days and not
TERM      more than thirty (30) consecutive days. Short term rentals are also commonly
RENTAL:   referred to as tourist or vacation rentals. Short term rentals with
          occupancy of eleven (11) persons or more shall require a conditional use
          permit.
          The person designated by the Owner, or the Owner’s local contact person or
LOCAL     representative, who shall be available twenty four (24) hours per day, seven
CONTACT   (7) days per week while the Short-Term Rental is rented, for the purpose of:
PERSON:   a) responding within sixty (60) minutes to complaints regarding the
          condition, operation, or conduct of occupants of the Short-Term Rental; and
          b) taking remedial action to resolve any such complaints.
OWNER:    The person(s) or entity(ies) which hold the fee interest to the real
          property underlying any Dwelling Unit.
SHORT-    A permit that allows the use of a residential Dwelling Unit as a Short-Term
TERM      Rental pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, and that incorporates by
RENTAL    consolidation a municipal non-property tax permit and any other potential
PERMIT:   licensing required by this code. (Ord. 1011, 9-8-2022)
 
4.13.03: PERMIT REQUIRED:
Permits Required And Issuance Of Permits:
   A.   Prior to advertising and offering for rent a dwelling as a Short-Term
Rental within the City of McCall, all Owners of such property shall file with
the City Clerk an application for and be granted a Short-Term Rental Permit.
      1.   All Short-Term Rentals in the City of McCall shall comply with MCC
section
3.13.09 prior to the issuance of a Short-Term Rental Permit.
      2.   A Short-Term Rental Permit is valid only for one residential
Dwelling Unit identified in the permit application. An owner of such Dwelling
Unit shall file a separate application and obtain a separate permit for each
Dwelling Unit to be used as a Short-Term Rental.
      3.   A permit for a Short-Term Rental shall be issued and renewed on an
annual basis. Upon a change of ownership of the property, the Short-Term Rental
permit is canceled and if a new owner intends to rent the Dwelling Unit on a
short-term basis, a new permit is required.
   B.   Every application for said permit shall be made upon a form prescribed
by the City Clerk.
   C.   The application for a Short-Term Rental Permit shall include:
      1.   The owner’s legal name, contact telephone number, mailing addresses,
email address, and proof of ownership;
      2.   Name under which the applicant transacts or intends to transact
business;
      3.   The Valley County Assessor information including the property
address, accessor parcel information, and number of bedrooms;
      4.   Local Contact Person’s name, contact telephone number, both physical
and mailing addresses, and email address;
      5.   Total bedrooms and occupancy;
      6.   A dimensioned floor plan of the Short-Term Rental unit indicating
the name and use of each room; and location of all egress doors;
      7.   A site plan of the property including the location and number of
parking spaces and parking access;
      8.   The signatures of the Owner and Local Contact Person, if different,
agreeing and acknowledging that they are jointly responsible for compliance by
the occupant and any guests with MCC
3.13.09, and all other applicable laws, rules, and regulations pertaining to
the use and occupancy of the Short-Term Rental;
      9.   The date of the mailing to property owners and list of property
owners who were mailed the following information: the address for the Short-
Term Rental, the maximum occupancy and number of vehicles allowed to be parked,
and the name and contact information including telephone number for the Local
Contact Person. Such notice of Short-Term Rental information shall be sent to
all property owners within three hundred feet (300') of the location of the
Short-Term Rental.
      10.   Proof of established Solid Waste, Refuse and Rubbish removal
services as described in Title 5, Chapter 8 of the McCall City Code;
      11.   Signed acknowledgment of the requirements and standards as set
forth in
3.13.09;
      12.   If any information required in the Application for a Short-Term
Rental Permit changes, the Owner or Local Contact Person shall promptly advise
the City in writing delivered to the City Clerk.
   D.   A fee commensurate with the cost of the application processing,
established by resolution of the City Council. Any fee changes shall not affect
any permits already in process but shall be applied prospectively for future
applications and renewals of existing permits issued after adoption of such fee
by the City Council.
   E.   Upon receipt of a complete application and payment of all applicable
fees (Short-Term Rental Permit and Fire Inspection fees), the City Clerk shall
forward the permit application to the (a) the City Community and Economic
Development Department for review of compliance with the standards for Short-
Term Rentals, and (b) the McCall Fire District for the schedule of the fire,
health and safety inspection. No permit shall be granted unless the Short-Term
Rental unit meets these requirements and has been approved by the McCall Fire
District.
   F.   Upon approval by the Community and Economic Development Department and
McCall Fire, and proof of compliance, the City Clerk shall issue to each
applicant a permit for each Short-Term Rental unit. A Short-Term Rental Permit
shall not be assignable and shall be valid only for the Owner in whose name it
is issued and for the transaction of business at the rental unit designated
therein. It shall at all times be conspicuously displayed at the location for
which it was issued. Issuance of a permit may be subject to additional
requirements as set forth in this chapter.
   G.   On the face of the permit shall be affixed a Short-Term Rental number
which shall be used by the applicant as an identifying number on all filing,
payment, and correspondence with regard to the non-property tax imposed under
this title.
   H.   A Short-Term Rental permit expires on December 31st of each year;
However, if the residential dwelling identified in the application is sold or
title is otherwise transferred, the permit shall automatically expire upon the
transfer of title and the new owner must apply for a new permit. The
application fee will not be prorated.
   I.   A Short-Term Rental permit application may be denied if the applicant,
or owner are not the same, or has had a prior Short-Term Rental permit for the
same rental unit revoked within the past twelve (12) calendar months.
   J.   Within fourteen (14) days of a change of local contact person, or any
other material change in facts pertaining to the information contained in the
Short-Term Rental Permit, the new proposed local contact person shall submit an
update to the Short-Term Rental permit, on a form provided by the City Clerk,
which must be obtained prior to continuing to rent the subject unit as a Short-
Term Rental. An administrative fee adopted by resolution of the City Council
will apply.
   K.   If a Conditional Use Permit is, or has been granted for a Short-Term
Rental, such Conditional Use Permit shall not authorize use of property as a
Short-Term Rental without also obtaining a Short-Term Rental Permit as provided
herein. The provisions of any issued Conditional Use Permit shall be
controlling and shall supersede any provision herein that is in conflict with
the provisions of a duly issued Conditional Use Permit. (Ord. 1011, 9-8-2022)
4.13.04: PENALTIES:
   A.   The City may issue a notice of violation to any occupant or owner(s)
pursuant to this code, if there is any violation of this chapter committed,
caused or maintained by any of the above parties.
   B.   The City may impose a civil penalty upon any occupant, owner(s) or
local contact person, or pursue criminal enforcement, pursuant to the
provisions set forth in Title 3, Chapter 17 of this code.
      1.   Penalties for Non-compliance: The City may impose a civil or
criminal penalty upon any occupant, Owner(s) or Local Contact Person, found to
be in violation of the provisions of this Section or the provisions of Title 3.
Enforcement and penalties shall be administered according to the Provisions set
forth in Title 3, Chapter 17 of this code, including, but not limited to, the
imposition of any and all civil or criminal penalties set forth therein if
there is any violation of this chapter committed, caused or maintained by any
of the above parties. Provided however, the first violation by an Owner or
Local Contact Person of any ordinance relating to the operation and use of
Short-Term Rentals within the City shall result in a fine in the amount of
three hundred dollars ($300). The Second violation by an Owner or Local Contact
Person of an ordinance relating to the operation and use of Short-Term Rentals
within the City shall result in a fine in the amount of one thousand dollars
($1,000). The third and any additional violation thereafter of any ordinance
relating to the operation and use of Short-Term Rentals within the City by an
Owner or Local Contact shall be a misdemeanor and shall result in revocation of
the Short-Term Rental Permit for the property that was the situs of the offense
for a period of two (2) years.
   C.   Any civil penalty or criminal citation shall be subject to further
actions in the courts of Valley County, Idaho, subject to the procedures
outlined herein.
   D.   It shall be a public nuisance for any person to commit, cause or
maintain a violation of this chapter, which shall be subject to the provisions
of Title 3, Chapter 17 of this code. Note that these fines are in addition to
any imposed in Chapters 11 and 12 of this Title. (Ord. 1011, 9-8-2022)
TITLE V
PUBLIC SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
POLICE DEPARTMENT ORGANIZATION, DUTIES AND AUTHORITY
SECTION:
5-1-010: Definitions
5-1-020: Duties of the Department
5-1-030: Enforcement Respecting Other Titles of this Code
5-1-010:   DEFINITIONS:
In this Title:
CHIEF: The Police Chief, an officer of the City as provided in Title I of this
Code.
CODE and THIS CODE: The McCall City Code.
DEPARTMENT: The Chief, those sworn peace officers employed by the City, reserve
peace officers on active duty with the City, and other City employees assigned
to be supervised by the Chief.
5-1-020:   DUTIES OF THE DEPARTMENT:
The Chief and, through him and as directed by him, the Department, has the duty
within the limits imposed by the resources of the Department to preserve the
public peace and to see that all laws and regulations of this Title and of the
criminal laws within the Idaho Code are enforced within the City. Whenever any
violation of such laws or regulations shall come to its knowledge or be
reported to it, it shall cause the requisite investigation and report to be
made; and shall when in the judgment of the Chief it is merited, seek
prosecution by the City or County Prosecutor as may be appropriate.
5-1-030:   ENFORCEMENT RESPECTING OTHER TITLES OF THIS CODE:
   (A)   The Chief and, through him and as directed by him, the Department, is
vested with the authority of the Mayor to enforce this Code. Such authority is
subordinate to the authority of other Departments to determine the presence or
absence of Code compliance with respect to technical matters entrusted to their
care, such as for one example the interpretation of the Building Code. The
Chief, in consultation with the City Prosecutor and the City Department head
having jurisdiction, shall cause service of citations respecting misdemeanors
in process of commission arising under the other Titles of this Code.
   (B)   In the exercise of this authority, the Chief shall be responsive to
the direction of the Mayor. (Ord. 606, 5-14-92)
CHAPTER 2
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
5-2-010: Definitions
5-2-020: Criminal And Civil Penalties
5-2-030: Certain Matters Not A Defense
5-2-040: Arrests
5-2-050: Infractions
5-2-010:   DEFINITIONS:
INFRACTION: An offense so labeled in the provisions defining the offense in
this or any other title of this code.
MISDEMEANOR: Any other violation of this title or of any other title of this
code.
PERSON: Any natural person and also any other legal entity, such as, but not
limited to, a corporation, a partnership, a joint venture, an association, a
municipal corporation, a county, the state and the like. Where an offense is
committed by a person who is not a natural person, the natural person(s) (if
any) who directed the commission of the offense, and the natural person(s)
physically performing the acts constituting the offense, are jointly and
severally subject to prosecution and penalties. (Ord. 881, 9-23-2010)
5-2-020:   CRIMINAL AND CIVIL PENALTIES:
   (A)   An infraction is punishable by a fine not to exceed one hundred fifty
dollars ($150.00) per offense; and also, with respect to infractions of the
motor vehicle code or parking regulation provisions of this title, as provided
in the Idaho Code with respect to driver's license points, suspension, and
revocation.
   (B)   The penalties for misdemeanor violations found in this code will
remain consistent with the misdemeanor penalties and fee structure found in
Idaho Code.
   (C)   A civil penalty not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) may be
assessed by the court in the case of:
      1.   Controlled substance offenses, and per commercial unit;
      2.   Delivery of alcoholic beverages or tobacco to minors, and per
commercial unit;
      3.   Habitual property crime offenders; and
      4.   Negligent driving under this title involving alcohol; and
misdemeanor offenses prosecuted by the city prosecutor under the Idaho Code
respecting driving under the influence.
In determining whether or not to impose such a penalty, the court shall
consider whether the facts and circumstances bring the case within a class of
cases that imposes a burden upon health and safety forces and facilities in the
city, or threatens the domestic tranquillity; and in determining whether or not
a case involves habitual conduct, shall consider whether the conduct which
forms the basis of the case is a continuing practice of the defendant as shown
by more than two (2) prior convictions for the same or similar offense.
   (D)   It is the policy of the city that when fines and civil penalties are
imposed for infractions and misdemeanors committed with an economic motive, the
amount of such fines and penalties should be a distinct economic disincentive
to the commission of another like offense.
   (E)   As provided in title I of this code, continuing offenses are deemed to
be a separate offense committed each day.
   (F)   A person to whom an infraction citation or parking ticket is issued
under this title shall either make payment of such citation or ticket as
indicated on it, or shall appear and contest the citation or ticket as
indicated on it; a person who does neither with respect to a citation or ticket
violates this subsection and thereby commits a misdemeanor to be known as
"ignoring a citation", the last essential fact of the commission of which
misdemeanor occurs by failure to appear in open court or before the court
clerk; and a bench warrant may be issued for that person's arrest on or after
the return date on the citation or ticket. (Ord. 881, 9-23-2010)
5-2-030:   CERTAIN MATTERS NOT A DEFENSE:
It is no defense to a prosecution under this title that the defendant, by
reason of the same conduct, also committed an offense under the Idaho Code
which is or might be an infraction, a misdemeanor, or a felony under the Idaho
Code; nor shall this title be deemed a defense to any such infraction,
misdemeanor or felony charge. This title shall not be construed as purporting
to set penalties for Idaho Code offenses. All offenses under this code are
intended to be separate and apart from any offenses under the Idaho Code,
notwithstanding that a McCall city code charge and an Idaho Code charge may
involve similar or the same conduct. (Ord. 881, 9-23-2010)
5-2-040:   ARRESTS:
A natural person may be arrested by a city peace officer when the officer has
probable cause to believe that a misdemeanor has been committed by that person
in the presence of the officer, or when the officer has probable cause to
believe that a felony has occurred and probable cause that the person committed
that felony, or when the officer has probable cause to believe that a domestic
"assault" or a domestic "battery", either or both, has occurred. (Ord. 881, 9-
23-2010)
5-2-050:   INFRACTIONS:
The mayor and council may prescribe by resolution the fixed amount penalties
for infractions under this title. City infraction citations may be upon either
the uniform state form, or upon standard forms prepared by the city for
parking, water vehicle, and other ordinance violations. In the event of
nonpayment of an infraction ticket or citation, on whatever form, the citation
or a complaint may be filed in the magistrate division of the district court.
In such event the penalty set by resolution shall be enhanced by the sum of
seventy five dollars ($75.00) for costs of prosecution. (Ord. 881, 9-23-2010)
CHAPTER 3
OFFENSES HARMFUL OR THREATENING TO PEOPLE
SUBCHAPTER A. ASSAULTS AND BATTERIES
(Rep. by Ord. 881, 9-23-2010)
SUBCHAPTER B. CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES
(Rep. by Ord. 881, 9-23-2010)
SUBCHAPTER C. FURNISHING HARMFUL SUBSTANCES TO MINORS
SECTION:
5-3-310: Unlawful Purchase Or Delivery
5-3-310:   UNLAWFUL PURCHASE OR DELIVERY:
   (A)   It is unlawful for a person, being over the age of eighteen (18) years
to:
      1.   Purchase a cigarette, tobacco, or an alcoholic beverage, for
delivery to a minor; or
      2.   Sell a cigarette, tobacco, or an alcoholic beverage to a minor.
   (B)   It is prima facie evidence of the intent to violate this section that
a person delivers a cigarette, tobacco, or an alcoholic beverage to a minor.
   (C)   Violation of this section is a misdemeanor, and subject to a civil
penalty as provided in subsection
5-2-020(C) of this title. A "commercial unit" for such purposes is a pack of
cigarettes, a pouch or can of tobacco, a six (6) pack of beer or wine cooler, a
bottle or can of other alcoholic beverage, or other like usually individually
purchasable amount. (Ord. 881, 9-23-2010)
SUBCHAPTER D. FIREWORKS AND EXPLOSIVES
SECTION:
5-3-410: Definitions
5-3-420: Uniform Fire Code Modified
5-3-430: Permitted Possession
5-3-440: Special Enforcement
5-3-410:   DEFINITIONS:
Definitions in the Uniform Fire Code apply to this Subchapter D, as well as the
following definitions:
DISCHARGE: Explosion or pyrotechnic combustion.
FIREWORKS PACKAGE: An air-tight container containing permitted fireworks.
PERMITTED FIREWORKS: Fireworks meeting the following description:
   (A)   Cone fountains with pyrotechnic composition not exceeding fifty grams
each; or
   (B)   Cylindrical fountains, whether base, spike or handle with pyrotechnic
composition not exceeding seventy five (75) grams each and inside the tube
diameter not exceeding three-quarters inch (3/4"); or
   (C)   Sparklers and dipped sticks not more than ten inches (10") in length
or one-quarter inch (1/4") in diameter made on steel or iron wire and Suzuki
and Morning Glories with pyrotechnic composition not exceeding four (4) grams
each; or
   (D)   Snakes which do not contain bichloride of mercury and pyrotechnic
composition not exceeding two (2) grams each.
   (E)   Wheels with pyrotechnic composition not exceeding sixty (60) grains
for each driver unit or two hundred forty (240) grains for each complete wheel.
The inside tube diameter or driver unit shall not exceed one-half inch (1/2");
wheels must be secured so as not to move other than around their axis during
discharge; or
   (F)   Whistles, without report and which do not move about the ground during
discharge, with pyrotechnic composition not exceeding six (6) grams and
containing no picric or gallic acid.
5-3-420:   UNIFORM FIRE CODE MODIFIED:
The Uniform Fire Code, section 78.101, et seq., regulates fireworks and
generally prohibits them. Section 78.202 is modified by this Subchapter
(Section
5-3-410, et seq.) to the extent of Section
5-3-430.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to be in the possession of or to
discharge fireworks or explosives, except as expressly permitted in this
Subchapter.
   (B)   It is unlawful to sell or offer to sell permitted fireworks that are
not in a fireworks package.
   (C)   It is unlawful to cause or permit the discharge of permitted fireworks
in dry grass or tree leaves or needles, or at any other location where sparks
or flame contact might contact dry, readily combustible materials.
5-3-430:   PERMITTED POSSESSION:
Possession of fireworks is lawful in the following cases:
   (A)   A recognized civic organization having a genuine, material existence
and purpose separate from obtaining a permit under this Section, may make
application for a permit for a fireworks display according to Uniform Fire Code
Article 78 and Uniform Fire Code section 4.108, to be held in connection with a
national holiday or special local event. The application shall be made to the
City Clerk, who shall route it through the police chief and fire chief and to
the mayor and council. The mayor may make or direct such investigation as he
may deem appropriate. The permit shall be issued or denied by the mayor and
council, considered for these purposes to be the fire prevention bureau, based
upon consideration of the nature of the occasion, the nature of the applicant,
and the public safety. Any permit issued under this subsection shall be limited
to one time only for which issued. (Ord. 606, 5-14-1992)
   (B)   Permitted fireworks may be sold in fireworks packages at retail
commencing not earlier than eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. on June 30 and continuing
until twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight on July 4. Fireworks may be lawfully
discharged by the consumer from eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. on June 30 until
twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight on July 5, provided that their use is not then
illegal pursuant to the uniform fire code and the existing natural fire hazard
conditions. Permitted fireworks shall not be used or possessed in hazardous
fire areas or under hazardous fire conditions the existence of which may be
publicly declared by the fire chief. Fireworks in violation of this section are
subject to seizure.
   (C)   The city council will not extend the period of sale beyond the period
indicated in this section to accommodate sales on weekends.
   (D)   Permits to sell fireworks under the provisions of a hawkers license
will be limited to five (5) hawkers in the city and will be available to
requestors on a first-come, first-served basis. No preference will be made for
any organization in the permitting process. Permits for sale will commence on
the first business day in May and continue until five (5) permits are issued.
(Ord. 757, 6-29-2001)
5-3-440:   SPECIAL ENFORCEMENT:
In addition to the department, this subchapter may be enforced by any peace
officer sworn as such in Idaho, the fire chief or any member of his department,
fire wardens, and persons specifically deputized by any of the foregoing; a
citation shall be issued on the uniform state form for an infraction if no
damage to person or property occurred, or for one or more misdemeanors if
damage occurred or if the offense is a sale. (Ord. 606, 5-14-1992)
SUBCHAPTER E. HAZARDOUS MATERIAL STORAGE AND TRANSPORT
SECTION:
5-3-510: Definitions
5-3-520: Prohibited Acts
5-3-530: Special Enforcement
5-3-510:   DEFINITIONS:
In this Title:
HAZARDOUS MATERIAL: Anything so defined under Federal law, and without limiting
the generality of the foregoing, also gasoline, oil, water drawn from a
petroleum product storage tank, chemicals, or any combustible or explosive
substance.
HAZARDOUS MATERIAL CONTAINER: A tank or other storage device for hazardous
material that meets applicable portions of the Uniform Fire Code and all
applicable Federal and State regulations for tanks and storage devices for the
hazardous material in question.
5-3-520:   PROHIBITED ACTS:
It is unlawful to:
   (A)   Transport hazardous material, other than in accord with applicable
laws and regulations of the United States, the State of Idaho, and this Code,
including without limitation the Uniform Fire Code.
   (B)   Maintain any underground storage tank other than in accord with
applicable laws and regulations of the United States and the State of Idaho,
and this Code, including without limitation the Uniform Fire Code.
   (C)   Discharge hazardous material onto the surface of the earth, or into
surface or ground waters of the State, or beneath the surface of the earth,
other than into a hazardous material container.
5-3-530:   SPECIAL ENFORCEMENT:
In addition to by the Department, this Subchapter may be enforced by the
Building Official, fire wardens, the Fire Chief or any member of his
Department, and persons specifically deputized by either Chief. (Ord. 606, 5-
14-92)
CHAPTER 4
OFFENSES HARMFUL TO PROPERTY RIGHTS OR THE PUBLIC HEALTH
SUBCHAPTER A. UNLAWFUL FIRES
SECTION:
5-4-010: Prohibitions
5-4-015: Burning Permit and Conditions
5-4-020: Special Enforcement
5-4-010:   PROHIBITIONS:
It is unlawful deliberately or negligently to start a fire under any of the
following circumstances:
   (A)   In any structure; except, it is lawful to start a fire in a fireplace,
incinerator, or stove, provided that the person(s) starting the fire have no
reason to believe that use of the same is hazardous or violates applicable air
quality regulations; or
   (B)   Whether or not in a structure, using as or among the fuel: garbage,
rubbish, decaying matter, dead animals or refuse of any kind; excepting,
however, leaves and needles dropped by trees, limbs, splinters, and bark from
wood cutting and splitting, and weeds and other vegetation, when in a safe
place; or
   (C)   Without a permit at any time when a permit is required, or in
violation of the terms of this Subchapter, of such a permit, or of State fire
season and open burning regulations.
It is prima facie evidence of such negligence in the starting of a fire, that
the fire escaped from the initial location of the burning, so as to start a
grass, brush, forest, or building fire. (Ord. 678, 5-11-95)
5-4-015:   BURNING PERMIT AND CONDITIONS:
Burning permits are required for any open burning at a time when State fire
season regulations require permits; no permit may be issued if the State has
declared a closure on open burning, nor shall any person conduct open burning
during any such period of closure. City permits shall state the following
conditions on the face or obverse of such permit:
   (A)   The permittee shall keep the fire under permittee's control at all
times;
   (B)   The permittee shall keep the fire under permittee's supervision at all
times until the same has been completely extinguished;
   (C)   The permittee shall have at the place of the fire a garden hose
connected to a pressurized water supply, or shall have at such place other Fire
Department approved fire extinguishing equipment, in either case readily
available for use, until the fire has been completely extinguished; and
   (D)   The permittee, by seeking and accepting such permit, and by conducting
such open burning, becomes responsible and agrees to be responsible to pay all
costs of suppression of a fire escaping from permittee's control. "Costs of
suppression" means costs incurred by the City of McCall Fire Department, the
McCall Rural Fire Department, Southern Idaho Timber Protective Association, or
by any other agency which responds to such fire. (Ord. 678, 5-11-95)
5-4-020:   SPECIAL ENFORCEMENT:
In addition to by the Department, this Subchapter may be enforced by the
Building Inspector, fire wardens, the Fire Chief or any member of the Fire
Department, and persons specifically deputized by either Chief, called together
"authorized enforcer(s)" in the balance of this subsection. Without limiting
their authority to this clause, authorized enforcers may require that open
burning be immediately extinguished upon determining that smoke emissions are
unreasonably offensive or potentially harmful to the occupants of the same or
surrounding properties, or upon determining that the open burning is hazardous.
(Ord. 678, 5-11-95)
SUBCHAPTER B. THEFT
SECTION:
5-4-210: Defenses
5-4-210:   DEFENSES:
   (A)   It is no defense to a charge of theft that the offender has an
interest in the property, when the owner also has an interest to which the
offender is not entitled.
   (B)   Where the property involved is that of the offender's spouse, no
prosecution for theft may be maintained unless the parties were living in
separate abodes at the time of the alleged theft.
   (C)   In any prosecution for theft committed by trespatory taking or the
offense previously known as embezzlement, it is an affirmative defense that the
property was appropriated openly and avowedly, and under a claim of right made
in good faith. It is not a defense to a theft committed by such conduct that
the accused intended to restore such property taken, but that fact may be
considered by the court to mitigate punishment if the property is voluntarily
and actually restored (or tendered) prior to the filing of any complaint or
issuance of any citation; but this provision does not excuse the unlawful
retention of the property of another to offset or pay demands held against the
accused.
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to a prosecution for theft by extortion,
committed by instilling in the victim a fear that he or another person would be
charged with crime, that the defendant reasonably believed the threatened
charge to be true, and that the defendant's sole purpose was to induce the
victim to take reasonable action to make good the wrong which was the subject
of such threatened charge. (Ord. 881, 9-23-2010)
CHAPTER 5
OFFENSES AGAINST THE PUBLIC PEACE
SUBCHAPTER A. DISORDERLY CONDUCT AND PUBLIC PROPERTIES
SECTION:
5-5-010: Definitions
5-5-020: Disorderly Conduct Defined
5-5-030: Prohibitions
5-5-010:   DEFINITIONS:
In this Title:
PARK: Any and all land owned, leased, controlled or maintained by the City of
McCall, Valley County, the State of Idaho or the United States, for public
recreational purposes, including beaches, docks, wharves, piers, campgrounds,
picnic areas, boat launching ramps, and land and water.
PRIVATE GATHERING: A gathering to which invitations are required and includes
company parties, class and family reunions, service club functions, church and
fraternal picnics, weddings and wedding receptions, and other gatherings
sponsored by organizations.
PUBLIC PROPERTY and FACILITIES: Buildings and fixtures belonging to the City of
McCall, Valley County, the State of Idaho or the United States, and includes
without limitation appurtenant structures, rest rooms, utility service poles,
utility lines, playground equipment, streets, paths, sidewalks, other paved
areas, monuments, statuary, bridges, tables, benches, fences, fireplaces or
pits, permanent signs and boundary markers, landscaping materials, trees,
shrubbery, and flowers, native or imported, and boulders and other landscape
features, including rock cliffs and faces adjoining public roads. (Ord. 606, 5-
14-92)
5-5-020:   DISORDERLY CONDUCT DEFINED:
"Disorderly conduct" means violent, noisy or riotous behavior, and behavior
that would be frightening or offensive to a reasonable person who might be
expected to be in the vicinity, and includes but is not limited to:
   (A)   Engaging in or soliciting anyone to engage in lewd, lascivious, or
dissolute behavior or speech in a public place, or in a place open to the
public, or in view from a public place; or
   (B)   Accosting other persons in any public place or in any place open to
the public for the purpose of begging or soliciting alms; or
   (C)   Having in ones possession any instrument, tool or other implement for
picking locks or pockets or opening locked vehicle doors, or any other
implement that reasonably may be inferred to be for gaining access to locked
places, while not being by employment a locksmith or otherwise possessed of a
business or personal need for such tool, instrument or implement at the time
and place in question; or
   (D)   Loitering, remaining, or wandering upon the streets or public parks or
from place to place, without apparent reason or business and refusing to
identify oneself and to account for one's presence when requested by a police
officer to do the same, if the surrounding circumstances are such as to
indicate to a reasonable person with the knowledge and experience of a police
officer that the public safety or peace demands such identification; or
   (E)   Occupying, lodging or sleeping in any building, structure or place,
whether public or private, or in any automobile, truck, airplane or other place
or equipment without the permission of the owner or the person better entitled
to the possession or control thereof; or (Ord. 606, 5-14-92)
   (F)   Being in a public place, or in a private place open to the public, or
in any place exposed to public view, and conducting oneself, whether or not by
conscious design, in such fashion as to interfere with, or obstruct the free
use of any street, sidewalk, or other public way, or private place open to the
public or exposed to public view; or (Ord. 691, 11-9-95)
   (G)   Loitering, prowling or wandering upon the private property of another,
without visible or lawful business with the owner or occupants thereof; or
   (H)   Loitering or remaining in a school, or on land surrounding and
associated with the school such as, but not limited to, parking lots and
athletic fields or loitering, prowling or wandering on streets or vacant
property within sight of a school, not having any relationship involving
custody of or responsibility for a child attending the school, or any other
specific, legitimate reason for being there, and not having written permission
to be there from the principal or other chief administrator of the school; or
   (I)   Entering any lands or buildings, or exterior stairways, porches,
covered walks or decks of the same, whether enclosed or unenclosed, for the
purpose of injuring any property or property rights or with the intention of
interfering with, obstructing or injuring any lawful business or occupation
carried on by the owner of such land or building, his agent, or by the person
or persons having a superior right of possession to the same; or loitering in
such a place and refusing to depart from and remain away from such place, not
having any specific, legitimate reason for being there; it is not a legitimate
reason to be in a place, that it is susceptible to use for a purpose of the
offender if that purpose does not serve the interests of the person or persons
having a superior right of possession. (Ord. 606, 5-14-1992)
   (J)   Urinating or defecating upon the surface of the ground or against a
building or vegetation, or inside a building or structure other than into a
fixture designed and properly installed for that express purpose. (Ord. 649, 8-
26-1993)
   (K)   Using a skateboard:
      1.   Within Legacy Park, Art Roberts Park, or Mill Park; or within any
other city park where posted with signs advising of this regulation; or
      2.   On a public or private sidewalk; or
      3.   On a public street posted with signs advising of this regulation; or
      4.   While on a public street in violation of traffic rules and
regulations applicable to bicycles. (Ord. 633, 6-10-1993)
5-5-030:   PROHIBITIONS:
It is unlawful to:
   (A)   Disorderly Conduct: Engage in disorderly conduct.
   (B)   No Permit: Hold a private gathering in a park at which alcoholic
beverages are being consumed without a catering permit under the alcoholic
beverage control laws; or to refuse to exhibit such permit to a peace officer
or other public employee having jurisdiction over the land under title VIII of
this code.
   (C)   Deface Property: Damage or deface public property and facilities.
"Deface" includes, without limitation, the application of paint to public
property and facilities other than in accord with the permission of the owner
of the same.
   (D)   Conduct Violation: Violate any rule or regulation of the public agency
managing a park with respect to conduct in that park.
   (E)   Foreign Object: Throw a foreign object at or in the direction of a
peace officer, fireman, or other public employee engaged in the execution of
his office.
   (F)   Open Container: Be in possession of an open container of an alcoholic
beverage, except as provided in sections
4.9.18,
4.9.19,
8-14-8 or title VIII, chapter 13 of this code, and
      1.   In a motor vehicle; or
      2.   On a public street or alley or other public property; or
      3.   In or on private property open to the public, and in possession
without permission of the owner, and not in or on premises for which a liquor
license for sale of that beverage by the drink has been issued, such as in a
parking lot.
"Container of an alcohol beverage" includes, without limitation, a bottle or
can labeled as containing such a beverage, no matter what it in fact contains,
and a container containing such a beverage no matter how labeled. An "alcoholic
beverage" is any liquid or solid containing ethyl alcohol or synthetic ethyl
alcohol in an amount of three percent (3%) or more by weight (6 proof); a
manufacturer's label on the bottle or can or on a package out of which such
container came is conclusive evidence of content.
   (G)   Disturb The Peace: To disturb the peace means:
      1.   Intentionally or negligently to disturb the peace and quiet of
another or of any neighborhood or family or religious congregation or other
assembly by loud noises or indecent behavior or by offensive and unbecoming
conduct, to a degree annoying to a reasonable person, including, but not
limited to:
         (a)   Cursing or swearing or uttering obscene or vulgar or indecent
language in the presence of another; or
         (b)   Loud playing of a radio, tape or disc player, or other
functionally similar electronic device; or
         (c)   Permitting a dog to be outdoors and barking.
         (d)   With the approval of the city manager, this subsection (G)1 does
not apply to events that may provide a benefit to the community.
      2.   Operating heavy equipment or construction equipment, or power tools
outdoors, except in case of emergency, after ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and:
         (a)   Before six o'clock (6:00) A.M.; or
         (b)   Before seven thirty o'clock (7:30) A.M. in a neighborhood with
inhabited dwellings within two hundred feet (200') of the construction site.
         (c)   This section does not apply to operating heavy equipment or
construction equipment, or power tools outdoors with the approval of the city
manager.
      3.   Appeal Procedure: An affected person(s) aggrieved by a decision by
the city manager may appeal such decision in writing to the council within
sixty (60) days of notification of denial by the city manager. (Ord. 606, 5-14-
1992; amd. Ord. 611, 6-25-1992; Ord. 658, 1-13-1994; Ord. 680, 6-30-1995; Ord.
747, 6-28-2001; Ord. 993, 9-24-2020)
SUBCHAPTER B. CURFEW
SECTION:
5-5-210: Curfew
5-5-220: Exceptions
5-5-230: Penalties
5-5-210:   CURFEW:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of sixteen (16)
years to be or to remain, and it shall be unlawful for any parent, guardian or
other person having the care and custody of any person under the age of sixteen
(16) years to permit such person to be or to remain in or upon any street,
alley, public ground, public place or any places open to the public or exposed
to public use within the boundaries of the City of McCall between the hours of
eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person having attained the age of sixteen
(16) years and prior to having attained the age of eighteen (18) years to be or
to remain, and it shall be unlawful for any parent, guardian or other person
having the care and custody of any person who has attained the age of sixteen
(16) years and prior to having attained the age of eighteen (18) years to
permit such person to be or to remain in or upon any street, alley, public
ground, public place or any places open to the public or exposed to public use
within the boundaries of the City of McCall between the hours of eleven o'clock
(11:00) P.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M. Sunday through Thursday evenings and
between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight and five o'clock (5:00)
A.M. on Friday and Saturday evenings.
5-5-220:   EXCEPTIONS:
The provisions of this Ordinance shall not apply to any person who is
accompanied by his parent, guardian or other adult person having the care and
custody of him, nor to any person who is in the performance of an errand or
duty directed by his parent, guardian or other adult person having the care and
custody of him, nor to any person who is actually at the time engaged in
legitimate employment for profit. (Ord. 366, 5-1-78)
5-5-230:   PENALTIES:
A violation of this Subchapter (Section
5-5-210, et seq.) is an infraction. (Ord. 606, 5-14-92)
SUBCHAPTER C. REFUSE AND ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES
SECTION:
5-5-310: Short Title
5-5-320: Purpose And Authority
5-5-330: Definitions
5-5-340: Grant Of Authority To Employ Labor
5-5-350: Refuse Prohibited
5-5-360: Abandoned Motor Vehicles
5-5-310:   SHORT TITLE:
This subchapter shall be known as the REFUSE AND ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE
ORDINANCE. (Ord. 808, 4-14-2005)
5-5-320:   PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY:
This subchapter is intended to help solve the problems created by refuse and
abandoned motor vehicles deposited or left upon private and public property,
streets, alleys, roads and highways, or rights of way thereof and refuse
deposited or left upon private and public property within the city. This
subchapter is enacted upon the authority derived from the Idaho Code, section
50-302. (Ord. 808, 4-14-2005)
5-5-330:   DEFINITIONS:
ABANDON: To leave a vehicle on private property without the permission of the
person having rights to the possession of the property, or on a highway,
street, alley, road, or other property open to the public for the purposes of
vehicular traffic or parking, or upon or within the right of way of any
highway, street, alley, or road for twenty four (24) hours or longer.
ABANDONED VEHICLE: Any vehicle observed by a city law enforcement officer or
reported by a member of the public to have been left within the limits of any
highway, street, alley, road, or right of way thereof, or upon the property of
another without the consent of the property owner for a period of twenty four
(24) hours or longer, except that a vehicle shall not be considered abandoned
if its owner-operator is unable to remove it from the place where it is located
and has notified a law enforcement agency and requested assistance.
JUNK VEHICLE: Any vehicle which:
   (A)   Does not meet the vehicle equipment standards of chapter 9, title 49,
of the Idaho Code as a result of damage or neglect; or
   (B)   Is not in the current process of being restored or repaired by its
owner(s); or
   (C)   Is not currently registered according to chapter 4, title 49, of the
Idaho Code.
(Comment: This is a distinct and separate classification from abandoned
vehicle. Abandoned vehicles are vehicles belonging to one person and left on
the property of another person or political subdivision. Junk vehicles are
unregistered, fail to conform to vehicle equipment standards and are not in the
process of repair and restoration. One way a violation of subsection
5-5-350(A) of this subchapter occurs is where a junk vehicle is left by its
owner on property of the vehicle owner.)
REFUSE: Undesirable matter including, but not limited to: all waste wood, tree
trimmings, grass cuttings, dead plants, weeds, leaves, dead trees, chips,
shavings, sawdust, printed matter, paper, used and discarded articles of
clothing, combustible waste pulp, boxes, crates, cartons and packaging
materials, glass, ashes, industrial and construction debris, trash, household
garbage, commercial waste, stable matter, junk or badly weathered building
materials not currently in use, appliances and appliance shells, furniture,
mattresses, scrap metals, vehicle bodies, vehicle parts, tires and junk
vehicles. Refuse also includes anything that is or was in a garbage can,
dumpster or other kind of garbage container, or that is or was in a truck or
other vehicle on its way to a landfill or waste transfer site. Hazardous waste
is regulated by chapter 3, subchapter E of this title. This is not intended to
prohibit permitted composting activities.
UNAUTHORIZED VEHICLE: Any vehicle parked or otherwise left on private property
without the consent of the person owning or controlling that property. (Ord.
808, 4-14-2005)
5-5-340:   GRANT OF AUTHORITY TO EMPLOY LABOR:
The city manager and city council of the city are hereby given the power and
authority to employ such labor as is necessary to carry out the provisions of
this subchapter and allow the bills therefor. (Ord. 808, 4-14-2005)
5-5-350:   REFUSE PROHIBITED:
   (A)   Accumulation Of Refuse Prohibited:
      1.   Every person residing, doing business, owning, managing, renting, or
leasing property within the city limits shall be required to keep that property
free from any accumulation or scattering of refuse (see definition of "refuse",
section
5-5-330 of this subchapter). This shall not only include all refuse on private
property, but also any refuse blown from or scattered from private property
onto public property adjacent to or contiguous with that property including
areas behind curbs, sidewalks, parking areas, and property to the center of
alleys and ditches.
      2.   The storage of automobiles in various states of disrepair by
authorized auto salvage companies is exempt from subsection (A)1 of this
section as it pertains to the automobiles used in the auto salvage business.
      3.   It is not a violation of subsection (A)1 of this section for the
owner(s) of junk vehicles to store these vehicles in an enclosed garage or to
store the vehicles in such a manner that they are screened from view of the
street and any neighbors, either by fence or other opaque screen. All screens
must comply with all other relevant provisions of this code.
   (B)   City To Cause Cleanup Of Refuse And Charge Against Property: Every
person owning, managing, occupying, renting, leasing or using property within
the city limits shall keep that property continuously free of refuse. The city
manager or city council, after five (5) days' notice, may cause the removal and
disposal of refuse as often as necessary on lots, lands, or premises not in
compliance. The expense of such work shall be billed to the property owner
involved and if not paid within thirty (30) days, assessed against the property
involved as general taxes and collectible as other state, county and municipal
taxes.
   (C)   Penalty For Violations: Any person owning, managing, or occupying any
lots, lands, or premises within such incorporated limits of the city who shall,
after notice, fail, refuse or neglect to continuously keep the property they
control free from refuse in a manner prescribed in subsection (A) of this
section shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. The chief of police or his/her
designee shall have the authority to issue a ticket to violators of subsection
(A) of this section.
Any person convicted of a violation of subsections (A) and (B) of this section
shall be fined in a sum not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) and not to
exceed three hundred dollars ($300.00) for any one offense and such person may
be confined in jail for a period of not more than thirty (30) days. Either or
both such fine and imprisonment may be imposed.
In addition to the above criminal penalties, should the city cause removal and
disposal of refuse or other items as often as necessary on lots, lands, or
premises not in compliance, such work shall be billed and paid at two hundred
percent (200%) of actual expense to the property owner involved. The court
shall order payment to the city of the above cost as a condition of any
probation granted in a criminal proceeding. Failure of a defendant to pay
within the prescribed period may be enforced by the city within the courts.
   (D)   Each Five Days Separate Offense: Each and every five (5) days any such
person mentioned and described herein shall fail, refuse or neglect to comply
with the provisions of subsections (A) through (C) of this section shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense against the provisions of this
section and each of such separate offenses shall be punishable as provided by
the provisions of subsection (C) of this section. (Ord. 808, 4-14-2005)
5-5-360:   ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES:
   (A)   Abandonment Prohibited:
      1.   No person shall abandon a vehicle upon any highway, street, alley,
roadway, or right of way thereof.
      2.   No person shall abandon a vehicle upon public or private property
without the express or implied consent of the owner or person in lawful
possession or control of the property.
      3.   Any person convicted of a violation of this section shall be fined
in a sum not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) and not to exceed three
hundred dollars ($300.00) for any one offense and such person may be confined
in jail for a period of not more than thirty (30) days. Either or both such
fine and imprisonment may be imposed.
   (B)   Presumption: The abandonment of any vehicle shall create a presumption
that the last registered owner of record is responsible for the abandonment and
is thereby liable for the cost of removal and disposition of the vehicle.
   (C)   Removal Of Stolen Vehicles Or Vehicles Found Under Emergency
Circumstances:
      1.   Any city law enforcement officer, upon discovery of a vehicle
reported as stolen and not recovered, or any vehicle involved in any emergency
circumstances, may take the vehicle into custody and cause it to be taken to
and stored in a suitable place, or may cause the vehicle to be placed in the
custody of a tow truck operator, all expenses of towing and storage to be those
of the vehicle owner unless otherwise determined according to the provisions of
subsection (E)5 of this section.
      2.   Within forty eight (48) hours of the time that the vehicle is taken
into custody and is stored pursuant to this subsection, the city shall give
written notice by certified mail to the registered and legal owners of the
vehicle, if known. The notice shall state:
         (a)   That the vehicle has been taken into custody and stored; and
         (b)   The location of storage of the vehicle.
      3.   The city shall appraise the vehicle and shall include in the notice,
identification of the officer; location of the vehicle; a description of the
vehicle including make, year, model, identification number, license number,
state of registration and, if a motorcycle, an engine number; and the statutory
authority for storage.
   (D)   Removal Of Abandoned Vehicles By Authorized Officer: Any city law
enforcement officer within the city where a vehicle is located, who has
reasonable grounds to believe that the vehicle has been abandoned, may remove
the vehicle from a highway, street, alley, roadway, or right of way thereof, or
from public or private property to a garage or place of safety.
Upon discovery of an abandoned vehicle which is not within the class of
vehicles defined under "emergency circumstances" in subsection (C) of this
section, a city law enforcement officer shall attach on the vehicle, in plain
view, a notice that this vehicle will be towed away at the expiration of forty
eight (48) hours as an abandoned vehicle. The notice shall contain the name of
the city law enforcement officer who prepared the notice; the time and date
after the vehicle will be removed; the telephone number and address at the city
where further information can be obtained. A reasonable attempt shall be made
to notify, by telephone, the owner of any vehicle which has current license
plates and registration as shown on the records of the Idaho transportation
department, prior to the expiration of the forty eight (48) hour notice period,
of the location of the vehicle and the time and date of intent to remove the
vehicle. The inability of a city law enforcement officer to notify the owner
shall not preclude the removal of the vehicle at the expiration of the forty
eight (48) hour period.
Any vehicle which does not have current or any license plates attached may be
immediately removed to a safe place of storage.
   (E)   Poststorage Hearing:
      1.   Whenever a city law enforcement officer directs the towing or
storage of a vehicle, except vehicles impounded for investigation pursuant to
subsection (C) of this section (the emergency removal provision), the city
shall provide the vehicle's registered and legal owners of record, or their
agents, with the opportunity for a poststorage hearing to determine the
validity of the storage.
      2.   A notice of the storage shall be sent by certified mail to the
registered and legal owners within forty eight (48) hours, excluding the
weekends and holidays, and shall include the following information:
         (a)   The name, address, and telephone number of the city providing
the notice;
         (b)   The location of the place of storage and description of the
vehicle which shall include, if available, the name or make, identification
number, the license plate number, and the mileage;
         (c)   The authority and purpose for the removal of the vehicle; and
         (d)   In order to receive a poststorage hearing, the owners, or their
agents, must request the hearing in writing within ten (10) days of the date of
the notice. Any such hearing shall be conducted within forty eight (48) hours
of the request, excluding weekends and holidays. The city may authorize its own
city law enforcement officer or employee to conduct the hearing, so long as the
hearing officer is not the same person who directed the storage of the vehicle.
      3.   Failure of either the registered or legal owner, or his agent, to
request or to attend a scheduled hearing shall satisfy the poststorage hearing
requirement as to that person.
      4.   The provisions of this section shall not apply to vehicles removed
from private property pursuant to subsection (F) of this section.
      5.   The city shall be responsible for the costs incurred for towing and
storage if it is determined in the hearing that probable cause for storage
cannot be established.
   (F)   Removal Of Unauthorized And Abandoned Vehicle From Real Property:
      1.   Any person having possession or control of real property who finds
an unauthorized vehicle standing upon his property is permitted to have the
vehicle removed if there is posted on or near the property in a clearly
conspicuous location, in large print, a sign or notice that unauthorized
vehicles will be removed at the owner's expense and designating the name of the
towing firm. Unauthorized vehicles need not meet the definition of "abandoned
vehicle" (section
5-5-330 of this subchapter) in this instance. All signs must otherwise comply
with relevant sections of this code.
      2.   Any person having possession or control of real property who finds
an abandoned vehicle standing on his property, where the property is not posted
as set out in subsection (F)1 of this section, may contact a city law
enforcement officer, who must in turn comply with the provisions of subsection
(D) of this section, in accomplishing the removal of the vehicle except under
those circumstances set out in subsection (F)3 of this section.
      3.   Where access into or out of private property or substantial
interference with the use and enjoyment of private property is created by an
unauthorized or abandoned vehicle being parked or otherwise left on private
property, the person owning or controlling the property may contact a city law
enforcement officer who may, without regard for the provisions of subsection
(D) of this section, immediately proceed to have the vehicle removed to a
garage or nearest place of safety. All other provisions of subsections (A)
through (L) of this section shall be complied with.
   (G)   Charges Not Otherwise Provided For: Every towing firm, employee or
agent in the process of towing, removing, or impounding a vehicle as directed
by a city law enforcement officer, except vehicles found under extraordinary
circumstances or suspected stolen, shall upon request of the owner or his
authorized agent, release the vehicle at the scene. If the vehicle is attached
to the tow truck, or otherwise "in tow", the regular scheduled tow fee may be
charged. When the vehicle is not yet "in tow" at the time of request, the
release must be made, and no charge may be assessed except a customary and
reasonable charge for mileage one way from the towing firm's place of storage
to the scene plus the usual fee for the tow truck operator. If the authorized
fee is not tendered by the owner or his agent, the towing operator may complete
the impoundment, towing or removal as authorized.
   (H)   Storage Of Vehicle: Whenever a city law enforcement officer removes a
vehicle from a highway, street, alley, road, or right of way thereof, or from
public or private property, he shall take, or cause to be taken, the vehicle to
a garage or other place of safety within the city or such other place as
designated by the city council. At the time of removal, the city law
enforcement officer or employee shall record the mileage of the vehicle.
   (I)   Request By Possessory Lien Holder; Notice Of Sale To Satisfy Lien:
      1.   After acquiring possession of a vehicle in any manner authorized by
the provisions of subsections (A) through (L) of this section, the possessory
lien holder shall make a request to the Idaho transportation department for the
names and addresses of all persons having an interest in the vehicle as appears
in the Idaho transportation department's records. The possessory lien holder
shall, upon receipt of this information, notify all legal or registered owners
in accordance with subsection (E) of this section, unless otherwise already
complied with. Whenever a vehicle has been removed under the provisions of this
section and the possessory lien holder has sent the notice as provided, the
possessory lien holder shall have a lien dependent upon possession for his
compensation for towage and caring for and keeping safe the vehicle for a
period not exceeding sixty (60) days. If the vehicle is not recovered by the
owner within that period or the owner is unknown, the keeper of the garage may
satisfy his lien in the manner prescribed by Idaho statutes. The lien shall not
be assigned.
      2.   No lien shall attach to any personal property in or on the vehicle.
Personal property in or on the vehicle shall be given to the registered owner
or owner's authorized agent upon demand. The lien holder shall not be
responsible for property after any vehicle has been disposed of pursuant to
this section.
   (J)   Sale Of Unclaimed Vehicles: The sale of unclaimed vehicles shall be
executed according to and in compliance with the provisions of the Idaho Code
sections 49-1801 through 49-1818, which provide for the sale of abandoned
vehicles and such sales shall be coordinated with the Idaho department of
transportation.
   (K)   Claiming Of Abandoned Vehicles:
      1.   The owner of an abandoned vehicle may take possession of the
abandoned vehicle at any time prior to sale by proving ownership and paying
costs relative to towing and storing the vehicle, costs of advertising and any
fines incurred under subsection (A) of this section, if any, except as
otherwise provided in subsection (E)5 of this section.
      2.   A lien holder of an abandoned vehicle may take possession of the
abandoned vehicle at the sale by proving the presence of the lien and by paying
the costs relative to towing and storing the vehicle and costs of advertising.
The lien holder may also take possession of the abandoned vehicle by purchasing
the vehicle at the sale. Nothing in this section shall be construed to abate
any cause of action that a lien holder has against the owner of an abandoned
vehicle.
   (L)   Removal Without Payment Provided:
      1.   Unauthorized removal of an abandoned vehicle from the custody of the
city, the city police department, or from the custody of any person holding the
abandoned vehicle for the city or city police department without payment in
full of all charges and costs that have been incurred under the provisions of
this section shall be a misdemeanor and the abandoned vehicle may be recovered
and disposed of by the city or city police department.
      2.   The maximum punishment for violation of subsection (L)1 of this
section shall be a fine of not more than three hundred dollars ($300.00) or
imprisonment not to exceed six (6) months, or by both such fine and
imprisonment. (Ord. 808, 4-14-2005)
SUBCHAPTER D. TRESPASS AND MALICIOUS MISCHIEF
(Rep. by Ord. 881, 9-23-2010)
SUBCHAPTER E. FALSE ALARMS AND FALSE POLICE REPORTS
SECTION:
5-5-510: False Reports
5-5-510:   FALSE REPORTS:
   (A)   It is unlawful and a misdemeanor to make a report to a peace officer
(alleging breach of law) or emergency medical personnel (alleging medical
emergency) or fire department personnel (alleging fire) or to the person or
office of the person that dispatches the same, which report is known by the
maker to be false when made; or to cause a fire or burglar alarm to sound or
dial as for a fire or burglary, the offender knowing at the time that there was
no fire or no burglary. It is an infraction unintentionally to set off a
burglar alarm, without then promptly taking steps to notify the department that
an accidental triggering of the alarm has occurred, or to permit a burglar or
fire alarm to go off by reason of malfunction more than three (3) times without
taking proper steps to correct the condition causing the malfunction.
   (B)   It is a misdemeanor for a person to give a police officer false
information concerning that person's identification; that person's driver's
licensure; or, in connection with the investigation of an age related offense,
the person's age or date of birth; or concerning the vehicle in the possession
of that person.
   (C)   Unless, both, there in fact is an emergency and the below proscribed
conduct is in fact procured by the perpetrator(s) of the emergency, which shall
be an affirmative defense, it is a misdemeanor for a person to dial the
emergency number 911 on a telephone, and then:
      1.   To hang up when the call is answered without speaking to the
emergency operator or dispatcher answering the call; or
      2.   To furnish false information to the emergency operator or dispatcher
answering the call; or
      3.   Otherwise to engage in conduct indicating that the call was made as
a joke, or for amusement, or for purposes of harassment. (Ord. 881, 9-23-2010)
SUBCHAPTER F. UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLY
SECTION:
5-5-610: Prohibition
5-5-620: Custody
5-5-610:   PROHIBITION:
Unlawful assembly is an infraction if injury to person or property neither
occurs nor is threatened; otherwise it is a misdemeanor; and in either case is
a violation of this section. Riot is a misdemeanor. (Ord. 881, 9-23-2010)
5-5-620:   CUSTODY:
   (A)   In the event unlawful assembly or riot occurs and causes or threatens
to cause physical injury to persons, or damage or destruction to property,
officers of the department are authorized to take offenders into custody for a
misdemeanor committed in their presence.
   (B)   The chief has the authority in time of riot or unlawful assembly
involving more than two (2) or three (3) persons, to contract for emergency
detention space. (Ord. 881, 9-23-2010)
SUBCHAPTER G. WEAPONS
SECTION:
5.5.710: Definitions
5.5.720: Discharge Prohibited
5.5.730: Exceptions
5.5.710: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
FIREARMS: Any instrument used in the propulsion of shot, shell or bullets, or
other harmful objects by the action of gunpowder exploded within it, or by the
action of compressed air within it, or by the power of springs and including
what are commonly known as air rifles and BB guns.
LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER: Any court personnel, Sheriff, Constable, Peace
Officer, State Police Officer, Correctional, Probation or Parole Official,
Prosecuting Attorney, City Attorney, Attorney General, or their employees or
agents, or any other person charged with the duty of enforcement of the
criminal, traffic or penal laws of this State or any other law enforcement
personnel or peace officer as defined in chapter 51, title 19, Idaho Code.
(Ord. 974, 11-29-2018)
5.5.720: DISCHARGE PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person to discharge, within the limits of the City, any
"firearms", as defined in section
5.5.710 of this subchapter, slingshots, zip guns, crossbows, or bows and
arrows. (Ord. 974, 11-29-2018)
5.5.730: EXCEPTIONS:
A person may engage in conduct otherwise prohibited by this subchapter under
the following circumstances:
   (A)   Law Enforcement: This subchapter does not apply to law enforcement
officers as defined in this Code, while acting in their official capacity; or
   (B)   Discharging A Firearm In Defense Of Person Or Property: A person
lawfully discharging a firearm in the lawful defense of person or persons or
property; or
   (C)   Hunter Safety Education: When at the time and place being instructed
by an instructor teaching the hunter safety education course of the Department
of Fish and Game for purposes of hunting licensure; or
   (D)   Target Practice: When, having successfully passed a hunter safety
education course of the Department of Fish and Game for purposes of hunting
licensure, using an air rifle, BB gun or a bow, at a target with a backstop
that in fact prevents projectiles from escaping from the target and backstop;
provided, that a police officer or the Fire Chief may order that that conduct
cease when concluding that the conduct presents a public safety hazard, and it
shall be a violation of this subchapter to continue that conduct after such
order; or
   (E)   Approved Facility For Target Practice: When at a facility approved by
the City Council on the favorable recommendation of the Police Chief for use as
a target range with the type of weapon being used, and which facility and
weapon are being used in accord with the conditions, if any, placed on such
approval; or
   (F)   Paintball Recreation: When at a facility approved by the City Council
on the favorable recommendation of the Police Chief for use as a paintball
range or course with the type of paintball weapon being used, and which
facility and weapon are being used in accord with the conditions, if any,
placed on such approval by Council, the Police Chief, or the operators of the
range or course, such as, but not limited to, gear for the protection of the
eyes; or
   (G)   Weapons Firing Blanks: The use of starter pistols, honor guard
firearms, or other blank firing mechanisms shall not be prohibited under this
Code. (Ord. 974, 11-29-2018)
CHAPTER 6
VEHICLE AND BOAT REGULATIONS
SUBCHAPTER A. NEGLIGENT DRIVING
(Rep. by Ord. 881, 9-23-2010)
SUBCHAPTER B. PARKING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
5.6.210: Authority To Regulate
5.6.220: General Parking Provisions And Presumptions
5.6.230: Notice Of Parking Violations And Procedures
5.6.240: Notice Of Parking Violation Delinquency And Collection
5.6.210: AUTHORITY TO REGULATE:
Idaho Code sections 50-302, 50-314 and 49-208 authorize the City to regulate,
limit and control traffic and parking within its boundaries.
   (A)   The Chief may regulate parking by causing the placement of traffic
control devices advising the public that parking is prohibited or restricted.
Violations of the restrictions or prohibitions stated on such City signs is
unlawful. All signs in place March 19, 1992, or placed at the direction of the
Chief after that date, are declared authorized.
   (B)   Curb loading zones may be created by the Chief, upon payment of a
permit fee to the City in an amount fixed by resolution of the Council, and
upon the permittee’s erection at each end of such zone an official traffic
control device indicating such zone.
   (C)   The authority of the City to place other traffic control devices is
delegated to the Chief. Violation of the restrictions or prohibitions stated on
such City signs is unlawful. (Ord. 606, 5-14-1992; amd. Ord. 1013, 9-22-2022)
5.6.220: GENERAL PARKING PROVISIONS AND PRESUMPTIONS:
   (A)   Except when being diligently loaded or unloaded from or to an adjacent
business, it is unlawful for a semi-trailer, or for a truck larger than a
standard pick-up truck, to be parked on a street or alley within the Central
Business District as defined on the Zoning Map for the City of McCall.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to park a recreational vehicle, bus,
boat, or any style trailer, on any public roadway within any residential zone
identified on the Zoning Map for the City of McCall.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person to park any vehicle or trailer in the
lot identified as the Mill Road parking lot, located at 1209 Mill Road between
the hours of eleven o’clock (11:00) P.M. and five o’clock (5:00) A.M.,
beginning June 1 through August 31 every year unless the person in control of
such vehicle and/or trailer has purchased a permit for overnight parking and
the permit is attached thereto.
      1.   Beginning September 1st of each year, and continuing through the
next occurring May 31, it is unlawful for any person to park any vehicle or
trailer in the lot identified as the Mill Road parking lot for a period of time
exceeding seventy-two (72) consecutive hours.
      2.   It is unlawful for any person to park any vehicle not attached to a
trailer in any parking space which is marked for trailer parking in the lot
identified as the Mill Road parking lot, located at 1209 Mill Road. Parking
spaces marked for trailer parking include any marked parking space which is
striped in such a way that a continuous and unbroken parking space in excess of
forty feet (40') in length is created. It shall be permissible to park a
trailer not attached to a vehicle only in parking spaces marked for trailer
parking, and only for such periods of time as are authorized herein.
      3.   It is unlawful for any person to park any trailer, whether attached
to a vehicle or detached from a vehicle, in any parking space which is marked
as a vehicle only space in the lot identified as the Mill Road parking lot,
located at 1209 Mill Road. Parking spaces marked as vehicle only space shall
include any space which is striped in such a way that a parking space that does
not exceed twenty-five feet (25') in length is created.
   (D)   It is unlawful to park a motor vehicle within a street or highway
right-of-way for purposes of displaying such vehicle for sale; or for purposes
of washing, greasing, oiling, or repair, except when the vehicle is undergoing
emergency repairs.
   (E)   It is unlawful to park any vehicle or trailer in an officially
designated, painted and signed bicycle lane.
   (F)   Interference With Snow Removal: It shall be unlawful for any person to
cause or allow any vehicle, trailer, or other personal property to be parked or
abandoned as defined in chapter 1 of title 49, Idaho Code, or otherwise left
unattended, on any public right of way within the McCall City Limits at any
time or in any manner which will obstruct or hinder any city employee, city
contractor, or state of Idaho employee from conducting snow removal operations
or which will leave any vehicle in such a position that it is subject to damage
by city employees, city contractors, or state employees engaged in snow removal
operations. This provision shall not prohibit the stopping of passenger
vehicles for periods of time sufficient to load or discharge passengers from
such vehicles.
      1.   Owners of vehicles parked in violation of this section shall also be
held liable for any damage to snow removal equipment, which may occur due to
contact with said vehicle.
      2.   The City of McCall and the State of Idaho shall not be liable for
damage to any vehicles or property parked in violation of this section.
      3.   Snow removal operations shall be deemed completed at such time as
the full width of the street right of way has been cleared of snow.
      4.   For the purposes of this chapter, snow removal operations from
November 1 to March 31 of the following year are presumed to occur daily in the
central business district (defined at subsection
3.4.01 of this code) and that portion of Third Street between Railroad Avenue
and Colorado Street between the hours of three’ o’clock (3:00) A.M. and seven’
o’clock (7:00) A.M., in all other zones between the hours of three’ o’clock (3:
00) A.M. and twelve’ o’clock (12:00) noon.
   (G)   In addition to parking regulation otherwise provided herein, for a
period beginning November 1st and extending through the next occurring March
31st of each year it is unlawful for any person to park any vehicle or trailer
on a street or alley within the Central Business District as defined on the
Zoning Map for the City of McCall between the hours of three o’clock (3:00)
A.M. and seven o’clock (7:00) A.M.
   (H)   In addition to parking regulation otherwise provided herein, for a
period beginning November 1st and extending through the next occurring March
31st of each year it is unlawful for any person to park any vehicle or trailer
on that portion of State Highway 55 between the intersection with Railroad
Avenue and the intersection with Colorado Street between the hours of three
o’clock (3:00) A.M. and seven o’clock (7:00) A.M.
   (I)   In addition to parking regulation otherwise provided herein, for a
period beginning November 1st and extending through the next occurring March
31st of each year it is unlawful for any person to park any vehicle or trailer
on any street or alley within the McCall City limits between the hours of three
o’clock (3:00) A.M. and twelve o’clock (12:00) P.M.
   (J)   Whenever a vehicle is issued a Notice of Parking Violation for
unlawful parking, the registered owner of the same shall be presumed to have
been the operator; such presumption may be overcome only by the owner’s
producing another person who admits to the parking violation and pays the
penalty.
   (K)   A violation of a State Motor Vehicle Code (title 49, Idaho Code)
provision within the City is unlawful. Violation of a rule or regulation
promulgated by the Chief pursuant to authority in such title 49 is unlawful.
(Ord. 943, 6-9-2016; Ord. 975, 6-13-2019; amd. Ord. 1013, 9-22-2022)
5.6.230: NOTICE OF PARKING VIOLATIONS AND PROCEDURES:
   (A)   Upon observing any vehicle stopped, standing or parked in violation of
the provisions specified in section
5.6.220 of this title, the City Street Superintendent, City Code Enforcement
Office or the McCall City Police Department is authorized to serve a Notice of
Parking Violation by any one or more of the following means:
      1.   By securing a Notice of Parking Violation to the vehicle;
      2.   By personally serving the operator or owner of the vehicle with a
Notice of Parking Violation;
      3.   By personally serving a passenger of the vehicle who is over the age
of eighteen (18) years with a Notice of Parking Violation; or
      4.   By mailing, via United States Postal Service first class mail, a
Notice of Parking Violation to the vehicle’s owner at the address maintained in
motor vehicle registration records.
   (B)   Every Notice of Parking Violation shall include the following:
      1.   The date and time at which the violation was observed;
      2.   The location where the violation occurred;
      3.   The license plate number and make of the vehicle observed to be in
violation;
      4.   The Code section violated and a brief description of the violation;
      5.   The fine amount, and any applicable administrative fees;
      6.   Instructions explaining how the registered owner or operator of the
vehicle in violation may pay the fine and any fees associated with the
violation; and
      7.   A statement describing the process by which the operator or
registered owner of the vehicle in violation may contest the violation
indicated on the Notice of Parking Violation.
   (C)   A separate Notice of Parking Violation may be served for each
violation.
   (D)   One copy or an automated record of each Notice of Parking Violation
shall be filed with the City Clerk’s office.
   (E)   Each person served with a Notice of Parking Violation shall, within
thirty (30) business days from the date on the Notice of Parking Violation, or
if notice is served by mail, within thirty (30) business days from the date of
posting to the address of the vehicle’s registered owner:
      1.   Pay the corresponding parking fine and fee amount on the City Clerk
fine schedule which shall be set by resolution of the City Council from time to
time; or
      2.   Submit to the City Clerk’s Office a request for reconsideration of
the violation indicated on the Notice of Parking Violation.
   (F)   A request for reconsideration to the City Clerk is an informal process
by which a person who received a Notice of Parking Violation may submit a
written challenge to the validity of a parking violation and ask for
reconsideration of the Notice of Parking Violation by the City Clerk. The City
Clerk shall review all documents, evidence and information submitted and,
within ten (10) business days of the receipt of the request for
reconsideration, the City Clerk shall issue a written decision determining
whether reversal of the issued Notice of Parking Violation is warranted. Issued
Notice of Parking Violations shall only be reversed by the City Clerk if the
Clerk can find by a preponderance of the evidence presented that the Notice of
Parking Violation was issued in error. The City Clerk’s written determination
shall be final. The City Council may set a fee to defray the cost of such
requests for reconsideration. The reconsideration fee must be collected by the
City Clerk before a request for reconsideration will be honored.
   (G)   From the date of Notice of Parking Violation, all unpaid violations
shall have an administrative fee in an amount as established by the City
Council and listed on the most current City Clerk fee schedule to defray the
administrative and personnel costs and mailing expenses arising from collection
of fines.
   (H)   Any vehicle or trailer that continues in violation of the provisions
of McCall City Code Sections
5-6-220 or
8-5-030 for a period of more than forty-eight (48) hours after service of a
Notice of Parking Violation shall be deemed to have been abandoned and shall be
subject to the provisions of Idaho Code Title 49, Chapter 18. (Ord. 1013, 9-22-
2022)
5.6.240: NOTICE OF PARKING VIOLATION DELINQUENCY AND COLLECTION:
   (A)   Delinquent Notice of Parking Violations: A Notice of Parking Violation
shall be deemed delinquent if the registered owner fails to either pay the fine
and fee associated with the Notice of Parking Violation to the City Clerk, or
request reconsideration within thirty (30) days from the date service of the
Notice of Parking Violation. If the registered owner has requested
reconsideration by the City Clerk, and the Notice of Parking Violation is not
overturned, the applicable fines and fees must be paid within ten (10) days of
the City Clerk’s written decision.
   (B)   Failure to timely pay on a Notice of Parking Violation will constitute
an infraction. (Ord.1013, 9-22-2022)
SUBCHAPTER C. SNOWMOBILES
SECTION:
5-6-310: Definition
5-6-320: Snowmobile Use
5-6-330: Offenses By Persons Owning Snowmobiles
5-6-340: Equipment
5-6-350: Regulations For Operation Of Snowmobiles
5-6-360: Further Traffic Rules And Regulations
5-6-370: Enforcement, Evidence, Penalties
5-6-310: DEFINITION:
"Snowmobile" means any self-propelled vehicle under one thousand (1,000)
pounds' unladen gross weight, designed primarily for travel on snow or ice or
over natural terrain, which may be steered by tracks, skis, or runners, and
which is not otherwise registered or licensed under the laws of the state of
Idaho. (Ord. 710, 1-16-1997, eff. 2-1-1997)
5-6-320: SNOWMOBILE USE:
   (A)   The operation of a snowmobile on any public street or public land of
the city of McCall is a privilege made available to the user through an
ordinance of the city creating an exception to state law that would otherwise
prohibit any such use. All public lands and rights of way are closed to
snowmobiles except as otherwise expressly authorized in this subchapter. (Ord.
849, 2-28-2008)
5-6-330: OFFENSES BY PERSONS OWNING SNOWMOBILES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly permit, allow or encourage the
operation or driving of a snowmobile on a public road or on public property of
the city of McCall:
   (A)   By a person who has no motor vehicle operator's license, or who has no
insurance as provided by Idaho Code 49-1232, or who lacks both. (Ord. 710, 1-
16-1997, eff. 2-1-1997)
   (B)   Unless such snowmobile has been numbered by the owner in accord with
Idaho Code 67-7103. (Ord. 849, 2-28-2008)
5-6-340: EQUIPMENT:
No snowmobile shall be operated in the city, unless it is equipped with the
following:
   (A)   At least one and not more than two (2) headlamps sufficient to render
clearly discernible persons and vehicles at a distance of two hundred fifty
feet (250') ahead, and at least one and not more than two (2) taillamps, which
when lighted shall emit a red light plainly visible at a distance of two
hundred fifty feet (250') to the rear, lighted between the hours of dusk and
dawn, or when upon or crossing any public roadway or highway, or when otherwise
required for the safety of others.
   (B)   A mast or antenna displaying a red or red-orange fluorescent flag or
pennant, a minimum of five feet (5') above the ground; such flag or pennant
shall be either rectangular or triangular with the leading edge attached to the
mast or antenna being a minimum of six inches (6") and the length a minimum of
twelve inches (12").
   (C)   At least one adequate braking device which may be operated by hand or
foot.
   (D)   An adequate muffler in good working order and in constant operation to
prevent excessive or unusual noise and annoying smoke; and no person shall use
a muffler cutout, bypass or similar device. (Ord. 710, 1-16-1997, eff. 2-1-
1997)
5-6-350: REGULATIONS FOR OPERATION OF SNOWMOBILES:
   (A)   All snowmobiles within the city shall be at all times operated in
accord with the motor vehicle traffic laws, regulations, and rules of the state
and of the city except to the extent a more restrictive rule is provided below.
The setting out below of a rule which also applies to motor vehicles under
general state law is in addition to such state law, and shall not be held as
any statement that other state rules do not apply because not set out below.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to drive, operate or park a snowmobile on any
sidewalk, or on any trail improved for cross country skiing or snowshoeing, or
on any area improved for ice skating, in the city.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to operate or park a snowmobile on any portion of
the McCall golf course or in any city park, unless and to the extent posted as
open to such use. It is unlawful to drive a snowmobile within the city other
than for the purpose of leaving the city, returning to the home or place of
abode from outside the city, or going to a place of fueling, maintenance, or
repair. It is unlawful for any person to park a snowmobile anywhere within the
city other than at the home or place of abode of the operator, at a source of
fuel for the snowmobile, or at a place of sale, maintenance or repair of
snowmobiles.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or drive a snowmobile
on private property such use of which by such person has not been expressly
authorized by the owner of such property.
   (E)   No snowmobile shall carry passengers or weights in excess of the
capacity recommended by the manufacturer thereof.
   (F)   No sled, toboggan, trailer or any other device shall be towed by a
snowmobile except by means of rigid towbar connecting the same to such device.
(Ord. 710, 1-16-1997, eff. 2-1-1997)
   (G)   No person on skis or similar devices shall be towed behind a
snowmobile. (Ord. 849, 2-28-2008)
   (H)   Persons operating snowmobiles on the public roads are reminded that it
is unlawful to drive or operate a snowmobile while under the influence of
intoxicating liquor or while under the influence of a controlled substance, all
as provided in Idaho Code title 18, chapter 80.
   (I)   All snowmobiles shall be operated only in single file on the extreme
right hand side of the street, "street" for these purposes being defined as the
area between the snowplow berms or curbs. Snowmobiles shall not be operated on
the snowplow berm along the side of the road.
   (J)   City streets are not to be used as a place of recreation for
snowmobiles. For example, snowmobiles shall not be driven up and down a street
or around and around a block. Snowmobiles shall not be used in lieu of, nor as
if in lieu of, an automobile for ordinary transportation within the city.
   (K)   No snowmobile shall be operated within the city limits before eight
o'clock (8:00) A.M. nor after ten o'clock (10:00) P.M.
   (L)   No person shall operate a snowmobile in a negligent manner so as to
endanger the person or property of another, or to cause injury or damage to
either, or to harass, chase or annoy any wild game animals or birds or domestic
animals.
   (M)   No person shall operate a snowmobile on any public street in the city
of McCall unless the person has a valid motor vehicle operator's license as
provided in Idaho Code section 49-301, and liability insurance as provided by
Idaho Code 49-1232. (Ord. 710, 1-16-1997, eff. 2-1-1997)
   (N)   No person shall operate a snowmobile upon a state highway. The state
highway in McCall is also known as 3rd Street and Lake Street, west of the
intersection with 3rd Street. No person shall operate a snowmobile upon any
public street in the city of McCall except upon a public street (but not a
state highway) providing the most direct route:
      1.   To an access from the owner's or operator's actual place of
residence or abode, or from a point where the snowmobile was commercially
fueled, maintained or repaired immediately prior to the subject travel; or
      2.   To a commercial fueling point, or to a place of commercial
maintenance and repair, for purpose of immediate fueling, maintenance or
repair, from the owner's or operator's actual place of residence or abode, or
from an access point; or
      3.   To an access point, or to the operator's home or place of abode;
from a place of immediate past sale to the owner or immediate past rental to
the operator of the snowmobile; or
      4.   To the operator's home or place of abode from an access point.
"Access point" means one of the following five (5) points on the city limits:
Lick Creek Road, Warren Wagon Road, Boydstun Street, Mission Street, or Samson
Trail.
   (O)   No person shall operate a snowmobile in excess of the posted speed
limit, at any speed in excess of twenty five (25) miles per hour, nor at a rate
of speed greater than reasonable and prudent under the existing conditions at
the time, whichever speed is the slower. (Ord. 849, 2-28-2008)
   (P)   Operation of snowmobiles is authorized on Lardo Bridge, namely, that
portion of West Lake Street (State Highway 55) which crosses the north fork of
the Payette River. While crossing, all operators shall otherwise conform their
conduct to all other regulations established by governing ordinance and law
including, but not limited to, speed, time of operation, licensing
requirements, insurance requirements, and manner of operation. (Ord. 710, 1-16-
1997, eff. 2-1-1997)
5-6-360: FURTHER TRAFFIC RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The chief of police shall have the power to promulgate traffic rules and
regulations for the operation of snowmobiles upon streets, alleys and public
ways within the corporate limits of the city as follows:
   (A)   Designate by proper signs highways and streets or parts thereof as
feeder routes upon which snowmobiles may be operated to gain egress from and
ingress to the city of McCall.
   (B)   Promulgate any other additional snowmobile traffic rules that may be
advantageous and desirable; provided, no such rules promulgated by the chief of
police shall become operative until a copy of such rules is filed with the
clerk, in writing, and shall have been approved by the city council at a
regular or special session, and provided also that suitable signs or standards
or guides stating the substance of the rule are placed upon conspicuous places
in the highway, street or part thereof affected. Such signs or standards or
guides shall be of sufficient size to be clearly visible by operators of
snowmobiles.
   (C)   The chief has the authority upon special occasions, for example
parades or races otherwise approved as necessary, to expand the permitted use
of the public streets or of the public lands of the city of McCall in accord
with an application for such use approved by the chief. A copy of such approved
application shall be filed with the clerk and be made available as an
information item to council.
It shall be unlawful to violate any such regulations as above provided and any
person convicted of a violation thereof shall be punished as provided in
section
5-6-370 of this subchapter. (Ord. 710, 1-16-1997, eff. 2-1-1997)
5-6-370: ENFORCEMENT, EVIDENCE, PENALTIES:
   (A)   In the event that the police determine that a citation should be
issued for a violation of this subchapter, the snowmobile in question may be
impounded by the police department and held for evidence of identity of the
operator and identity of the snowmobile. The department has no obligation to
make such determination other than during normal business hours of the
department's administrative support personnel.
   (B)   A violation of this subchapter is an infraction; except that if injury
to a second person or his property results, a violation of this subchapter is a
misdemeanor. (Ord. 849, 2-28-2008)
SUBCHAPTER D. WATERCRAFT REGULATIONS
SECTION:
5-6-410: Definitions
5-6-420: Water Safety Zone Created
5-6-430: Location And Marking Of Water Safety Zone
5-6-440: Unlawful Acts
5-6-450: Exception
5-6-460: Watercraft Exhibitions And Races, Permit Required
5-6-470: Noncommercial Use Of Public Boat Ramps At Launch
5-6-480: Commercial Use Permits
5-6-490: Penalties
5-6-410: DEFINITIONS:
Words not defined herein shall be given the meaning ordinarily applied to such
words. The following mean:
WATER SAFETY ZONE: That zone lying within three hundred feet (300') of the low
water line of big Payette Lake, within the corporate limits of the City of
McCall.
WATERCRAFT: Any and all motorboats, sailboats, personal watercraft, "jet ski"
and any other device used to carry, move, pull or otherwise transport persons
or property across and over the surface of water. (Ord. 606, 5-14-1992)
5-6-420: WATER SAFETY ZONE CREATED:
There is hereby created a water safety zone within that area of big Payette
Lake lying within the corporate limits of the City of McCall, described as
follows:
That area lying within three hundred feet (300') of the low water line of big
Payette Lake. (Ord. 606, 5-14-1992)
5-6-430: LOCATION AND MARKING OF WATER SAFETY ZONE:
Buoys conforming to the requirements of the Uniform State Waterways Marking
System shall be installed on the outer boundaries of the water safety zone.
(Ord. 606, 5-14-1992)
5-6-440: UNLAWFUL ACTS:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to mark, deface or destroy any water safety zone
marker.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a watercraft in a water
safety zone at a speed in excess of five (5) miles per hour, except as
hereinafter provided. (Ord. 606, 5-14-1992)
5-6-450: EXCEPTION:
It shall not be unlawful for any person engaged in a regatta, race, marine
parade, tournament, or exhibition to operate a watercraft in a water safety
zone in excess of five (5) miles an hour while on an authorized course and in
compliance with a permit issued by the City of McCall. (Ord. 703, 10-24-1996)
5-6-460: WATERCRAFT EXHIBITIONS AND RACES, PERMIT REQUIRED:
   (A)   No person shall engage in a professional exhibition or participate in
a regatta, race, marine parade, tournament or exhibition in a water safety zone
without a permit therefor issued by the City of McCall.
   (B)   The permit fee for each professional jet ski exhibition, regatta,
race, marine parade, tournament, or exhibition shall be twenty five dollars
($25.00) per day, payable in advance.
   (C)   Applications for licenses hereunder shall be made to the City Clerk
upon such forms that are required by said City Clerk. (Ord. 606, 5-14-1992)
5-6-470: NONCOMMERCIAL USE Of PUBLIC BOAT RAMPS AT LAUNCH:
The City Council shall have the authority, by resolution duly enacted, to
implement fees for noncommercial use of City facilities. Fee amount, the uses
for which a fee is required, and any other terms and conditions concerning such
fees and uses, shall be as specified in the resolution. Any fees or penalties,
and use of revenue from such, shall comply with the requirements of sections
50-302, 50-1015A, and 63-1311A, Idaho Code. (Ord. 1024, 6-27-2024)
5-6-480: COMMERCIAL USE PERMITS:
A permit must be obtained through the process set by the City Parks and
Recreation Department for use of public boat launches for any recreational
activity or enterprise conducted for profit which is conducted on public waters
and utilizes City facilities in furtherance of such activities unless the
commercial entity currently pays a concession fee to the City.
   (A)   Commercial Use Permits will be issued by the City upon application and
payment of fees as established by resolution of the City Council, and upon such
terms and conditions as are specified by the City Park and Recreation
Department.
   (B)   Revocation: The City may revoke a permit under this Section upon a
report or observation of any violation of this Chapter, or of any applicable
resolution, term or condition, or posted rules and regulations. Such revocation
will have immediate effect, and a permit holder must reapply for a Commercial
Use Permit if it desires to continue use. (Ord. 1024, 6-27-2024)
5-6-490: PENALTIES:
The first violation of any provision in this Subchapter is an infraction. Any
subsequent violations of the same provision within one year after the most
recent violation will constitute a misdemeanor. A violation of any provision of
this Subchapter may also result in the denial or revocation of, or the refusal
to reissue or renew any permit required under this Subchapter. (Ord. 606, 5-14-
1992; amd. Ord. 1024, 6-27-2024)
SUBCHAPTER E. AIR COMPRESSION BRAKES
SECTION:
5-6-510: Use Of Air Compression Brakes Prohibited
5-6-520: Penalties
5-6-510: USE OF AIR COMPRESSION BRAKES PROHIBITED:
The use of air compression brakes (also known as "jake brakes") by vehicles or
trucks, as defined in Idaho Code title 49, chapter 1, within the city limits of
the city of McCall is hereby prohibited and shall be unlawful, except under
emergency circumstances where the use of air compression brakes is necessary to
prevent an accident or injury to persons or property. (Ord. 800, 11-18-2004)
5-6-520: PENALTIES:
Any person who violates any provision of this subchapter shall be deemed guilty
of an infraction and upon judgment thereof shall be subject to the penalty set
forth in Idaho infraction rule 9(b) (other infractions). Any person who
violates this subchapter for a second time within twelve (12) months of a
previous violation shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine not
to exceed three hundred dollars ($300.00) (plus such costs as the court may
assess), imprisonment for a period not more than six (6) months, or both a fine
and imprisonment. (Ord. 800, 11-18-2004)
SUBCHAPTER F. UNLAWFUL POSSESSION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
SECTION:
5-6-610: Unlawful Possession Or Consumption
5-6-620: Penalty
5-6-610: UNLAWFUL POSSESSION OR CONSUMPTION:
No person at any time may, while operating or riding in or upon a motor vehicle
upon a public highway of this city, have in their possession any alcoholic
beverages in an open or unsealed container of any kind. (Ord. 830, 10-26-2006)
5-6-620: PENALTY:
   (A)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter declared an
infraction shall be assessed a fixed penalty of one hundred dollars ($100.00)
excluding court costs and fees. An infraction is a civil public offense, not
constituting a crime, which is punishable only by a penalty not exceeding one
hundred dollars ($100.00) and for which no period of incarceration may be
imposed. There is no right to a trial by jury for a citation or complaint for
an infraction and such trials shall be held before the court without a jury. A
second and any subsequent conviction for the same violation of the provisions
of this chapter within five (5) years shall constitute a misdemeanor. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or which a
violation occurs or continues.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter declared a
misdemeanor shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof
can be fined in an amount not exceeding three hundred dollars ($300.00), or be
imprisoned for a period not exceeding six (6) months or be both so fined and
imprisoned. (Ord. 830, 10-26-2006)
CHAPTER 7
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
5.7.010: Definitions
5.7.020: Administration
5.7.030: City Pound
5.7.040: License Fee And Dogs; Special Provisions
5.7.050: Cruelty To Animals And Failure To Provide Care
5.7.060: Commanding An Animal To Attack Prohibited
5.7.070: Interference Unlawful
5.7.080: Penalties
5.7.090: Dogs In Heat
5.7.100: Dogs At Large
5.7.110: Nuisance And Threatening Dogs
5.7.120: Registration Of Fierce Or Dangerous Dogs
5.7.130: Impounding At Large, Fierce Or Dangerous, And Nuisance Dogs
5.7.140: Redemption And/Or Disposition Of Impounded Dogs
5.7.150: Kennel Licensing
5.7.160: Rabies Vaccination, Rabies, Diseases And Quarantine
5.7.170: Unsterilized Canines
5.7.180: Canine Waste
5.7.190: Control Of Fierce Or Dangerous Dogs
5.7.200: Purpose Or Intent; Harboring
5.7.210: Euthanasia Of Diseased Dogs And Offending Fierce Or Dangerous Dogs
5.7.220: Determination Of Fierce Or Dangerous Dogs; Appeal
5.7.230: Exemptions
5.7.240: Penalties For Violation; Fierce Or Dangerous Dogs
5.7.250: Uniform Summons; Prosecution; Fine Schedule
5.7.260: Liability Of Parents/Guardians
5.7.270: Driving Or Riding Animals
5.7.280: Fees; Impounding
5.7.290: Traps
5.7.300: Records
5.7.310: Feeding/Attracting Wildlife Prohibition
 
5.7.010: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, each of the terms defined has the meaning given in
this section unless a different meaning is clearly required by the context. The
word "shall" is mandatory, not directory.
ABUSE: Any case in which an animal has been the victim of intentional or
negligent conduct resulting in the animal's bruising, bleeding, malnutrition,
dehydration, burns, fractures or breaks of any bones, subdural hematoma, soft
tissue swelling, prolonged exposure to the weather elements to the detriment of
the animal's health, or death.
ANIMAL: Any organism, other than human being, needing food to maintain and
sustain its life and which generally has mobility and a developed central
nervous system.
AT LARGE: Off the premises of the owner and not under the control of the owner
or person having control or custody either by leash, cord or chain.
ATTRACTING/ ATTRACTANT/ ATTRACT: When used as a noun, any substance, including
but not limited to food, garbage, or salt/mineral/protein lick, which draws
wildlife (except those birds and squirrels as identified in this Chapter); When
used as a verb, the act of using edible material, attractant, and/or feed in a
way that solicits consumption.
BIRDS: Any non-domesticated species belonging to the Order Aves other than
Waterfowl and Wild Turkeys.
BITTEN: Seized, pierced, or cut with the teeth or with the jaws, other than
when done by a canine puppy less than four (4) months old, in play; and
"seized" in this regard means with sufficient force to scratch or bruise, or to
pierce, cut or tear clothing.
DEPARTMENT: The McCall police department.
DOG: Either a male or a female member of the biological family Canidae,
including Canis familiaris, and including also any other member of that family
at any time owned, possessed or harbored, whether neutered or spayed.
DOMESTIC ANIMAL: An animal of a species of vertebrates that has been
domesticated by humans so as to live and breed in a tame condition and depend
on humankind for survival.
EDIBLE MATERIAL: Any human or animal food, food bi-product, salt/mineral/
protein lick, organic material, refuse, or garbage.
ENCLOSURE: A fence or structure of at least six feet (6') in height, forming or
causing containment suitable to prevent the unauthorized entry of a person and
suitable to confine an animal in conjunction with other measures which may be
taken by the owner, such as tethering of the animal. Such enclosure shall be
securely enclosed and locked and designed with secure sides, top and bottom and
shall be designed to prevent the animal from escaping.
ENCLOSURE: A fence or structure of at least six feet (6') in height, forming or
causing containment suitable to prevent the unauthorized entry of a person and
suitable to confine an animal in conjunction with other measures which may be
taken by the owner, such as tethering of the animal. Such enclosure shall be
securely enclosed and locked and designed with secure sides, top and bottom and
shall be designed to prevent the animal from escaping.
FEEDING/FEED: When used as a noun, Aa substance composed of grain, mineral,
protein, salt, fruit, vegetable, hay, or any other food material or combination
of these edible materials, whether natural or manufactured, tended, deposited,
or distributed in an area frequented and consumed by wildlife (except those
birds and squirrels as identified in this Chapter); When used as a verb, the
act of providing edible material, attractant, and/or feed.
FIERCE OR DANGEROUS DOG: A dog (other than a dog belonging to a law enforcement
agency and acting pursuant to direction of its law enforcement handler) as
described below:
   (A)   Fierce: Any dog which bites, inflicts injury, assaults or otherwise
attacks a human being or domestic animal without provocation; for purposes of
this definition, it is not justification that the human being when bitten was
interfering with the dog's attack upon another human being or animal, or has
menaced a human being which human being was not on the property of the dog's
owner;
   (B)   Dangerous Dog: A dog, which was previously declared a "threatening
dog" and has displayed repeated violations of potentially dangerous behaviors
including, but not limited to, a known propensity, tendency or disposition to
attack unprovoked, to cause injury or to otherwise endanger the safety of human
beings or domestic animal without provocation.
Notwithstanding the definition of "fierce or dangerous dog" herein, no dog may
be declared fierce or dangerous if an injury or damage is sustained by a person
who, at the time such injury or damage was sustained, was committing a wilful
trespass or other tort upon the premises occupied by the owner of the dog, or
was teasing, tormenting, abusing or assaulting the dog or was committing or
attempting to commit a crime. No dog may be declared fierce or dangerous if the
dog was protecting or defending a human being within the immediate vicinity of
the dog from an unjustified battery or assault.
HABITUATED: Any wildlife relatively accustomed to eating, resting, birthing,
defecating, and otherwise living within city limits - outside of their normally
wild habitat. Habituated wildlife may actually cease exhibiting some typical
behaviors for that species (e.g. resident deer which do not migrate, mountain
lions which den under human structures like porches, etc.).
IMPOUNDED: Taken into the custody of the department’s animal shelter.
MENACE: The threat of harm, confinement or personal injury of a human by an
animal.
MISUSE: The intentional causing of an animal to perform a noncustomary task,
which could be dangerous or harmful to the animal.
NUISANCE DOG: A dog which barks or creates noise in an excessive, continuous or
untimely manner, molests passersby, chases vehicles, habitually attacks other
domestic animals, or trespasses upon public or private property in such a
manner as to damage the property.
OWNER: Any person owning, possessing, harboring, caring for or having any
custodial duties over any dog in his or her control within the city. "Own"
means owning, possessing, harboring, caring for, or having in his or her
custodial control.
PRIVATE PROPERTY OPEN TO ENFORCEMENT: Includes private property open to the
public; condominium or planned unit development (PUD) common area; condominium
limited common area which is not reserved for the use of the owner; the common
use areas of a mobile home park, or travel trailer court or park; and any other
premises with respect to which a person with a right of possession superior to
the owner's has invited the department to attend to a matter involving an
owner's dog.
PUBLIC EMPLOYEE: Any State or City Employee or certified Peace Officer
appointed to carry out and enforce each entity’s respective laws and/or
ordinances.
RECKLESS/ RECKLESSLY: Engaging in conduct with a conscious disregard for the
consequences, wherein the person has knowledge of the likely outcome of said
conduct.
RESIDENT: An individual who has their primary residence within the McCall city
limits.
SQUIRRELS: Any of the commonly found squirrel species (native or non-native)
within McCall City limits which are typically associated with native habitats
or urban landscapes. E.g., Red Squirrel, Eastern Fox Squirrel, Eastern Gray
Squirrel, Chipmunks etc.
RECKLESS/ RECKLESSLY: Engaging in conduct with a conscious disregard for the
consequences, wherein the person has knowledge of the likely outcome of said
conduct.
THREATENING DOG: A dog, while at large found to menace, chase, display
aggressive behavior, or require defensive action by any person to prevent or
discourage bodily injury; any dog which unprovoked, has killed, inflicted
injury or otherwise caused injury by attacking another domestic animal off the
property of the owner or keeper of the dog or upon streets, sidewalks or public
grounds. Growling or barking or both together are not grounds upon which a dog
can be found to be threatening.
WATERFOWL: Any wild or habituated migratory bird species of the taxonomic Order
Anseriformes, Family Anatidae (ducks, geese, swans).
WILD TURKEY: Those species or subspecies of turkey as identified in the Upland
Game, Furbearer, and Turkey Seasons and Rules published by the Idaho Department
of Fish and Game.
WILDLIFE: Any species of non-domesticated animals as defined in Idaho Code 36-
202(g), including, but not limited to: deer, moose, elk, pronghorn, black bear,
mountain lion, wolf, coyote, fox, raccoon, skunk, wild turkey, waterfowl, etc.
Provided, however, that birds (other than Wild Turkeys and Waterfowl) and
squirrels are not considered wildlife under this Chapter. (Ord. 901, 6-29-2012;
amd. Ord. 1022, 9-28-2023)
5.7.020: ADMINISTRATION:
Administration and enforcement of this chapter shall be performed by the police
department. Being an owner in the city, or purchasing a license authorized by
this chapter, or both, constitutes consent to the provisions of this chapter.
This chapter is enacted in the interests of public health, public safety, and
the preservation of the public peace. (Ord. 901, 6-29-2012)
5.7.030: CITY POUND:
The department may maintain and operate a city pound for the keeping and
disposing of any dog impounded according to the provisions of this chapter.
This section may be satisfied by contracting with an approved service provider.
(Ord. 901, 6-29-2012)
5.7.040: LICENSE FEE AND DOGS; SPECIAL PROVISIONS:
   (A)   License; Application; Fees: No resident shall own a dog older than
four (4) months of age within the city without paying a license fee for such
dog. The owner or person having charge of any dog within the city shall make
application to the department and pay a license fee according to the schedule
adopted by the city. The license fee schedule shall be fixed for each category
from time to time by resolution of the city council. Licenses may be purchased
or renewed for the period of either one or two (2) years. No license fee shall
be paid for less than one year, and the license fees shall be paid to the
department. All licenses shall be issued by the department. License fees are
due on or before January 15 of each renewal period, or within ten (10) days
after the owner acquired the dog, whichever occurs later. Failure to license in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter shall be an infraction.
The owner of a dog to be licensed shall present to the department, at the time
of payment of the license fee for such dog, a certificate from a veterinarian
that such dog has been currently vaccinated for rabies. The owner shall also
present to the department at that time proof that the dog has been spayed or
neutered or a certificate of a licensed veterinarian that such dog has been
spayed or neutered, if such status is claimed. No dog will be licensed as
spayed or neutered without proof that such surgery was performed. No dog will
be licensed without proof that it has been vaccinated for rabies.
      1.   Upon receipt of such application and payment of fees, the department
shall furnish with each receipt a metal license tag stamped with the number to
correspond with the number of the receipt for which issued. The department
shall keep a suitable record of the receipts issued under the provisions of
this chapter.
      2.   License fees shall be waived for any service dog that has been
properly trained for the purpose of and is used to guide a blind or partially
blind person, a person with impaired hearing, or any other severely disabled
person who requires a service dog.
   (B)   Imitation License Tags, False Representation: No owner shall make a
false representation as to the time during the license year when a dog under
that owner's control was brought into the city, nor shall an owner suffer or
cause a number and collar to be put or kept on any dog with intent to avoid
payment of a license fee. It is unlawful for any person to allow any dog owned,
kept, harbored, possessed, caring for or having custodial duties by him/her to
wear a license tag received on account of a former licensee or to wear any
imitation of the license tag issued for any year; to do so shall be a
misdemeanor.
   (C)   Collar, Tag: The owner, at the owner's expense, shall attach the metal
license tag to a collar kept upon the neck of the dog so licensed, and every
dog shall at all times wear a substantial, durable collar, to which is securely
attached the required license tag. Violation of this subsection is an
infraction. (Ord. 901, 6-29-2012)
5.7.050: CRUELTY TO ANIMALS AND FAILURE TO PROVIDE CARE:
It is the duty of any member of the department to take possession of any animal
for which he/she has probable cause to believe falls under Idaho Code title 25,
chapter 35, cruelty to animals, and deliver such animal to the city pound or
other appropriate facility as designated by the chief of police. All costs
incurred for the maintenance of such animal will be paid by the person charged
with the offense.
   (A)   Abandonment: The department may declare an animal abandoned if the
animal's owner or keeper has left the animal intentionally without care or
immediate control for more than twenty four (24) hours. This time may be
shortened at the discretion of the department depending on conditions of the
animal, its surroundings and the weather. The department must make a reasonable
effort to contact the owner of the animal before the animal may be declared
abandoned. Abandonment of an animal may constitute cruelty under this chapter
based upon the observations of any person or the department.
   (B)   Tethering: An owner shall not tether a dog or confine an animal in
such a manner that it can become entangled so that it cannot move freely,
cannot reach shelter, water or food, or such that it can become entangled with
another animal. The area where the dog is tethered or confined must be free of
extraneous material which may cause injury, such as, but not limited to, glass,
sharp metal, nails, etc. A dog tether must be a minimum length of three (3)
times the length of the dog measured from the tip of its nose to the base of
the tail. Violation of this section may constitute cruelty to animals.
   (C)   Care: It shall be unlawful for any owner to fail to provide a dog with
sufficient good and wholesome food and water, proper shelter and protection,
and veterinary care, when needed, to prevent suffering and humane care and
treatment. The department may impound such a dog for its protection;
disposition shall be as provided for in section
5.7.140 of this chapter. (Ord. 901, 6-29-2012)
5.7.060: COMMANDING AN ANIMAL TO ATTACK PROHIBITED:
Except where great bodily harm or death is likely to immediately ensue, it is
unlawful for any person, other than law enforcement personnel, to command,
encourage or aid by word or conduct, any animal to bite, chase, attack, or
attempt to bite, chase or attack another person or animal. (Ord. 901, 6-29-
2012)
5.7.070: INTERFERENCE UNLAWFUL:
It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder, molest or in any way interfere
with any person who is lawfully engaged in the performance of his or her duties
that may be engaged in seizing, keeping or removing any animal, or who is
lawfully engaged in killing the same or removing the carcass in conformity with
the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 901, 6-29-2012)
5.7.080: PENALTIES:
A violation of the provisions of this chapter not otherwise classified in the
relevant section is a misdemeanor and is punishable per Idaho Code 18-113.
(Ord. 901, 6-29-2012)
5.7.090: DOGS IN HEAT:
It shall be unlawful for the owner, or any person acting as a keeper,
possessor, caring for or having custodial duties over a female canine in an
estrus state (in heat), to negligently fail, neglect, or refuse to confine such
dog indoors in a type of kennel preventing nuisance or undesired fertilization
by male canines unless restrained by the owner or possessor and under the
immediate control of the owner or possessor.
Violations of the provisions of this section shall be an infraction. (Ord. 901,
6-29-2012)
5.7.100: DOGS AT LARGE:
No owner shall suffer a dog owned, possessed or harbored by that owner, or in
that owner's control, to be found at large upon the streets or alleys of the
city, or in any other place open to the public in the city, or upon private
property of any person without the consent of the owner, except under the
following conditions:
   (A)   When such dog is attached to and controlled by a leash;
   (B)   Such dog is confined in a motor vehicle;
   (C)   When written permission is obtained in advance from the department to
have a dog or dogs at large.
The city council may designate such areas of a public park or other public
grounds of the city which may be used, subject to the rules and regulations as
may be prescribed, for the training or exercise of dogs. Dogs within such areas
so designated need not be controlled by leash, but shall be under the control
of a responsible person and controlled by whistle, voice, or other effective
command.
The department may enter upon private property for the purposes of enforcement
of this chapter.
Violations of the provisions of this section shall be an infraction.
Violation of the provisions of this section shall be a misdemeanor if, while at
large and unprovoked, a dog kills or wounds, or assists in killing or wounding
any livestock or other domestic animal belonging to or in possession of any
person, or, attacks, assaults, bites or otherwise injures any human being or
assists in attacking, assaulting, biting or otherwise injuring any human. (Ord.
901, 6-29-2012)
5.7.110: NUISANCE AND THREATENING DOGS:
It is unlawful for any owner to fail to exercise proper care and control of his
or her dog to prevent it from becoming a public nuisance or threatening.
   (A)   Every owner shall be guilty of allowing a dog to become a nuisance
when the following is allowed:
      1.   Excessive, continuous or untimely barking, or noise;
      2.   Molesting passersby or chasing vehicles;
      3.   Habitually attacking other domestic animals; and
      4.   Trespassing upon public or private property in such a manner as to
damage the property.
   (B)   Every owner shall be guilty of allowing a dog to be threatening when,
while at large, the dog is found to menace, chase, display aggressive behavior,
or require defensive action by any person to prevent or discourage bodily
injury; any dog, which if unprovoked, has killed, inflicted injury or otherwise
caused injury by attacking another domestic animal off the property of the
owner or keeper of the dog or upon streets, sidewalks or public grounds, is
considered a threatening dog. Growling or barking or both together are not
grounds alone upon which a dog can be found to be threatening. (Ord. 901, 6-29-
2012)
5.7.120: REGISTRATION OF FIERCE OR DANGEROUS DOGS:
   (A)   Requirements: A fierce or dangerous dog shall only be licensed if the
owner or keeper of such fierce or dangerous dog meets the following
requirements:
      1.   The owner shall display a sign on his or her premises warning there
is a fierce or dangerous dog on the premises. Said sign shall be visible and
capable of being read from the public highway.
For the purposes of this chapter the sign shall be constructed of wood, metal
or other similar weatherproof material, at least twenty four inches by twenty
four inches (24" x 24") in size, with letters in indelible or fluorescent ink
with the words in clear, capital letters in at least 72 font size as follows:
"DANGEROUS DOG ON PREMISES", "DANGEROUS DOG ON PROPERTY", or words of similar
meaning; and shall be posted at all visible entryways onto the owner's
property, or where dog is lodged.
      2.   The owner shall sign a statement attesting that:
         (a)   The owner shall, on or prior to the effective date of such
license for which application is being made, have an enclosure for the fierce
or dangerous dog on the property where the fierce or dangerous dog will be kept
or maintained. The enclosure shall conform to the guidelines in subsection
5.7.220(D)2 of this chapter, applicable homeowners' association bylaws and city
of McCall zoning regulations.
         (b)   The owner shall immediately notify the department if a fierce or
dangerous dog is on the loose, is unconfined, has attacked another animal or
has attacked a human being. The owner shall notify the department within
seventy two (72) hours if said dog dies or is sold or given away. If the fierce
or dangerous dog has been sold or given away the owner shall also provide the
department with the name, address and telephone number of the new owner of the
fierce or dangerous dog. If the owner of a fierce or dangerous dog changes
addresses, the owner shall notify the department within seventy two (72) hours
with his/her current address.
   (B)   Compliance: The department is empowered to make whatever inquiry is
deemed necessary to ensure compliance with the provisions of this section, and
to seize and impound any fierce or dangerous dog whose owner fails to comply
with the provisions hereof. (Ord. 901, 6-29-2012)
5.7.130: IMPOUNDING AT LARGE, FIERCE OR DANGEROUS, AND NUISANCE DOGS:
All dogs found running at large, all fierce or dangerous dogs, and all nuisance
dogs, are hereby declared to be a public nuisance and are subject to being
taken up and impounded by the department. Every dog so impounded shall be
retained in the city pound for a period up to five (5) days unless the owner
places such dog in quarantine with a licensed veterinarian as provided for in
section
5.7.160 of this chapter and only released as provided in section
5.7.140 of this chapter. (Ord. 901, 6-29-2012)
5.7.140: REDEMPTION AND/OR DISPOSITION OF IMPOUNDED DOGS:
Any dog impounded because it was found running at large may be redeemed by the
owner or claimant prior to the sale or euthanasia of such animal by paying all
charges against the same.
If the owner or representative of the owner of any dog impounded fails to pay
the required fees within forty eight (48) hours after actual notice to the
owner or the representative of the owner, or within five (5) days after
reasonable and diligent effort to notify the owner or representative of the
owner, the city pound may dispose of the dog either through adoption, provided
the new owner pays the required fees, or through euthanasia. The owner of a
dog, other than a fierce or dangerous dog, may redeem the same by paying an
impoundment fee, together with a sum per day for the board and care of such
dog.
The owner of any dog impounded may recover possession of such dog upon payment
of all required fees unless the dog is impounded as a fierce or dangerous dog.
In order to redeem an impounded fierce or dangerous dog, the owner shall comply
with the following criteria within ten (10) days:
   (A)   Proof of current rabies vaccination and
   (B)   Proof the owner has complied with subsection
5.7.120(A) of this chapter (registration and licensing) is provided to the
department.
Should the owner of a fierce or dangerous dog fail to meet the above criteria
the city pound may dispose of the dog either through adoption, provided the new
owner pays the required fees, or through euthanasia. (Ord. 901, 6-29-2012)
5.7.150: KENNEL LICENSING:
The owner at any one time of four (4) or more dogs over four (4) months of age
residing within the city of McCall is required to be licensed under the
provisions of this chapter and regulations, and shall, in addition to the
license fees provided in this chapter, pay a kennel license fee.
   (A)   Kennel License: It is unlawful to keep, maintain or possess upon the
premises of any one dwelling more than four (4) dogs over the age of four (4)
months, unless the owner or person in charge thereof obtains a kennel license
and any conditional use permit pursuant to Idaho Code title 67, chapter 65 and
title 3 of this code. If a kennel license is issued, the holder shall pay to
the department an annual license fee established by city council resolution.
Such kennel license shall only be permitted and issued in accordance with the
terms and provisions of said ordinance and as hereinafter noted.
      1.   Conditions: The following conditions shall be made part of any
conditional use permit issued by the city under present zoning laws if a dog is
kept for breeding purposes. The owner of the dog shall be required to obtain an
unsterilized canine license from the department to possess a dog that is not
spayed or neutered. The permit shall be issued or renewed only if the
department determines that the following conditions have been met:
         (a)   The dog is vaccinated for rabies and other common diseases such
as distemper, adenovirus type 2, parainfluenza, and parvovirus;
         (b)   The dog is housed properly, providing that the property may be
inspected by the department to determine if the dog's habitation and living
conditions are safe, healthy and do not present a nuisance. (Ord. 901, 6-29-
2012)
5.7.160: RABIES VACCINATION, RABIES, DISEASES AND QUARANTINE:
It is unlawful to keep or harbor any dog over the age of four (4) months in the
city without that dog having been vaccinated against rabies under the direction
of a licensed veterinarian. A dog more than three (3) months of age that is
acquired or moved into the city must be vaccinated within thirty (30) days of
purchase or arrival, unless there is documented evidence of current vaccination
in another jurisdiction. No license shall be issued for any dog unless the
owner shall present to the department at the time of payment of the license fee
for such dog a certificate of a veterinarian that such dog has been currently
vaccinated for rabies.
   (A)   Rabies Affliction: It is unlawful for a person other than a
veterinarian, or the city pound, to own, keep or harbor any dog afflicted with
rabies.
   (B)   Securing Disposition Of Rabies Infected Dog: The department shall
euthanize any rabies infected dog at the owner's expense.
   (C)   Quarantine, Surrendering Of Dog:
      1.   It is the duty of every owner of an unvaccinated dog showing
symptoms of rabies, or which has bitten any person causing an abrasion of the
skin, to surrender the dog for confinement and isolation at the city pound or
to a licensed veterinarian for a period not to exceed ten (10) days. If such
dog is not a fierce or dangerous dog and a licensed veterinarian has determined
the dog free of rabies, it shall be returned to the owner upon payment of the
regular fee for keeping such dog impounded. If such fee is not paid the dog
shall be subject to disposal as provided in this chapter.
      2.   If the department is notified of an unvaccinated dog which has
bitten any person or caused an abrasion of the skin, the department shall
confine and isolate such dog at the city pound or at a licensed veterinarian
for a period not to exceed ten (10) days at the expense of the dog owner. An
unvaccinated, impounded dog shall only be released from quarantine by a
licensed veterinarian.
   (D)   Contagious Diseased Dogs: Any dog which has a contagious disease shall
not be shipped or removed from the premises of the owner of such dog, except
under the supervision of the department or a licensed veterinarian. (Ord. 901,
6-29-2012)
5.7.170: UNSTERILIZED CANINES:
It shall be unlawful to own, possess or keep in the city any dog over the age
of four (4) months that has not been spayed or neutered, except as provided as
follows:
   (A)   Statement Of A Veterinarian: If a licensed veterinarian states in
writing that a dog is unfit to undergo the required surgical procedure because
of an extreme health condition of the dog. Such extreme health condition shall
include, but not be limited to: severe cardiovascular compromise, bleeding
disorder, respiratory disease and hepatic disease. The old age of a dog shall
not, of itself, constitute an extreme health condition for purposes of this
section; or
   (B)   Show Or Event: If a dog is temporarily in the city to participate in a
show or event sponsored by a sanctioned dog organization; or
   (C)   Imported Or Visiting Dog: If a dog is owned, possessed or kept in the
city for fewer than thirty (30) days in a one year period; or
   (D)   Public Service Or Guide Dog: The canine is a public service dog or
guide dog; or
   (E)   Kennel License: The owner or possessor has obtained a kennel license
from the city of McCall; or
   (F)   Paid Fees: The owner or possessor of the dog has made payment of all
necessary unaltered dog fees to the department. (Ord. 901, 6-29-2012)
5.7.180: CANINE WASTE:
It shall be unlawful and a public nuisance for any person owning or having
control or custody of any dog:
   (A)   To permit or allow the dog to defecate upon publicly owned property of
the city or upon the private property of another person without the consent of
the occupant or owner of that property unless the owner or the person having
control or custody of the dog immediately removes the feces and properly
disposes of it;
   (B)   To walk a dog on publicly owned property or upon the private property
of a person without carrying at all times a suitable container or other
suitable instrument for the removal and disposal of canine feces; or
   (C)   To fail to dispose of the container of the feces in a sanitary manner.
Violations of the provisions of this section shall be an infraction. (Ord. 901,
6-29-2012)
5.7.190: CONTROL OF FIERCE OR DANGEROUS DOGS:
   (A)   All fierce or dangerous dogs shall be confined at all times in an
enclosure. It is unlawful for any owner to maintain a fierce or dangerous dog
upon any premises which does not have a locked enclosure. The use of a tether
alone is not sufficient under this chapter.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any owner or keeper to allow any fierce or
dangerous dog to be outside of a dwelling or enclosure, unless it is under the
control of a person eighteen (18) years of age or older, or if necessary for
the owner to obtain veterinary care for the fierce or dangerous dog, or to sell
or give away the fierce or dangerous dog, or to comply with commands or
directions of the department with respect to the fierce or dangerous dog, or to
comply with any other provisions of this chapter. In such event, the fierce or
dangerous dog shall be securely muzzled and restrained with a chain having a
minimum tensile strength of three hundred (300) pounds and not exceeding three
feet (3') in length, and shall be under the direct control and supervision of
the owner of the fierce or dangerous dog. No fierce or dangerous dog shall be
kept on a porch, patio or in any part of a house or structure that would allow
the dog to exit such building on its own volition. No fierce or dangerous dog
will be kept in a home or building in which the only barriers to escape are
windows or screen doors. The dog shall not be outside of the dwelling or
enclosure for any purpose other than specified. A fierce or dangerous dog shall
not be walked in public. (Ord. 901, 6-29-2012)
5.7.200: PURPOSE OR INTENT; HARBORING:
No person shall own or harbor any animal for the purpose of animal fighting, or
train, torment, badger, bait or use any animal for the purpose or causing or
encouraging said animal to unprovoked attacks upon human beings or domestic
animals. (Ord. 901, 6-29-2012)
5.7.210: EUTHANASIA OF DISEASED DOGS AND OFFENDING FIERCE OR DANGEROUS DOGS:
If any dog which, unprovoked, kills or wounds, or assists in killing or
wounding any sheep, lamb, cattle, horse, hog, swine, fowl or other domestic
animal belonging to or in possession of any person, or, when unprovoked,
attacks, assaults, bites or otherwise injures any human being or assists in
attacking, assaulting, biting or otherwise injuring any human being while out
of or within the enclosure of the owner or keeper of such fierce or dangerous
dog, or while otherwise, on or off the property of the owner whether or not
such fierce or dangerous dog was on a leash and securely muzzled or whether the
fierce or dangerous dog escaped without fault of the owner or keeper, the owner
or keeper of such dog shall be liable to the person aggrieved as aforesaid, for
all damages sustained, to be recovered in a civil action, with cost of suit. It
is reputably presumed as a matter of law that the owning, keeping or harboring
of a fierce or dangerous dog in violation of this chapter is a nuisance. It
shall not be necessary, in order to sustain any such action, to prove that the
owner of such fierce or dangerous dog knew that such fierce or dangerous dog
possessed the propensity to cause such damage or that the fierce or dangerous
dog had a fierce or dangerous nature. Upon such attack or assault, the
department is empowered to confiscate and destroy such fierce or dangerous dog,
after a five (5) day waiting period exclusive of Sundays and holidays, if the
conduct of such fierce or dangerous dog or its owner constituted a violation of
the provisions of this chapter, punishable by the confiscation and euthanasia
of the dog.
   (A)   Any impounded or quarantined dog suffering from serious injury or
disease may be humanely destroyed at the discretion of the department, but must
be so destroyed if a licensed veterinarian determines that the dog is afflicted
with rabies or other fatal disease or injury.
   (B)   A police officer or sheriff's deputy within the city may at any time
kill a dog found running at large, when in the judgment of that officer:
      1.   Probable cause exists that the dog is a fierce or dangerous dog that
has bitten a human being or is currently menacing a human being; and
      2.   It is not practicable to safely impound the dog.
   (C)   It shall be lawful for any person acting in good faith to kill such a
dog in defense of a human being under circumstances that injury has already
occurred and continued injury is threatened, or that clear and present danger
of physical injury to that person exists; such a killing of a dog must be
promptly reported to the department. (Ord. 901, 6-29-2012)
5.7.220: DETERMINATION OF FIERCE OR DANGEROUS DOGS; APPEAL:
In the event that the department has probable cause to believe that a dog is a
threat or may pose a threat of serious harm to human beings or other domestic
animals, the department may seize and impound the dog pending a hearing. The
statements of a competent civilian witness may be used by the department when
determining probable cause. The owner of the dog shall be liable to the city
pound for the costs and expenses of impoundment of such dog. Further, the chief
of police or his/her designee shall be empowered to conduct a hearing for the
purpose of determining whether or not the dog in question should be declared
fierce or dangerous. The department shall conduct or cause to be conducted an
investigation and notify the owner of the dog that a hearing will be held, at
which time the owner may have the opportunity to present evidence why the dog
should not be declared fierce or dangerous. The hearing shall be held no less
than five (5) nor more than ten (10) days after service of notice upon the
owner of the dog. The hearing shall be informal and open to the public. After
the hearing, the owner of the dog shall be notified in writing of the
determination.
   (A)   If a determination is made that the dog is fierce or dangerous, the
owner shall comply with the provisions of this chapter in accordance with a
time schedule established by the chief of police or designee, but in no case
more than fifteen (15) days subsequent to the date of the determination. If an
owner or claimant fails to comply within the fifteen (15) days or file a timely
appeal or petition not to euthanize, as set forth in this chapter, then the dog
shall be euthanized. However, if an owner or claimant of the dog contests the
determination, he/she may, within five (5) days of such determination, bring a
petition in the magistrate court of the fourth judicial district praying that
the court conduct its own hearing on whether or not the dog should be declared
fierce or dangerous. After service of notice upon the department the court
shall conduct a hearing de novo and make its own determination as to fierce or
dangerousness. The hearing shall be conducted within fourteen (14) days of the
service of notice upon the dog owner or claimant by the department. The dog
shall remain impounded pending the appeal. The issue shall be decided upon the
preponderance of the evidence. If the court rules the dog to be fierce or
dangerous, the court may establish a time schedule to ensure compliance with
this chapter, but in no case shall remedial action occur more than thirty (30)
days subsequent to the date of the court's determination.
The court may decide all issues for or against the owner of the dog regardless
of the fact that said owner fails to appear at said hearing.
The determination of the court shall be final and conclusive upon all parties.
However, the department shall have the right to declare a dog to be fierce or
dangerous for any subsequent actions of the dog.
   (B)   If the owner of a dog impounded for an alleged violation of sections
5.7.120,
5.7.190 to
5.7.220, and
5.7.240 of this chapter, penalties for violation, inclusive, believes that
there was not a violation of such sections, such owner may petition the
magistrate court of the fourth judicial district praying that the impounded dog
not be euthanized. The impounded dog shall not be euthanized pending resolution
of such owner's petition if the petition is filed within five (5) days of
impoundment and notice is served within five (5) days of the impoundment upon
the department or keeper of the impounded dog. The hearing shall be conducted
within fourteen (14) days from serving of notice. The dog shall remain
impounded pending the appeal. If the court finds that there was not a violation
of section
5.7.120,
5.7.190 to
5.7.220 or
5.7.240 of this chapter, inclusive, such dog may be released to the custody of
the owner upon payment to the city pound of the expense of keeping such dog.
The costs shall be paid in full to the city pound.
   (C)   Should the prosecution of a violation of section
5.7.120 of this chapter result in a plea of guilty, withheld judgment or
conviction, the dog in question shall be determined to be fierce or dangerous
as of the time of such adjudication or the final adjudication upon any appeal
from the same.
   (D)   In the event a dog is determined to be fierce or dangerous as provided
in subsection (C) of this section, or if the owner does not dispute the matter,
the dog shall be humanely destroyed after the final adjudication under
prosecution, the completion of the administrative determination and any
appeals, or the running of the time for the filing of a written request for
hearing without any such request being filed, whichever is the chain of events,
unless the owner within ten (10) days thereafter:
      1.   Conforms to the registration requirements of section
5.7.120 of this chapter; and
      2.   Provides a secure enclosure in which the dog is kept at all times
out of which enclosure the dog cannot escape and into which enclosure no
unauthorized person can gain entrance, and through which enclosure no person
can insert any part of its body; without limiting the generality of the
foregoing, such enclosure must have a top and a bottom as well as sides, and
the sides, top, and bottom must be securely and continuously connected;
provided that such dog may also be within the owner's dwelling, or outside that
dwelling and enclosure when securely attached to a leash as provided in section
5.7.190 of this chapter. (Ord. 901, 6-29-2012)
5.7.230: EXEMPTIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to K-9, or other animals, owned
by any police department or any law enforcement officer which are used in the
performance of law enforcement work. (Ord. 901, 6-29-2012)
5.7.240: PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION; FIERCE OR DANGEROUS DOGS:
   (A)   Any fierce or dangerous dog:
      1.   Which does not have a valid license in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter; or
      2.   Which is maintained on property without an enclosure; or
      3.   Which is outside of either the dwelling of the owner, or an
enclosure except as provided in subsection
5.7.190(B) of this chapter, shall be confiscated and impounded by the
department and destroyed in an expeditious and humane manner after the
expiration of a five (5) day waiting period exclusive of Sundays and holidays
unless the owner appeals the dog impoundment as provided in subsection
5.7.220(B) of this chapter. In addition, the owner shall pay a two hundred
fifty dollar ($250.00) fine.
   (B)   If any fierce or dangerous dog, when unprovoked, kills, wounds,
menaces or assists in killing or wounding any animal or human being, the owner
of said dog shall pay a seven hundred fifty dollar ($750.00) fine and the
department shall confiscate and impound and, after the expiration of a five (5)
day waiting period exclusive of Sundays and holidays, shall destroy said fierce
or dangerous dog unless the owner appeals the dog impoundment as provided in
subsection
5.7.220(B) of this chapter.
   (C)   No fine requirement shall be suspended by any court of competent
jurisdiction. (Ord. 901, 6-29-2012)
5.7.250: UNIFORM SUMMONS; PROSECUTION; FINE SCHEDULE:
   (A)   Citation:
      1.   Violations: Except where otherwise indicated in this chapter,
violations of the provisions of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor and shall
be punished as set forth in Idaho Code section 18-113, as amended, or in
accordance with any more specific section(s) of this chapter.
      2.   Idaho Uniform Citation: The Idaho uniform citation shall be used by
the department.
   (B)   Fine Schedule: Subject to subsection (D) of this section, the fine
schedule for a dog with no rabies shot, or failure to confine a dog in heat
shall be a minimum of fifty dollars ($50.00) plus court costs for a first
offense. The fine schedule for a second offense within five (5) years shall be
a minimum of one hundred dollars ($100.00). The fine schedule for a third, and
any subsequent offense, shall be a minimum of one hundred fifty dollars
($150.00). These fines may be paid to the court or as provided by rule 14 of
the misdemeanor criminal rules. No other penalty shall apply for these offenses
except as provided in subsection (C) of this section.
   (C)   Infraction Violation:
      1.   Issuance Of Notice: When the department observes any licensing, dog
at large or canine waste violation as discussed in this chapter, the officer
may issue in place of a uniform citation a violation notice to the canine owner
or possessor.
      2.   Violation Fees: The violation notice subjects the violator to a
fifty dollar ($50.00) fee per violation and per dog.
      3.   Compliance: To comply with the notice, the violator must present
his/her copy with a fifty dollar ($50.00) fee payment to the department within
ten (10) days of the time of issuance.
      4.   Noncompliance: From eleven (11) days to thirty (30) days from the
date of said violation notice, the violator must present his/her copy with
payment which is equal to twice the penalty fixed in subsection (C)3 of this
section. The failure of any violator to make payment to the department within
the times prescribed is an infraction punishable as provided in this chapter
and as provided by Idaho Code with respect to infractions.
   (D)   Fines; Fierce Or Dangerous Dog: The fine schedule for a fierce or
dangerous dog found to be in violation of section
5.7.120, 5.7.160 or 5.7.220 of this chapter shall be a minimum of five hundred
dollars ($500.00) for the first violation, a minimum of seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for the second violation, and a minimum of one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) for the third violation. These fines may be paid to the
court or as provided by rule 14 of the misdemeanor criminal rules. (Ord. 901,
6-29-2012)
5.7.260: LIABILITY OF PARENTS/GUARDIANS:
In the event that the owner of any dog is a minor, the custodial parent or
guardian of such minor is liable for all costs and fees incurred due to
violating any section of this chapter by said minor owner of dog. (Ord. 901, 6-
29-2012)
5.7.270: DRIVING OR RIDING ANIMALS:
No person shall lead, drive or ride any horse, pig, sheep, goat, mule, cattle
or other animal over, across or upon any street, alley or public ground within
the city limits except upon roadways, trails, or areas designated for such use
or by permit issued by the city. (Ord. 901, 6-29-2012)
5.7.280: FEES; IMPOUNDING:
The city pound is entitled to charge a fee for the keeping and selling of any
animal, which fees shall be retained by the city pound as payment toward the
costs and expenses incurred in the keeping and selling of such animal. The
fees, which may be charged by the city pound, for impounding, keeping and
selling any animal, to be paid upon redemption or sale of such animal, shall be
as established by resolution of the city council.
A provider under contract with the city for impounding, keeping and selling of
animals shall establish their own fees for the services provided. (Ord. 901, 6-
29-2012)
5.7.290: TRAPS:
The department or other designated agent is authorized to place humane animal
traps on public or private property upon request and permission of the owner.
Such traps shall be checked daily by the department or other designated agent.
Disturbing or injuring such trap or animal confined therein shall be a
misdemeanor and punishable in accordance with Idaho law. (Ord. 901, 6-29-2012)
5.7.300: RECORDS:
The department shall keep a record of all dogs impounded, which record shall
contain a description of the dog, the place where, and the date when, taken
into custody or when delivered to the city pound, and showing the disposition
of the same. (Ord. 901, 6-29-2012)
5.7.310: FEEDING/ATTRACTING WILDLIFE PROHIBITION:
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to intentionally and knowingly feed or
attract wildlife (including habituated wildlife) except birds and squirrels, by
placing, depositing, distributing, storing, or scattering food, edible
material, garbage, feed, or other attractants, with the intent to lure,
attract, entice, or feed wildlife on public or private land within the City of
McCall.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to recklessly feed or attract wildlife
(including habituated wildlife) except birds and squirrels, by allowing access
to food, edible material, garbage, feed, or other attractants, which has the
effect of luring, attracting, enticing, or feeding wildlife on public or
private land within the City of McCall.
   (C)   Exceptions: This ordinance does not apply to:
      1.   Public employees or their authorized agents acting pursuant to State
of Idaho wildlife management plans or acting within the scope of their
authority for wildlife management purposes, or carrying out authorized
emergency winter feeding operations, or otherwise carrying out authorized
baiting, feeding, or trapping activities in accordance with government
authorized wildlife management practices.
      2.   Any authorized facilities/individuals acting pursuant to State of
Idaho and City of McCall permits and licenses responsible or charged with the
care of wildlife (i.e. rehabilitation facilities, or authorized and licensed
wildlife rehabilitators).
      3.   Edible material located in a residence, closed vehicle, fully
enclosed storage structure, or in an enclosed trash container, where the owner
or person in charge has taken reasonable measures to restrict access by
wildlife. Full compliance with McCall City Code
5.8.050 shall constitute prima facie evidence that reasonable measures have
been taken.
      4.   A person feeding their own domestic animals as allowed by city
ordinances, provided that such food is not left in the open for wildlife to
access.
      5.   Seeds, nectar, and other material to attract birds (other than wild
turkey and waterfowl) or squirrels in a feeder placed in such a manner as to
make it inaccessible to other wildlife. Feeders shall not be placed in
locations in which snow accumulation makes it possible for other wildlife to
reach the feeder during the winter months.
      6.   Compost piles that are fully contained and/or made inaccessible to
wildlife.
      7.   Activities that include lawful trapping of wildlife and nuisance
animals by authorized agents of the State of Idaho, the City of McCall, or the
U.S. Department of Agriculture Wildlife Services.
      8.   Owners or residents of privately or publicly owned property, are
permitted to use traps and bait as needed to trap nuisance animals such as
mice, rats, moles, and voles, as well as predatory or unprotected species such
as skunks and raccoons, on their own property. This activity must comply with
all federal, state and local wildlife regulations and humane trapping
practices. If live trapping is employed, the trapped animals should be
relocated in accordance with state guidelines or euthanized humanely, according
to applicable law.
      9.   Persons engaged in lawful fishing activities as authorized by the
Idaho Department of Fish and Game.
      10.   Native ornamental plants, vegetable gardens, fruit-bearing trees,
flower gardens, lawn, naturally growing vegetation, native vegetation species
intentionally cultivated, and the part of those plants or trees and the fruit/
berries that fall to the ground from them. Non-native ornamental and fruit
bearing trees shall not be planted, and do not qualify as an exception.
Existing ornamental, non-native fruit bearing trees shall be managed to
prohibit wildlife (including habituated wildlife) from obtaining the trees’
fruit, and therefore, shall be either adequately fenced or maintained with
complete harvesting as soon as fruit is available.
      11.   The normal feeding of livestock and/or the practice of raising
crops and crop aftermath, including hay, alfalfa and grains, produced,
harvested, stored or fed to domestic livestock in accordance with approved
agricultural practices within the City of McCall. There is a presumption that
on land zoned for agriculture, as defined in Section
3.6.01(A), that the alleged feeding and attraction is exempt from the
prohibitions contained in this Section.
   (D)   Enforcement: A City of McCall Animal Control or Code Enforcement
officer, a McCall Police Officer, or any other State of Idaho certified Peace
Officer may investigate and issue a warning or citation for a violation of this
ordinance. In the event any property shall be found to contain any wildlife or
habituated wildlife feed or attractant(s), the feed and attractant(s) shall be
removed or secured within two (2) days’ notice, unless an alternate time frame
is provided by the Officer.
   (E)   Penalties: Any person found violating this section shall be guilty of
an infraction and fined one hundred dollars ($100.00); provided further, that
any person who violates this section for a second or subsequent offense within
twelve (12) months after a prior violation of this section shall be subject to
the general penalty found in section
1.3.1 of this Code. (Ord. 1022, 9-28-2023; amd. Ord. 1025, 8-8-2024)
CHAPTER 8
SOLID WASTE COLLECTION AND TRANSPORTATION
SECTION:
5.8.010: Purpose
5.8.020: Definitions
5.8.030: Unauthorized Collection Prohibited
5.8.040: Collection
5.8.050: Required Bearproof Containers
5.8.060: Right To Purchase Container
5.8.070: Emergency Provision
5.8.080: Penalties
5.8.010: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to promote the general health, welfare, and
safety of the people of McCall; to prevent nuisances, the spread of disease and
fire hazards; and to aid the people in keeping the city safe, sanitary, and
free from annoyances and nuisances. Furthermore, public convenience and
necessity require the regulation of solid waste collection and transportation
for hire over and upon the public ways within the city. Consistent with these
purposes, the city council establishes standards and specifications for
collection, transportation, and disposal of solid waste within the corporate
limits of the city 1 . (Ord. 912, 4-25-2013, eff. 7-1-2013)
 
Notes
1 1. IC 50-344.
5.8.020: DEFINITIONS:
APPROVED WASTE MANAGEMENT CONTRACTOR: The solid waste collection and disposal
contractor that has entered into an agreement with the city for collection and
disposal of solid waste.
ASHES: The residue from the burning of wood, coal, coke or other combustible
materials.
BULKY WASTE: Any single object of solid waste exceeding four feet (4') in
length and forty (40) pounds in weight including, but not limited to, stoves,
refrigerators, water tanks, washing machines, furniture and other waste
materials, dead animals, hazardous materials or stable matter, with weights or
volumes greater than those allowed for cans or carts.
CITY: The city of McCall, Idaho, an Idaho municipal corporation.
CONSTRUCTION DEBRIS: Waste building materials resulting from a construction,
remodeling, repair or demolition operation, such as, but not limited to,
mortar, plaster, scrap lumber and wood shavings, with weights or volumes
greater than those allowed for cans or carts.
CUSTOMER: Owner or manager of a business or manager of a multi- family
residential complex (commercial customer), or owner or lessee of a residential
property (residential customer) who has contracted with approved waste
management contractor for solid waste collection, transportation and disposal.
EXCLUDED WASTE: Except as otherwise provided for in this chapter, excluded
waste means and includes bulky waste, construction debris, hazardous materials,
dirt or earth debris from construction or lawn renovation, rocks, stones,
automobile bodies and parts, dead animals or animal carcasses, stable matter,
and wastewater (sewage) and recyclable materials.
GARBAGE: Means and includes all animal and vegetable refuse from kitchens and
other places where food is prepared, all offal from fish, meat and vegetable
markets, and all organic substances unfit for food and subject to decay,
specifically excluding dead animals.
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS: Any chemical, compound, mixture, substance, or article
which is designated by the United States environmental protection agency or
appropriate agency of the state to be "hazardous" as that term is defined by or
pursuant to federal or state law.
RECYCLABLE MATERIALS: Newsprint, magazines, plastic containers, aluminum or
other metal cans, cardboard or other materials capable of being reprocessed
into consumer materials, or reused, and which have been segregated from other
solid waste for collection.
REFUSE: All putrescible and nonputrescible solid or liquid wastes, except
wastewater, whether combustible or noncombustible, and whether required to be
segregated pursuant to the solid waste disposal regulations of the county's
designated landfill, including garbage and rubbish.
RUBBISH: Means and includes all waste and refuse such as newspapers, magazines,
wrappings and other paper products, packing cases and materials such as straw,
shavings, excelsior, sawdust, and discarded clothing, metals, food containers,
bottles, broken glass, ashes, lawn and tree trimmings, cuttings, weeds and
leaves from a residential property.
SOLID WASTE: Means and includes all useless, unwanted or discarded putrescible
and nonputrescible wastes which is not "excluded waste" as defined herein,
unless such excluded waste collection, transportation and disposal is requested
by a customer and specifically accepted by the approved waste management
contractor. "Solid waste" includes, but is not limited to, garbage, refuse,
rubbish, ashes, shrubs, grass and lawn clippings, weeds, leaves, street
cleanings, and other residential, commercial, industrial, and agricultural
wastes. "Solid waste", as defined in this section, excludes hazardous materials
and recyclable materials specifically segregated from other solid waste for
collection.
STABLE MATTER: All manure and other waste matter normally accumulated in or
about a stable, or any animal, livestock or poultry enclosure, and resulting
from the keeping of animals, poultry, or livestock.
WASTEWATER: Water carried wastes from residences, commercial or industrial
establishments, business buildings and other premises, containing polluted
matter subject to treatment at the wastewater treatment plant. (Ord. 921, 4-10-
2014)
5.8.030: UNAUTHORIZED COLLECTION PROHIBITED:
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to engage in the business of solid waste
collection and transportation for hire over and upon the public ways within the
city, unless such person is an approved waste management contractor. The
exclusive privilege granted by this section shall not apply to collection,
transportation and disposal of excluded waste, or where a person handles,
hauls, or transports solid waste or recyclables generated by or from his/her
own residence, business or business operations for purposes of disposing of
same at an authorized disposal area or transfer station. (Ord. 912, 4-25-2013,
eff. 7-1-2013)
5.8.040: COLLECTION:
   (A)   Exclusive Collection: Except for those items identified in subsection
(B) of this section, the approved waste management contractor shall collect
solid waste from all customers within the city in conformity with the approved
waste management contractor's agreement with the city. (Ord. 912, 4-25-2013,
eff. 7-1-2013)
   (B)   Items Excluded From City Collection: The approved waste management
contractor shall not be required to collect excluded waste from customers.
Excluded waste may be collected and transported over and upon the public ways
within the city by the approved waste management contractor, a third party
contractor or subcontractor, the owner, or occupant of the premises or pursuant
to a special collection as identified in subsection (C) of this section. (Ord.
921, 4-10-2014)
   (C)   Special Collections: The approved waste management contractor may
provide for the special collection from commercial and residential units of
excluded waste, if requested and paid for by the customer and accepted by the
approved waste management contractor.
   (D)   Unauthorized Disposal Of Solid Waste: It is unlawful for any person to
dump, deposit or place any garbage, refuse, waste, or rubbish on public or
private property or in any garbage container without the authorization of the
owner or lessor. (Ord. 912, 4-25-2013, eff. 7-1-2013)
   (E)   Items Located Outside Of Receptacles: It shall be unlawful to locate
solid waste outside either a bearproof enclosure, or receptacle approved by the
city or provided by the approved waste management contractor with the exception
of bags of yard debris, such as lawn clippings, pine needles, cones, or shrub
trimmings. Tree trunks, large limbs, and similar heavy objects may be located
outside of receptacles so long as such items are cut or knocked down to sizes
not exceeding four feet (4') in length and forty (40) pounds in weight. Brush
and tree trimmings shall be cut into lengths for easy handling, secured, and
placed in piles and covered to prevent the same from blowing and being
scattered about. Upon application to the city manager, or his/her designee,
solid waste that does not include garbage, food, or other waste that attracts
animals and which, because of weight, bulk or content, does not fit into a
customer's bearproof container or into the opening for the same, may be
permitted to be placed in a nonbearproof container or outside and adjacent to
the bearproof container so long as it does not constitute an attractive
nuisance to minors or animals. The city manager or his/her designee shall have
broad discretion to determine whether to grant or deny such application. (Ord.
921, 4-10-2014)
   (F)   Recyclable Collection Station: In the event that the county closes the
recyclable collection station on Deinhard Boulevard, behind the Court Annex
Building, the city will identify one, or more, locations for the collection of
recyclables for use by businesses and residents.
   (G)   Stable Waste: Stable waste shall be accepted by the approved waste
management contractor only if such stable waste is secured in a plastic or
paper bag, does not exceed forty (40) pounds in weight, and is located within
an approved bearproof receptacle. (Ord. 912, 4-25-2013, eff. 7-1-2013)
5.8.050: REQUIRED BEARPROOF CONTAINERS:
Within the city limits of the city of McCall each owner, lessor/lessee, or
manager of commercial or residential real property who subscribes to solid
waste collection services from the approved waste management contractor must
either purchase from any source, or lease a bearproof solid waste container
from the approved waste management contractor. Any nonsubscriber of solid waste
collection services shall provide for the proper storage and disposal of all
solid waste, garbage, or refuse on their premises. It is unlawful for any
owner, lessor/lessee, or manager to place solid waste, garbage, or refuse in a
container which is not an approved and properly secured and latched bearproof
container, unless such solid waste is placed in a secure and enclosed
structure, or otherwise personally attended. This section shall not be
construed to require more than one container per mailing address. Owners or
managers of multi-family or multi-tenant properties may lease a bearproof solid
waste container under this section, and provide the same for all tenants, which
will satisfy the requirements of this section for a given property and
occupants thereof. Any container leased for a property pursuant to this section
must be of sufficient size to reasonably accommodate all solid waste created by
the activities upon such property during any given one week period. (Ord. 915,
6-13-2013, eff. 7-1-2013)
5.8.060: RIGHT TO PURCHASE CONTAINER:
Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company, or
organization of any kind, including any owner, occupant, lessee, or tenant of a
premises has the right to purchase from any source a bearproof solid waste
container that is the same brand name and model(s) used by the approved solid
waste management contractor. The approved solid waste management contractor and
the city of McCall shall not be liable for any theft, loss, or any kind of
damage that may occur to any bearproof solid waste container that is not leased
from the approved solid waste management contractor. Before providing services
to a subscriber who has chosen to purchase their own container, the approved
solid waste management contractor may, in its discretion, require that
subscriber release the contractor in writing from any and all damages to the
container that may occur. (Ord. 916, 6-13-2013, eff. 7-1-2013)
5.8.070: EMERGENCY PROVISION:
In recognition that the public health, safety and welfare may be endangered by
any failure of the solid waste collection, transportation and removal system,
the city shall have the authority to declare a public emergency, provided
collection and transportation shall be interrupted for more than ninety six
(96) hours, and shall have the right to enjoin the approved waste management
contractor by action of the city council to refrain from further interruption,
and to immediately resume continuing solid waste collection service which
approved waste management contractor has agreed to provide. The city shall
notify the approved waste management contractor and schedule a hearing at least
twenty four (24) hours prior to enjoining the approved waste management
contractor as provided in this section. Failure to comply with an injunction
under this section may result in city contracting with third parties to collect
and transport any and all solid waste, and that such waste collection and
transportation may, at the city's discretion, occur in containers supplied or
owned by contractor and leased to customers. Furthermore, approved waste
management contractor may not interfere in any way with solid waste collection
by a third party under the emergency provision of this section. Approved waste
management contractor shall likewise reimburse the city for all reasonable
costs incurred in finding and contracting with a third party to perform solid
waste collection, transportation and disposal pursuant to an emergency declared
under this section. (Ord. 912, 4-25-2013, eff. 7-1-2013)
5.8.080: PENALTIES:
Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind, including any owner, occupant, lessee or tenant of a
premises, violating this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and,
upon conviction, shall be fined in an amount not exceeding three hundred
dollars ($300.00) or shall be imprisoned in the county jail for a period not
exceeding six (6) months, or be both so fined and imprisoned pursuant to the
general penalty provisions of title I, chapter 3 of this code. Each day such
violation is committed, or permitted to continue, may constitute a separate
offense and may be punishable as such. Any person convicted of a first offense
of violating section
5.8.050 of this chapter shall be entitled to an abatement of these penalties if
such person purchases an approved bearproof cart or subscribes to solid waste
collection services from the approved solid waste management contractor not
later than fifteen (15) days after entry of guilty plea or finding of guilt by
court or jury, or before sentencing, whichever shall occur first. (Ord. 917, 6-
13-2013, eff. 7-1-2013)
CHAPTER 9
EMERGENCY POWERS
SECTION:
5-9-01: Emergency Powers
5-9-02: Legal Authority
5-9-03: Purpose And Intent
5-9-04: Scope
5-9-05: Definitions
5-9-06: Public Health Emergency Orders
5-9-07: Process For Enacting Public Health Emergency Orders
5-9-08: Exclusions
5-9-09: Suspension And Waiver Of Certain City Services, Ordinances, And
Policies And Procedures
5-9-10: Force Majeure
5-9-11: Penalty
5-9-01: EMERGENCY POWERS:
The City Manager shall have such jurisdiction over all places within five (5)
miles of the corporate limits of the city, for the enforcement of any health or
quarantine ordinance and regulation thereof, including ordinances and all
regulations necessary to preserve the public health; to prevent the
introduction of contagious diseases into the city; and enforce quarantine
regulations and laws for that purpose. (Ord. 995, 11-5-2020)
5-9-02: LEGAL AUTHORITY:
Idaho Code sections 50-811, 50-304 and 50-606 authorize the city of McCall,
state of Idaho ("City") to pass ordinances granting certain powers to the City
Manager and City Council related to public health emergencies. (Ord. 995, 11-5-
2020)
5-9-03: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The city finds that the preservation of public health, safety, and welfare may
require immediate action by the city in response to emergency situations.
Therefore, the city hereby authorizes the City Manager and City Council certain
powers for immediate response to foreseeable, imminent, or present public
health emergencies. (Ord. 995, 11-5-2020)
5-9-04: SCOPE:
This chapter sets forth the procedures for activating the emergency powers of
the City Manager, Mayor and City Council during a public health emergency.
(Ord. 995, 11-5-2020)
5-9-05: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words, and
derivations shall have the meanings given herein. When not inconsistent with
the context, words used in the present tense include the future tense, words in
the plural number include the singular number and words in the singular number
include the plural number. The word "shall" is always mandatory and not merely
directory. Words used throughout this chapter, but not defined herein, shall
have their plain, ordinary, and common meaning. Words in any gender shall apply
to the feminine, masculine, and neuter genders.
 
                               The foreseeable, imminent, or present threat of
PUBLIC HEALTH EMERGENCY:       any pathogen, agent, vector, or environmental
                               condition, including hazardous materials, which
                               does or may cause illness or injury to humans.
                               An advisory, social distancing, isolation, or
PUBLIC HEALTH EMERGENCY ORDER: quarantine order enacted by the City Manager, or
                               Mayor and City Council.
                               The separation of infected persons, or of
                               persons suspected to be infected, from other
ISOLATION:                     persons to such places, under such conditions,
                               and for such time as will prevent transmission
                               of the infectious agent.
                               The restriction placed on the entrance to and
QUARANTINE:                    exit from the place of premises where an
                               infectious agent or hazardous material exists.
                               Actions taken to maintain distance from other
SOCIAL DISTANCING:             people, including avoiding or canceling
                               congregate settings and mass gatherings. (Ord.
                               995, 11-5-2020)
 
5-9-06: PUBLIC HEALTH EMERGENCY ORDERS:
The City Manager, Mayor and City Council, being duly authorized by Idaho Code
sections 50-811, 50-304 and 50-606, may issue the following orders, as deemed
appropriate by the City Manager, or Mayor and City Council following
consultation with or review of information issued by local, regional, state, or
national public health authorities.
   (A)   Advisory Order: Where a public health emergency is foreseeable or
imminent, the City Manager may enact an advisory order, which order may provide
information and recommended guidelines for preventing, detecting, and/or
mitigating the onset or spread of a public health hazard.
   (B)   Social Distancing Order: Where a public health emergency is imminent,
the City Manager may, summarily when necessary, or following approval by the
City Council, enact a social distancing order, which order may establish any or
all of the following:
      1.   Appropriate restrictions regarding the operation or occurrence of
planned or foreseeable private, commercial, recreational, or expressive
gatherings or events.
      2.   Restrictions on travel through, or visitation within, the community.
      3.   Postponement or cancellation of public meetings and hearings.
      4.   A limit on the number of persons who may gather in one location and
may apply to indoor or outdoor venues.
      5.   Suspension of businesses or visitor lodging accommodations.
      6.   Measures to be taken in order to prevent, avoid, detect, address, or
mitigate a foreseeable, imminent, or present public health hazard.
      7.   A social distancing order shall include an effective date and an
expiration date, which may be extended in the same manner as the imposition of
the initial order. A social distancing order shall apply within McCall city
limits, and five (5) miles outside McCall city limits.
   (C)   Isolation Order: Where a public health emergency is present, and poses
a credible threat of harm to the public health, the City Manager may, summarily
when necessary, or following approval by the City Council, enact an isolation
order, which order may establish any or all of the following:
      1.   A directive that infected and/or exposed individuals isolate
themselves from other persons.
      2.   Geographical areas of restricted or prohibited access.
      3.   Other measures necessary to avoid, address, or mitigate an imminent
public health hazard.
      4.   The scope and manner of delivery of services, materials, or supplies
to be provided by the city, if any.
      5.   Measures to be taken in order to prevent, avoid, detect, address, or
mitigate a foreseeable, imminent, or present public health hazard.
      6.   Conditions of the isolation order.
         a.   An isolation order shall include an effective date and an
expiration date, which may be extended in the same manner as the imposition of
the initial order. An isolation order shall be effective only when and for so
long as the public health emergency is present, and when no less restrictive
alternative exists. Any person shall be entitled to appeal an isolation order
or to request a modification of any provision of such order by filing a written
appeal with the City Clerk. Such appeal shall be heard by City Council at their
next meeting, or, if no meeting is scheduled during the term of the isolation
order, the Police Chief or designee shall review such appeal and issue a
written decision. The Police Chief's decision shall be final.
   (D)   Quarantine Order: Where a health emergency is present and poses a
credible threat of harm to the public health, the City Manager may enact a
quarantine order, which order may establish any or all of the following:
      1.   A directive that infected and/or exposed individuals isolate
themselves from other persons.
      2.   Geographical or other areas of restricted or prohibited access.
      3.   Other measures necessary to avoid, address, or mitigate an imminent
public health hazard.
      4.   The scope and manner of delivery of services, materials, or supplies
to be provided by the city, if any.
      5.   Measures to be taken in order to prevent, avoid, detect, address, or
mitigate a foreseeable, imminent, or present public health hazard.
      6.   Conditions of the quarantine.
      7.   A quarantine order shall include an effective date and an expiration
date, which may be extended in the same manner as the imposition of the initial
order. A quarantine order shall be effective only when and for so long as the
public health emergency is present, and when no less restrictive alternative
exists. Any person shall be entitled to appeal a quarantine order, or to
request a modification of any provision of such order by filing a written
appeal with the City Clerk. Such appeal shall be heard by City Council at their
next meeting, or, if no meeting is scheduled during the term of the quarantine
order, the Police Chief or designee shall review such appeal and issue a
written decision. The Police Chief's decision shall be final. (Ord. 995, 11-5-
2020)
5-9-07: PROCESS FOR ENACTING PUBLIC HEALTH EMERGENCY ORDERS:
   (A)   Approval By City Council: Except as provided in section (B) below, the
City Manager shall present to the City Council, at a duly noticed public
meeting, the proposed public health emergency order. At the discretion of the
City Council, public input may be taken at such meeting in such form as may be
directed by the Mayor or Council President, but a public hearing shall not be
required. Following approval by the City Council, the City Manager shall
prepare a written order and publish it pursuant to this chapter. Except as may
be specifically stated in the public health emergency order, such order shall
be effective upon posting at McCall City Hall.
   (B)   Summary Enactment: When necessary to summarily enact a public health
emergency order, the City Manager shall prepare a written order and publish it
pursuant to this chapter. Within five (5) days of the issuance of such an order
the City Manager shall present the order to the City Council for approval as
outlined in section (A) above. The City Council shall have the ability to
approve, rescind or modify a public health emergency order summarily enacted by
the City Manager.
   (C)   Publication Of Public Health Emergency Order: As soon as possible and
prudent under the circumstances, the City Manager shall cause a public health
emergency order to be published by:
      1.   Posting the order in a prominent place at McCall City Hall;
      2.   Posting the order on the city's website;
      3.   E-mailing the order to all persons subscribed to city e-mail
notification services;
      4.   Posting the order to all city social media accounts;
      5.   Providing the order to local media, television, and radio broadcast
outlets; and
      6.   Notifying other government agencies, including McCall Donnelly
School District, McCall Fire District, Payette Lakes Recreational Water and
Sewer District, Valley County, Adams County, City of Cascade, City of Donnelly,
Meadows Valley Fire District, and City of New Meadows; and
         a.   Such other means of notice as the City Manager may determine is
in the best interests of the city.
         b.   Except as may be specifically stated in the public health
emergency order, such order shall be effective upon posting at McCall City
Hall.
   (D)   Term Of Order: Every public health emergency order shall include an
effective date and a termination date that shall be specified in such order and
shall be not more than forty-five (45) days from the effective date, which may
be extended upon approval of the City Council. (Ord. 995, 11-5-2020)
5-9-08: EXCLUSIONS:
Unless otherwise specifically prohibited by a public health emergency order
duly enacted by the Mayor and City Council, the following activities shall be
exempt from the scope of such order:
   (A)   Any and all expressive and associative activity that is protected by
the United States and Idaho Constitutions, including speech, press, assembly,
and/or religious activity. Provided, this exclusion shall not prohibit
reasonable restrictions on the time, place, or manner for exercising these
fundamental rights as permitted by law, including restrictions on the number of
persons who may gather together in a physical location and other restrictions
that address the public health emergency without unreasonably interfering with
these fundamental rights.
   (B)   Public, or otherwise accredited or chartered, educational
institutions, which shall follow the duly adopted policies of their respective
governing bodies.
   (C)   Activities necessary to operate critical infrastructure and utilities.
   (D)   Activities necessary to operate and use medical facilities and
services.
   (E)   Activities necessary to buy, sell, or otherwise deliver food, fuel,
and necessities. (Ord. 995, 11-5-2020)
5-9-09: SUSPENSION AND WAIVER OF CERTAIN CITY SERVICES, ORDINANCES, AND
POLICIES AND PROCEDURES:
During a public health emergency and upon approval of a declaration of an
emergency, the City Manager may suspend certain non-essential city government
services and functions as deemed necessary and advisable given the specific
public health emergency and in consideration of the health of employees and the
general public. During such time, the City Manager may also suspend the regular
meetings of city boards and commissions, including but not limited to Planning
and Zoning Commission. In order to facilitate such suspension of meetings, the
ordinances providing for the regular meetings of these commissions shall be
temporarily suspended. Those ordinances providing the timeline for processing
applications shall also be suspended. The City Manager is also authorized to
waive such internal rules, regulations, and procedures as deemed necessary to
protect the health and welfare of city employees. Further, meetings of the City
Council or other city commissions or committees may be modified to account for
the circumstances of the public health emergency including imposition of
restrictions on the requirement in Idaho Code section 74-203(5) that the public
be allowed to attend in person but only if the public is otherwise permitted to
listen, or view with audio, the meeting via telecommunications or video
streaming technology. (Ord. 995, 11-5-2020)
5-9-10: FORCE MAJEURE:
In the context of this chapter, a public health emergency is a force majeure.
No person shall be entitled to recover from the City of McCall any costs
incurred, or profits lost, as may be alleged to be attributed to the enactment
of a public health emergency order. (Ord. 995, 11-5-2020)
5-9-11: PENALTY:
It shall be unlawful to violate any provision or directive of a duly enacted
social distancing order, isolation order, or quarantine order while such order
is in effect.
   (A)    A person violating any provision or directive of a social distancing
order, isolation order, or quarantine order shall pay a penalty as follows:
      1.   Within ten (10) days of the time of the issuance of said violation
ticket, pay to the City Treasurer's office in full satisfaction of such
violation, the penalty fixed by resolution of the City Council with respect to
such violations for each such violation; or
      2.   Within thirty (30) days from the date of said violation ticket, pay
to the City Treasurer's office in full satisfaction of such violation an amount
equal to twice the penalty fixed under subsection (A)1 of this section.
   (B)   Failure to make payment to the City Treasurer's office within the
times prescribed is a civil infraction punishable as provided in McCall City
Code 5.2.020 and as provided in the Idaho Code.
   (C)   The fines for violations may be established by resolution of the
Council.
   (D)   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions, any person who willfully
refuses to comply with a social distancing order, isolation order, or
quarantine order, after being instructed to do so by a public officer, is
subject to citation or arrest and may be separately prosecuted for obstructing
and interfering with a public officer and if convicted shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor. (Ord. 995, 11-5-2020)
TITLE VI
UTILITY SERVICES
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
6-1-010: Definitions
6-1-020: Criminal Penalties
6-1-030: Civil Remedy
6-1-040: Severability
6-1-010:   DEFINITIONS:
The following words whenever used in this Title shall have the following
meanings:
CITY TREASURER: The City Treasurer of the City.
CUSTOMER: (A) For all purposes, a person who has contracted with the City for
utility service; and
   (B)   Where a contract has not been entered into, those persons who are or
would be beneficiaries of the service, and thus ought to have executed such a
contract; and
   (C)   For enforcement purposes, the owner of the premises, and the occupant
of the premises.
PERSON: Includes any natural person and also any other legal entity, such as
but not limited to associations, partnerships, joint ventures and corporations,
and a county and the State. Where an offense is committed by a person who is
not a natural person, the natural person(s) (if any) who directed the
commission of the offense, and the natural person(s) physically performing the
acts constituting the offense, are jointly and severally subject to
prosecution, rates and penalties.
PREMISES: The building, or buildings, or part thereof, to which a utility
service is furnished, and the land associated with such building or buildings,
also land to which water service is provided whether or not a building is
present; service is provided to each dwelling unit as a separate connection,
and to each business or commercial unit as a separate connection.
PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR: The Public Works Director of the City.
The singular includes the plural, and the masculine, feminine and neuter
include each other. (Ord. 632, 7-28-93)
6-1-020:   CRIMINAL PENALTIES:
A violation of this Title is a misdemeanor punishable as prescribed in Title V
of the McCall City Code. (Ord. 632, 7-28-93)
6-1-030:   CIVIL REMEDY:
In addition to, and not exclusive of the criminal remedy provided by this
Ordinance, any person violating any of the provisions of this Title and by such
violation causing the City additional costs to collect, transmit and treat
sewage produced within the City's sewer service area, or causing the City to be
subjected to civil penalties imposed by State or Federal agencies, or causing
the City to lose, or jeopardize the holding of, any permit for the use of the
Payette River in conjunction with its sewerage treatment system, shall be
subjected to the full remedies available to the City pursuant to State and
Federal law. (Ord. 632, 7-28-93)
6-1-040:   SEVERABILITY:
If any one or more sections or provisions of this Title, or the application
thereof to any person, firm, corporation or circumstance, shall ever be held by
any court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, the remaining provisions of
this Title and the application thereof to persons, firms, corporations or
circumstances other than those to which it is held to be invalid shall not be
affected thereby, it being the intention of the City Council to enact the
remaining provisions of this Title notwithstanding such invalidity. (Ord. 632,
7-28-93)
CHAPTER 2
WATER SERVICE
SECTION:
6-2-010: Extension Of Water Service
6-2-020: Required Connection
6-2-030: Separate Connection
6-2-040: Water From Other Sources
6-2-050: Water Main - Connection
6-2-060: Connection
6-2-070: Extension Of Connection
6-2-080: Connection - Private Installation
6-2-090: Connections - Specifications
6-2-100: Connection - Private - Specifications
6-2-110: Connection - Inspection
6-2-120: Fire Protection Services - Specifications
6-2-130: Unauthorized Connections - Misdemeanor
6-2-140: Unauthorized Connections - Penalty
6-2-150: Using Water From Other Connections - Misdemeanor
6-2-160: Returning Water To Mains Prohibited
6-2-170: Meter Required
6-2-180: Meter - Inspection And Report
6-2-190: Meters - Readings
6-2-200: Meters - General
6-2-210: Meters - Damage By Occupant - Repair
6-2-220: Plumbers - Compliance
6-2-230: Water Turned Off During Fires
6-2-240: Repairing Mains Without Notice
6-2-250: Turning Water On Persons Prohibited
6-2-260: Waste Prohibited
6-2-265: Alternate Day Sprinkling
6-2-270: Unlawful Practices
6-2-280: Obstructions And Injuries
6-2-010:   EXTENSION OF WATER SERVICE:
Under no circumstances will City water service be extended outside the City of
McCall corporate limits, except as a condition of annexation. City water
service shall be extended to lots or parcels within the City of McCall
corporate limits only if the following conditions are met:
   (A)   The City Engineer shall evaluate the proposed water main extension and
the intended service area, and certify that the City's water system can
support, with adequate flows and pressures, the proposed demands for the sizes
and types of construction and fire exposure within the intended service area.
   (B)   The cost of said evaluation and certification, the costs for fire
hydrant tests (evaluating flow and pressure), recalibration of the City
hydraulic model to incorporate the new calibration data and "record drawings"
of the finished construction shall be borne by the applicant, unless the water
extension project is initiated by the City. (Ord. 754, 4-12-2001)
6-2-020:   REQUIRED CONNECTION:
Every premises located within three hundred feet (300') of a City water main
must connect to the City water system. (Ord. 632, 7-28-1993)
6-2-030:   SEPARATE CONNECTION:
Every separate premises supplied with City water shall have its own separate
connection with the City water line and every separate premises not complying
with this requirement shall be made so to comply within six (6) months. It
shall be unlawful for any person, whose premises is supplied with City water,
to furnish water to additional persons or premises after six (6) months
subsequent to the effective date of this chapter. (Ord. 632, 7-28-1993)
6-2-040:   WATER FROM OTHER SOURCES:
No service connections shall be allowed from the City mains to any premises
supplied with water from any other sources, unless it be shown that the City
will receive reasonable return on its investment and then only on special
permission, in writing, by the Public Works Director, which permission shall be
revocable at any time. No connection, temporary or permanent, shall be
permitted between the City water supply system and any other source of water
supply whatsoever. (Ord. 632, 7-28-1993)
6-2-050:   WATER MAIN - CONNECTION:
After receipt of a properly filled out application under section
6-4-010 of this title, and of the executed contract under section
6-4-020 of this title, the Public Works Director shall cause the premises
described in the application, if the same abut upon a main, to be connected
with the said main by a service pipe extending at right angles from the main to
the property line. Included in such service connection thus constructed shall
be a "City curb cock", placed within the line of the street curb, and the said
connection shall thereafter be maintained by and remain the property of the
City. (Ord. 632, 7-28-1993)
6-2-060:   CONNECTION:
Upon receipt of a public works permit and/or an application for utility
service, a standard service connection shall be provided by the City to the
customer. It shall be a minimum of three-quarter inch (3/4") nominal internal
diameter, extending from the main to just inside the property line, or other
location approved by the City. The customer shall be responsible for providing
all necessary parts (i.e., tapping saddle, pipe, fittings, curb-stop, meter
box, setter, meter, meter transceiver unit (MXU), electronic register (ECR),
etc., equipment and labor necessary for trench excavation, backfill and roadway
restoration associated with the water service connection. The City shall
provide oversight and assembly of all parts necessary to construct the service
to ensure that it meets the City and any regulatory installation requirements.
Once constructed and approved by the City, the City shall maintain the service
components from the City's main up to and including the meter and meter pit
assembly. The service line from the meter to the residence, business, or other
place of use shall be the responsibility of the customer. (Ord. 970, 8-23-2018)
6-2-070:   EXTENSION OF CONNECTION:
For applications for water service upon premises not abutting upon a City main,
the City may allow a water service connection from the City's main to the
premises a distance equal to the distance from the main to the property line at
right angles therefrom, but in no case a distance greater than three hundred
feet (300') unless approved by the City Engineer, and allow a metered
connection to be made with union and meter assembly meeting the City's
standards to a private water service or main installed and maintained by the
owner of the premises. (Ord. 971, 8-23-2018)
6-2-080:   CONNECTION - PRIVATE INSTALLATION:
If convinced that he is properly equipped to safely do the work, so that the
City is not likely to suffer loss thereby, the Public Works Director may permit
the owner of any premises to make his own connections with a service
connection, within the property line, and shall require a deposit to insure the
character of the work done in the amount required by resolution of the Council
to be returned to the said owner upon the satisfactory completion of the work.
(Ord. 632, 7-28-1993)
6-2-090:   CONNECTIONS - SPECIFICATIONS:
All persons connecting to the City owned service connection or laying their own
private water mains thereto are required to use approved galvanized standard
pipe, up to and including two inch (2") in nominal internal diameter, and cast
iron water main conforming to the specifications of the Public Works Director
in the case of larger sizes. All such private lines shall be laid not less than
four feet (4') below the surface of the ground and an equal distance below the
established grade of any street where the grade has been established. If any
such private main be laid in a street or highway where no grade has been
established, and such grade is established at some later date, but no City
water main is by that time constructed, the Public Works Director may require
the consumers using such private main at the time to relay such private main in
such manner as to protect it from frost damage. (Ord. 632, 7-28-1993)
6-2-100:   CONNECTION - PRIVATE - SPECIFICATIONS:
The portion of all service connections provided by the consumer for private
water mains laid as permitted by this chapter shall, before water is turned on
thereto, conform in all respects with the following requirements:
The pipes shall be so located and equipped that each supply to a separate
building or premises shall be controlled by separate stop-and-waste cock of
approved type and construction satisfactory to the Public Works Director, which
stop shall be properly protected against frost, have extension handle if
necessary, and be so placed as to completely drain all pipes and fixtures
served thereby; or if sags or depressions necessarily occur in such pipes, they
shall each be provided with an additional stop-and-waste cock or other suitable
means for properly draining each and every one of them. Where no fixture exists
between the property line and the basement or cellar of a building, the stop-
and- waste cock may be placed within such basement or cellar, provided such
basement or cellar is not less than six feet (6') in clear height, and is
provided with adequate stairways or other suitable means of ready access
thereto; and provided further, that where such basement or cellar is enclosed
only with wooden walls, the said stop-and-waste cock shall be placed at least
twelve inches (12") below the surface or floor thereof, and provided with an
extension handle, and be properly protected against frost. Stop-and-waste cocks
on premises fronting on ungraded streets shall be placed at least six feet (6')
inside the property line of said premises. Connection between the privately
owned lines or service connections shall in all cases be made with a suitable
union. Every existing service connection or branch service not already equipped
as required by this Section shall forthwith be made to so conform at the
expense of the owner. (Ord. 632, 7-28-93)
6-2-110:   CONNECTION - INSPECTION:
Whenever the owner of any premises connected with the City water supply system,
shall desire to use the water, he shall request the City Treasurer to have the
water turned on and service begun. The owner shall leave his portion of the
trench containing the service connection open until the same has been properly
inspected, and the water turned on, when he shall immediately and properly
cover the said pipe. All new construction and/or alterations, additions to
existing facilities shall install and maintain in good working order "water
saving devices". Water closets using a maximum of four (4) gallons per flush
will be required and a shower head reduction device for all showers will be
required. (Ord. 632, 7-28-93)
6-2-120:   FIRE PROTECTION SERVICES - SPECIFICATIONS:
Any property owner or tenant may install a fire protection service, which must
receive the approval of the Public Works Director and no charge shall be made
for water actually used therein for fire extinguishment. The connection for
such fire service system shall be made outside of the meter installation, and
between the meter and the main, and any person who shall make or permit to be
made any tap or connection from a fire main for any other purpose, shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor. The Public Works Department may at its discretion
require all outlets on such fire service system to be properly sealed, and if
any such seal shall be broken in use in fire extinguishment, it shall at once
be reported to the Public Works Director for re-sealing, for which a charge
shall be made in the amount set from time to time by the Council by resolution.
If on inspection unsealed and unreported outlets are discovered, there shall be
assessed against the owner or tenant thereof a penalty in the amount set from
time to time by the Council by resolution, or the water service to the premises
may be disconnected. (Ord. 632, 7-28-93)
6-2-130:   UNAUTHORIZED CONNECTIONS - MISDEMEANOR:
When water has been shut off from any premises, either upon the application of
the owner thereof, or for nonpayment of water charges, or for any other cause,
it shall be a misdemeanor for any person to again connect such premises with
the City water supply system except when specifically authorized so to do by
the Public Works Director. The Public Works Director may cause the water to be
shut off at the main, or may remove a portion of the service connection in the
street. In addition to the penalty provided in the McCall City Code for
violations of its provisions, the Public Works Department may charge to and
collect from the owner of the premises so illegally connected, the whole cost
of the disconnection and the reconnection, and a penalty in the amount set from
time to time by the City Council by resolution for shutting off and turning on
the water, the whole of such penalty and charges to be paid before the water is
again turned on. (Ord. 632, 7-28-93)
6-2-140:   UNAUTHORIZED CONNECTIONS - PENALTY:
If any person shall make, procure or maintain any unauthorized connection
between any City water main and the meter appertaining to the service
connection, such person shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. The water on
such premises shall be shut off, and shall not be again turned on until the
best adjustment possible shall have been made for the water so illegally
consumed, insofar as the same can be approximately determined, and the charges
for such water, and all penalties incurred, have been fully paid. (Ord. 632, 7-
28-93)
6-2-150:   USING WATER FROM OTHER CONNECTIONS - MISDEMEANOR:
Where water has been shut off from any premises for lack of payment of charges
or penalties, or for any other cause and the person occupying such premises
shall proceed to take water from any other premises connected with the City
water supply system, such person taking water, and any person permitting such
taking of water, will be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 632, 7-28-93)
6-2-160:   RETURNING WATER TO MAINS PROHIBITED:
No ice machine or cold storage plant shall at any time be connected in any
manner with the City water supply system, so that water which has been used in
any part of such machine or plant will or may be returned after use into the
City mains; all water so used shall be at once discharged into the sewers or
other approved place of disposal. (Ord. 632, 7-28-1993)
6-2-170:   METER REQUIRED:
All water service connections shall be metered with a water meter at or near
the curb stop between the curb stop and the improvements on the premises, in a
meter pit meeting the standard established by the Public Works Department, and
equipped with a remote electronic data transmission device.
   (A)   The City shall install meters on all existing services not currently
metered. The owner of the premises to which the service is provided or to be
provided shall permit City crews to enter the premises for purposes of making
the installation at a reasonable time during City working hours; any owner who
fails to cooperate with the City in this regard shall, at the option of the
City, be subject to:
      1.   Disconnection of the service; or
      2.   Billing for the water service at twice the average bill for users of
the same class and/or to prosecution.
   (B)   All construction to which a service connection is made after the
effective date hereof shall be equipped at the owner's expense with:
      1.   A water meter meeting City specifications located in the meter pit;
and
      2.   A remote, electronic data transmission device also meeting City
specifications.
Such specifications shall be obtained from the Public Works Director.
   (C)   All water use connections or taps to the user service shall be drawn
downstream (on the user side) of the meter, including, but not limited to, lawn
irrigation. Existing taps on services positioned upstream of the meter shall be
modified at owner expense to comply with this subsection.
   (D)   Cross-connections are strictly prohibited, and any service with a
cross-connection or potential cross-connection shall be protected by a backflow
prevention device acceptable to the Public Works Director.
   (E)   The water service connection between the curb stop and the place of
use by the customer is the property of the customer; provided, that the City
owns and is responsible for maintenance of the meter and meter pit. The City
owns and is responsible for connections between the meter and the curb stop in
the standard configuration where the curb stop and the meter are proximate to
each other. The water service connection between the City curb cock and the
meter pit is the property of the owner of the real estate under circumstances
where a meter is located within a structure or at a location interior to the
premises as is common to facilitate delivery to more than one unit in a multi-
unit development on an individually metered basis. The owner's water connection
property shall be maintained by that owner. (Ord. 717, 10-9-1997)
6-2-180:   METER - INSPECTION AND REPORT:
It shall be the duty of the Public Works Director to report in writing to the
City Treasurer all premises inspected by him where City water is used or about
to be used within forty eight (48) hours after such inspection. Such report
shall contain the name of the owner, the house number of the premises and the
street name, and the name of the plumber performing the work. The Public Works
Director shall make sure that stop-and-waste cocks have been so placed as to
thoroughly drain all pipes and fixtures on any such premises. (Ord. 632, 7-28-
1993)
6-2-190:   METERS - READINGS:
The Public Works Director shall make monthly readings of water meters. However,
during the months of October to March, inclusive, the readings shall be made at
the discretion of the Public Works Director. It shall be the duty of the City
Treasurer to keep suitable accounts with all consumers of water, a separate
account for each separate service or premises, and to enter therein all charges
and penalties accrued. (Ord. 632, 7-28-93)
6-2-200:   METERS - GENERAL:
All meters shall be and remain the property of the City and shall not be
removed from the service except for test or repair, replacement or abandonment
or discontinuance of the service. All meters shall be so located and maintained
as to be readily accessible at all reasonable hours for reading, inspection or
repair. (Ord. 632, 7-28-93)
6-2-210:   METERS - DAMAGE BY OCCUPANT - REPAIR:
In cases where a meter has been lost, injured or broken by or through the
carelessness or negligence of the owners or occupant of the premises served,
such meter shall be properly repaired or restored under the direction of the
Public Works Director, and the costs thereof shall be charged against the owner
or occupant of the premises. In case of nonpayment of such charges, the water
shall be turned off, and not turned on until the cost of repairs and the
penalty for shutting off and turning on water has been paid. (Ord. 632, 7-28-
93)
6-2-220:   PLUMBERS - COMPLIANCE:
No person other than licensed plumbers and authorized City employees shall
possess or use any street key for the purpose of shutting off the City curb-
cock, and all plumbers shall leave the said City curb-cock shut off on all
premises which are newly connected with the City water supply system, and in
the condition in which it was found in all other cases. On the completion of
his work, each plumber shall promptly report the same to the Public Works
Director. This shall not be construed to in any way relieve any plumber from
making the necessary applications, and from complying in all respects with the
other requirements of this Chapter. In case of the failure of any plumber to
properly conform to the requirements of this Chapter, the Public Works Director
may cause the same to be remedied, and shall cause the costs of the same,
together with any fees or penalties which may have accrued thereon, to be
charged to the property owner, and no water shall be turned into the water
lines of the said property until such costs and charges have been paid in full.
(Ord. 632, 7-28-93)
6-2-230:   WATER TURNED OFF DURING FIRES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to use water for irrigating or sprinkling
during the progress of any fire in the City except for the protection of
property from fire, and sprinkling shall be immediately stopped when the fire
alarm is sounded, and not be resumed until the signal "fire out" is given.
(Ord. 632, 7-28-93)
6-2-240:   REPAIRING MAINS WITHOUT NOTICE:
The water may be at any time shut off from any or all mains, without notice,
for repairs or other necessary purposes, and the City shall not be liable for
any consequent damage. Water for high pressure or other steam boilers shall not
be drawn directly from the City mains, but shall in all cases be fed into a
suitable tank of sufficient capacity to supply needed water for at least one-
half (1/2) day. While water is temporarily shut off from the mains, the hot
water faucets of all premises should be kept open, to allow steam to escape
from the hot water boilers, and to prevent bursting or collapse of the same. No
person shall leave a house empty with the faucets open as above explained.
(Ord. 632, 7-28-93)
6-2-250:   TURNING WATER ON PERSONS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully place or permit any automatic
sprinkling device, or wilfully to place or hold any hose, in such position or
manner that water therefrom falls on any person while on any public street,
alley, highway or sidewalk, and the Public Works Department may shut off the
water of any person so offending. (Ord. 632, 7-28-93)
6-2-260:   WASTE PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to waste water, or to allow it to be wasted
by imperfect or leaking stop valves, check-valves, faucets, pipes, fittings or
fixtures or devices of any kind for the utilization and control of water
supply, or allow any faucet or valve to run wholly or partly open for the
prevention of freezing, or for any other reason, or to use the water for any
purpose other than those upon which his contract is based, or to use water in
any way in violation of the provisions of this Chapter. In case of neglect or
failure to comply with these requirements for the proper maintenance of
plumbing and fixtures, and the proper use of water, the Public Works Department
may shut off the water until proper repairs are made and the required penalty
paid. (Ord. 632, 7-28-93)
6-2-265:   ALTERNATE DAY SPRINKLING:
Irrigation of residential and commercial lawns and landscaping using City
water, by sprinklers or otherwise, shall occur only on alternate days. City
water may be used for such irrigation at addresses with an odd number only on
odd numbered days of the month, and at addresses with an even number only on
even numbered days of the month. (Ord. 665, 7-14-94)
6-2-270:   UNLAWFUL PRACTICES:
It shall be unlawful for any person, except one duly authorized by the Water
Department or the Fire Department, to open, close, operate, turn on, turn off,
interfere with, hose to or connect anything with any fire hydrant, stand pipe,
stop valve or stop-cock belonging to the City. It shall be unlawful for any
person to make any connection with any water main or water pipe belonging to
the City water supply system without due authority first asked and obtained so
to do. (Ord. 632, 7-28-93)
6-2-280:   OBSTRUCTIONS AND INJURIES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct the ready access to any fire
hydrant by placing around or thereon any stone, brick, lumber, dirt or other
material, to draw or attempt to draw any water therefrom or to wilfully or
carelessly injure the same. And in the event that any person shall, wilfully,
carelessly or otherwise, injure or break any fire hydrant, street stand pipe,
public drinking fountain or other device or thing connected with the City water
supply system, he shall at once report the occurrence to the Public Works
Department or police, with his name and address, and shall give such
undertaking as may be required of him that he will pay the costs of the repairs
or replacements thereto made necessary. Failure to so report and accept
responsibility for such injury is a misdemeanor. (Ord. 632, 7-28-93)
CHAPTER 3
SEWER SERVICE
SECTION:
6-3-010: Sewer System Within City; Sewer Connections Required; Penalty
6-3-020: Connection
6-3-030: Limitation On Hookups
6-3-040: Tap-Ins Or Hookups To The City Of McCall Sewer System
6-3-050: Septage Deposit Or Dumping
6-3-060: Harmful Substances And Excessive Prohibited Flows
6-3-070: Food Waste Disposal Units
6-3-080: Discharge Of Industrial Wastes
6-3-090: Water Saving Devices
6-3-100: Hearings And Appeals
6-3-010:   SEWER SYSTEM WITHIN CITY; SEWER CONNECTIONS REQUIRED; PENALTY:
   (A)   For the purpose of promoting health, safety and the general welfare of
McCall, a system for the collection, transmission and disposal of sanitary
sewage shall be constructed, extended, maintained, repaired, replaced, operated
and removed within the corporate limits of the city of McCall by which to
provide an adequate system for the collection, transmission and disposal of
sanitary sewage from domestic, commercial, industrial and such other uses and
purposes for which said system may be used.
   (B)   Every building, structure or other sewer user within the corporate
limits of the city shall be connected by a sewer service line to a public sewer
line or main line where such sewer line or main line is available and within
three hundred feet (300') of the property line of the lot, tract or parcel of
land on which such building or structure exists.
   (C)   No permit shall be issued for the construction of any building or
structure in the city on any lot, tract or parcel of land where there is a
public sewer line available and within three hundred feet (300') of such lot,
tract or parcel of land, unless the plans and specifications show connections
in compliance with this chapter.
   (D)   Every building, structure or other use in existence prior to the
construction of a public sewer line which is available and within three hundred
feet (300') of the lot, tract or parcel of land on which said building or
structure stands shall upon the construction of the public sewer line or main
line, be connected to said sewer not later than six (6) months from the date
said line or main is certified and accepted by the city public works director
as being completed and ready for use.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful to occupy or use any building or structure in
violation of this chapter, and any violation of this chapter shall be
punishable as a misdemeanor. (Ord. 632, 7-28-1993)
   (F)   Under no circumstances will city sewer service be extended outside the
city of McCall corporate limits, except as a condition of annexation.
   (G)   The city engineer shall evaluate any proposed sewer main extension and
the intended service area, and certify that the city's sewer system can support
the proposed demands for service within the intended service area.
   (H)   The cost of said evaluation and certification and "record drawings" of
the finished construction shall be borne by the applicant, unless the sewer
extension project is initiated by the city. (Ord. 754, 4-12-2001)
6-3-020:   CONNECTION:
Before any connection shall be made to the city sewer system a permit therefor
shall be obtained from the city clerk upon payment of the fees provided in this
section and thereafter such connection to the city sewer system shall be made
the expense of the person desiring such connection and the same shall be made
under the supervision of the public works director and such connection shall
not be covered until final inspection and approval by the Public Works
Director. (Ord. 632, 7-28-93)
6-3-030:   LIMITATION ON HOOK-UPS:
In the event the McCall City Council determines that the existing City sewer
system, whether collection systems or treatment facilities, are at or
approaching their respective capacity limits such that the issuance of
additional service hook-up permits would lead to harmful consequences to the
general welfare of the City and its environs, the Council by resolution shall
limit the issuance of additional service hook-ups in a manner designed to
preclude such consequences until such time as additional capacity has been
developed. The precise limits, the manner of allocating same, and the
determination of when to impose or relax them shall be established by
regulations to be promulgated by the Council in conjunction with the imposition
of any such limitations. (Ord. 632, 7-28-93)
6-3-040:   TAP-INS OR HOOK-UPS TO THE CITY OF MCCALL SEWER SYSTEM:
   (A)   General: The term tap-in or hook-up shall be defined as a service
connection constructed from an existing sewer lateral, main or interceptor
sewer to the property line. Responsibility for construction and cost of the
tap-in or hook-up shall be the property owners, whose property is being
connected to the public sewer system, or the person causing said connection to
be made. Upon completion and acceptance by the City, the tap-in or hook-up
shall become a part of the public sewer system.
   (B)   Permit Required: It shall be a violation of this Section for any
person to construct or cause the construction of a tap-in or hook-up without
first obtaining a tap-in or hook-up permit from the City.
   (C)   Inspection: Prior to any work or alteration on a public sewer line as
part of a tap-in or hook-up, the proposed tap-in or hook-up must be inspected
and approved by the City Public Works Director. Request for inspection must be
made to the City at least twenty four (24) hours prior to the proposed tap-in
or hook-up.
   (D)   Failure to Inspect: Should the applicant or his duly authorized agent
connect facilities to the sewer system without the facilities being inspected
and approved by the City, the party responsible for the connections shall be
required at his own expense to excavate the pipeline facilities constructed and
disconnect the tap-in or hook-up from the sewer line, in order that a proper
inspection can be made, whereupon compliance with subsection (B) of this
Section will be required if no permit has been previously issued.
   (E)   Construction Specifications: Construction of the tap-in or hook-up
shall conform to the City's "sewer tap or hook-up" specifications, available at
the McCall City Hall, and issued to the applicant at the time of permit
application. Only plumbers licensed in accordance with the laws of the State of
Idaho, shall be authorized to make the actual tap-in or hook- up to the City
sewer line. (Ord. 632, 7-28-93)
6-3-050:   SEPTAGE DEPOSIT OR DUMPING:
   (A)   Prohibition Against Dumping: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm
or corporation to deposit, dump, place or leave septage, sewage or effluent
from any septic tank, cesspool or other private sewage disposal system within
the corporate limits of the City of McCall except at the McCall City treatment
plant.
   (B)   Who Can Dump: Only vehicles designed and constructed for the purpose
of transporting or hauling septage, sewage or effluent shall be allowed to dump
at the McCall City treatment plant. The vehicle shall be water and air tight
and be clearly marked with the gallonage of the holding tank. The fee and exact
sources of each load shall be recorded on a dumping ticket provided by the City
of McCall.
   (C)   Fee: The fee for dumping shall be set from time to time by the City
Council by resolution. The City Treasurer may require those regularly doing
business with the City to pay a deposit toward dumping fees, which deposit must
be maintained with a positive balance.
   (D)   Monitoring: The dumping of all septage shall be monitored by the plant
operator or his designate and samples may be taken during the discharge into
the system.
   (E)   Cleanup: The dumping area shall be left clean. (Ord. 632, 7-28-93)
6-3-060:   HARMFUL SUBSTANCES AND EXCESSIVE PROHIBITED FLOWS:
   (A)   For promoting health, safety and welfare and so no use or activity
endangers or inhibits the City of McCall sewer system, treatment plant, and
personnel; and so use and activity does not cause the City of McCall to violate
the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, it shall be unlawful to permit or
cause flow of any of the following substances into the sanitary sewer system:
      1.   Any grease, fatty materials, offal or garbage;
      2.   Any stone dust, sand, dirt, gravel, sawdust, metal filings, broken
glass or any other material which may cause or create an obstruction in the
sewer;
      3.   Gasoline, benzene, fuel oil, phenols, cresols or any petroleum
products or volatile liquids, or any wastes which create a fire explosion
hazard;
      4.   Milk, or any liquid milk waste products, in quantities in excess of
53n (10 gallons) during each twenty four (24) hour period;
      5.   Any cyanide, phenols or any other chemical or substance which
interferes with or prevents the functioning of the sewer system or wastewater
treatment facilities;
      6.   Paint or waste products from paint manufacturing;
      7.   Radioactive wastes;
      8.   Any material from cesspools and septic tanks, other than effluent;
      9.   Any material from chemical toilets, such as used in recreational
vehicles and on construction sites;
      10.   Any other substance or liquid deleterious to the sewer system and
wastewater treatment facilities or which shall endanger the employees,
operation or treatment processes of wastewater disposal, or which shall cause
encrustations or otherwise chemically or physically corrode or erode the sewer
system and wastewater treatment facilities. In no case shall wastes with a pH
lower than 6.0 nor wastes with a pH greater than 9.0 be permitted into the
sanitary sewer system.
   (B)   Every building, structure or premises used or occupied by any sewer
user where any commercial or industrial operations are conducted or permitted
which result in the discharge into the sewer system of any products, waste
products or other substances, matter or liquid in the manner and to the extent
prohibited in this Chapter shall be equipped with an adequate and suitable
grease trap, filter or other interceptor device installed in such a manner that
products, waste products or other substances, material or liquids herein set
forth shall not flow into or be discharged into the sanitary sewer system. The
grease trap, filter or other interceptor shall be:
      1.   Operated efficiently at all times;
      2.   Continually maintained and operational;
      3.   In compliance with the specifications as set forth in the Uniform
Plumbing Code;
      4.   Installed and located in a manner easily accessible by the City
Public Works Department inspector;
      5.   Installed and located in a manner that will provide for easy
cleaning, repair, replacement and inspection.
   (C)   Any time without notice the trap, filter or interceptor shall be
available for inspection by the City Public Works Department. If found to be in
violation of this Chapter, written notification will be given requiring the
user to take the necessary steps to remedy the situation within one week after
written notice.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to permit the flow of such waste from such
buildings, structures or premises into the sanitary sewer system.
   (E)   Inflows of surface and excessive infiltration are prohibited. Such
prohibited sources of inflow shall include, but not be limited to, the
following:
      1.   Heating or cooling system discharges in excess of two thousand
(2,000) gallons per day, storm water connections, subwater drains, foundation
drains, roof drains, street drains, basement drains, sump pumps and abandoned
sewer lines.
      2.   Infiltration greater than two hundred (200) gallons per day per inch
diameter per mile of pipe shall be prohibited.
      3.   Existing inflows of surface and subsurface waters from storm water
connections, subwater drains, foundation drains, roof drains, street drains,
basement drains, sump pumps, abandoned sewer lines and excessive infiltration
and other sources shall be eliminated. Structures and buildings with inflow in
existence before the time of this Chapter shall not be deemed to have
"Grandfather Rights" and therefore shall be eliminated in order to comply with
this Chapter. (Ord. 632, 7-28-93)
6-3-070:   FOOD WASTE DISPOSAL UNITS:
   (A)   It is the declared policy of the City to discourage and prevent
discharge of food wastes into the sanitary sewer system when such food wastes
could be disposed of in a manner other than discharge into the said sewer
system. Where the disposal of such food wastes, particularly by commercial and
institutional users of the system is allowed, the method and manner of such
disposal shall be as required in the subsequent portions of this Section.
   (B)   Domestic and commercial food waste disposal units shall be connected
and trapped separately from any other fixture or compartment, except that a
continuous waste with a flow directing partition will be acceptable for
domestic units. All units may have either automatic or hand operated water
supply controls; however, domestic units shall be provided with an approved
inlet cover having waterway passages for use during grinding operations.
   (C)   No waste from a food waste grinder shall be discharged into or through
a grease interceptor.
   (D)   Waste grinders and their installation in restaurants, institutions,
food processing or storage plants and similar operations shall meet the
requirements of this Chapter as well as the Uniform Plumbing Code. An
installation will be permitted only upon the finding of the City that other
methods of disposal are not feasible and that the City sewer system can
properly handle the waste. (Ord. 632, 7-28-93)
6-3-080:   DISCHARGE OF INDUSTRIAL WASTES:
   (A)   It is unlawful for anyone to discharge or permit the discharge of any
industrial wastes into any public sewer unless prior approval by the City is
obtained, as provided in subsection (A)15b of this Section if such industrial
wastes have any of the following characteristics:
      1.   A standard five (5) day biochemical oxygen demand greater than four
hundred (400) milligrams per liter (mg/l); or fifty (50) pounds in any one day;
      2.   A chemical oxygen demand greater than five hundred (500) mg/l; or
eighty five (85) pounds in any one day;
      3.   Wastes containing more than four hundred (400) mg/l of suspended
solids or fifty (50) pounds in any one day;
      4.   A flow of fifty thousand (50,000) gallons or more per average work
day or a flow greater than five percent (5%) of the flow carried by the
treatment facility receiving the waste;
      5.   Chlorine demand of more than twenty (20) mg/l;
      6.   Wastewater at a flow rate and/or pollutant discharge which is
excessive over relatively short time periods so that there is a treatment
process upset and subsequent loss of treatment efficiency;
      7.   Wastes containing harmful substances as enumerated in Section
6-3-060;
      8.   Food wastes and garbage, etc.;
      9.   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than twenty seven
degrees (27o) centigrade, eighty degrees (80o) Fahrenheit; or
      10.   Any soluble waste or wastes having a pH lower than 6.0 or higher
than 9.0 or having any other corrosive property which reasonably could be
hazardous to structures, equipment or personnel of the City such as but not
limited to, battery or plating acids and wastes, copper sulfate, chromium salts
and compounds or salt brine.
      11.   Any water or waste containing a toxic or poisonous substance in
sufficient quantity to injure or interfere with any wastewater treatment
process, to constitute a hazard to humans or to create any hazard to receiving
waters or the effluent of the wastewater treatment plants. Liquids containing
copper, zinc or similar toxic substances at the point of discharge to the City
sewer shall not exceed the following limits:
      Parameter      Maximum Month Maximum
                          Average Daily Instantaneous
Aluminum                  3.00 mg/l     5.00 mg/l
Arsenic                   0.03 mg/l     0.05 mg/l
Total Ammonia as Nitrogen 25.00 mg/l    50.00 mg/l
Cadmium                   0.01 mg/l     0.02 mg/l
Chromium (Hexavalent)     0.05 mg/l     1.00 mg/l
Chromium (Total)          1.00 mg/l     2.00 mg/l
Copper                    0.30 mg/l     0.50 mg/l
Cyanide (Total)           0.20 mg/l     0.50 mg/l
Fluoride                  2.00 mg/l     2.70 mg/l
Iron                      2.00 mg/l     5.00 mg/l
Lead                      0.05 mg/l     0.10 mg/l
Nickel                    0.30 mg/l     0.50 mg/l
Zinc                      0.30 mg/l     0.50 mg/l
Mercury                   0.03 mg/l     0.05 mg/l
Silver                    0.03 mg/l     0.05 mg/l
 
      12.   Any material which exerts or causes:
         (a)   Concentrations of inert suspended solids, such as, but not
limited to, fuller's earth, lime slurries, lime residue, or fly ash which are
so high as to constitute a danger to the wastewater treatment plant.
         (b)   Concentrations of dissolved solids such as, but not limited to,
sodium chloride, calcium chloride or sodium sulfate, which are so high as to
constitute a danger to the wastewater treatment plant.
      13.   Any wastes containing chlorinated hydrocarbons in concentrations
greater than 9.5 mg/l.
      14.   Any water or wastes which the Public Works Director determines will
by itself or with other water or wastes in the public sewer system, release
obnoxious gases; or develop color or undesirable intensity; or form suspended
solids in objectionable concentrations; or create any other condition
deleterious to life, structures, or treatment processes.
      15.   (a) Waters or wastes containing substances in such concentrations
that they are not amenable to treatment or reduction by wastewater treatment
processes employed or are amenable to treatment only to such degree that the
wastewater treatment plant effluent cannot meet the requirements of any other
agency having jurisdiction over discharge to the receiving waters.
         (b)   It is unlawful for anyone to discharge or permit the discharge
of industrial wastes as enumerated in this Section unless prior written
approval is obtained from the City. If any industrial wastes are discharged or
are proposed to be discharged into a public sewer, which wastes contain the
substances or possess the characteristics enumerated in Section
6-3-070, and which, in the judgment of the City may have a deleterious effect
upon the wastewater treatment processes, equipment or receiving waters, or
which otherwise create a hazard to life or create malodors, the City may:
            (1)   Reject the waste; or
            (2)   Require preliminary treatment to an acceptable condition for
discharge to the public sanitary sewer system and/or sampling and metering
manholes and equipment and/or may;
            (3)   Require reduction of the standard five (5) day biochemical
oxygen demand to less than four hundred (400) mg/l; and/or
            (4)   Require reduction of the suspended solids content to less
than four hundred (400) mg/l; and/or
            (5)   Require reduction in chemical oxygen demand to less than five
hundred (500) mg/l; and/or
            (6)   Require regulation of the quantities of organic and inorganic
loads and/or rates of discharge; and/or
            (7)   Require payment of a charge and fee for the cost and expenses
of processing such water or wastes so admitted into the sewer system and any
other costs or charges that would be and are incurred by the City in the
maintenance, operation, replacement and repair of the sewer system and
wastewater treatment facilities caused by such waters or wastes into the
system.
         (c)   Plans, specifications and other information relating to the
construction or installation of preliminary treatment and other facilities
required by this Chapter shall be submitted by the industry to the City.
The industry shall comply with the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)
pretreatment regulations as published in the Federal Register, volume 38,
number 215, dated November 8, 1973. No construction or installation thereof
shall commence until written approval of the plans and specifications by the
City. Every facility for the preliminary treatment or handling of industrial
wastes shall be constructed in accordance with the approved plans and
specifications, and shall be installed and maintained at the expense of the
occupant or owner of the property discharging the industrial wastes.
            (1)   Any person constructing a preliminary treatment facility, as
required by the City shall also install at his sole expense, and maintain a
sampling and metering manhole for checking and investigating the discharge from
the preliminary treatment facility to the public sewer. Such sampling and
metering manhole shall be placed in a location approved by the City and in
accordance with specifications approved by the City.
            (2)   Wastes requiring pretreatment for pH control and adjustment,
temperature control and adjustment of dissolved oxygen must be continuously
metered, and a fail-safe guarantee including alarms and holding ponds must be
provided to assure quality of effluent.
            (3)   The City may require any person constructing a preliminary
treatment facility to provide flow measurement.
         (d)   The City Council shall, in writing notify the occupant of any
property which it has reason to believe is producing industrial wastes that
such person shall comply with the requirements of this Chapter. No later than
eighteen (18) months after notification by the City, the occupant or owner of
the property discharging the industrial wastes shall have completed
construction of all facilities required by this Chapter. Said occupant or owner
shall submit periodic notice (at intervals not to exceed 6 months) to the City
regarding specific actions taken to achieve full compliance with the
requirements of this Chapter. The City may extend such requirements, upon
agreement of State and Federal authorities, for reasonable cause, but no such
extension of time shall excuse the payment of the charges imposed by Sections
6-4-050(B) and
6-4-100. If the required facilities have not been completed by the required
date the City may shut off any sewer service from the City to the occupant, in
addition to other penalties provided by this Chapter; provided, no such service
shall be terminated until written notice of at least ten (10) days has been
given by the City.
         (e)   Every facility for preliminary treatment or handling of
industrial wastes shall be subject to inspection by the City or its authorized
representative, who shall determine whether or not such facility has been
constructed and is being maintained in effective operation. (Ord. 632, 7-28-93)
6-3-090:   WATER SAVING DEVICES:
All existing sewer users are encouraged to utilize the "water closet dams" and
shower head reduction devices referred to in the water service provisions of
this Title. (Ord. 632, 7-28-93)
6-3-100:   HEARINGS AND APPEALS:
   (A)   The City Public Works Department shall conduct such inspections as are
necessary to assure compliance with this Chapter and shall notify the property
owner and the City Council of the City of McCall in writing of sources in
violation of this Chapter stating the source, nature and amount of the inflow.
   (B)   The property owner shall be given fourteen (14) days' notice in
writing wherein to appear before the City Council to show cause if any why he
should not be required to take such action as may be required in order to
eliminate the inflow.
   (C)   The property owner shall have the right to be represented by counsel
and present witnesses in his behalf; a tape recording of such hearing shall be
kept by the City and a written transcription of that tape shall be available
upon request at a cost to the requestor. A written decision stating the reasons
therefor shall be rendered by the City Council within thirty (30) days. The
property owner shall be notified by certified mail of the decision of the City
Council.
   (D)   A property owner upon receiving an adverse decision may within thirty
(30) days after the mailing of a decision as provided in subsection (C) above,
seek judicial review under the provisions of section 67-5215(f) through (g) and
section 67-5216, Idaho Code.
   (E)   The maximum time allowed to eliminate excessive inflows shall be two
(2) months after the official notification from the City Council unless the
City Council determines that there would be undue hardship within the time
limit allowed.
   (F)   The City Public Works Department will inspect and certify that all new
construction complies with this Chapter. (Ord. 632, 7-28-93)
CHAPTER 4
CONTRACTS, BILLING AND COLLECTION
SECTION:
6-4-010: Application For Utility Services
6-4-020: Contract
6-4-030: Contract - Effective Date
6-4-040: Capital Improvement Funds - Creation
6-4-050: Connection Charges
6-4-060: Water Connection Fees; Multiple-Family Dwellings
6-4-070: Deposit Required - Exemptions
6-4-080: Building Operations - Deposit Required
6-4-090: Deposit Refunds - Interest Paid On Deposits
6-4-100: Schedule Of Charges
6-4-110: Nonresident Users (Rep. by Ord. 632, 7-28-1993)
6-4-120: Billing Cycle
6-4-130: Billing
6-4-140: Payments To Water Capital Improvement Fund
6-4-150: Fees And Requirements For Turning On/Off Water And Sewer Services
6-4-151: Exemptions (Rep. by Ord. 874, 4-22-2010)
6-4-160: Inspections Authorized
6-4-170: Meters Out Of Order - Estimate Of Water Used
6-4-180: Testing Meters - Deposit Required
6-4-190: Result Of Test - Costs And Adjustment
6-4-200: Nonpayment Of Bills
6-4-210: Delinquent Bills - Penalty - Turning Off Water
6-4-220: Payment Of Delinquent Accounts - Turning On Water; Increased Security
Deposit
6-4-230: Service Charge On Delinquent Accounts - Notation On Monthly Billing
Statement
6-4-240: Application For Correction Or Adjustment; Waiver Of Penalty
6-4-250: Relief For Extraordinary Circumstance Or Undue Hardship; General Fund
Reimbursement; Waiver Of Penalty
6-4-260: Discontinuance Of Water Service
6-4-270: Lien For Delinquent Charges
6-4-280: Criminal Penalties For False Representations
6-4-010:   APPLICATION FOR UTILITY SERVICES:
Any person desiring to have premises connected with the utility system of the
city shall present at the office of the clerk, or other place provided for the
conduct of such business, the following information: a description of the
premises desired to be served by the addition, block, lot and official house
number, together with an application for utility service, prepared upon a
printed form to be supplied for that purpose by the city. Such application
shall contain, in addition to the description of the premises as aforesaid, and
state fully all the purposes for which such utility service is to be used, the
number of persons to be supplied or other indication for probable consumption,
the size of the service pipes or connections believed to be necessary therefor,
the point of connection with the city water main and the method and manner of
connection, the name and address of the applicant and whether owner, authorized
agent or contractor, and if authorized agent a written authority provided by
the city and executed by the owner authorizing such agent to make the above
application. Before he can serve as an authorized agent, a person must be in
the business of and regularly engaged or employed as a professional leasing
agent or property manager. (Ord. 729, 3-25-1999)
6-4-020:   CONTRACT:
The application for utility service shall also contain, or have attached
thereto, a contract on the part of the owner of the premises, and executed by
him or his legally authorized agent, agreeing to pay for the utility service
applied for at the rate, at the times and in the manner specified in this
chapter; that the city is acknowledged by him to reserve the right to charge
and collect such rates, and to impose and enforce the penalties provided for in
this chapter, to change the rate at any time without notice to consumer, and to
install such meters or other devices as may be necessary to control and measure
the utility service supplied. Such contract shall specifically provide that the
supply of water is subject to all the provisions of this chapter, or of any
other provisions hereafter passed, and that the city shall not be held
responsible for any damage by water or otherwise resulting from failure of the
plumbing or appliances on the premises supplied with water, nor for any damage
caused by the interruption or failure of such supply, nor shall such failure or
interruption be held to constitute a breach of contract on the part of the
city, nor in any way release the consumer from the performance of all of his
obligations as therein set forth. No application for service shall be granted
until the contract herein provided for shall have been properly executed. (Ord.
632, 7-28-1993)
6-4-030:   CONTRACT - EFFECTIVE DATE:
All contracts shall be in full force and effect from the date of execution
thereof, but rates shall be charged thereunder from the date service is turned
on. (Ord. 632, 7-28-1993)
6-4-040:   CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT FUNDS - CREATION:
   (A)   Water Capital Improvement Fund: There is hereby established and
created a "water capital improvement fund" for the receipt, deposit and
accounting of all monies paid therein from water user charges as provided by
section
6-4-140 of this chapter, with which to erect, construct, enlarge, extend and
maintain water lines or water pumping or treatment facilities or structures for
the city.
   (B)   Sewer Capital Improvement Fund: There is hereby established and
created a "sewer capital improvement fund" for the receipt, deposit and
accounting of all monies collected and raised from the levy or collection of
sewer connection and/or treatment plant charges with which to erect, construct,
enlarge or maintain sewer lines or sewer treatment facilities or structures for
the city.
   (C)   Administration Of Funds: The monies deposited in said funds shall be
kept separate and apart from all other monies of said city and each fund shall
be held in trust, dedicated to the specific purpose for which it is hereby
created and established. The city treasurer may, as directed and empowered by
resolution adopted and approved by the city council, invest the monies of the
funds in the securities authorized by law, but no portion of the funds may be
transferred to the credit of each other or of any other general or special
funds or used for any other public purpose. (Ord. 632, 7-28-1993)
6-4-050:   CONNECTION CHARGES:
   (A)   Water: The initial service connection charge for installing a water
connection to a service location that has not paid an initial water connection
charge in the past, shall be established using the "American Water Works
Association Manual 26" based on the incremental cost pricing method for the
system buy in amount. In addition, the connection charge shall include city
provided labor, material, and equipment. The connection charge shall be
deposited in the water revenue fund and managed as provided by ordinance 669 of
the city of McCall adopted August 25, 1994. The mayor and council shall, by
resolution, determine the connection charge, such charge to be reviewed and
adjusted as necessary at least every three (3) years. (Ord. 785, 9-11-2003,
eff. 10-1-2003)
   (B)   Sewer:
      1.   Trunk Sewer And Treatment Plant Connection Charges, Time Of Payment,
Disposition Of Charges:
         (a)   A trunk sewer connection charge shall be made and imposed upon
and collected from every person before constructing a sewer service line by
which to attach and connect the property to the sanitary sewer system of the
city. The rate for each trunk sewer and treatment plant connection charge shall
be in an amount fixed from time to time by the city council by resolution.
         (b)   All trunk sewer and treatment plant connection charges shall be
paid to the city clerk and shall be deposited by the city clerk into the sewer
capital improvements fund.
      2.   Sewer Service Connection Fee; Permit; Inspections; Disposition Of
Fees: A person constructing a sewer service line by which to attach and connect
the property to any sewer system transporting sewage, industrial wastewater or
other wastes and liquids to a city of McCall treatment plant shall pay a sewer
service connection fee. The rate for each connection charge shall be in an
amount fixed from time to time by the city council by resolution, to be fixed
and determined by the city council on a basis of equivalent single-family
residential unit, and the determination of such equivalence shall include the
volume, type and content of liquid effluent and/or industrial wastewater
discharged into the sewer system. All sewer service connection fees shall be
deposited in the general sewer fund of the city.
   (C)   Change Of Use; Fee: Each water or sewer user changing use of his
property now connected to the water or sanitary sewer system of the city of
McCall shall pay the difference between the connection charges (water, trunk
sewer and treatment plant charges and sewer service connection charges)
applicable to the use to which the property is being changed and the use to
which the property had been previously applied. "Use" for these purposes means
a land use having a separate source classification in the wastewater flow
tables published by the environmental protection agency; and "changing use" for
these purposes means commencing a land use which is in a different such source
classification than that land use which was previously in place. If, for
example, a single-family dwelling situated upon property now connected to the
sewer system is demolished and a duplex, triplex, multi-family, mobile home
park or commercial or industrial or institutional use is thereon constructed,
the charge to be made for water, trunk sewer and treatment plant connection
charges and sewer service connection charges shall be the difference between
the total of the charges provided by this section above for the prior land use
on the one hand, and the new land use on the other hand.
   (D)   Intensified Use: Each water or sewer user which intensifies use of its
property now connected to the water or sanitary sewer system of the city of
McCall shall pay the difference between the connection charges (water, trunk
sewer and treatment plant charges and sewer service connection charges)
applicable to the volume of use to which the use is being changed and the
volume of use which the use had previously applied. If for example a use,
charges with respect to which are figured on a per fixture, per appliance or
per room basis, adds fixtures, appliances or rooms, an incremental charge is
owed to the city.
   (E)   Reconnection: In the event that a land use ceases for a period of time
which under title III of this code would constitute abandonment of a
nonconforming use (for purposes of this title, whether or not the land use was
in fact conforming), any right to a water or sewer connection for more than a
single-family residence also ceases. Any use of such property will require that
new connection fees and charges be paid.
   (F)   Other Charges: In the event that a land use is proposed which would
include activities having multiple separate source classifications in the
wastewater flow tables published by the environmental protection agency, the
charges shall be computed for each source included in the land use proposed. In
the event the owner of the proposed land use proposes to install equipment or
processes which would have the effect of using the effluent from one of such
activities for the water source for another of those activities, or would
otherwise have the effect of changing the volume or characteristics of the
effluent towards a lessening of the treatment burden, the council may, after
receiving a recommendation from the city manager, vary the charges and fees
accordingly. In such a case the city manager or his designee shall monitor the
flows for a stated period of time, and may recommend to council an adjustment
of the charges based upon actual experience during that stated period of time.
(Ord. 673, 9-8-1994)
6-4-060:   WATER CONNECTION FEES; MULTIPLE-FAMILY DWELLINGS:
A separate standard water service connection fee shall be paid to the city for
each and every dwelling unit in any and all condominiums, apartment houses,
townhouses and any and all other multiple-family dwelling structures. (Ord.
632, 7-28-1993)
6-4-070:   DEPOSIT REQUIRED - EXEMPTIONS:
Each applicant desiring water or sewer service or both services shall pay a
refundable deposit to the city in an amount equal to the expected billings for
such service(s) for three (3) months at the premises desired to be served. The
city treasurer shall determine this amount based upon pertinent past service
data and the information provided in the application for utility services
required by section
6-4-010 of this chapter. Such deposit shall be required unless the applicant
has had with the city within the past two (2) years, one or more accounts for
utility service, in his/her own name, and has had satisfactory payment record
for the last twelve (12) months such account(s) was (were) in effect or the
applicant may provide a letter or copies of bills from another utility for
twelve (12) months of current service with such utility showing a "satisfactory
payment record", or the applicant agrees to maintain automatic payment of their
water or sewer service or both bills for a minimum period of twelve (12) months
with a "satisfactory payment record". Failure to maintain a "satisfactory
payment record" during the first twelve (12) months of automatic payment of
water or sewer or both services bills for a minimum period of twelve (12)
months with a "satisfactory payment record" will require that the applicant
shall immediately pay such deposit in order to maintain service. A
"satisfactory payment record" shall be defined as one in which all payments
were made on or before the date due, for all accounts in effect during the
aforementioned twelve (12) months. (Ord. 785, 9-11-2003, eff. 10-1-2003)
6-4-080:   BUILDING OPERATIONS - DEPOSIT REQUIRED:
Water for building operations may be supplied only at scheduled commercial
rates, and the owner or contractor desiring the service may be required to make
such a deposit with the city treasurer as will in the latter's opinion, secure
the city against the nonpayment of all charges and penalties. Should no service
connection be available at the desired point, the public works department may
make a special service connection therefor, and shall charge the cost of such
work or installation and removal, less the salvage value of the material
recovered, to the account of the applicant, or deduct it from any deposit made
as above prescribed. (Ord. 632, 7-28-1993)
6-4-090:   DEPOSIT REFUNDS - INTEREST PAID ON DEPOSITS:
Deposits collected under the provisions of section
6-4-070 or
6-4-220 of this chapter shall be held by the city until the payee requests
discontinuance of water service or until the payee has attained a "satisfactory
payment record", as defined in this chapter. Deposit refunds shall be in the
form of a credit to the account of the payee. A cash refund equal to the amount
of the deposit less any outstanding account balance shall be paid upon
discontinuance only. (Ord. 748, 10-12-2000)
6-4-100:   SCHEDULE OF CHARGES:
The city council shall, from time to time, review water and sewer charges and
set the schedule of charges by resolution. (Ord. 632, 7-28-1993)
6-4-110:   NONRESIDENT USERS:
(Rep. by Ord. 632, 7-28-1993)
6-4-120:   BILLING CYCLE:
The use of water for any part of a month shall be billed as a whole month.
(Ord. 632, 7-28-1993)
6-4-130:   BILLING:
   (A)   All charges for water and/or sewer service furnished by the city shall
be billed directly to the owner of the premises or his legally authorized
agent, and in the absence of a written contract, to the party or parties
occupying the connected premises, who shall be liable jointly and severally.
(Ord. 729, 3-25-1999)
   (B)   All charges for septage dumping shall be billed by the city treasurer
on a regular basis. Amounts not paid shall be subject to the same percentage
penalties and interest accruing at the same times and rates as are other
amounts owed to the city by reason of sewer services. In the event that a
dumper fails to pay septage dumping fees within thirty (30) days of the billing
date, the city treasurer may require that person to establish and maintain a
security deposit account with the city against which bills will be presented,
and which must be maintained by the dumper with a positive balance. (Ord. 632,
7-28-1993)
6-4-140:   PAYMENTS TO WATER CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT FUND:
All receipts from monthly charges for water use shall be deposited in the water
revenue fund and managed as provided by ordinance 669 of the city of McCall,
adopted August 25, 1994, unless and until the water revenue bonds authorized by
such ordinance, and any subsequent debt instruments authorized by such
ordinance to be issued without further analysis of liquidity impacts on the
city, are paid in full. Of the surplus funds which ordinance 669 does not
require be used for operations or maintenance, for the water project capital
improvement fund, for the water revenue bond fund or for the debt service
reserve fund, that portion fixed from time to time by resolution of the council
shall be transferred by the city clerk into the water capital improvement fund.
(Ord. 673, 9-8-1994)
6-4-150:   FEES AND REQUIREMENTS FOR TURNING ON/OFF WATER AND SEWER SERVICES:
Whenever the owner of any premises connected with the city water supply system
and/or sewer collection system, or their legally authorized agent, desires to
begin sewer and/or water service, the owner or agent shall notify the city at
least forty eight (48) hours in advance and pay a turnon fee in the amount set
from time to time by the city council by resolution and shall be charged the
full monthly rate for the month in which service begins. Whenever the owner of
any premises connected with the city water supply system or sewer collection
system, and receiving such water and/or sewer services, or their legally
authorized agent, desires to discontinue such service, the owner or agent shall
notify the city in writing at least two (2) days in advance. A fee shall be
charged for such turnoff in the amount set from time to time by the city
council by resolution. Beginning when the water and/or sewer service is first
turned on after April 22, 2010, and during any subsequent time period in which
sewer and/or water service is turned off, there will be no reduction in the
monthly water and sewer base charges. (Ord. 874, 4-22-2010)
6-4-151:   EXEMPTIONS:
(Rep. by Ord. 874, 4-22-2010)
6-4-160:   INSPECTIONS AUTHORIZED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse, neglect or fail to afford any
duly authorized representative of the public works department free access at
all reasonable hours to any or all parts of buildings or premises supplied with
water from the city water supply system, for the purpose of making records,
readings, and inspections of the location, condition and sufficiency of pipes,
fittings, valves, cocks, fixtures and appliances, and noting the amount of
water used and the manner in which it is used. Violation of this provision of
this chapter, or the abuse, threatening or intimidation of any officer of the
public works department, may result in the shutting off of the water, and the
imposition of the usual penalties, in addition to punishment for violation of
this chapter. (Ord. 632, 7-28-1993)
6-4-170:   METERS OUT OF ORDER - ESTIMATE OF WATER USED:
In the event of a meter getting out of order or failing to register properly,
the consumer shall be charged on an estimate made from the amount consumed in
the same month in the preceding year, or from the average of the consumptions
of the three (3) months last preceding the meter reading, or from the other
most reliable data in the possession of the public works department. (Ord. 632,
7-28-1993)
6-4-180:   TESTING METERS - DEPOSIT REQUIRED:
Where the accuracy of the record of a water meter is questioned by a consumer,
it shall be removed at his request, and shall be tested by an appropriate
testing facility at the direction of the public works department and a report
shall be made thereon to the city treasurer. Both parties shall accept the
findings so made. Before making such test, the consumer, at the time of filing
his request, shall make a deposit in the amount set from time to time by the
city council by resolution with the city treasurer, according to the size
thereof.
No meter shall be removed or in any way disturbed, nor the seal thereof broken,
except in the presence or under the direction of the public works director.
(Ord. 632, 7-28-1993)
6-4-190:   RESULT OF TEST - COSTS AND ADJUSTMENT:
If a test so made discloses an error against the consumer of more than one
percent (1%) in the meter's registry, the excess of such readings is as applied
to the three (3) readings next preceding the test shall be calculated, and the
amount of money due the consumer thereon credited to his water account, and the
public works department shall bear the entire costs of the test and the deposit
of the consumer shall be returned to him. If no error in excess of one percent
(1%) against the consumer has been found, the consumer shall pay the costs of
the test out of his deposit. (Ord. 632, 7-28-1993)
6-4-200:   NONPAYMENT OF BILLS:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as modifying or repealing the right
or obligation of the city to discontinue water service for nonpayment of water
charges. (Ord. 632, 7-28-1993)
6-4-210:   DELINQUENT BILLS - PENALTY - TURNING OFF WATER:
All bills for water and sewer are due and payable on the first day of the month
following the month in which they are issued, and shall be delinquent at the
close of office hours of the tenth day of the month in which such payments fall
due; provided, that if such tenth day of the month falls on a Saturday, Sunday,
or legal holiday, then such bills shall be delinquent at the close of office
hours on the next succeeding business day. If not paid before delinquency, a
penalty of ten percent (10%) of the amount so due shall be added to said amount
due. (Ord. 735, 11-17-1999)
6-4-220:   PAYMENT OF DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS - TURNING ON WATER; INCREASED
SECURITY DEPOSIT:
When water has been turned off because of delinquency in payment, water shall
not be turned on and new water or sewer service shall not be provided to any
other property that the customer owns until:
   (A)   All delinquent water and sewer charges, including the delinquency
charge of ten percent (10%), monthly service charges and a fee set from time to
time by the city council by resolution for shutting off and turning on the
water, shall have been added to the face of the delinquent bill and the entire
sum paid; and
   (B)   All other charges for water and sewer service until the date of
shutoff owed on the customer's account, even if not delinquent, are paid; and
   (C)   The customer pays a security deposit to the city in the amount
computed by the city treasurer to be one hundred twenty five percent (125%) of
the billings for water and sewer service for three (3) months to the premises,
plus the fee set by the city council for shutting off the water, less any
deposit the city is holding pursuant to section
6-4-070 of this chapter. (Ord. 729, 3-25-1999)
6-4-230:   SERVICE CHARGE ON DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS - NOTATION ON MONTHLY BILLING
STATEMENT:
   (A)   A monthly service charge in a percentage amount reviewed and approved
from time to time by resolution of the Council shall be added to any water and
sewer bill not paid within thirty (30) days past the due date thereof.
   (B)   On all monthly water and sewer billing statements the following
notation shall appear: "A monthly service charge of up to 11/2% (18% annually)
will be added to any water bill not paid within thirty (30) days past the due
date thereof". (Ord. 632, 7-28-1993)
6-4-240:   APPLICATION FOR CORRECTION OR ADJUSTMENT; WAIVER OF PENALTY:
   (A)   Definitions: As used in this Section:
    ADJUSTMENT: Based on the facts and circumstances, applies to situations
when the reason for the unusually high water bill in question is in fact or
most likely not due to an error or faulty equipment on the part of the City,
but from some other anomaly, such as broken water line(s) or other leak(s); the
water having flowed through the meter. Adjustment and waiver of the associated
penalty may be made only once per user, per year. Such year will be measured
from the date of the last adjustment or waiver. No adjustment under this
Section is applicable unless the water bill in question exceeds one hundred
twenty percent (120%) of the estimated water used calculated pursuant to
Section
6-4-170 of this Chapter as though the aforementioned anomaly had not occurred.
Any adjustment granted pursuant to this Section shall not exceed the sum
calculated by subtracting one hundred twenty percent (120%) of the estimated
water used from the water bill in question. Should such sum be less than zero,
no adjustment is applicable under this Section.
   CORRECTION: Based on the facts and circumstances, applies to situations when
the reason for the unusually high water bill(s) in question is in fact or most
likely due to an error or faulty equipment on the part of the City. Corrections
and waivers of the associated penalty may be made as often as necessary, based
on facts and circumstances. The estimate of water used shall be calculated
pursuant to Section
6-4-170 of this Chapter.
   (B)   Administrative Review: For good cause shown, demonstrating
circumstances, any water user seeking correction or adjustment or waiver of
penalty for any water bill shall submit a written application to the City
Treasurer detailing the consideration sought. The application shall set forth
in sufficient detail the facts and circumstances alleged to support the
particular correction, adjustment or waiver sought. The Treasurer shall review
the application and, if complete, may correct or adjust water bill(s), and/or
may waive the associated penalty as provided in Section
6-4-210 of this Chapter, at his/her discretion. In the absence of the City
Treasurer, the City Manager may act in the same manner.
   (C)   Appeal Process: Nothing in this Section is intended to prevent any
water user who receives an adverse administrative decision from having the
application as provided for herein from being appealed in writing to the Mayor
and Council. Such appeal must be filed with the City Treasurer or the City
Manager within seven (7) days of said administrative decision. The appeal will
then be scheduled at a regular Council meeting. The Treasurer or City Manager
shall review the application and, if complete, submit same with a
recommendation to the Mayor and Council for their consideration. If incomplete,
the applicant shall be so advised and given the opportunity to resubmit. (Ord.
727, 9-24-1998)
6-4-250:   RELIEF FOR EXTRAORDINARY CIRCUMSTANCE OR UNDUE HARDSHIP; GENERAL
FUND REIMBURSEMENT; WAIVER OF PENALTY:
   (A)   For good cause shown, demonstrating unusual or extraordinary
circumstances, or in order to avoid undue hardship, the City Council, at its
discretion, may provide relief to a water and/or sewer user, whether
individual, partnership, corporate, unincorporated association, or governmental
in nature. In the event relief is granted, it shall be accomplished not by
modification of the otherwise applicable rates or schedules as herein
contained, but by determining a differential between the usual rate and the
allowed rate; the differential shall be reimbursed from the General Fund by
crediting said amount to the account of the user receiving the allowance.
   (B)   For good cause shown, demonstrating unusual or extraordinary
circumstances, or in order to avoid undue hardship, the City Council, at its
discretion, may also waive the penalty provided in Section
6-4-210 of this Chapter, otherwise imposed or imposable on a water or sewer
user, whether individual, partnership, corporate, unincorporated association or
governmental in nature, without reimbursement of same by transfer from the
General Fund.
   (C)   Any user seeking relief or waiver as above provided shall submit a
written application to the City Treasurer detailing the consideration sought.
The application shall set forth in sufficient detail the facts and
circumstances alleged to support the particular relief or waiver sought; the
Treasurer shall review the application and, if complete, submit same with a
recommendation to the Council for their consideration; if incomplete, the
applicant shall be so advised and given the opportunity to resubmit. (Ord. 632,
7-28-1993)
6-4-260:   DISCONTINUANCE OF WATER SERVICE:
   (A)   If an account becomes delinquent as provided in Section
6-4-210 of this Chapter, the City Treasurer shall notify the owner of the
premises to which such water or sewer service was furnished or his legally
authorized agent, in writing of such delinquency and if such water or sewer
bill is not paid in full within ten (10) days thereafter, water service shall
be discontinued. In addition to the requirements under subsection (D) of this
Section, written notification of shutoff shall be placed on the door knob,
latch or other conspicuous location at the serviced premises on the same day as
mailed.
   (B)   An owner is entitled to an administrative pretermination of service
hearing, unless the subject of the dispute has already been reviewed and a
decision issued under the procedures set forth in Section
6-4-240 of this Chapter.
      1.   In the event an owner desires a pretermination administrative
hearing, the owner or his legally authorized agent, within the ten (10) days
described in subsection (A) of this Section, must mail or hand deliver to the
City Treasurer, a written request for such hearing, stating as completely as
possible the basis for the dispute.
      2.   Within five (5) days after receipt of a request, the City Treasurer
shall schedule a hearing before the City Manager or the City Treasurer, to be
held within twenty (20) days after such receipt. At the hearing, the owner or
his legally authorized agent may be represented by counsel and may present
evidence relevant to the dispute, including witness testimony, which if
presented shall be tape-recorded.
      3.   The City shall keep a written record of the hearing. A written
decision based upon the record shall be rendered within five (5) days after the
hearing and the owner shall be notified thereof. In the event an administrative
decision cannot be made at such hearing because of unusual facts or
circumstances, within a reasonable time the City Treasurer shall bring the
matter before City Council in the manner set forth in subsection (E) of this
Section.
   (C)   Water service shall not be discontinued pending such hearing. In the
event of a decision requiring payment of such bill or any portion thereof, the
same must be paid within seven (7) days after service or mailing of notice of
such decision to the owner or his legally authorized agent, or water service
shall be discontinued. Even if a decision requiring payment is appealed to the
City Council pursuant to subsection (E) of this Section, unless payment is made
in accordance with the decision, water service shall be discontinued after said
seven (7) days.
   (D)   All notices required hereunder shall be in writing and shall be to the
mailing address for billings and notifications as indicated on the executed
utility service contract or personally served upon the owner of such premises
or his legally authorized agent. Service shall be deemed complete upon date of
service or mailing.
   (E)   The owner of the premises involved shall have the right to appeal to
the City Council any adverse administrative decision by the City Manager or
City Treasurer.
      1.   In the event such appeal is desired, the owner of the premises or
his legally authorized agent must notify the City Treasurer in writing of such
desire within thirty (30) days after a decision is issued by the City Manager
or the City Treasurer. Within five (5) days after receipt of such notification,
the City Treasurer shall schedule the matter as an agenda item to be considered
at a regular meeting of the City Council held within a reasonable time after
said receipt.
      2.   The City Treasurer shall forward a copy of the written record and
make available any tape recording of witness testimony to the City Council. The
City Council shall make its decision based upon the record developed before the
City Manager or City Treasurer; provided, however, the City Council may allow
additional evidence to be produced if it finds such evidence was not presented
at the earlier hearing for good cause.
   (F)   The owner of the premises involved shall have the right to appeal to
the District Court from any adverse decision of the City Council. Each owner of
premises receiving utility service agrees as a condition of receiving such
service to waive any right to appear in District Court to settle a dispute
arising from such service unless he first complies with the administrative
procedure set forth herein.
   (G)   A copy of this Section shall accompany each notice of delinquency in
payment for water service given under the provisions of this Section. (Ord.
729, 3-25-1999)
6-4-270:   LIEN FOR DELINQUENT CHARGES:
In further consideration for the provision of Municipal utility services, an
owner contracting with the City to have his premises receive such services
hereby expressly consents to the placement of a lien upon the premises in the
event charges for utility service become delinquent and either a hearing is not
requested in accordance with Section
6-4-260 of this Chapter or an adverse decision is rendered by the City pursuant
to said Section. Such lien shall be in the amount described in subsection
6-4-220(A) of this Chapter. Included in the lien filed with the County
Recorder, there will be a service charge in the amount of one hundred dollars
($100.00) that will be required to be paid in satisfaction of full payment of
the lien, such service charge being for the purpose of filing expenses and
labor incurred in the production of paperwork required for the lien. (Ord. 729,
3-25-1999)
6-4-280:   CRIMINAL PENALTIES FOR FALSE REPRESENTATIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person who is not the legal owner of a specific
real property, receiving or requesting Municipal utility services for such real
property, to represent upon an application for utility services or contract
that such person is the legal owner of the real property for which utility
service is being requested; nor shall a person make any other false
representation for the purpose of receiving such services. Violation of this
Section shall be considered a misdemeanor and shall be prosecuted as such.
(Ord. 729, 3-25-1999)
TITLE VIII
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
WATER
(Rep. by Ord. 632, 7-28-1993)
CHAPTER 2
OBSTRUCTIONS
SECTION:
8-2-1: Obstructing Streets
8-2-2: Obstructing Public Ways - Street Furniture
8-2-3: Public Places; Camping In
8-2-4: Landscaping
8-2-5: Selling on Streets
8-2-6: Sidewalks, Bicycles
8-2-7: Sidewalks, Vehicles and Animals
8-2-8: Parades
8-2-9: Building Construction
8-2-10: Barriers to be Erected
8-2-11: Telephones; Regulating Placement
8-2-12: Utility Poles
8-2-13: Utility Poles; Removal
8-2-14: Posting on Street Signs and Utility Poles
8-2-15: Gutters - Cleaning
8-2-16: Winter Carnival, Snow Sculptures - Permits Required
8-2-17: Penalty
8-2-1:   OBSTRUCTING STREETS:
Whoever remains standing, lying or sitting down on any of the sidewalks,
streets, alleys or public places in such a manner as to obstruct or impede the
free passage of pedestrians or public travel, after being requested to
immediately move on by the Mayor, Chief of Police or any police officer, or who
wilfully remains on the sidewalk in front of any dwelling house or place of
business which abuts on any of the sidewalks in this City, in such manner as to
obstruct the free passage of any other person into or out of such dwelling
house or place of business, without the consent or against the will of the
proprietor, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
8-2-2:   OBSTRUCTING PUBLIC WAYS - STREET FURNITURE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to place or cause to be placed in any
street, sidewalk, park or public right of way any bench, newspaper rack, trash
can, refuse receptacle, waiting bench, fencing or other obstruction or cause
same to remain in said places to the detriment of public travel or convenience
without first obtaining a permit from the City of McCall.
8-2-3:   PUBLIC PLACES; CAMPING IN:
It shall be unlawful for any person to use any of the streets, sidewalks, parks
or public places as a camping place at any time, or to cause or permit any
vehicle to remain in any of said places to the detriment of public travel or
convenience; or to cause or permit any livestock of any description to be
herded into any of said places during any hours of the day or night.
8-2-4:   LANDSCAPING:
Any person or business who plants trees, shrubs, flowers, grass or plants or
otherwise landscapes in a public right of way shall do so at their own risk and
the City assumes no liability for any damage to said landscaping by City
vehicles or workmen, including but not limited to maintenance equipment and
crews, snow plowing equipment and public safety vehicles.
8-2-5:   SELLING ON STREETS:
It shall be unlawful for any person, whether licensed auctioneers or not, to
sell or offer for sale at public sale any property whatever on any street or
sidewalk within the City without first obtaining a permit from the City;
provided, however, that this Section shall not apply to any sheriff, constable
or public officer offering property for sale by reason of any Law of the State
and the provisions of this Code.
8-2-6:   SIDEWALKS, BICYCLES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to ride a bicycle upon any sidewalk of the
City.
8-2-7:   SIDEWALKS, VEHICLES AND ANIMALS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to ride or drive any vehicle, horse, cattle
or other livestock upon or across any of the sidewalks of the City except at
alleys or driveways.
8-2-8:   PARADES:
No person shall conduct a parade or march within the City, without first having
obtained the permission of the City as provided in this Section.
Any person desiring to conduct a parade or march on any of the streets of the
City shall make application to the City, setting forth the kind and nature of
such parade, and the number of persons, vehicles and animals that they desire
to take part in said parade, and thereupon the City shall authorize and
designate the streets which said person shall be allowed to use for that
purpose and hours of such parade or march.
No person shall take part in a parade within the City, upon any other streets
or at any other times than those designated by the City.
8-2-9:   BUILDING CONSTRUCTION:
   (A)   Permit Required. No person shall place on a public street, alley or
sidewalk, any materials or appliances for the use or construction, alteration
or repair of any building of any kind or for any other purpose, necessitating
temporary occupancy of any portion of any public street, alley or sidewalk
without first obtaining a permit therefor from the City.
   (B)   Location of materials. Materials or appliances shall not occupy more
than one-third (1/3) of the width of the roadway of the street, and not more
than one-half (1/2) of the width of any sidewalk, and shall be placed thereon
to the satisfaction of the City.
All material shall be confined to and occupy only such portion of the street as
the permit may designate, and all sand, gravel, dirt, debris and other
materials of any kind, shall be so cared for that they shall not be scattered
or blown or otherwise moved to any other portion of the street, or interfere in
any way with the carrying on of any business, or the enjoyment of any property
rights, or the privileges of the public thoroughfare. It is further provided,
that no materials of any kind or nature shall be deposited in any gutter way of
the street so as in any manner to obstruct the drainage thereof.
   (C)   Removal of Materials. The permit herein required shall be granted only
to the owner or agent of the owner of the lot or premises on which a building
or in front of which a sidewalk or other work is proposed to be constructed,
altered or repaired. The permittee thereof must remove or cause to be removed
all dirt, debris and other material of any kind from the street, or sidewalk,
to the satisfaction of the City, immediately after the completion of the
construction, alteration or repair of such building, sidewalk or other
improvement, or at such time prior thereto, when in the judgment of the City,
the public interest or convenience will be best subserved by the removal of the
same or any portion thereof. In the event such dirt, debris or other material
shall not have been removed within the time herein specified, the City may
remove the same and charge the expense of such removal to the owner. Every
permit granted under the provisions of this Chapter shall be subject to the
foregoing conditions.
   (D)   Occupancy Time. The City shall prescribe in the permit granted the
time for such occupancy of the street, and upon failure or neglect of the
permittee to remove or cause to be removed, to the satisfaction of the City,
such dirt, debris or other materials within two (2) days after being notified
so to do by said City either by verbal or posted notice on the premises, the
same shall be removed by the City as herein provided.
8-2-10:   BARRIERS TO BE ERECTED:
Every person temporarily occupying any public street or sidewalk, as in this
Chapter provided, shall safeguard the public interest by erecting barriers at
or near either approach of said obstruction, and shall during the period from
one hour after sunset to one hour before sunrise, display thereon a red light,
visible at least two hundred feet (200') in the direction in which the travel
is proceeding; provided, that any vehicle left standing in the street during
the nighttime shall be safeguarded by lights as in this Section provided; and,
provided further, that no vehicle shall be left standing in alleys during the
nighttime, in a manner that will obstruct traffic.
8-2-11:   TELEPHONES; REGULATING PLACEMENT:
No person shall place any telephone hereinafter installed in any doorway
leading from the street to any building without first obtaining a permit to do
so from the City. No person shall place any telephone hereinafter installed
upon the exterior of any building without first obtaining a permit to do so
from the City. No telephone company shall install a telephone in such cases
without first obtaining a permit or verifying that such permit has been
obtained from the City. Any person violating the provisions of this Section
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and all such instruments shall be removed by
the City.
8-2-12:   UTILITY POLES:
All poles hereinafter set up or erected in the streets of the City for the
purpose of suspending thereon or therefrom wires for transmission of telegraph
or telephone messages, or for use in furnishing electric light or power to be
installed in the public right of way or on property of the City shall be
installed according to City specifications and such installation shall be
approved by the City.
8-2-13:   UTILITY POLES; REMOVAL:
Whenever it shall be deemed necessary by the Council to pave any street, or
whenever it shall be necessary to construct any sidewalk on any street, on or
along which utility poles have heretofore been erected not in conformity with
the provisions of the preceding Section, notice shall be served upon the person
in control of such poles to remove and reset the same in accordance with the
provisions of the preceding Section, within five (5) days after service of
notice. Any and every pole under the control of any person so notified which is
not removed or reset within five (5) days shall be deemed a nuisance.
8-2-14:   POSTING ON STREET SIGNS AND UTILITY POLES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to post any bills, posters, advertisements,
campaign literature or other notices on any utility pole, telephone pole or
street sign. All such notices shall be removed by the City.
8-2-15:   GUTTERS, CLEANING:
Every owner, agent or occupant of any real property shall at all times keep
gutters or ditches in front of such property in a clean condition, free from
all obstruction or weeds, and of sufficient depth and width to at all times
readily convey irrigating or surface water without any overflow upon streets or
sidewalks or any restriction of the free flow thereof.
8-2-16:   WINTER CARNIVAL, SNOW SCULPTURES - PERMITS REQUIRED:
No person shall build or erect any snow sculpture in any street, alley,
sidewalk or public right of way without first obtaining a permit from the City.
8-2-17:   PENALTY:
Any person violating the provisions of this Chapter shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof shall be fined in any amount not
exceeding three hundred dollars ($300.00) or be imprisoned in the county jail
for a period not exceeding thirty days, or by both such fine and imprisonment,
and in addition such persons shall be liable for damages to such street, alley
or public way by reason of violation of any of the provisions of this Chapter,
such damages to be recovered by the City before any court of competent
jurisdiction. (Ord. 530-A, 6-23-88)
CHAPTER 3
CESSPOOLS
SECTION:
8-3-1: Privy Vaults and Cesspools - Discontinuance
8-3-1:   PRIVY VAULTS AND CESSPOOLS - DISCONTINUANCE:
It shall be unlawful for the owner or owners of any property within this City,
or his, her or their agent or agents, or other person or persons having charge
of or occupying such property, said property being located upon any street,
alley, court passage way or area, and within one hundred feet (100') of a sewer
along any street or alley, to neglect or refuse, for the period of fourteen
(14) days after notice from the City Council in writing, signed by the Mayor
and Clerk to discontinue the use of, clean out, disinfect and fill up all privy
vaults and cesspools on such property. (1949 Code)
CHAPTER 4
SEWERS
(Rep. by Ord. 632, 7-28-1993)
CHAPTER 5
SNOW, ICE AND RUBBISH REMOVAL
SECTION:
8-5-010: Maintenance Of Sidewalks
8-5-020: Cost Assessment
8-5-030: Interference With Snow Removal And Deposit On Right Of Way Prohibited
8-5-040: Notice Of Snow Storage Violations And Procedures
8-5-010: MAINTENANCE OF SIDEWALKS:
   (A)   As used in this section, these words shall be defined as follows:
    REMOVE: To eliminate when feasible, and when not, to apply sand, or ice
treatment compounds which abate the slippery condition and eliminate as it
becomes feasible.
   SIDEWALK: A path for pedestrians, usually paved, along the side of a street,
including also gravel and dirt walking paths commonly used by the public along
the side of a street.
   (B)   The owners, tenants or occupants of lands in the city of McCall which
either abut or are located on the site of any of the following described
sidewalks shall remove all snow, rubbish or ice from the same within twenty
four (24) hours after the occurrence of said condition:
      1.   Any sidewalk in an area zoned central business;
      2.   Any paved sidewalk in any area zoned commercial, or general
commercial; and
      3.   Any paved sidewalk except where the city manager determines in
consultation with the recreation director that the snow cover should be left
for purposes of winter recreation, such as cross country skiing.
   (C)   The owners of property described in subsection (B) of this section
shall also be responsible for clearing and repairing any such sidewalk which is
improved with gravel, cement, asphalt, or other hard surface. The obligation to
repair includes filling and resurfacing any potholes or other damage to the
surface of the sidewalk. Such work shall be accomplished promptly after the
damage is done or otherwise becomes apparent, and in any event within twenty
(20) days after notice to do so from the police department. (Ord. 723, 11-19-
1998)
8-5-020: COST ASSESSMENT:
In the event of failure of such owner, tenant or occupant to remove this snow,
rubbish or ice from any such sidewalk within twenty four (24) hours of the
occurrence of such condition; then, the city may remove or have removed such
snow, rubbish and ice and assess the cost thereof against the premises abutting
the sidewalks. In such event the clerk of the city council shall certify such
assessment to the assessor of Valley County and such assessment shall be placed
on the assessment roll and collected in the same manner as other municipal
taxes are collected. (Ord. 209, 7-6-1959)
8-5-030: INTERFERENCE WITH SNOW REMOVAL AND DEPOSIT ON RIGHT OF WAY PROHIBITED:
   (A)   Snow Deposited on Right of Way Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for
any person to cause snow to be dumped, deposited, placed, or pushed into any
city street or public right of way. It shall be unlawful for any person to
remove snow from private property and cause it to be piled so as to block or
cover a fire hydrant, snow pole, street sign, culvert inlets and outlets, or
other drainage structures.
   (B)   Snow Deposited upon the Property of Another without Permission: It
shall be unlawful for any person to cause snow to be dumped, deposited, placed,
or pushed onto property owned by another without first obtaining written
permission.
   (C)    Penalties: Any person depositing or causing or directing another to
deposit snow as prohibited in this section shall be issued a Notice of Snow
Storage Violation as provided in Section
8.5.040, and shall be fined in an amount identified on the City Clerk’s fine
schedule which schedule shall be set by resolution of the City Council from
time to time; provided, further, that any person who violates this section for
a second time in any twelve (12) month period shall be subject to the general
penalty found in section
1.3.1 of this code. (Ord. 920, 2-13-2014; amd. Ord. 1013, 9-22-2022)
8-5-040: NOTICE OF SNOW STORAGE VIOLATIONS AND PROCEDURES:
   (A)   Upon observing a violation of the provisions specified in section
8.5.030 of this title, the City Street Superintendent, City Code Enforcement
Office or the McCall City Police Department is authorized to serve a Notice of
Snow Storage Violation, by any one or more of the following means:
      1.   By securing a Notice of Snow Storage Violation to the front door or
other prominent location on the real property from which the snow deposited in
the right of way originated;
      2.   By personally serving the owner or lessee of the real property from
which the snow deposited in the right of way originated with a Notice of Snow
Storage Violation. Such service may be effectuated by personally serving a
Notice of Snow Storage Violation upon a person who is over the age of eighteen
(18) years, and who is found within a dwelling structure upon the real property
from which the snow deposited in the right of way originated;
      3.   By mailing, via United States Postal Service first class mail, a
Notice of Snow Storage Violation to the mailing address for the real property
from which the snow deposited in the right of way originated as well as by
mailing a copy of the Notice of Snow Storage Violation to the owner of record
as identified for property tax purposes by the Valley County Assessor.
   (B)   Every Notice of Snow Storage Violation shall include the following, if
applicable to the observed violation:
      1.   The date and time the violation was observed;
      2.   The location where the violation occurred;
      3.   The address for the property from which the snow storage violation
originated;
      4.   The Code section violated and a brief description of the violation;
      5.   The fine amount and any applicable fees;
      6.   Instructions explaining how the owner, lessor or occupant of the
real property may pay the fine and fees associated with the snow storage
violation; and
      7.   A statement describing the process by which the owner of the real
property from which the snow deposited in the right of way originated, or any
other person receiving the Notice of Snow Storage Violation may request
reconsideration of the Notice of Snow Storage Violation.
   (C)   A separate Notice of Snow Storage Violation may be served for each
violation.
      1.   Failure to completely remediate a snow storage violation under this
Section within four (4) days of service of a Notice of Snow Storage Violation
shall constitute a new snow storage violation under this Section and shall
warrant service of an additional Notice of Snow Storage Violation according to
the terms of this Section.
   (D)   One copy or an automated record of each Notice of Snow Storage
Violation shall be filed with the City Clerk’s office.
   (E)   Each person served with a Notice of Snow Storage Violation shall,
within thirty (30) business days from the date on the Notice of Snow Storage
Violation was served upon a person, or if notice is served by mail, within
thirty (30) business days from the date of posting to the address of the real
property from which the snow deposited in the right of way originated, shall:
      1.   Pay the corresponding snow storage violation fine amount on the City
Clerk fine schedule which schedule shall be set by resolution of the City
Council from time to time, plus any applicable fees; or
      2.   Submit to the City Clerk’s Office a request for reconsideration of
the violation indicated on the Notice of Snow Storage Violation.
      3.   All unpaid violations shall have an administrative fee in an amount
as established by the City Council and listed on the most current City Clerk
fee schedule to defray the administrative and personnel costs and mailing
expenses arising from collection of fines
   (F)   A request for reconsideration to the City Clerk is an informal process
by which a person who received a Notice of Snow Storage Violation may submit a
written challenge to the validity of a Notice of Snow Storage Violation and ask
for reconsideration of the snow storage violation by the City Clerk. The City
Clerk shall review all documents, evidence and information submitted and,
within ten (10) business days of the receipt of the request for
reconsideration, the City Clerk shall issue a written decision determining
whether reversal of the issued Notice of Snow Storage Violation is warranted. A
Notice of Snow Storage Violation shall only be reversed by the City Clerk if
the Clerk can find by a preponderance of the evidence presented that the Notice
of Snow Storage Violation was issued in error. The City Clerk’s written
determination shall be final. The City Clerk’s written decision shall become
effective immediately upon transmission of the decision to the applicant by
U.S. Mail. The City Council may set a fee to defray the cost of such requests
for reconsideration. The reconsideration fee must be collected by the City
Clerk before a request for reconsideration will be honored.
   (G)   A Notice of Snow Storage Violation shall be delinquent if the person
responsible for payment fails to pay all fines and fees:
      1.   Within thirty (30) business days from the date on the Notice of Snow
Storage Violation was personally served as provided herein; or
      2.   Within thirty (30) business days from the date of posting notice to
the address of the real property from which the snow deposited in the right of
way originated; or
      3.   Within ten (10) days of transmission of the City Clerks written
decision on a request for reconsideration to the Applicant via U.S. Mail.
   (H)   Any person holding a business license and a permit for commercial snow
removal service who violates the provisions of section
8.5.030 of this title, shall, on the first offense, be issued a Notice of Snow
Storage Violation and shall be subject to a fine in the amount indicated on the
fine schedule approved by the City Council and maintained by the City Clerk,
and a fee set by the City Council to offset the administrative costs of
issuance of the Notice of Snow Storage Violation, and collection of the
corresponding fee. Any contractor found to have violated the provisions of
section
8.5.030 of this title a second time within 365 days of the first offense shall
be subject to suspension of their snow removal contractor’s license for a
period of sixty (60) days. Any person who is issued a Notice of Snow Storage
Violation may request reconsideration of the fine or business license
suspension using the same process as applicable to snow storage violations
provided in this Section. (Ord. 1013, 9-22-2022)
CHAPTER 6
NAMING STREETS
SECTION:
8-6-010: Purpose And Applicability
8-6-020: Definitions
8-6-030: Approval Required
8-6-040: Standards For Street Names
8-6-050: Private Roads
8-6-060: Subdivisions
8-6-070: Changes In Street Names
8-6-080: Appeals
8-6-090: Fees
8-6-100: Violations And Penalties
8-6-110: Official Street Map
8-6-010:   PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY:
This chapter is adopted for the purpose of providing a uniform street name
system to aid local emergency vehicles being dispatched under the 9-1-1 program
or otherwise, to provide for the official street map and street name list, and
to provide for the proper administration and enforcement of the system. (Ord.
660, 4-14-1994)
8-6-020:   DEFINITIONS:
CHIEF: The fire chief of the city and the police chief of the city, either or
both.
COUNCIL: The city council of the city of McCall.
MANAGER: The city manager of the city of McCall, or his designee assigned from
time to time to administer this chapter.
OFFICIAL STREET MAP: The "official street map of the city of McCall, Valley
County, Idaho", as the same may be amended in accord with this chapter.
OFFICIAL STREET NAME LIST: The "Official Road Name List" maintained by Valley
County pursuant to its ordinance 2-90, as it may be revised from time to time,
together with the city "Official Street Name List", a list containing the
official street names of streets within the city of McCall to be maintained by
or under the direction of the manager, which shall consist of all names having
been given official recognition by council, whether by plat, ordinance,
resolution, official street map or otherwise.
PLANNING COMMISSION: The McCall area planning and zoning commission established
under title III of this code.
SHALL: The requirement stated is mandatory.
STREET: Any road, alley or other platted and/or traveled way within the city
limits of the city of McCall; shown on a plat of a subdivision; or shown on the
official street map; or shown on the so called "Marsden" series of maps kept at
city hall; or used by the public and worked and kept up at the expense of the
public as provided in Idaho Code section 40-109(5); or shown on some
combination of the foregoing; and also private roads as such term is understood
in the subdivision context under title III of this code. "Street" may also be
used as a suffix for the name of a street within an urbanized area, as more
specifically set out below. (Ord. 865, 2-12-2009)
8-6-030:   APPROVAL REQUIRED:
Before any street is named, approval for the street name shall be obtained from
the manager. Official street names shall be maintained on the official street
map and on a city "Official Street Name List" filed in the office of the city
clerk. The initial city "Official Street Name List" shall be adopted by
resolution by the council; thereafter all new road names shall be established
in accord with the following standards. Approval of street names for new
subdivisions shall be accomplished as part of the platting process under title
III of this code. (Ord. 660, 4-14-1994)
8-6-040:   STANDARDS FOR STREET NAMES:
   (A)   The city of McCall road naming and site addressing standards shall be
used in determining and approving street names. The road naming and site
addressing standards shall be adopted by the council and may be amended by the
council as needed from time to time. (Ord. 865, 2-12-2009)
8-6-050:   PRIVATE ROADS:
   (A)   Private roads shall be named in like fashion as public roads, both
procedurally and substantively. Private roads shall have the record notation
"P" placed beside their names on the city "Official Street Name List".
   (B)   The city shall have maintenance and replacement responsibility for
signs for private roads only at their intersections with public roads.
Nevertheless, private road signs shall conform to the city of McCall road
naming and site addressing standards except that such signs shall indicate
private road status by adding "PVT" at the end of the street name and
designation. (Ord. 865, 2-12-2009)
8-6-060:   SUBDIVISIONS:
   (A)   Proposed street names shall be shown on preliminary plats and final
plans when submitted to the city for review and approval. No such plat shall be
approved until the manager certifies that the names comply with this chapter.
   (B)   All half-streets or partial streets shall be named in accordance with
this chapter as if the entire street were in place.
   (C)   Approval of a final plat by council plus the affixing of all
signatures required of city officials, when complete, shall constitute city
acceptance of the street names.
   (D)   Original installation of street name signs conforming to city
specifications shall be the responsibility of the applicant for approval of the
plat and shall be deemed so addressed in the subdivision agreement, whether or
not so expressly stated. (Ord. 660, 4-14-1994)
8-6-070:   CHANGES IN STREET NAMES:
   (A)   The chief and/or the public works director are encouraged to apply,
and any affected citizen may apply, to the manager to change a street name
where the name fails to conform to the city of McCall road naming and site
addressing standards, or it is otherwise deemed appropriate and in the public
interest to make a change. If the applicant is not the chief or the public
works director, the application must state the willingness of the applicant to
pay for all new signage required to effect the change, if approved, and the
approval shall not become final unless cash equaling the city estimated cost of
signage is deposited with the city.
   (B)   Where the application is by the chief and/or the public works director
and for the stated purpose of conforming to the city of McCall road naming and
site addressing standards, the manager shall determine the street name(s) to be
changed, and, using the procedure in the standards, the name to which each is
to be changed.
   (C)   All changes shall be made in such a manner as to create the least
possible inconvenience to residents and property owners in the area,
considering the reasons for the change. All persons owning improved property
fronting on the street the name of which has been changed shall be given
written notice of the change, after adopting of such resolution. A failure to
give such notice to any one or more persons entitled to it shall not affect the
validity of the change, provided such failure occurred in good faith. (Ord.
865, 2-12-2009)
8-6-080:   APPEALS:
   (A)   Appeals from decisions of the commission shall follow the procedures
of title III of this code for an appeal of a commission action under title III
of this code. (Ord. 865, 2-12-2009)
8-6-090:   FEES:
The council may set a fee for processing applications other than by the chief
or the public works director, by resolution. (Ord. 660, 4-14-1994)
8-6-100:   VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
   (A)   No person shall:
      1.   Erect or install a street name sign which does not comply with this
chapter; or
      2.   Remove, alter, change or otherwise deface a street name sign which
exists in accord with the official street map and/or the "Official Street Name
List" and this chapter.
   (B)   Each violation of this section shall be a misdemeanor, and each day it
continues shall be a separate violation. Each violation is punishable as
provided in Idaho Code section 18-113. (Ord. 660, 4-14-1994)
8-6-110:   OFFICIAL STREET MAP:
   (A)   That certain map of McCall, Idaho, and entitled "Official Street Map
Of The City Of McCall, Valley County, Idaho", is adopted as the official street
map of the city of McCall, Idaho, as of May 1, 1978, under Idaho Code sections
40-1334 and 40-202.
   (B)   Amendments to the official street map shall be deemed made upon each
occasion of the execution and recording of a final plat, to the extent of
streets named thereon. Periodically the clerk shall obtain an updated composite
map showing all such platted streets and submit it to the transportation
committee for recommendations and then to the commission for its
recommendations for presentation to council for public hearing pursuant to
Idaho Code section 40-202 and readoption as updated. Other amendments to the
map not specifically related to new approved plats may be accomplished by the
same process.
   (C)   If one or more streets are identified as dedicated right of way not
yet opened as a street, they shall be depicted or labeled as dedicated right of
way, but not opened; likewise, if one or more streets are identified as being
in use, but not maintained at public expense because substandard and a hazard
to equipment or because private, they shall be shown on the map as existing,
but not publicly maintained. (Ord. 660, 4-14-1994)
CHAPTER 7
NUMBERING SYSTEM; LOTS, BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES
SECTION:
8-7-1: House Numbering Required
8-7-2: Penalty
8-7-1:   HOUSE NUMBERING REQUIRED:
All lots, buildings and structures in the city shall be numbered in accordance
with the city of McCall road naming and site addressing standards. The road
naming and site addressing standards shall be adopted by the council and may be
amended by the council as needed from time to time. (Ord. 865, 2-12-2009)
8-7-2:   PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating the provisions of the city of McCall
road naming and site addressing standards shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and
upon conviction thereof shall be punished by a fine of not to exceed three
hundred dollars ($300.00) or by imprisonment in the county jail not to exceed
ninety (90) days or by both such fine and imprisonment. (Ord. 865, 2-12-2009)
CHAPTER 8
PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY PROTECTION
SECTION:
8-8-1: Purpose and Scope
8-8-2: Definitions
8-8-3: Cross-Connections
8-8-4: Use of Backflow Prevention Devices
8-8-5: Cross-Connection Inspection
8-8-6: Installation Permits
8-8-7: Additional Remedies
8-8-8: Violations and Penalties
8-8-9: Severability
8-8-1:   PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
The purpose of this Chapter is to protect the public health of water consumers
by the control of actual and/or potential cross-connections.
8-8-2:   DEFINITIONS:
BACKFLOW: The flow, other than the intended direction of flow, of any foreign
liquids, gases, or substances into the distribution system of a public water
supply.
BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE: A device to counteract back pressure or prevent
back siphonage.
BUILDING OFFICIAL: The Building Inspector of the City of McCall, or his
authorized agent.
CONTAMINATION: The entry into or presence in a public water supply of any
substance which may be deleterious to health and/or quality of the water.
CROSS-CONNECTIONS: Any physical arrangement whereby a public water supply is
connected, directly or indirectly, with any other water supply system, sewer,
drain, conduit, pool, storage reservoir, plumbing fixture, or other device
which contains or may contain contaminated water, sewage, or other waste or
liquids of unknown or unsafe quality which may be capable of imparting
contamination to the public water supply as a result of backflow.
HEALTH OFFICER: The Idaho Central District Health Officer, or his authorized
agent.
PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY: Any system of water supply intended or used for human
consumption or other domestic uses, including source, treatment, storage,
transportation and distribution facilities, where water is furnished to any
collection or number of individuals, or is made available to the public for
human consumption or domestic use.
PURVEYOR: The City of McCall, or its authorized agent.
8-8-3:   CROSS-CONNECTIONS:
No water service connection to any premises shall be installed or continued in
use by the purveyor unless the water supply is protected by backflow prevention
devices as may be required by this Chapter. The installation or maintenance of
a cross-connection which will endanger the water quality of the potable water
supply of the City shall be unlawful and is prohibited. Any such cross-
connection now existing or hereafter installed is hereby declared to be a
public nuisance and the same shall be abated. The control or elimination of
cross-connections shall be in accordance with this Chapter, together with the
latest addition of appropriate manuals of standard practice pertaining to
cross-connection control approved by the Idaho State Department of Health. The
Building Official shall have the authority to establish requirements more
stringent than State regulations if he deems that the conditions so dictate.
The purveyor shall adopt rules and regulations as necessary to carry out the
provisions of this Chapter.
8-8-4:   USE OF BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES:
   (A)   Backflow prevention devices shall be installed at the ties on the
premises or the materials used in connection with service connection or within
any premises where, in the judgment of the purveyor, the nature and extent of
activities, or the materials stored on the premises, would present an immediate
and dangerous hazard to health and/or be deleterious to the quality of the
water should a cross-connection occur; even though such cross-connection does
not exist at the time the backflow prevention devices shall be installed under
circumstances including but not limited to the following:
      1.   Premises having an auxiliary water supply, unless the quality of the
auxiliary supply is in compliance with Idaho State Department of Health
regulations and is acceptable to the purveyor.
      2.   Premises having internal cross-connections that are not correctable,
or intricate plumbing arrangements which make it impracticable to ascertain
whether or not cross-connections exist.
      3.   Premises where entry is restricted so that inspections for cross-
connections cannot be made with sufficient frequency or at sufficiently short
notice to assure that cross-connections do not exist.
      4.   Premises having a repeated history of cross-connections being
established or reestablished.
      5.   Premises on which any substance is handled under pressure so as to
permit entry into the public water supply or where a cross-connection could
reasonably be expected to occur. This shall include the handling of process
waters and cooling waters.
      6.   Premises where materials of a toxic or hazardous nature are handled
in such a way that if back siphonage should occur, a serious health hazard
might result.
      7.   The following types of facilities will fall into one of the above
categories where a backflow prevention device is required to protect the public
water supply. A backflow prevention device shall be installed at these
facilities unless the purveyor and Building Official determine that no hazard
exists:
         (a)   Hospitals, mortuaries, clinics
         (b)   Laboratories
         (c)   Metal plating industries
         (d)   Piers and docks
         (e)   Sewage treatment plants
         (f)   Food or beverage processing plants
         (g)   Chemical plants using a water process
         (h)   Petroleum processing or storage plants
         (i)   Radioactive material processing plants or nuclear reactors
         (j)   Others specified by the Idaho State Department of Health
      8.   Other premises, as specified by the Building Official where backflow
prevention devices are required to protect the public water supply.
   (B)   The type of protective device required shall depend on the degree of
hazard which exists:
      1.   An air-gap separation or a reduced pressure principal backflow
prevention device shall be installed where the public water supply may be
contaminated with sewage, industrial waste of a toxic nature, or other
contaminant which could cause a health or system hazard.
         (a)   In the case of a substance which may be objectionable but not
hazardous to health, a double check valve assembly, air-gap separation, or a
reduced pressure principal backflow prevention device shall be installed.
   (C)   Backflow prevention devices required by this Chapter shall be
installed at the meter, at the property line of the premises when meters are
not used, or at a location designated by the purveyor. The device shall be
located so as to be readily accessible for maintenance and testing, and
furthermore, where no part of the device will be submerged.
   (D)   Backflow prevention devices required by this Chapter shall be
installed under the supervision of, and with the approval of the purveyor.
   (E)   Any protective device required by this Chapter shall be a model
approved by the Building Official. A double check valve assembly or a reduced
pressure principal backflow prevention device will be approved if it has
successfully passed performance tests of the University of Southern California
Engineering Center or the testing laboratories satisfactory to the State of
Idaho and the Building Official. These devices shall be furnished and installed
by and at the expense of the customer.
   (F)   Backflow prevention devices installed pursuant to this Chapter, except
atmospheric vacuum breakers, shall be inspected and tested annually, or more
often if necessary. Inspections, tests and maintenance shall be at the
customer's expense. Whenever the devices are found to be defective, they shall
be repaired, overhauled or replaced at the customer's expense. Inspections,
tests, repairs and records thereof shall be accomplished under the purveyor's
supervision by certified testers.
   (G)   No underground sprinkling device will be installed without adequate
backflow prevention devices at the point from which the water for irrigation is
taken from the public water supply.
   (H)   Failure of the customer to cooperate in the installation, maintenance,
testing or inspection of backflow prevention devices required by this Chapter
shall be grounds for the termination of water service to the premises, or, in
the alternative, the installation of an air-gap separation at the customer's
expense.
8-8-5:   CROSS-CONNECTION INSPECTION:
   (A)   No water shall be delivered to any structure hereafter built within
the City or within areas served by City water until the same shall have been
inspected by the purveyor for possible cross-connections and been approved as
being free of same.
   (B)   Any construction for industrial or other purposes which is classified
as hazardous facilities pursuant to subsection
8-8-4(A)7 of this Chapter, where it is reasonable to anticipate intermittent
cross-connections, or as determined by the Building Official shall be protected
by the installation of one or more backflow prevention devices at the point of
service from the public water supply or any other location designated by the
purveyor.
   (C)   Inspections shall be made periodically of all buildings, structures,
or improvements of any nature now receiving water through the City's system,
for the purpose of ascertaining whether cross-connections exist. Such
inspections shall be made by the purveyor.
8-8-6:   INSTALLATION PERMITS:
If cross-connection control devices are found to be necessary, the owner of the
property served must apply to the purveyor for a specific installation permit.
8-8-7:   ADDITIONAL REMEDIES:
In the event an improper cross-connection is not corrected within the time
limit set by the Building Official or in the event the purveyor is refused
access to any property for the purpose of determining whether or not cross-
connections exist; delivery of water to the property shall cease until the
deficiency is corrected to the purveyor's satisfaction. In addition, the
purveyor may effect the necessary repairs or modification at the expense of the
property owner and refuse delivery of water to the property until the cost
thereof shall have been paid.
8-8-8:   VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects, refuses to comply with, or
resists the enforcement of any of the provisions of this Chapter or the rules
and regulations as adopted by the purveyor, shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall for each offense be punished by
a fine in any sum not exceeding three hundred dollars ($300.00) or imprisonment
for a term not exceeding ninety (90) days or by both such fine and
imprisonment. Each day a violation exists shall constitute a separate offense.
8-8-9:   SEVERABILITY:
If any one or more sections, subsections or sentences of this Chapter are for
any reason held to be unconstitutional or invalid, such decision shall not
affect the validity of the remaining portions of this Chapter and the same
shall remain in full force and effect. (Ord. 401, 6-2-80)
CHAPTER 9
CABLE TELEVISION FRANCHISE
SECTION:
8-9-1: Title And Purposes
8-9-2: Definitions
8-9-3: Franchise To Operate Required
8-9-4: Grant Of Franchise
8-9-5: Fees
8-9-6: Subscriber Rates
8-9-7: Customer Service And Consumer Protection
8-9-8: Information Provided By Grantee To Subscribers
8-9-9: Technical Standards
8-9-10: Extension Of Cable Service
8-9-11: Free Basic Cable Service To Public Buildings
8-9-12: Insurance
8-9-13: Indemnification
8-9-14: Violations; Procedures, Notice, And Cure
8-9-15: Termination And Continuity Of Service
8-9-16: Force Majeure
8-9-17: Grant Of Additional Franchise And Competing Service Providers
8-9-18: Transfer Or Assignment Of Franchise
8-9-19: Compliance With State And Federal Law
8-9-20: Notice To Grantee
8-9-21: Street Occupancy
8-9-22: Access To Public And Private Property
8-9-23: Nondiscrimination In Employment
8-9-24: Grantee May Issue Rules
8-9-25: Severability
8-9-26: Effective Date
8-9-1:   TITLE AND PURPOSES:
This chapter shall be known as the MCCALL CABLE TELEVISION FRANCHISE ORDINANCE.
The purposes of this chapter are: a) to establish the terms and conditions
under which a cable television system must operate within McCall, Idaho (which
may hereafter be referred to as "City", "Franchising Authority", or "Grantor");
b) to provide for the payment of a franchise fee to the city for costs
associated with administering and regulating the system; and c) to grant a
cable television franchise to Falcon Video Communications, L.P., d/b/a Charter
Communications (hereafter referred to as "Charter" or "Grantee"). (Ord. 755, 8-
9-2001)
8-9-2:   DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivations shall have the meanings defined herein, unless the context clearly
indicates that another meaning is intended. Words used in the present tense
include the future, words in the plural number include the singular number, and
words in the singular number include the plural number.
CABLE ACT: The cable communications policy act of 1984, as modified by the
cable television consumer protection and competition act of 1992, and the
telecommunications act of 1996.
CABLE TELEVISION SYSTEM: Any nonbroadcast facility consisting of a set of
transmission paths and associated signal reception, transmission and control
equipment, that is designed to distribute to subscribers or other users audio,
video and other forms of communications services via electronic or electrical
signals.
CHANNEL: A band of frequencies in the electromagnetic spectrum, capable of
carrying one audio-visual television signal.
CHARTER: Falcon Video Communications, L.P., d/b/a Charter Communications, which
may also be referred to as "Grantee".
CITY: McCall, Idaho, in its present form or in any later reorganized,
consolidated, enlarged or reincorporated form, which is legally authorized to
grant a cable television franchise under state and federal law. The city may
also be referred to as "Franchising Authority" or "Grantor".
FCC: The federal communications commission.
FRANCHISE: The rights granted pursuant to this chapter to construct, own and
operate a cable television system along the public ways in the city, or within
specified areas in the city.
FRANCHISE AREA: That portion of the city for which a franchise is granted under
the authority of this chapter. If not otherwise stated in an exhibit to this
chapter, the franchise area shall be the legal and geographic limits of the
city, including all territory which may be hereafter annexed to the city.
FRANCHISING AUTHORITY: McCall, Idaho, its duly elected governing body, its
lawful successor or such other person or body duly authorized by the city to
grant a cable television franchise.
GRANTEE: A person or business entity, or its lawful successor or assignee,
which has been granted a franchise by the city pursuant to this chapter.
GROSS SUBSCRIBER RECEIPTS: As the term is used in calculating franchise fees
means revenues actually received by the grantee from television services it
provides to its subscribers in the city, after deducting the following: a) any
fees or assessments levied on subscribers or users of the system which are
collected by the grantee for payment to a governmental entity; b) franchise
fees paid by the grantee to the city; c) state or local sales or property taxes
imposed on the grantee and paid to a governmental entity; and d) federal
copyright fees paid by the grantee to the copyright tribunal in Washington, DC.
NORMAL BUSINESS HOURS: Those hours during which most similar businesses in the
community are open to serve customers.
NORMAL OPERATING CONDITIONS: Those service conditions which are within the
control of the grantee. Those conditions which are not within the control of
the grantee include, but are not limited to, natural disasters, civil
disturbances, power outages, telephone network outages, and severe or unusual
weather conditions. Those conditions which are ordinarily within the control of
the grantee include, but are not limited to, special promotions, pay-per-view
events rate increases, regular peak or seasonal demand periods, and maintenance
or upgrade of the cable system.
PUBLIC WAY OR RIGHT OF WAY: The surface, the air space above the surface and
the area below the surface of any public street, highway, lane, path, alley,
sidewalk, boulevard, drive, bridge, tunnel, park, parkways, waterways, or other
public right of way including public utility easements or rights of way and any
temporary or permanent fixtures or improvements located thereon now or
hereafter held by the city which shall entitle the city and the grantee to the
use thereof for the purpose of installing and maintaining the grantee's cable
television system.
SCHOOL: Any public elementary or secondary school.
SERVICE INTERRUPTION: The loss of picture or sound on one or more cable
channels.
SUBSCRIBER: Any person who receives monthly cable television service provided
by the grantee's cable television system. (Ord. 755, 8-9-2001)
8-9-3:   FRANCHISE TO OPERATE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to operate a cable television system within the city
unless a valid franchise has first been obtained from the city pursuant to the
terms of this chapter. A franchise granted pursuant to this chapter shall
authorize the grantee to provide cable television services within the franchise
area and to charge subscribers for such services. It shall also authorize and
permit the grantee to traverse any portion of the city in order to provide
service outside the city. (Ord. 755, 8-9-2001)
8-9-4:   GRANT OF FRANCHISE:
A franchise is hereby granted to Falcon Video Communications, L.P., d/b/
a Charter Communications, to operate and maintain a cable television system in
the city for a period of twenty (20) years commencing on the date of adoption
hereof. Charter shall have the option to renew this franchise for an additional
term of five (5) years, provided that it is in substantial compliance with the
material terms of this chapter at the time of its expiration. (Ord. 755, 8-9-
2001)
8-9-5:   FEES:
   (A)   The grantee shall pay a franchise fee which is intended to compensate
the city for all costs which may be associated with administering or regulating
grantee's cable system. The amount of the franchise fee shall be five percent
(5%) of the grantee's annual "gross subscriber receipts", as defined herein.
Such fee shall be paid on an annual basis. Grantee shall be entitled to list
the franchise fee as a separate line item on monthly bills.
   (B)   Any increased franchise fee amounts which may be due to the city shall
begin accruing sixty (60) days following the effective date hereof. If the city
requires more than thirty (30) days' notice to subscribers of increased rates,
then any increased franchise fee amounts which may be due to the city shall
begin accruing sixty (60) days after the city's required notice period.
   (C)   At the city's request, the grantee shall file a report showing
grantee's gross subscriber receipts for the calendar year and the amount of
franchise fees due to the city. Such reports may be requested once per calendar
year. The grantee shall have an obligation to maintain financial records of its
gross subscriber receipts and grantee fee payments for audit purposes for a
period of three (3) years, and the city shall have the right to audit the
grantee's books at the offices where such books are maintained. (Ord. 755, 8-9-
2001)
8-9-6:   SUBSCRIBER RATES:
   (A)   All charges to subscribers shall be consistent with a schedule of fees
for services offered and established by the grantee. Rates shall be
nondiscriminatory in nature and uniform to persons of like classes under
similar circumstances and conditions.
   (B)   The grantee will provide the city with thirty (30) days' advance
written notice of any change in rates and charges whenever possible.
   (C)   Grantee may offer different or discounted rates at its discretion for
promotional purposes and may establish different rates for different classes of
subscribers where appropriate, such as offering discounted rates to low income
individuals or groups or bulk rates to multiple unit dwellings.
   (D)   Grantee shall inform each new subscriber of all applicable fees and
charges for providing cable television service.
   (E)   Grantee may, at its own discretion and in a nondiscriminatory manner,
waive, reduce or suspend connection fees, monthly service fees or other charges
on a one time or monthly basis for promotional purposes.
   (F)   Grantee may refuse to provide service to any person because a prior
account with that person remains due and owing.
   (G)   A grantee may offer service which requires advance payment of periodic
service charges.
   (H)   The grantee shall provide refunds to subscribers in the following
cases:
      1.   If the grantee fails within a reasonable time to commence service
requested by a subscriber, it will refund all deposits or advance charges that
the subscriber has paid in connection with the request for such service at the
request of the subscriber.
      2.   If a subscriber terminates any service at any time and has a credit
balance for deposits or unused services, upon request from the subscriber and
upon return of all of grantee's equipment, the grantee will refund the
appropriate credit balance to the subscriber. The subscriber will be
responsible for furnishing the grantee a proper address to which to mail the
refund.
      3.   If any subscriber's cable service is out of order for more than
forty eight (48) consecutive hours during the month due to technical failure,
damage, or circumstances within the control of the grantee, the grantee will
credit the account of that subscriber on a pro rata basis upon the subscriber's
written request. The credit will be calculated using the number of twenty four
(24) hour periods that service is impaired and the number of channels on which
service is impaired as a fraction of the total number of days in the month that
the service impairment occurs and the total number of channels provided by the
system in the absence of an impairment. (Ord. 755, 8-9-2001)
8-9-7:   CUSTOMER SERVICE AND CONSUMER PROTECTION:
   (A)   Cable System Office Hours And Telephone Availability: The grantee will
maintain a local, toll-free or collect call telephone access line which will be
available to its subscribers twenty four (24) hours per day, seven (7) days per
week. Trained company representatives will be available to respond to customer
telephone inquiries during normal business hours. After normal business hours,
the access line may be answered by a service or an automated response system,
including an answering machine. Inquiries received after normal business hours
must be responded to by a trained company representative on the next business
day. Customer service center and bill payment locations will be open at least
during normal business hours.
   (B)   Installation, Outages And Service Calls:
      1.   Standard installations will be performed within seven (7) business
days after an order has been placed. "Standard" installations are those that
are located up to one hundred twenty five feet (125') from the existing
distribution system.
      2.   Excluding conditions beyond the control of the grantee, the grantee
will begin working on "service interruptions" promptly and in no event later
than twenty four (24) hours after the interruption becomes known. The grantee
must begin actions to correct other service problems the next business day
after notification of the service problem.
      3.   The "appointment window" alternatives for installations, service
calls, and other installation activities will be either a specific time or a
four (4) hour time block during normal business hours. The grantee may schedule
service calls and other installation activities outside of normal business
hours for the express convenience of the customer.
      4.   If grantee's representative is running late for an appointment with
a customer and will not be able to keep the appointment as scheduled, the
customer will be contacted. The appointment will be rescheduled, as necessary,
at a time which is convenient for the customer.
      5.   If the grantee's service representative appears for an appointment
scheduled by a customer within the time period promised and no one is present
at the customer's dwelling to permit necessary physical access to the dwelling
unit, then grantee may charge the customer for the service call, up to a
maximum of twenty five dollars ($25.00). (Ord. 755, 8-9-2001)
8-9-8:   INFORMATION PROVIDED BY GRANTEE TO SUBSCRIBERS:
   (A)   The grantee shall provide written information on each of the following
areas at the time of installation of service, at least annually to all
subscribers, and at any time upon request: products and services offered;
prices and options for programming services and conditions of subscription to
programming and other services; installation and services maintenance policies;
instructions on how to use the cable service; channel positions of programming
carried on the system; and billing and complaint procedures, including the
address and telephone number of the local franchise authority's cable office.
   (B)   Customers will be notified of any changes in rates, programming
services or channel positions thirty (30) days in advance of such changes if
the change is within the control of the grantee. In addition, the grantee shall
notify subscribers thirty (30) days in advance of any significant changes in
the other information required. Notwithstanding any other provision of part 76
of the cable act, grantee shall not be required to provide prior notice of any
rate change that is the result of a regulatory fee, franchise fee, or any other
fee, tax, assessment, or charge of any kind imposed by any federal agency,
state, or franchising authority on the transaction between the grantee and the
subscriber.
   (C)   Bills will be clear, concise and understandable. Bills will be
itemized, with itemizations including basic and premium service charges and
equipment charges. Bills will also clearly delineate all activity during the
billing period, including optional charges, rebates and credits. In case of a
billing dispute, the grantee must respond to a written complaint from a
subscriber within thirty (30) days.
   (D)   Refund checks will be issued promptly, but no later than either: the
customer's next billing cycle following resolution of the request or sixty (60)
days, or the return of the equipment supplied by the grantee if service is
terminated.
   (E)   Credits for services will be issued no later than the customer's next
billing cycle following the determination that a credit is warranted. (Ord.
755, 8-9-2001)
8-9-9:   TECHNICAL STANDARDS:
   (A)   Grantee shall be responsible for ensuring that the cable system is
designed, installed, and operated in a manner that fully complies with federal
communications commission (FCC) rules regarding cable television technical
standards. Grantee shall be prepared to show, on request by an authorized
representative of the commission or the franchising authority, that the system
does, in fact, comply with the rules.
   (B)   Grantee shall conduct complete performance tests of the system at
least twice each calendar year (at intervals not to exceed 7 months), and shall
maintain the resulting test data on file at the grantee's local business office
for at least five (5) years. The test data shall be made available for
inspection by the commission or the local franchiser, upon request. The
performance test shall be directed at determining the extent to which the
system complies with all the technical standards set forth in section 76.605(a)
of the commission's rules. (Ord. 755, 8-9-2001)
8-9-10:   EXTENSION OF CABLE SERVICE:
   (A)   To the extent that grantee is not already serving the entire franchise
area, grantee shall provide service to all portions of the franchise area
reaching a minimum density of thirty (30) dwelling units per linear strand
mile, as measured from the nearest coaxial cable line, within twelve (12)
months after the grant of this franchise.
   (B)   Grantee shall provide aerial or buried drop lines to new subdivisions
within the franchise area at the request of the developer provided that the
developer contracts and agrees with the grantee to pay the cost of the
extension of the service.
   (C)   Grantee shall extend and make cable television service available to
any resident within the franchise area who requests connection at the standard
connection charge if the connection to the resident would require no more than
a standard one hundred fifty foot (150') aerial drop or a seventy five foot
(75') buried drop line or extension from the nearest coaxial feeder cable. With
respect to requests for connection requiring an aerial or buried drop line in
excess of the maximum standard distance, grantee shall extend and make
available cable television service to such residents at a connection charge not
to exceed its actual costs for the distance exceeding the standard one hundred
fifty feet (150') of aerial or seventy five feet (75') of underground cable
respectively.
   (D)   In areas with fewer than thirty (30) residential units per proposed
cable bearing strand mile, grantee shall offer a cost- sharing arrangement with
residents. A dwelling unit will be counted for this purpose if its lot fronts a
street. The cost- sharing arrangement shall consist of the following:
      1.   At the request of a resident desiring service, grantee shall
determine the cost of the plant extension required to provide service to the
potential subscriber from the closest point on the cable system where it is
technically feasible. The cost of construction shall be allocated based on the
following formula:
         (a)   If a request for extension of service into a residential area
requires the construction of cable plant which does not pass at least thirty
(30) potential subscribers per proposed cable bearing strand mile, grantee and
residents who agree to subscribe to cable service will each bear their
proportionate share of construction costs. For example, if there are five (5)
dwelling units per proposed cable bearing strand mile, grantee's share will
equal five-thirtieths (5/30) or one-sixth (1/6) of the construction cost. The
remaining cost will be shared equally by each subscriber.
         (b)   Should additional residents actually subscribe to cable
television service in areas where subscribers have already paid a proportionate
share under the extension cost sharing formula, subscribers who have previously
paid a proportionate share under the extension formula shall be reimbursed pro
rata for their contribution or a proportional share thereof. In such case, the
pro rata shares shall be recalculated and each new subscriber shall pay the new
pro rata share, and all subscribers who previously paid a proportionate share
shall receive pro rata refunds. In the event such subscribers (or prior
subscribers) have been disconnected or have moved and owe the grantee money
which has not been recovered, grantee shall have the right to first apply the
refund to amounts owed the grantee and give the balance, if any to the
subscriber.
At such time as there are thirty (30) potential subscribers per cable bearing
strand mile, the subscribers shall receive their pro rata share of construction
costs. In any event, one year after the completion of a project, subscribers
who have paid a share of line extension costs are no longer eligible for
refunds, and the amounts paid in construction costs will be credited to the
plant account of grantee.
         (c)   Where the density of residential dwelling and occupied
commercial or industrial structures, adverse terrain, or other factors render
extension of the system and offering of cable service impractical, technically
infeasible or would create an economic hardship, the city may, upon petition of
the grantee, either waive the extension of the system into such areas, or allow
the extension and offer of service on special terms or conditions which are
reasonable and fair to the city, the grantee and potential subscribers in such
areas. (Ord. 755, 8-9-2001)
8-9-11:   FREE BASIC CABLE SERVICE TO PUBLIC BUILDINGS:
Grantee shall provide, without charge, one service outlet activated for basic
subscriber service to each police station, fire station, public school, public
library and the city offices within the city's franchise area. If it is
necessary to extend grantee's trunk or feeder lines more than two hundred feet
(200') solely to provide service to any such school or public building, the
city or the building owner or occupants shall have the option of either paying
grantee's direct costs for line extensions in excess of two hundred feet (200')
or releasing the grantee from the obligation to provide service to such
building. Furthermore, grantee shall be permitted to recover the direct cost of
installing cable service, when requested to do so, in order to provide: a) more
than one outlet, b) inside wiring, or c) a service outlet requiring more than
two hundred feet (200') of drop cable to any public building. (Ord. 755, 8-9-
2001)
8-9-12:   INSURANCE:
Within ninety (90) days following the grant of this franchise, the grantee
shall obtain the following insurance policies:
   (A)   A general comprehensive liability policy indemnifying, defending and
saving harmless the city, its officers, boards, commissions, agents or
employees from any and all claims by any person whatsoever on account of injury
to or death of a person or persons occasioned by the operations of the grantee
under the franchise herein granted, or alleged to have been so caused or
occurred, with a minimum liability of five hundred thousand dollars
($500,000.00) per personal injury, death of any one person or damage to
property and one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) for personal injury, death of
any two (2) or more persons in any one occurrence or damage to property.
   (B)   All insurance policies called for herein shall be in a form
satisfactory to the city and shall require thirty (30) days' written notice of
any cancellation to both the city and the grantee. The grantee shall, in the
event of any such cancellation notice, obtain, pay all premiums for, and file
with the city, written evidence of the issuance of replacement policies within
thirty (30) days following receipt by the city or the grantee of any notice of
cancellation. In recognition of the foregoing each party agrees to cause their
respective insurance carriers to waive any rights of subrogation. (Ord. 755, 8-
9-2001)
8-9-13:   INDEMNIFICATION:
The grantee, by its acceptance of a franchise granted pursuant to this chapter,
shall indemnify and hold harmless the city, its officials, boards, commissions
and employees against any and all claims, suits, causes of action, proceedings,
and judgments for damage arising out of the award of a franchise to the grantee
and its operation of the cable television system under the franchise. These
damages shall include, but not be limited to, penalties arising out of
copyright infringements and damages arising out of any failure by grantee to
secure consents from the owners, authorized distributors or licensees of
programs to be delivered by the grantee's cable television system whether or
not any act or omission complained of is authorized, allowed, or prohibited by
the franchise. (Ord. 755, 8-9-2001)
8-9-14:   VIOLATIONS; PROCEDURES, NOTICE, AND CURE:
Before exercising any right of redress available to it under the terms of this
chapter, including determination of any penalty assessable under applicable
law, the city shall follow the procedures set forth in this section.
   (A)   The city shall notify grantee in writing, by certified mail, of any
alleged violation, ("Violation Notice"), which notice shall include a detailed
description of any alleged violation and a request for cure of such violation.
   (B)   Grantee shall have thirty (30) days from the date of receipt of such
notice to respond in writing, indicating: 1) that grantee has cured the alleged
violation, providing reasonable documentation demonstrating that the alleged
violation has been cured; 2) that grantee has commenced or will commence
actions to cure the alleged violation, but that the alleged violation cannot
reasonably be cured immediately, describing the steps to be taken to cure the
alleged violation; or 3) that grantee disagrees with the allegation that a
violation has occurred and contests the violation notice, stating the reasons
therefor. If a violation is cured by grantee within sixty (60) days of receipt
of notice, then no penalty shall be imposed.
   (C)   Upon receipt of grantee's response to the violation notice, the city
may either accept grantee's proposed cure and/or explanation, or if it believes
that the violation will not be cured within a reasonable period of time, the
city may schedule an administrative hearing, providing grantee no less than
fifteen (15) days' written notice of the hearing which shall afford grantee due
process including an opportunity to present evidence.
   (D)   Within fifteen (15) days following an administrative hearing on an
alleged violation, the city shall issue a written report stating its findings
and the reasons therefor. The city may determine: 1) that the alleged violation
has been corrected, or is in the process of being corrected by grantee, and
that no further action is required; 2) that an extension of the time or other
appropriate relief should be granted until the cure for the problem can be
completed by grantee; 3) that the problem is beyond grantee's direct control
and that grantee is not at fault; or 4) that other appropriate action should be
taken.
   (E)   In cases involving construction codes or technical standards, if the
alleged violation does not pose a substantial and immediate safety hazard,
grantee shall be allowed a reasonable and sufficient time to complete any
required corrections or repairs to the system to remedy any alleged
noncompliance. So long as grantee is making a good faith effort to correct the
alleged noncompliance, no penalties shall be assessed. A "substantial and
immediate safety hazard" shall be defined as one posing an imminent likelihood
of injury to persons if not repaired immediately. Grantee shall not be
penalized for other minor violations of the franchise or applicable codes, so
long as it demonstrates it is making good faith efforts to correct any problem
or violation within a reasonable period of time of the discovery of alleged
violation. (Ord. 755, 8-9-2001)
8-9-15:   TERMINATION AND CONTINUITY OF SERVICE:
   (A)   In the event of a formal denial of renewal or revocation of this
franchise, which denial or revocation is upheld by final judicial adjudication
of any appeal(s) which may be filed, the grantee shall be have a period of one
year from such final adjudication within which to transfer or convey the assets
of the cable system to another owner. Approval of such proposed transfer or
assignment shall not be unreasonably withheld by the city.
   (B)   In the event the franchise term expires prior to formal action being
taken by the city either to renew the franchise or deny renewal, the term of
this franchise shall automatically be extended until such time as formal action
to renew or deny renewal is taken by the city. The renewal procedures and
criteria contained in section 626(c) of the cable communications policy act of
1984, as amended, shall be followed by the city and the grantee. (Ord. 755, 8-
9-2001)
8-9-16:   FORCE MAJEURE:
In the event the grantee is prevented or delayed in the performance of any of
its obligations under this chapter by reason of flood, fires, hurricanes,
tornadoes, earthquakes or other acts of God, unavoidable casualty,
insurrections, war, riot, sabotage, unavailability of materials or supplies,
vandalism, strikes, boycotts, lockouts, labor disputes, shortage of labor,
unusually severe weather conditions, acts or omissions or delays by utility
companies upon whom grantee is dependent for pole attachments or easement use,
grantee is unable to obtain necessary financing or any other event which is
beyond the reasonable control of the grantee, the grantee shall have a
reasonable time under the circumstances to perform its obligations under this
chapter or to procure a reasonable and comparable substitute for such
obligations. Under such circumstances the grantee shall not be held in default
or noncompliance with the provisions of this chapter nor shall it suffer any
penalty relating thereto. (Ord. 755, 8-9-2001)
8-9-17:   GRANT OF ADDITIONAL FRANCHISE AND COMPETING SERVICE PROVIDERS:
   (A)   Application Procedures:
      1.   An application for a new cable television franchise shall be
submitted to the city in a form specified by or acceptable to the city, and in
accordance with procedures and schedules established by the city. The city may
request such facts and information as it deems appropriate.
      2.   Upon request, any applicant shall furnish to the city a map of
suitable scale, showing all roads and public buildings, which indicates the
areas to be served and the proposed dates of commencement of service for each
area. The proposed service area shall be subject to approval by the city. If
approved, the service area shall be incorporated into any franchise granted
pursuant to this chapter. If no service area is specifically delineated in a
franchise, it shall be considered to be coterminous with the boundaries of the
city.
      3.   After receiving an application for a franchise, the city shall
examine the legal, financial, technical and character qualifications of the
applicant. The city may grant one or more nonexclusive franchises creating a
right to construct and operate a cable television system within the public ways
of the city, subject to the provisions of this section.
      4.   In the event an application is filed proposing to serve a franchise
area which overlaps, in whole or in part, an existing grantee's franchise area,
a copy of such application shall be served upon any existing grantee by the
city by registered or certified mail. Such notice shall be considered a
condition precedent to consideration of the application for a franchise by the
city.
   (B)   Competing Service Providers:
      1.   Any franchise granted by the city shall be nonexclusive. However,
nothing in this chapter shall be construed to require it to grant more than one
franchise if the city determines, pursuant to the procedures established in
this chapter, that granting additional franchises would be detrimental to the
public interest.
      2.   In the event a competing service provider commences operation of a
communications facility which offers services similar to those offered by
grantee, the city shall not require grantee to operate under terms or
conditions otherwise required by this chapter which are either less favorable
or more burdensome than those under which the competing service provider must
operate. Any franchise which may be granted by the city to a competing service
provider shall require the new grantee to provide cable service to the entire
franchise area then served by the existing grantee. An existing grantee may, at
its discretion, comply with the most favorable terms contained in any
subsequent franchise granted by the city.
      3.   Since competing or overlapping franchises may have an adverse impact
on the public rights of way, on the quality and availability of communications
services to the public and may adversely affect the existing operator's ability
to continue to provide the services and facilities it is presently providing
under this chapter, the city may issue a franchise in an area where another
grantee is operating only following a public hearing to consider the potential
impact which the grant of an additional franchise may have on the community. In
considering whether to grant one or more additional franchises, the city shall
specifically consider, and address in a written report, the following issues:
         (a)   The positive and/or negative impact of an additional franchise
on the community.
         (b)   The ability and willingness of the specific applicant in
question to provide cable television service to the entire franchise area which
is served by the existing cable operator. The purpose of this subsection is to
ensure that any competition which may occur among grantees will be on equal
terms and conditions so as not to give a competitive advantage to one grantee
over another.
         (c)   The amount of time it will take the applicant to complete
construction of the proposed system and activate service in the entire
franchise area; and, whether the applicant can complete construction and
activation of its system in a timely manner.
         (d)   The financial capabilities of the applicant and its guaranteed
commitment to make the necessary investment to erect, maintain and operate the
proposed cable TV system for the duration of the franchise term. In order to
ensure that any prospective grantee does have the requisite current financial
capabilities, the city may request equity and debt financing commitment
letters, current financial statements, bonds, letters of credit or other
documentation to demonstrate to the city's satisfaction that the requisite
funds to construct and operate the proposed system are available.
         (e)   The quality and technical reliability of the proposed system,
based upon the applicant's plan of construction and the method of distribution
of signals, and the applicant's technical qualifications to construct and
operate such system.
         (f)   The experience of the applicant in the erection, maintenance and
operation of a cable television system.
         (g)   The capacity of the public rights of way to accommodate one or
more additional cable systems and the potential disruption of those public
rights of ways and private property that may occur if one or more additional
franchises are granted.
         (h)   The disruption of existing cable television service and the
potential that the proposed franchise would adversely affect the residents of
the city.
         (i)   The likelihood and ability of the applicant to continue to
provide competing cable television service to subscribers within the entire
franchise area for the duration of the franchise.
         (j)   Such other information as the city may deem appropriate to be
considered prior to granting any competing or overlapping franchise.
   (C)   Permits For Nonfranchised Entities: The city may issue a license,
easement or other permit to a person other than the grantee to permit that
person to traverse any portion of the grantee's franchise area within the city
in order to provide service outside, but not within the city. Such license or
easement, absent a grant of a franchise in accordance with this chapter, shall
not authorize nor permit said person to provide cable television service of any
type to any home or place of business within the city nor render any other
service within the city. (Ord. 755, 8-9-2001)
8-9-18:   TRANSFER OR ASSIGNMENT OF FRANCHISE:
   (A)   A grantee may transfer or assign its franchise to another entity (the
"Assignee") upon thirty (30) days' notice to the city. The grantee shall
provide to the city a reasonable showing that the proposed assignee or
transferee possesses the technical and financial qualifications to operate the
cable TV system properly. The proposed transferee or assignee shall provide the
city with a written statement that it agrees to comply with all material terms
of the franchise to be transferred. The city shall not unreasonably delay or
deny the assignment or transfer of the franchise. The reasonableness of the
city's actions shall be subject to judicial review by a court of appropriate
jurisdiction. The proposed transfer or assignment shall be deemed approved if
no action is taken by the city within sixty (60) days of the written request
for transfer by the grantee.
   (B)   The grantee may secure financing or an indebtedness by trust,
mortgage, or other instrument of hypothecation of the franchise, in whole or in
part, without requiring the consent of the city. Consent shall not be required
to assign the franchise from one business entity to another which is operated
or managed by the grantee or any affiliated entity. In addition, so long as the
manager and/or general partner of the grantee remains the same, consent shall
not be required to transfer the interests of any limited partner of the
grantee, who has no day-to-day operational control of the grantee or the
system.
   (C)   A grantee may transfer or assign its franchise to an affiliated entity
upon thirty (30) days' notice to the city. Consent of the city shall not be
required for such an assignment, provided that: 1) the city is provided with a
reasonable showing that the proposed assignee possesses the technical and
financial qualifications to operate the cable TV system, and 2) that the
assignee agrees to comply with the terms of this chapter. (Ord. 755, 8-9-2001)
8-9-19:   COMPLIANCE WITH STATE AND FEDERAL LAW:
The grantee and the city shall at all times comply with all applicable state
and federal laws and the applicable rules and regulations of administrative
agencies. If the federal communications commission (FCC) or any other federal
or state governmental body or agency enacts any law or regulation or exercises
any paramount jurisdiction over the subject matter of this chapter or any
franchise granted hereunder, the jurisdiction of the city shall cease and no
longer exist to the extent such superseding jurisdiction shall preempt or
preclude the exercise of like jurisdiction by the city. The city and the
grantee reserve all rights they each may possess under law, unless expressly
waived herein. (Ord. 755, 8-9-2001)
8-9-20:   NOTICE TO GRANTEE:
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, the city shall not meet to take
any action involving the grantee's franchise unless the city has notified the
grantee by certified mail at least thirty (30) days prior to such meeting, as
to its time, place and purpose. The notice provided for in this section shall
be in addition to, and not in lieu of, any other notice to the grantee provided
for in this chapter. All notices, requests, demands and other communications
required or permitted hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have
been duly given if mailed by certified mail, return receipt requested,
addressed to the grantee's corporate office as follows:
Charter Communications
203 SE Park Plaza Dr., Suite 290
Vancouver, WA 98684
Attn: Vice President-Regulatory Affairs
(Ord. 755, 8-9-2001)
8-9-21:   STREET OCCUPANCY:
   (A)   Grantee shall utilize existing poles, conduits and other facilities
whenever possible, but may construct or install new, different, or additional
poles, conduits, or other facilities whether on the public way or on privately
owned property with the written approval of the appropriate government
authority, and, if necessary the property owner. Such approval shall not be
unreasonably withheld by the governmental agency.
   (B)   All transmission lines, equipment and structures shall be so installed
and located as to cause minimum interference with the rights and appearance and
reasonable convenience of property owners who adjoin on any public way and at
all times shall be kept and maintained in a safe condition and in good order
and repair. The grantee shall at all times employ reasonable care and shall use
commonly accepted methods and devices for preventing failures and accidents
which are likely to cause damage, injuries or nuisances to the public.
   (C)   Grantee shall have the authority to trim trees on public property at
its own expense as may be necessary to protect its wires and facilities,
subject to the direction of the city or other appropriate governmental
authority. (Ord. 755, 8-9-2001)
8-9-22:   ACCESS TO PUBLIC AND PRIVATE PROPERTY:
   (A)   Grantee shall have the right to enter and have access to the property,
premises and easements of the city for purpose of installing cable TV service
or recovering and removing grantee's property and equipment when a subscriber's
service is terminated. The right of grantee to enter onto the property of a
subscriber shall be governed by the agreement between grantee and the
subscriber.
   (B)   The city shall not permit any person who owns or controls a
residential multiple unit dwelling, trailer park, condominium, apartment
complex, subdivision or other property to interfere with the right of any
tenant, resident or lawful occupant thereof to receive cable installation,
service or maintenance from grantee, except as federal or state law shall
otherwise require. (Ord. 755, 8-9-2001)
8-9-23:   NONDISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT:
The grantee shall neither refuse to hire nor discharge from employment nor
discriminate against any person in compensation, terms, conditions, or
privileges of employment because of age, sex, race, color, creed, or national
origin. The grantee shall ensure that employees are treated without regard to
their age, sex, race, color, creed or national origin. (Ord. 755, 8-9-2001)
8-9-24:   GRANTEE MAY ISSUE RULES:
The grantee shall have the authority to issue such rules, regulations, terms
and conditions of its business as shall be reasonably necessary to enable it to
exercise its rights and perform its services under this chapter and the rules
of the FCC, and to assure uninterrupted service to each and all of its
subscribers. Such rules and regulations shall not be deemed to have the force
of law. (Ord. 755, 8-9-2001)
8-9-25:   SEVERABILITY:
If any section of this chapter or the franchise, or any portion thereof, is
held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction or
administrative agency, such decision shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions of this chapter or franchise. (Ord. 755, 8-9-2001)
8-9-26:   EFFECTIVE DATE:
This chapter shall become effective upon the date of its adoption by the city.
Any failure by the city to follow proper procedures under state or local law in
adopting this chapter or granting a franchise shall not abrogate the rights or
obligations of either the grantee or the city under this chapter. If, following
adoption of this chapter it is subsequently determined that proper legal
procedures have not been followed by the city, it shall be the responsibility
of the city to rectify any procedural defects and ratify the terms of this
chapter. (Ord. 755, 8-9-2001)
CHAPTER 10
DRIVEWAYS
SECTION:
8-10-1: Definitions
8-10-2: Permit Required
8-10-3: Applications
8-10-4: Application Fee
8-10-5: Penalty
8-10-1:   DEFINITIONS:
The word "person" shall mean any person, firm, copartnership, corporation,
association or group of individuals acting as a unit. (Ord. 461, 5-2-1983)
8-10-2:   PERMIT REQUIRED:
No person shall construct a driveway connecting to a public street or way
without a permit therefor issued by the director of public works. (Ord. 877, 8-
8-2010)
8-10-3:   APPLICATIONS:
Application for a driveway permit shall be made to the director of public works
upon forms to be provided by the director of public works. The application
shall show such information as shall be from time to time required by the
director of public works. (Ord. 877, 8-8-2010)
8-10-4:   APPLICATION FEE:
The fee hereby imposed and hereby required will be adopted by resolution of the
city council. (Ord. 877, 8-8-2010)
8-10-5:   PENALTY:
Any person who wilfully violates this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor,
and upon conviction, shall be fined not more than three hundred dollars
($300.00), or imprisoned for not more than thirty (30) days in the county jail
or by both such fine and imprisonment. (Ord. 461, 5-2-1983)
CHAPTER 11
HISTORIC PRESERVATION
(Rep. by Ord. 686, 10-26-1995)
CHAPTER 12
EXCAVATIONS
SECTION:
8-12-1: Declaration Of Policy And Purpose
8-12-2: Permit Required
8-12-3: Applications
8-12-4: Bond
8-12-5: Supervision And Responsibility
8-12-6: General Specifications
8-12-7: Standard Specifications For Excavations
8-12-8: Penalties
8-12-1:   DECLARATION OF POLICY AND PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide certain minimum standards and
requirements to safeguard life or limb, health, property and public welfare by
establishing general standards by which to regulate and govern the excavation,
cutting, ditching, digging, trenching or tunneling in, upon or under any
street, alley, sidewalk, or other public rights of way or public improvements
within the corporate limits of the city, and by which to regulate and govern
the obstruction, disturbance or interference with the surfaces or subsurfaces
of any street, alley, sidewalk, or public rights of way or public improvements
within the corporate limits of the city. (Ord. 531-A, 6-23-1988)
8-12-2:   PERMIT REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to excavate, cut, ditch, dig, trench or
tunnel in, upon or under any street, alley, sidewalk or other public rights of
way or public improvements or in any way obstruct, disturb or interfere with
the surfaces or subsurfaces of any street, alley, sidewalk or public rights of
way or public improvements within the corporate limits of the city without
first having obtained a permit and paying the required fees as adopted by
resolution of the city council. (Ord. 753, 5-9-2002)
8-12-3:   APPLICATIONS:
Applications for such permits shall be made in writing to the director of
public works, and each application shall describe the kind of work to be done,
the location of the intended excavation, cutting, ditching, digging, trenching
or tunneling, the size thereof, the purpose therefor, the time when such work
shall begin, the time when such work shall be completed, and the person doing
the actual excavating work and the name of the person for whom the work is
being done. Each permit issued shall contain the foregoing information together
with an agreement that the applicant will comply with all the provisions of
this chapter, all other laws relating to the work to be done and will not
violate the terms and conditions of such permit. The terms and conditions of
such permit and the work authorized to be done shall not be altered or varied
without the prior written approval of the director of public works. (Ord. 753,
5-9-2002)
8-12-4:   BOND:
No permit shall be issued unless and until the applicant therefor has filed
with the department of public works the following:
   (A)   A surety bond issued by an insurance company authorized to do business
in the state of Idaho, conditioned to insure the proper restoration of the
surface and subsurface of any street, alley, sidewalk or other public rights of
way or public improvements and to indemnify the city for any expense for
restoring the surface and subsurface of any street, alley, sidewalk, or other
public rights of way or public improvements, provided, in the discretion of the
director of public works, in lieu of said bond a cash deposit may be made in a
sum of money sufficient to cover the cost of repairing or restoring the surface
and subsurface of any street, alley, sidewalk or other public right of way or
public improvements; and all bonds shall be kept and maintained in force and
effect for at least one year in amounts determined by the director of public
works in accordance with the scope of the work contemplated; and
   (B)   A public liability insurance policy, or a certificate of liability
insurance providing limits for property damage and personal injuries in amounts
determined adequate by the director of public works in accordance with the
scope of the work contemplated, insuring the city and by which to indemnify and
save and hold harmless the city from any and all claims, demands, actions, and
damages which may arise on account of injuries to persons or properties caused
by or related to the work authorized to be done pursuant to a permit.
8-12-5:   SUPERVISION AND RESPONSIBILITY:
The Director of Public Works shall from time to time inspect or cause to be
inspected all excavations, cuts, ditches, trenches or tunnels made in, upon or
under any street, alley, sidewalk or other public rights of way or public
improvements in order to ascertain compliance with the provisions of this
Chapter and the permit granted hereunder. The Director of Public Works is
charged with the responsibility of supervision, inspection and enforcement of
the provisions of this Chapter.
8-12-6:   GENERAL SPECIFICATIONS:
The following general specifications will control ordinary conduct or procedure
of all persons during work in, upon and under streets, alleys, sidewalks or
other public rights of way or public improvements:
   (A)   All persons doing work in, upon or under any street, alley, sidewalk
or other public rights of way shall use proper equipment and qualified help in
the performance of the work authorized and permitted to be done.
   (B)   All trenches shall be worked eight (8) hours per working day until
completed, weather permitting.
   (C)   Graveled roads, alleys and shoulders shall be left with a minimum of
three inches (3") of three-quarter inch (3/4") maximum crushed gravel leveled
to the existing grade.
   (D)   All utilities shall be laid in as straight a line as possible,
parallel to adjacent property lines and/or within eighteen inches (18") of any
existing utility line, so that future work in the right of way will not
endanger any utility.
   (E)   All work being done in the public right of way shall be provided with
proper signs, barricades, and lighting of the work at all times to provide
safety for the traveling public, pedestrians and for protection of private
property.
   (F)   Except when street closures are permitted under the provisions of this
Chapter, all persons doing work in the public right of way shall keep all areas
within the project clean for public travel and shall keep private property free
of work debris. When the work is completed, any person doing the work shall be
responsible to clean the project limits to a condition as good or better than
that prior to the work and to the satisfaction of the Director of Public Works.
   (G)   All persons doing work in, upon or under any street, alley, sidewalk
or other public rights of way shall notify the Director of Public Works of
their anticipated daily work schedule at the beginning of each day.
   (H)   No street, alley, sidewalk or other public rights of way shall be
closed to public use by any person except by express permission of the Director
of Public Works. The permittee shall at all times conduct its work to assure
the least possible obstruction within the public right of way, and said work
shall be protected by approved signs, barricades and lighting where necessary
for the safety of the traveling public and private property. The failure of the
Director of Public Works to notify such permittee to maintain good safety
practices will not relieve said permittee of its responsibilities.
   (I)   The permittee shall notify the Director of Public Works, the Police
Department and the Fire Department of the closure and reopening to public
travel of any street, alley, sidewalk or other public rights of way.
8-12-7:   STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS FOR EXCAVATIONS:
The following standard specifications or requirements for excavations, cuts,
ditches, trenches, or tunnels in, upon or under any street, alley, sidewalk or
other public rights of way will govern all work to be done in, upon or under
the traveled areas within such streets, alleys, sidewalks or other public
rights of way. The term "traveled areas" means both paved, graveled and dirt
surfaces, including shoulders and driveways.
   (A)   Trenches shall be wide enough to carry on the work in a safe,
workmanlike manner and of a width adequate to provide proper compaction. Space
shall be provided to permit mechanical tamping on each side of the pipes or
conduits that are greater than four inches (4") O.D.
   (B)   All paving, whether concrete or bituminous surfaces, in the public
right of way shall be cut in neat, straight lines with either a pavement cutter
or a wheel attached to a motor grader. Hydrahammer cuts will not be permitted.
Equipment with cleated tracks, grouser or tire chains will be permitted only in
unpaved areas. Backhoe stabilizers must be equipped with rubber pads when being
used on paved areas.
   (C)   Minimum depth for any utility shall be thirty inches (30") of coverage
except on primary highways which shall be thirty six inches (36") or as
required by the authority having jurisdiction over such primary highway.
   (D)   Boring, following customary and accepted practices, will be allowed if
the bore diameter is not more than two inches (2") greater than the pipe or
conduit to be installed.
   (E)   Excavated materials that have poor compaction characteristics and/or
any broken paving or concrete or chunks of frozen ground shall not be placed in
the trench as backfill material.
   (F)   Tunneling will be permitted in the manner as prescribed and authorized
by the Director of Public Works. In the event that the back of the tunnel
should cave before backfill is completed, the surface shall be removed and the
tunnel backfilled as an open trench.
   (G)   Plow installation of direct burial cable will be allowed only by
written permission of the Director of Public Works or his representative.
   (H)   Where additional backfill materials are required, all trenches and
cuts shall be backfilled with clean, well-graded, pit-run gravel, or with
crushed gravel. Crushed gravel shall meet the requirements of section 401-04 of
the Idaho Department of Highways Specifications for three-quarter inch (3/4")
maximum size. There shall be a minimum of eight inches (8") of crushed gravel
below the lower surface of the pavement patch.
   (I)   All backfill material within paved or traveled areas shall be
backfilled to ninety five percent (95%) of maximum density as determined by the
Standard Proctor Method, American Association of Highway Officials,
Specification T-99. Additional water shall be added to backfill material if
necessary to obtain the maximum compaction.
   (J)   Backfill shall be placed and properly compacted. A lift of not to
exceed ten inches (10") will be allowed for compaction by pogo stick or wacker
type equipment. A lift of not to exceed twenty four inches (24") will be
allowed for hydrahammer type equipment. Hydrahammer equipment shall not be used
in areas where vibration will cause damage to other underground utilities.
   (K)   All backfill is to be compacted to the full depth of the trench and
then excavated to the proper depth for patching unless patching is performed
immediately behind compaction and on the same day of backfilling.
   (L)   In gravel right of way, existing gravel may be reused with the
permission of the Director of Public Works or his representative if the gravel
is kept free of dirt and debris.
   (M)   Water settling of backfill in trenches under traveled way of arterial
streets or in other locations where immediate restoration of traffic is
necessary will be allowed only by written permission of the Director of Public
Works. Where utilized, procedures for water settling shall be consistent with
recognized construction practice for the materials and conditions involved.
   (N)   Prior to replacement of pavement over trenches, edges of the existing
pavement shall be trimmed to uniform straight lines and all edges shall be
uniformly supported on firm base material, and shall be sufficiently clean to
assure proper bond of prime coat. The patch shall be neither unsightly nor
higher nor lower than the surrounding pavement.
   (O)   A prime coat of tack oil shall be applied to the edges and to prepared
trench surface as well as approximately three inches (3") back on the existing
paving. All bonding edges shall be kept clean for maximum bonding and
thoroughly wetted by the tack oil. The prime oil may consist of SS-1 emulsion
oil diluted with an equal quantity of water and applied at the rate of one-
tenth (0.10) gallon per square yard.
   (P)   Trenches shall be patched with hot asphaltic concrete when air
temperature is above sixty degrees (60o) Fahrenheit. Cold patches in all high
type paving shall be removed and replaced with hot asphaltic concrete. Cold mix
patches that have been placed in the streets, alleys, sidewalks or other public
rights of way with armor coated or rood mixing paving, if inspection proves
them to be good, will not need to be replaced if they are seal coated following
recognized seal coating practices. All patches placed in all designated
arterial streets shall be a minimum of three inches (3") in depth. All other
patches shall be a minimum of two inches (2") in depth. Paving with concrete
base existing shall be replaced in kind unless otherwise directed by the
Director of Public Works. Concrete shall be five (5) bag mix.
   (Q)   Trenches may be patched with hot asphaltic concrete in cold weather
provided the trenches are heated with the proper type equipment and the proper
means taken to keep the mix hot before being placed and applied.
   (R)   All asphalt patches shall be free of water leakage.
   (S)   Temporary surfacing acceptable to the Director of Public Works or his
representative shall be placed the same day as backfill in those locations
where directed. Such temporary surfacing shall be maintained until the
permanent patch is placed.
   (T)   All trenches shall be patched within ten (10) days after backfill,
weather permitting, unless otherwise authorized by the Director of Public Works
or his representative.
8-12-8:   PENALTIES:
Any person, firm, partnership, corporation, association or combination or group
thereof who violates any provisions of this Ordinance shall be deemed guilty of
a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be punishable by a fine not
exceeding three hundred dollars ($300.00) or imprisonment in the County jail of
not more than thirty (30) days, or by both such fine and imprisonment. (Ord.
531-A, 6-23-88)
CHAPTER 13
PRIVATE GATHERINGS AT CITY PARKS
SECTION:
8-13-1: Declaration of Policy
8-13-2: Private Gathering Defined
8-13-3: Permit Required
8-13-4: Conditions for Issuance of Park Use Permit
8-13-5: Display of Permits
8-13-6: Exception to Open Container Ordinance (Rep. by Ord. 611, 6-25-92)
8-13-7: Restrictions on Service of Liquor
8-13-8: Penalty
8-13-9: Severability
8-13-1:   DECLARATION OF POLICY:
It is the policy of the City of McCall, Idaho, to permit the sale and
consumption of alcoholic beverages at private gatherings upon the public parks
of the City under the conditions hereinafter set forth. (Ord. 533, 6-16-88)
8-13-2:   PRIVATE GATHERING DEFINED:
Private gathering as used in this Chapter shall have the same meaning as set
out in Section
5-5-010 of this Code. (Ord. 680, 6-30-95)
8-13-3:   PERMIT REQUIRED:
No alcoholic beverages shall be sold or served at a private gathering without a
catering permit therefor. (Ord. 533, 6-16-88)
8-13-4:   CONDITIONS FOR ISSUANCE OF PARK USE PERMIT:
   (A)   A park use permit for a private gathering at which liquor shall be
sold or served shall only be issued to the holder of an Idaho retail liquor
license, herein called permittee.
   (B)   The permittee shall obtain a liquor catering permit from the City for
the private gathering.
   (C)   The permittee shall be responsible for the use and clean up of the
premises upon conclusion of the private gathering.
   (D)   The permittee shall carry liquor liability insurance coverage of at
least one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00).
   (E)   Conditions of issuance of the park use and permit fees and conditions
of use of the park shall be in conformance with the City of McCall Park/Beach
Reservations Systems adopted April 28, 1988, as the same now are and as may
hereafter be amended. Applications for park use permits shall be made to the
City Clerk.
   (F)   No alcoholic beverages may be sold or served at a private gathering in
a City park without the prior approval by the City Council of the issuance of a
park use permit and a liquor catering permit. (Ord. 533, 6-16-88)
8-13-5:   DISPLAY OF PERMITS:
Upon the request of any State, County or City law enforcement officer the
permittee shall display such park use permit and liquor catering permit. (Ord.
533, 6-16-88)
8-13-6:   EXCEPTION TO OPEN CONTAINER ORDINANCE:
(Rep. by Ord. 611, 6-25-92)
8-13-7:   RESTRICTIONS ON SERVICE OF LIQUOR:
All liquor or other alcoholic beverages shall be sold, served or dispensed by
the permittee, his agents, servants and employees. (Ord. 533, 6-16-88)
8-13-8:   PENALTY:
Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects, refuses to comply with, or
resists the enforcement of any of the provisions of this Chapter or the City of
McCall Park/Beach Reservations Systems as adopted by the City, shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall for each offense be
punished by a fine in any sum not exceeding three hundred dollars ($300.00) or
imprisonment for a term not exceeding ninety (90) days or by both such fine and
imprisonment. (Ord. 533, 6-16-88)
8-13-9:   SEVERABILITY:
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase or portion of this
Ordinance is for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of
competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and
independent provision, and such holding shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions hereof. (Ord. 533, 6-16-88)
CHAPTER 14
CITY PARKS AND PARK FACILITIES
SECTION:
8-14-1: Definitions
8-14-2: Liability Of The City
8-14-3: Preservation Of Public Property
8-14-4: Prohibited Uses
8-14-5: Noise
8-14-6: Water, Aircraft, And Watercraft Regulations
8-14-7: Park Operating Hours
8-14-8: Alcohol In City Parks
8-14-9: Penalties
8-14-1:   DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Ordinance, the terms defined in this Section shall have the
following meaning, unless the context clearly indicates another meaning:
FACILITIES: Any and all restrooms, appurtenant structures, buildings, utility
service pipes, poles, or lines, playground equipment, paved areas for vehicle
or pedestrian travel or parking, monuments, statuary, bridges, tables, benches,
fences, fireplaces or pits, permanent signs and boundary markers, landscaping
materials, trees, shrubbery, and flowers.
PARKS: Any and all land owned, leased, controlled or maintained by the City of
McCall for public recreational purposes, including beaches, docks, wharves,
piers, and open land and water. (Ord. 548, 5-11-1989)
8-14-2:   LIABILITY OF THE CITY:
The City of McCall is not responsible for damage to, or theft of personal
property of park and park facilities users within the boundaries of City parks
or park facilities. All areas and facilities within the parks and beaches
boundaries are used at the user's own risk. Swimming, park and playground areas
are active sites involving a variety of physical activities that may be
physically demanding or potentially dangerous to users. The City assumes no
responsibility or liability for such use or uses. (Ord. 548, 5-11-1989)
8-14-3:   PRESERVATION OF PUBLIC PROPERTY:
The following acts are hereby declared to be unlawful:
   (A)   Destruction Of Public Property: Destruction, injury, defacement,
removal or disturbance of any park or park facility is prohibited.
   (B)   Littering Prohibited:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person to dispose of, throw away, or leave
any empty container or other litter on any public park, grounds, or beaches
within the City; provided, however, that such empty container or other litter
may be deposited in receptacles provided especially for that purpose.
      2.   No person shall scatter or throw, distribute or affix upon any
public park or beach or public property or on a utility pole or standard or in
or on any vehicle while parked on such public property, any handbill, poster,
advertisement flyer, litter or paper. The provisions of this Section do not
interfere or prevent the posting of notices required by law to be posted.
   (C)   Digging: Digging holes in grassed areas, parking areas or landscaped
areas is prohibited.
   (D)   Disposal Of Household Garbage In Publicly Provided Containers
Prohibited: Disposing of household garbage or refuse in containers located in
public parks is prohibited.
   (E)   Fires: The use of fires is hereby restricted to fire pits, grills and
other fixtures designed for such use. All fires must be kept under control and
must be extinguished before leaving the park or beach. All parks and beaches
may be closed by the City Fire Chief to open fires. Open fires on sand beaches
are prohibited. (Ord. 548, 5-11-1989)
8-14-4:   PROHIBITED USES:
Common activities such as picnicking, swimming, walking, and game playing are
encouraged in the McCall city parks. The following uses are prohibited:
   (A)   Use Of Fireworks: No person shall discharge, fire, use or possess
fireworks of any kind within or over the boundaries of the park and beach area,
except as authorized under a special use permit issued by the McCall city
council pursuant to section
5-3-430 of this code.
   (B)   Motorized Vehicles: No snowmobile, motorcycle, scooter, automobile,
truck, golf cart, or similar recreational motor vehicle shall operate in city
parks except on designated roadways, properly marked and signed for traffic
uses, or in park parking areas. Motorized vehicles shall not be operated on
walkways, sidewalks or bicycle paths between April 15 and November 30 of each
year.
This action does not prohibit the official use of motorized vehicles or
machines by city employees anywhere within the parks or beaches. (Ord. 548, 5-
11-1989)
   (C)   Pets And Animals:
      1.   Domestic Animals: Domestic animals are not allowed within the
boundaries of city parks or park facilities except for: a) animals trained and
certified to assist and assisting a person with a disability; or b) except in
areas and under conditions specifically designated in writing by the parks and
recreation director, marked by signs to that effect, and only areas equipped
with the appropriate dispensers and receptacles for the sanitary disposal of
domestic animal feces.
All domestic animals permitted to be at a park or park facility under this
section must at all times be attended by an owner or other person in charge of
the animal, and be confined or controlled on a leash not longer than six feet
(6') in length; must not harass or annoy any other person or animal; and are
permitted off leash only in those areas so designated and intended for off
leash use.
No domestic animals are permitted to remain in or upon any beach or swimming
area except for certified assistance animals, or upon a beach or swimming area
which has been designated specifically for such use. Notwithstanding that there
may be designated areas for off leash use, all off leash domestic animals must
be under the direction and control of an owner or other person in charge, by
voice, whistle, or other off leash method of control.
All domestic animal feces must be promptly removed by the owner or person in
charge of the animal that defecated, and must be disposed of in a sanitary
manner. (Ord. 897, 4-26-2012)
      2.   Wildlife: Molesting, injuring, killing or disturbing any wild
creature or animal is strictly prohibited. This does not prohibit game fishing
as regulated by Idaho fish and game regulations.
   (D)   Overnight Parking And Camping: Overnight parking and camping at the
parks and beaches is prohibited. Police are authorized to cite, arrest, or
remove from premises any violators of this provision.
   (E)   Political And Sectarian Uses: Persons or groups attempting to
persuade, convert, cajole, or engage in activities common to political
campaigns who solicit the public or interfere with the public's quiet enjoyment
of parks and facilities is prohibited. (Ord. 548, 5-11-1989)
   (F)   Commercial Uses:
      1.   No person shall engage in any commercial activity in whole or in
part within city parks or facilities except as authorized by a concession
agreement or special use permit issued by the McCall city council, and also
except as specifically authorized by this subsection.
      2.   No commercial aircraft, amphibious craft, or watercraft may under
any circumstances be moored unattended at a city dock, except where a
concession agreement with the owner of the same is in force and provides for
such moorage.
      3.   Commercial aircraft, amphibious craft, or watercraft operators may
pick up or drop off passengers at the southerly face of the southernmost dock
at the municipal boat launching ramp near the west end of Fir Street, for that
purpose remaining moored for not exceeding twenty (20) minutes at a time, but
only under an agreement with the city providing among other things a hold
harmless agreement and insurance in favor of the city.
      4.   Persons renting or selling watercraft who are making delivery of the
same to a customer may do so at such municipal boat launching ramp.
      5.   When an aircraft, amphibious craft, or watercraft is found in
violation of these provisions, the same may be impounded by the police and held
as evidence until disposition in court, and the owner cited.
      6.   "Commercial" as used in this chapter when used with use or activity
means of or connected with commerce or trade, and includes, without limitation,
an exchange of goods or services for money, or the solicitation of such an
exchange, whether the exchange is to occur presently or in the future, and
whether the exchange is permanent or only for a period of time. Without
limiting the generality of the foregoing, commercial use includes:
         (a)   Aircraft, amphibious craft, or watercraft, for hire, picking up
or dropping off passengers.
         (b)   Purchase or sale or rental of goods, or delivery of purchased,
sold or rented goods.
         (c)   Soliciting the purchase, sale or rental of goods or services,
whether verbally or by means of signs or banners, or other advertising device.
      7.   "Park" as used in this chapter means any place so designated by the
city. Where such park is adjacent to waters, the term includes any dock or
other structure or natural feature extending above the water, between the
water's edge and the furthest extremity of the water safety zone established in
title 5, chapter 6 of this code.
      8.   "Goods" as used in this chapter has the same meaning as that term in
the uniform commercial code as adopted in Idaho, broadened to include
identification to a contract for rental and to a contract for purchase. (Ord.
703, 10-24-1996)
   (G)   Firearms: No person shall discharge firearms or any other projectile
firing device within or over the boundaries of city parks.
   (H)   Dangerous Games: No person shall take part in or abet the playing of
any games involving thrown or otherwise propelled dangerous objects such as
stones, arrows or javelins, except in areas set apart for such forms of
recreation. Golfing or driving golf balls is prohibited. (Ord. 548, 5-11-1989)
   (I)   Other Prohibited Activities In Parks And Park Facilities:
      1.   Begging or soliciting for any purpose.
      2.   Gambling or operating games of chance or gaming devices.
      3.   Abandoning property.
      4.   Posting handbills, circulars, posters, or signs advertising any
thing or event.
      5.   Promoting any thing or event by carrying a sign, distributing
brochures, leaflets, pamphlets and the like.
      6.   Using a skateboard within Legacy Park, Art Roberts Park, or Mill
Park; or within any other city park where posted with signs advising of this
regulation.
      7.   Behaving in a loud and boisterous manner. In the event that a police
officer determines that a person or group of persons in a park is behaving in a
loud and boisterous manner which would be annoying to other persons or deter
other persons from entering or remaining in the park, the officer may request
such person or group of persons to leave the park and not return; a failure of
such person or persons to honor that request and to leave the park shall
constitute disorderly conduct under subsection
5-5-030(A) of this code. No person who has been so convicted of disorderly
conduct may within one year thereafter apply for a park reservation under
subsection
8-14-7(B) of this chapter.
      8.   Smoking is prohibited in all city parks within the city of McCall
except in areas and under conditions specifically designated in writing by the
parks and recreation director, marked by signs to that effect, and only in
areas equipped with the appropriate dispensers and receptacles for the sanitary
disposal of cigarettes. (Ord. 889, 6-9-2011)
8-14-5:   NOISE:
Production of noise by human voice, live, recorded, transcribed or transmitted
music, exhaust systems of motor vehicles, operation of machinery or equipment
in excess of sixty two (62) decibels measured at a distance of twenty feet
(20') within any park or park facility is prohibited.
   (A)   Exemptions: The following shall be exempted from the provisions of
this section:
      1.   Sound emitted from sirens of authorized emergency vehicles.
      2.   Lawn mowers, garden tractors, and similar power tools when properly
muffled, between the hours of seven thirty o'clock (7:30) A.M. and ten o'clock
(10:00) P.M.
      3.   Parades, concerts, festivals or events, between the hours of eight
o'clock (8:00) A.M. and twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight, Sunday through
Thursday; and between eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and one o'clock (1:00) A.M.
Friday through Saturday, so long as parade, concert, festival or event is
approved by the mayor and city council.
      4.   Attendant noise connected with the actual performance of athletic or
sporting events and practices related to them.
      5.   The emission of sound for the purposes of alerting persons to the
existence of an emergency, or for the performance of emergency work.
      6.   Sounds associated with normal conduct of a legally established
nontransient business when such sounds are customary, incidental and within the
normal range appropriate for such use.
      7.   In the case of motor vehicles, where the noise is the result of a
defective or modified exhaust system, if the cause is repaired or otherwise
remedied within seven (7) calendar days. (Ord. 743, 9-14-2000)
8-14-6:   WATER, AIRCRAFT, AND WATERCRAFT REGULATIONS:
Fishing, boating and swimming are incompatible activities. McCall city parks
are best suited to swimming activities, therefore:
   (A)   When uses are contested, rights of swimmers shall be paramount and
other uses shall yield to the needs for safety and preservation of swimming
use.
   (B)   No aircraft, amphibious craft or watercraft, motorized or otherwise,
shall be beached or docked within a city park or at park facilities except that
watercraft may be beached or docked at locations specifically designated and
signed for such use. No aircraft shall be operated within, nor one hundred feet
(100') or less, above the water safety zone waterward of a city park. No
aircraft, amphibious craft, or watercraft may be moored to a city dock that is
marked for use by specific agencies only.
   (C)   No watercraft, motorized or otherwise, shall be permitted or operated
at any time within the confines of a designated and marked swimming area.
   (D)   Privately owned noncommercial watercraft docking at a city wharf or
pier or beached at a city park shall not be there longer than six (6) hours
during any twelve (12) hour period, unless prior thereto the owner has obtained
from the city and exhibits in a visible location on the watercraft a permit for
such docking or beaching. Permits for overlong docking or beaching may be
issued by the city manager upon favorable recommendation of the parks and
recreation advisory committee for special events and in the public interest.
   (E)   Waterskiing to or from a city wharf or pier is prohibited.
   (F)   Fishing is permitted from city wharves or piers except into designated
and marked swimming areas.
   (G)   Swimming is permitted from any park or park facility unless
specifically prohibited and posted.
   (H)   Swimming from city parks or facilities shall be at the risk of the
swimmer. No lifeguards shall be on duty.
   (I)   Notwithstanding subsections (A) through (H) of this section, at times
other than from September 20 until May 10 of the following year, inclusive, and
on days requested by the Idaho fish and game department or appropriate outdoor
group with prior notice and approval of the city clerk, it shall be unlawful to
fish or waterski at any time from city docks with fish rearing net pens
attached.
Docks with fish rearing net pens attached shall be posted with signs at the
entrance thereto with the regulations above set forth appearing thereon as
follows:
NO FISHING ALLOWED FROM MAY 10TH TO SEPTEMBER 20TH
NO WATER SKIING ALLOWED
Section
8-14-6(I) of the McCall City Code.
   (Ord. 740, 7-27-2000)
8-14-7:   PARK OPERATING HOURS:
   (A)   Hours Of Operation: City parks shall be open from six o'clock (6:00)
A.M. to eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. daily, except that Harshman Skatepark and
Davis Beach which shall be open from sunrise until one-half (1/2) hour after
sunset. No person shall be or remain in a park when the park is not open except
in the course and scope of employment by the city or by a law enforcement
agency. (Ord. 854, 3-27-2008)
   (B)   Park Reservations And Closures:
      1.   Reservations: Special prior reservations for exclusive day use of a
certain portion of any city park may be made with the city clerk who shall
provide forms for such applications. The city may from time to time adopt
regulations concerning fees, types of events, procedures, and additional rules
for such uses as may be necessary or desirable.
      2.   Closed Areas: Any section or part of any park may be declared closed
to the public by the city council or its duly authorized representative at any
time and for any interval of time, either temporarily or at regularly and
stated intervals (daily or otherwise) and either closed entirely or closed to
specifically defined uses as the city council or its duly authorized
representative shall find reasonably necessary. (Ord. 556, 7-27-1989)
8-14-8:   ALCOHOL IN CITY PARKS:
Possession, use, and consumption of "alcoholic beverages", and of "open
containers", as both those terms are defined in subsection
5-5-030(F) of this code, at city parks and park facilities are governed by the
following rules:
   (A)   All such beverages are prohibited in Harshman Skatepark at all times,
and at all other parks when those parks are closed.
   (B)   Unless otherwise expanded or limited by resolution of the McCall City
Council, the possession and/or consumption of alcoholic beverages is prohibited
in City parks adjacent to Payette Lake from eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. on July 3
through eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. July 5 of each year. Signs will be posted in
each park announcing the restrictions at least twenty-four (24) hours in
advance of the beginning of any period of such restrictions.
   (C)   Except as provided in subsections (A) and (B) of this section, beer
and wine are permitted in parks except Harshman Skatepark (where no alcoholic
beverages are allowed), during open hours, provided that possession of kegs,
pony kegs, and party balls are prohibited without a prior approved park
reservation issued under subsection
8-14-7(B) of this chapter after consultation with the chief of police.
   (D)   Other alcoholic beverages shall be permitted only with a prior
approved park reservation issued under subsection
8-14-7(B) of this chapter after consultation with the police chief.
   (E)   Nothing herein shall be construed to authorize possession of alcohol
by a person not yet twenty one (21) years of age. (Ord. 942, 4-14-2016; amd.
Ord. 1016, 5-11-2023)
8-14-9:   PENALTIES:
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be punished by a fine not to
exceed three hundred dollars ($300.00) or by imprisonment in the county jail
not to exceed six (6) months, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
   (B)   The above penalty shall not prevent the city from filing a civil claim
against a violator to recover for damages to parks and park facilities.
   (C)   No fees, deposits, or charges paid by any user shall be refunded if
such user is convicted of a violation of any provision of this chapter. (Ord.
548, 5-11-1989)
CHAPTER 15
McCALL GOLF COURSE
SECTION:
8.15.1: McCall Golf Course, Unlawful Acts
8.15.2: Golf Season Pass Policy
8.15.3: McCall Golf Course Rain Check Policy
8.15.4: Penalty
8.15.1: McCALL GOLF COURSE, UNLAWFUL ACTS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to do or perform any of the following acts
on the premises known and designated as the McCall Municipal Golf Course:
   (A)   Permitting, causing or allowing a dog to be thereon, except when the
golf course is closed November 15 through May 15 provided the animal is in
compliance with subsection
8-14-4(C) of this title;
   (B)   Jogging, except when the golf course is closed November 15 through May
15;
   (C)   Bicycling, except when the golf course is closed November 15 through
May 15;
   (D)   Allowing, causing or permitting a child under the age of ten (10)
years to play golf except any such child playing golf with his or her separate
set of golf clubs and accompanied at all times by an adult person;
   (E)   Operating or parking a snowmobile thereon;
   (F)   Operating or parking a motor vehicle thereon, except a City employee
performing upkeep and maintenance duties upon such golf course;
   (G)   Walking upon the golf course except as a participant in play or except
when conducting oneself in an orderly and quiet fashion as part of the gallery
at a competitive golf event or except as a golf course employee and within the
scope of employment or except when the golf course is closed November 15
through May 15;
   (H)   Whenever the Golf Course Superintendent, or his designee, for the
protection of the course has determined that an activity, otherwise permitted
herein, is damaging to the course, the Superintendent, or his designee, shall
be permitted to stop the damaging activity and prohibit persons from engaging
in the same.
Nothing herein contained shall be construed to prohibit the use and operation
of golf carts for the playing of golf on the McCall Municipal Golf Course.
(Ord. 954, 1-12-2017)
8.15.2: GOLF SEASON PASS POLICY:
   (A)   Definitions: As used in this section, the terms defined in this
subsection shall have the following meanings, unless the context clearly
indicates another meaning:
    PERSON: One (1) individual.
   ROLLOVER: The extension of a seasonal pass into the following year.
   SEASON PASS: A nontransferable pass purchased by an individual for a single
golf season. The pass is used in lieu of paying daily greens fees at the City
Golf Course.
   (B)   Medical Rollover Policy: The McCall Golf Course will roll over a
season pass to the following year for verified medical reasons only. A letter
from the pass holder's licensed primary medical provider must be submitted to
the City of McCall as verification of a medical condition which precluded the
use of the pass. In order to qualify for a rollover, the season pass must not
have been used prior to the request for rollover. No refunds will be given and
the season pass rollover is not transferable. (Ord. 954, 1-12-2017)
8.15.3: McCALL GOLF COURSE RAIN CHECK POLICY:
In the event that the Golf Course Superintendent determines that the course is
unplayable due to inclement weather or play is suspended due to hazardous
conditions (storms-lightning) rain checks may be issued upon request as
follows:
   (A)   The golfer may elect to wait to see if the course re-opens or request
a rain check.
      1.   Five (5) or less holes played: 18-hole rain check.
      2.   Six (6) to thirteen (13) holes played: 9-hole rain check.
      3.   Over thirteen (13) holes played: No rain check.
   (B)   Rain checks will be issued for green fees only.
   (C)   Rain checks only, no cash or credit card refunds.
   (D)   No rain checks will be issued for golfers paying for 9-hole greens
fees regardless of how many holes have been played when play is stopped.
   (E)   No rain checks will be issued for after five o'clock (5:00) P.M.
golfers. (Ord. 954, 1-12-2017)
8.15.4: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be punished by a fine not to
exceed three hundred dollars ($300.00) or by imprisonment in the County Jail
not to exceed six (6) months, or by both such fine and imprisonment. (Ord. 954,
1-12-2017)
CHAPTER 16
AIRPORT RULES AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8.16.1: Definitions
8.16.2: Airport Rules; General
8.16.3: Ground Rules
8.16.4: Taxiing Rules
8.16.5: Landing And Takeoff Rules
8.16.6: Airport Fire Regulations
8.16.7: Fees
8.16.8: Use Of Hangars; Environmental
8.16.9: Penalties
8.16.1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless otherwise expressly stated, the following terms shall, for the purpose
of these rules and regulations, have the meanings herein indicated:
AIR OPERATIONS AREA (AOA): That portion of the airport designed and used for
landing, taking off, or surface maneuvering of airplanes together with the
required clear areas.
AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (ATC): A facility operated by the FAA for air/ground
communications, which provides air traffic control services to aircraft
operations on or in the vicinity of the airport on a temporary basis, usually
during fire season.
AIRCRAFT: Any and all contrivances now known or hereafter designed, invented,
or used for navigation or flight in the air.
AIRMAN: A gender neutral term for a civilian or military pilot, aviator, or
aviation technician.
AIRPORT: The McCall Municipal Airport and all of the property, buildings,
facilities and improvements within the exterior boundaries of such airport as
it now exists on the Airport Layout Plan or as it may hereafter be extended,
enlarged or modified.
AIRPORT ADVISORY COMMITTEE: The Advisory Committee of five (5) people appointed
by the Mayor and confirmed by City Council.
AIRPORT MANAGER: The duly appointed Airport Manager of McCall Municipal
Airport, appointed by the City Manager and confirmed by City Council.
AUTO GAS: Any fuel designed and manufactured to be used in automobiles, as
opposed to "AVGAS", which is designed and manufactured to be used in aircraft.
CITY: The City of McCall, Idaho, a municipal corporation located in Valley
County, Idaho.
COUNCIL: The City Council of McCall, Idaho.
ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS: All Federal, State, and local laws relating to
environmental matters.
FAA: Federal Aviation Administration.
FAR: Federal Aviation Regulation.
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS: Any material as defined in applicable Federal, State, and
local environmental laws.
LARGE AIRCRAFT: Aircraft with a certificated gross weight in excess of twelve
thousand five hundred (12,500) pounds.
McCALL CITY CODE: The Code and ordinances of the City of McCall from time to
time amended.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Any self-propelled vehicle other than aircraft.
MOVEMENT AREA: The runways, taxiways, and other areas of an airport which are
used for taxiing or hover taxiing, air taxiing, takeoff, and landing of
aircraft, exclusive of loading ramps and aircraft parking areas.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, copartnership, corporation, company, association,
joint stock association, or body politic; and includes any trustee, receiver,
assignee, or any similar representative thereof.
RSA: Runway safety area.
RAMP: An area designated as an apron or ramp, and used for the parking and
maneuvering, loading and unloading, and servicing of aircraft.
SUPPLEMENTAL TYPE CERTIFICATE (STC): An approved modification to an FAA
certificated aircraft.
TSA: Transportation Security Administration.
UAS: Unmanned aircraft system, popularly referred to as drones.
VEHICLE: Any device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may be
transported. (Ord. 949, 9-8-2016)
8.16.2: AIRPORT RULES; GENERAL:
   (A)   All aeronautical activities at the McCall Municipal Airport, and all
flying of aircraft departing from or arriving at the airport, shall be
conducted in conformity with the current pertinent provisions of the Federal
Air Regulations (FARs) promulgated by the Federal Aviation Administration
(FAA).
   (B)   The Airport Manager may suspend or restrict any or all operations
without regard to weather conditions whenever such action is deemed necessary
for reasons of safety.
   (C)   The Airport Manager shall at all times have authority to take such
actions as may be necessary to safeguard the public in attendance at the
airport. Every pilot, mechanic or other person employed at or using the airport
shall cooperate with the airport management to see that all persons upon the
premises abide by these rules and use due care and caution to prevent injury to
persons or damage to property.
   (D)   Instructors shall fully acquaint their students with these rules and
shall be responsible for the conduct of students under their direction during
the dual instruction. When a student is flying solo, it shall be his/her sole
responsibility to observe and abide by these rules.
   (E)   Landing and takeoff rules are voluntary, but pilots are highly
encouraged to follow these rules to improve safety, reduce noise and
congestion, and enhance the aviation community's relations with the surrounding
community.
   (F)   UAS operations shall be conducted in accordance with current FAA
policy. (Ord. 949, 9-8-2016)
8.16.3: GROUND RULES:
   (A)   Aircraft engines shall be started or warmed up so as not to endanger
life or property. At no time shall engines be operated at power greater than
necessary to move the aircraft when hangars, shops, other buildings, or persons
in the observation area, are in the path of the propeller stream or jet blast.
When aircraft engines are started, a competent operator shall be at all times
at the controls.
   (B)   Auxiliary power units (APUs) are not to be started until thirty (30)
minutes prior to planned takeoff time. APUs operating beyond thirty (30)
minutes are subject to a noise reduction/energy conservation/air quality fee to
be set by resolution of the City Council.
   (C)   Aircraft shall be parked only in areas and in the manner designated by
the Airport Manager.
   (D)   All repairs to aircraft or engines, except emergency repairs, shall be
made in the spaces designated for this purpose, and not in the area reserved
for landing and taking off.
   (E)   Only airmen, authorized personnel, or persons being conducted by
airmen or airport attendants shall be permitted to enter the landing areas,
aircraft parking ramps and taxiways. This does not give these persons the
privilege of unrestricted use of this space. These privileges are confined to
the necessary use of this space in connection with flights, inspections or
routine duties.
   (F)   Aircraft shall be properly blocked and tied down by the owner or
operator when parked for overnight or when conditions otherwise warrant.
   (G)   No motor vehicle shall be driven onto the runway safety area (runway)
without the expressed permission of the Airport Manager or his designated
representative. Fuel trucks and emergency vehicles are authorized. Operators of
ground vehicles desiring access to the RSA shall carry a radio equipped to
transmit and receive on 122.8 MHz (the common traffic advisory frequency
[CTAF]), shall announce their intentions prior to entering the runway
environment, and shall monitor CTAF continuously while within the runway
environment.
   (H)   No automobile shall be parked on the airport property except in areas
designated for that purpose by the Airport Manager.
Any vehicle parked in an area other than as herein provided shall be deemed to
be involved in an extraordinary circumstance and a threat to public safety and
the same shall immediately be towed away and impounded under the direction of
the McCall Police Department. All costs of towing, impounding and storage shall
be paid prior to redemption of any such vehicle, as provided by chapter 18,
title 49, Idaho Code, which chapter is hereby adopted by this reference.
Operators of vehicles crossing the taxiway adjacent to the tie down area shall
exercise due caution and must give way to all aircraft.
   (I)   Vehicle parking areas at the airport are intended for airport users
only. Commercial truck and bus parking not related to airport use is
prohibited.
   (J)   The Airport Manager may grant restricted access to the area inside the
airport boundary fence for various reasons. Access privileges are confined to
the times and areas required for the purpose access was granted.
   (K)   Fixed wing and helicopter operators with support vehicles must receive
approval from the Airport Manager for staging and parking locations prior to
leaving vehicles or aircraft unattended. (Ord. 949, 9-8-2016)
8.16.4: TAXIING RULES:
   (A)   No person shall taxi an aircraft to or from the hangar line or to or
from an approved parking space until he has ascertained that there will be no
danger of collision with any person or object in the immediate area by visual
inspection of the area and, when available, through information furnished by
airport attendants.
   (B)   Aircraft shall be taxied at a safe and reasonable speed.
   (C)   Aircraft not equipped with adequate brakes shall not be taxied near
buildings or parked aircraft unless an attendant is at a wing of the aircraft
to assist the pilot.
   (D)   Runups shall be done in a manner and at a location so as not to delay
or endanger other aircraft. Runups on the north ramp should be done with
aircraft facing north, wind permitting. Maintenance runups should occur between
eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. (Ord. 882, 11-4-2010)
8.16.5: LANDING AND TAKEOFF RULES:
Landing and takeoff rules are voluntary but compliance is encouraged.
   (A)   Landings and takeoffs shall be made directly into the wind or on the
runway or landing strip most nearly aligned with the wind except when winds are
light. Winds of less than five (5) miles per hour are considered light. Except
when wind dictates otherwise, takeoffs to the south, Runway 16 is the
established protocol, with landing to the north on Runway 34 the established
protocol.
Traffic pattern altitude is six thousand feet (6,000') MSL.
   (B)   No landing or takeoff shall be made except at a safe distance from
buildings and aircraft.
   (C)   Runway 16 departures: All aircraft should climb on runway heading to
at least five thousand five hundred feet (5,500') MSL prior to any turns.
Runway 34 departures: Piston aircraft should make a left turn as soon as safety
permits to avoid residential areas; turbine aircraft should climb on runway
heading to Payette Lake shoreline prior to any turns.
Do not operate at high RPM and high power settings at low altitude, unless
required for safe operation.
   (D)   Unless a control tower is in operation, fixed wing aircraft taking off
or landing, or flying in the traffic pattern at the McCall Airport, shall use
the standard left hand traffic pattern.
   (E)   VFR "straight in" landings are permitted, traffic permitting.
   (F)   Helicopters shall avoid the flow of fixed wing aircraft.
   (G)   All radio equipped aircraft shall monitor the common traffic advisory
frequency (CTAF-formerly called UNICOM), 122.8 MHz and announce intentions to
use the runway, unless an air traffic control tower (ATCT) is in operation and
then shall follow the instructions of ATCT.
   (H)   When preparing for takeoff, aircraft on the ground shall yield to all
aircraft beginning final landing approach.
   (I)   Wind permitting, use Runway 16 for touch and go landings. Pilots
making touch and go landings must ensure safe spacing from other aircraft.
   (J)   Operations from eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. until six o'clock (6:00)
A.M. are discouraged, and operations from six o'clock (6:00) A.M. until seven
o'clock (7:00) A.M. should be minimized. Touch and go operations should be
avoided before eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and after seven o'clock (7:00) P.M.
   (K)   Avoid low altitude flying over populated areas, maintaining traffic
pattern altitude as long as practicable, flying at or above the VASIs or PAPIs.
(Ord. 882, 11-4-2010)
8.16.6: AIRPORT FIRE REGULATIONS:
   (A)   Responsibility: All persons using in any way the airport area or the
facilities of the airport shall exercise the utmost care to guard against fire
and injury to persons and property.
   (B)   Material Storage: No person shall store material or equipment in such
a manner as to constitute a fire hazard.
   (C)   Disabled Aircraft: Any owner, lessee, operator, or other person having
the control, or the right of control, of any disabled aircraft on the airport
shall be responsible for the prompt removal and disposal thereof, and any and
all parts thereof, subject, however, to any requirements or direction by the
National Transportation Safety Board, the Federal Aviation Administration, or
the Airport Manager that such removal or disposal be delayed pending an
investigation of an accident. Any owner, lessee, operator or other person
having control, or the right of control, of any aircraft does, by use of the
airport, agree and consent, notwithstanding any provision in any agreement,
lease, permit or other instrument to the contrary, that the Airport Manager may
take any and all necessary action to effect the prompt removal or disposal of
disabled aircraft that obstruct any part of the airport utilized for aircraft
operations; that any costs incurred by or on behalf of the airport for any such
removal or disposal of any aircraft shall be paid to the City; that any claim
for compensation against the City, and any of their officers, agents or
employees, for any and all loss or damage sustained to any such disabled
aircraft, or any part thereof, by reason of any such removal or disposal is
waived; and that the owner, lessee, operator or other person having control, or
the right of control, of said aircraft shall indemnify, hold harmless, and
defend the City, and all of their officers, agents and employees, against any
and all liability for injury to or the death of any person, or for any injury
to any property arising out of such removal or disposal.
   (D)   Fueling: No aircraft shall be fueled while the engine is running or
while in the hangar, and all aircraft shall be properly grounded when being
fueled.
   (E)   Weeds: Hangar owners are responsible for clearing weeds and dried
grass from their leasehold property. If weeds and dried grass are not removed
per this Code, the City of McCall may elect to accomplish the cleanup and
charge back the lessee.
   (F)   Smoking Prohibited: No person shall smoke within a hangar or within
one hundred feet (100') of an aircraft, fuel vehicle, or fuel stand.
   (G)   Fuel Trucks: All fuel trucks must be "chocked" to maintain a
stationary position at all times when parked and must be inspected at least
annually. Fuel truck fire extinguishers must be inspected annually.
   (H)   Litter: No boxes, paper, litter, or trash shall be permitted to be
stored in or around hangars.
   (I)   Flammable Liquids: Gasoline, kerosene, ether, or other flammable
liquids shall not be stored in hangars, except as may be allowed by Fire Code
and the McCall Fire Protection District. (Ord. 882, 11-4-2010)
8.16.7: FEES:
   (A)   Tie Down And Parking Area: Tie down and parking area rental fees shall
be from time to time established by resolution of the Council. Rules and
regulations for tie down areas and enforcement thereof shall be as established
in such resolutions of the Council.
   (B)   Parking Procedures: Parking procedures for tie down tenants will be as
directed by the Airport Manager.
   (C)   Landing Fees: There is hereby imposed on all owners and operators of
aircraft landing at the McCall Municipal Airport, landing fees in the amount
established from time to time by City Council resolution. The Council may in
such resolution establish classes of aircraft and vary the fees according to
class, and extend exemptions to certain on airport lessees or on airport
Federal government agencies, if it so chooses.
   (D)   Collection Of Landing Fees: The Airport Manager or designee shall
collect such landing fees and remit them to the City Treasurer who shall credit
such fees to the Airport Fund.
   (E)   Bulk Distributor Fuel Fee: A per gallon fee will be paid by the bulk
distributor on all aircraft fuel delivered to any location at McCall Municipal
Airport. The bulk distributor shall file a monthly report on an airport
approved format of such deliveries. Payment of the fuel flowage fees shall
accompany the report. The distributor shall pay to the City within thirty (30)
days following the end of each calendar month, without demand or invoicing, the
per gallon fee charges for the preceding month at the rate and in the amount
then currently approved in the airport fee schedule. The distributor shall
provide to the airport for calculation of per gallon fee charges a copy of its
monthly fuel flowage report and the number of gallons delivered by the due
date. The report and payment of fuel flowage fee must be received in the
Airport Director's Office on or before the delivered due date as described
above. The current fuel flowage fee will be published and available at the
Airport Manager's Office.
   (F)   Self-Fuel Fee: The fuel flowage fee will be paid by aircraft owners
who bring their own fuel onto the airport to "self-fuel". The aircraft owner
may choose either to pay the fuel flowage fee for all of the fuel brought onto
the airport, or else pay the nonbased rate of 1.5 times the current fuel
flowage fee for all fuel actually pumped.
   (G)   Permits, Agreements, And Leases:
      1.   Commercial Activity: All commercial operators conducting activities
of any type on McCall Municipal Airport property, or using McCall Airport
property as a base of operations, shall notify airport management of such
activity by applying for an "airport business license". The licenses may be
obtained at the Airport Manager's Office and will be valid for three (3) years
from the date of issuance. A charge will be assessed for this license, as set
by the McCall City Council. Activities approved by license, agreement, or lease
shall be restricted to the activities specifically described in the license,
agreement, or lease and any applicable minimum standards. Forms for such
permits, agreements, and leases and copies of the airport minimum standards may
be obtained from the Airport Manager's Office.
In the event the airport agrees to an activity for which there is not an
appropriate license, agreement or lease, airport management will make a
recommendation through the Airport Advisory Committee to the City Council for
the terms, conditions and rates.
      2.   Airport Fees, Rents, And Charges: It is the goal of the airport to
be as self-supporting as possible, in accordance with FAA airport grant
assurances. The system of rates and charges is developed to reflect fair
compensation for the use of the facility by all users (see airport website for
current rates).
      3.   Lease Assignments: If any of the noncommercial hangar land lessees
propose a commercial operation, then they will be required to fill out a
complete new lease application and have the commercial operation reviewed by
the Airport Advisory Committee and approved or denied by City Council.
All hangars which have sewage holding tanks will be required to connect to the
City sewer system, where available within three hundred feet (300') of the
hangar, upon lease assignment or the end of lease term. Lease assignees with no
intent to utilize an existing holding tank will crush or remove the existing
tank as directed by the Airport Manager through coordination with Public Works.
Leases/hangars used for noncommercial purposes/airplane storage do not require
a complete lease application but do require contact information and the
registration number of the aircraft intended to be housed in the hangar.
Hangars 106 and above are all noncommercial hangars to be used for aircraft
storage. These noncommercial lease assignments will require the following:
         (a)   The name of the new owner including those authorized to execute
documents if transferred to a corporation.
         (b)   The address of the new owner.
         (c)   The telephone number of the new owner.
         (d)   An e-mail address if available for the new owner.
         (e)   Two (2) contacts to assist in finding the owner if they move and
the Post Office is no longer forwarding their mail.
         (f)   The N number of the aircraft to be stored in the hangar.
         (g)   If no aircraft is presently owned, a stated plan on when and how
aircraft are to be stored in the hangar (e.g., a plan to build a home built
aircraft, a plan to purchase an aircraft by a certain date, or a plan to rent
the hangar for aircraft storage until an aircraft is purchased).
         (h)   An acknowledgement that the hangar is to be used primarily for
aircraft storage.
         (i)   A name change for the hangar owner, a name of the corporation,
or placing the lease into an estate planning trust is not a lease assignment if
the people owning the lease have not changed.
      4.   New Leases: Leases for terms other than the adopted "standard" lease
template are reviewed by the AAC with a recommendation and comment to City
Council. Any variance from the standard lease template must be approved by the
City Council.
      5.   Lease Extensions Upon Lease Expiration: Prior to extending a lease,
the AAC will review and make a recommendation to City Council after
consideration of the physical condition of the existing hangar and its impact
on the Airport Master Plan and Airport Layout Plan to assure that extension of
the lease for the hangar does not interfere with future airport development.
      6.   Through The Fence (TTF) Agreements:
         (a)   Proposals for future TTF activity must first be submitted to the
Airport Manager and require a recommendation from the Airport Advisory
Committee to City Council. If City Council chooses to consider a TTF Plan, then
a public hearing with Planning and Zoning and a separate public hearing with
McCall City Council would be required, even if not normally required under
current Planning and Zoning rules. Additionally, FAA is required to comment as
to the acceptability of the proposed TTF to ensure that the proposal does not
violate any existing airport grant assurances.
         (b)   Any TTF activities are required to pay airport access fees as
stipulated by FAA directives. Landing fees, fuel flowage fees and other fees as
determined by City Council would also be required to be paid by TTF operators.
   (H)   Damage To Airport Property: Any person causing or responsible for
injury, destruction, damage, or disturbance to the airport or public property
shall report such damage to the McCall Police and, upon demand by the airport,
shall reimburse the airport for the full amount of the damage.
   (I)   Nondiscrimination: It is unlawful for a lessee, tenant,
concessionaire, licensee, or contractor to discriminate against any person,
because of race, color, national origin, sex, creed, or handicap, in public
services and employment opportunities.
   (J)   Airport Construction And Obstruction Control: No person shall commence
any construction project on airport premises without first obtaining written
permission from the Airport Manager and without strict compliance and adherence
to the safety specifications and direction of the Airport Manager. The Airport
Manager will review all requests for building permits and approve or disapprove
on the basis of the airport minimum standards, any airport tenant design
standards, the then current Airport Master Plan, the current FAA approved
Airport Layout Plan, and the potential benefit to the public and the
aeronautical community. Construction shall not begin until FAA has approved via
an FAA Form 7460 (airspace) process. An FAA environmental process is also
required for all construction and demolition on the airport.
   (K)   Removal And Impoundment Of Property: The Airport Manager, or his duly
authorized representative, may remove from any area of the airport, including
any leased premises, any aircraft, motor vehicle, or other property which
causes or constitutes, or reasonably appears to cause or constitute, an
imminent or immediate danger to the health or safety of the persons using the
air terminal or a significant portion thereof. The expense of such removal and
any storage fees shall become a lien chargeable to the owner and/or operator of
such aircraft, motor vehicle or other property.
   (L)   Abandoned/Derelict Aircraft: No person may abandon an aircraft on the
airport, nor allow an aircraft parked on the airport, to become derelict or a
hazard to other airport users. If the owner of an aircraft which appears to be
abandoned or derelict cannot be contacted, a notice shall be placed on the
aircraft stating that the aircraft must be moved from the parking ramp within
six (6) weeks, or the aircraft will be impounded and removed. (Ord. 949, 9-8-
2016)
8.16.8: USE OF HANGARS; ENVIRONMENTAL:
   (A)   Standards And Requirements: The standards and requirements set forth
in the document entitled "Minimum Standards for Commercial Aeronautical
Activities at the McCall Municipal Airport", as the same may be hereafter
amended, is hereby ratified and adopted as the "Minimum Standards for
Commercial Aeronautical Activities at the McCall Municipal Airport", and as
ratified and adopted shall be the standards and requirements governing the use
of the McCall Municipal Airport by all commercial operators for all commercial
operations.
   (B)   Copies On File: Three (3) copies of said "Minimum Standards for
Commercial Aeronautical Activities at the McCall Municipal Airport" are on file
in the Office of the City Clerk for inspection and examination. As such minimum
standards are amended, as may be deemed necessary or desirable by the City
Council, three (3) copies of such amendments shall be placed on file with the
City Clerk for inspection and examination.
   (C)   Hangars: Hangars are intended to be used primarily for aeronautical
purposes.
      1.   Reporting: Each hangar owner shall annually report the N number of
each aircraft stored in a hangar.
      2.   Storage Of Personal Property Of Aircraft Owner: A limited amount of
personal property of the aircraft owner may be stored in the hangar, so long as
the primary use of the hangar is for aircraft storage.
      3.   Storage Of Personal Property Of Other Than Aircraft Owner: The
personal property of anyone other than the aircraft owner is not permitted to
be stored in the hangar.
      4.   Rental For Aircraft Storage: Hangars may be rented for aircraft
storage, and the airport must be notified of the N number of the aircraft being
stored and of the contact information for the aircraft owner or primary user of
the aircraft.
      5.   Crew Rest: Hangars may be used for crew rest or use by air crews on
standby or alert to fly.
      6.   Crew Quarters For Pilots: Crew rest is not intended as crew quarters
for pilots beyond a twenty four (24) hour period.
      7.   Residential Use Prohibited: Hangars may not be used for any
residential purpose.
      8.   Hangars Proposed For Non-Aeronautical Use: The City will not approve
any existing or proposed lease of aeronautical property including private
hangars for non-aviation use for longer than a brief interim period of time
generally, five (5) or fewer years, and provided the activity does not violate
FAA grant assurances. Such leases are also subject to FAA approval and the
proposed lessee obtaining all necessary zoning and other approvals from the
City, and provided that the annual lease fee shall be set at 1.5 times the new
lease rate for the property. Non-aeronautical use of hangars may be considered
for less than one (1) year so long as the lessee obtains the proper approvals
from the FAA and the lease rate is adjusted for the period of non-aeronautical
use. Using hangars for commercial or non-commercial storage of property of
other than that of the hangar owner is considered to be a non-aeronautical use.
   (D)   Nonexclusive Rights: Nothing herein contained shall be construed to
grant otherwise or authorize the granting of an exclusive right, except as to
the areas to be occupied by the permit holder, agreement holder, or lessee,
which areas shall be for the permit holder, agreement holder, or lessee's
exclusive use.
   (E)   Environmental Compliance:
      1.   Stormwater: No person shall cause or allow nonallowable stormwater
and nonstormwater discharges to be released to the stormwater system, or any
hazardous material to be released to the storm sewer system except as
specifically permitted under the Clean Water Act (33 USC section 1251 et seq.).
      2.   Washing Of Aircraft: Aircraft shall not be washed on airport
property in areas that eventually drain to the Payette River. Wastewater from
aircraft washing operations shall be disposed only in accordance with all
applicable local, State, and Federal environmental rules and regulations.
      3.   Aircraft Repairs And Painting: Aircraft shall be stored and major
repairs which would require a sign off by an A&P mechanic shall be made only on
leased sites where specifically permitted. Aircraft repair work may be
performed on ramps or aprons only with prior permission from the Airport
Manager. Spray painting will only be conducted in facilities designated for
this purpose. (Ord. 949, 9-8-2016)
8.16.9: PENALTIES:
   (A)   In addition to penalties otherwise provided in this Code, any person
violating this chapter or refusing to comply therewith and any person failing
or refusing to comply with the "Minimum Standards for Commercial Aeronautical
Activities at the McCall Municipal Airport" may be promptly removed or ejected
from the airport by or under the authority of the Airport Manager, and upon the
order of the Airport Manager may be deprived of the further use of the airport
and its facilities for such length of time as may be required to ensure the
safeguarding of the same, as well as the public and its interests therein and
as may be required to ensure compliance with said minimum standards.
   (B)   Any person convicted of a violation of this chapter or a violation of
said "Minimum Standards for Commercial Aeronautical Activities at the McCall
Municipal Airport", shall be punished by a fine not to exceed three hundred
dollars ($300.00) or by imprisonment in the Valley County Jail not to exceed
six (6) months, or by both such fine and imprisonment. (Ord. 882, 11-4-2010)
CHAPTER 17
TREES
SECTION:
8-17-1: Purpose
8-17-2: Authority And Power
8-17-3: Applicability
8-17-4: Definitions
8-17-5: Landscaping
8-17-6: Care Of Trees In City
8-17-7: Tree Planting, Maintenance, And Removal
8-17-8: Tree Protection
8-17-9: Review And Designation Responsibilities
8-17-10: Permits
8-17-11: Enforcement
8-17-12: Certification Process
8-17-13: Operation
8-17-14: Interference With Tree Committee Or City Staff
8-17-15: Appeal Or Request For Hearing By Aggrieved Persons
8-17-16: Penalties
8-17-1:   PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this chapter to promote and protect the public health,
safety, and general welfare, and also to increase public awareness and
appreciation of a community forest, by providing for the regulation of the
planting, maintenance, and removal of trees and shrubs within the city of
McCall. (Ord. 853, 5-8-2008)
8-17-2:   AUTHORITY AND POWER:
There is hereby created and established a tree committee for the city of
McCall, which shall consist of five (5) members, the majority being citizens
and residents of this city, who shall each be appointed for a term of three (3)
years by the mayor with the approval of the city council. Members of the
committee shall serve without compensation. (Ord. 853, 5-8-2008)
8-17-3:   APPLICABILITY:
This chapter provides full power and authority over all trees and shrubs
located within street rights of way, parks, public golf course, airport
property, and public places of the city. The tree committee and city arborist
have the ability to advise the private sector as to the applicability of this
chapter to the trees and shrubs located on private property as described
herein. (Ord. 853, 5-8-2008)
8-17-4:   DEFINITIONS:
ANSI A300: The "American national standard for tree care operations - tree,
shrub and other woody plant maintenance - standard practices". This document
outlines basic national performance standards for tree pruning and maintenance.
It was first published in 2002 by the American National Standards Institute
(ANSI).
AGGRIEVED PERSON: A person who is a "controller" as defined herein, or an
applicant for a permit authorized by this chapter, or any other person to whom
the city arborist, or tree committee, has sent notice directing action or
prohibiting the taking of action, as authorized by this chapter.
AIRPORT TREE: Any tree located within the boundaries of the McCall municipal
airport property.
CITY ARBORIST: A person employed by the city who has the authority to manage
this chapter with direction from the tree committee. State certification
required.
CITY PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR: A person employed by the city who has the
accountability for managing the city's public infrastructure, including public
streets, drainageways, water and wastewater systems.
COMMUNITY FOREST: The sum of all trees found within a city's boundaries,
including both publicly and privately owned trees.
CONTROLLER: Every person (owner, agent, tenant, occupant, contractor,
developer, or lessee) who exercises care, custody, or control of real property,
to include that abutting a right of way upon which a public tree is located.
CRITICAL ROOT ZONE: The area under a tree extending from the base of the tree
in all directions to an imaginary line ten feet (10') outside the drip line.
DRIP LINE: The line that extends from the outside edges of the tree canopy to
the ground.
GOLF COURSE TREE: Any tree located within the boundaries of the McCall
municipal golf course.
LANDMARK TREE OR STAND: A tree or stand of trees designated for its unique
characteristics, such as: species rarity, old age, association with a
historical event or person, abnormality, or scenic enhancement.
PARK TREE: Any tree located within the boundaries of a McCall city park.
PEST: Any insect, disease, animal, or other organism that causes harm or damage
to trees.
PRIVATE TREE: A tree located on private property, outside of city rights of
way, and not a public tree.
PUBLIC NUISANCE: A tree that interferes by means of obstructing, posing a
liability and threat to safety, or which is dead or diseased.
PUBLIC PROPERTY: Real property owned, managed, or leased to the city and
dedicated to the public for present or future use.
PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY: Improved or unimproved public property owned by, dedicated
to, or deeded to, the public or for the public's use, for the purpose of
providing vehicular, pedestrian and other public use. Such public property
provides circulation and travel to abutting properties and includes, but is not
limited to, streets, alleys, sidewalks, tree lawn, provisions for public
utilities, cut and fill slopes, and open space.
PUBLIC TREE: Any tree whose trunk is located partly or wholly on public
property.
STREET TREE: Any tree located within a public right of way.
TOPPING: The severe cutting back of limbs within a tree's crown to such a
degree that only stubs remain; or the removal of the top part (trunk and limbs)
thereby removing a significant portion of the normal canopy and thus
disfiguring the tree.
TREE: Any perennial woody plant that generally grows taller than eight feet
(8') tall. This includes multiple stemmed plants (shrubs) that are tree like in
form and generally grow taller than eight feet (8') tall. A class 1 tree
generally grows to a maximum height of twenty five feet (25') tall and has a
fifteen foot (15') to thirty foot (30') canopy spread.
TREE COMMITTEE: The citizen committee established and designated as the "tree
committee", sanctioned by the McCall city council to be the advisory body,
which may assist the city in its efforts to carry out a tree management program
and may recommend regulations and standards for the planting, care, and
maintenance of the public trees and private trees within the city.
TREE LAWN: The portion of a public right of way lying between the street and
private property lines which is generally unimproved and planted with grass or
other vegetation. (Ord. 853, 5-8-2008)
8-17-5:   LANDSCAPING:
In new subdivisions or when the development of commercial property occurs, the
city arborist or tree committee shall review landscaping plans and may require
street trees to be planted in any of the streets, parking lots, tree lawn,
public right of way, parks and other public places abutting lands henceforth
developed and/or subdivided. Right of way planting will be approved in advance
by the public works director and/or the city arborist. (Ord. 853, 5-8-2008)
8-17-6:   CARE OF TREES IN CITY:
   (A)   Private/Controller Responsibilities: Every controller shall be
responsible for the following:
      1.   Meeting all the requirements and obtaining all the permits necessary
for work done on or adjacent to public right of way as described in this
section.
      2.   Care and maintenance of public trees located on the right of way
adjacent to controller's private real property, including the following
activities:
         (a)   Removal and replacement of public trees or removal of those
portions of public trees declared to be public nuisance:
            (1)   As Part Of The City's Tree Permitting Process: Whenever a
public tree is removed, the applicant shall replace it with another from the
tree list, unless this replacement requirement is waived by the city arborist
for good cause shown.
            (2)   Pruning Of Public Trees: The branches of trees that overhang
sidewalks, must be pruned to provide eight feet (8') of vertical clearance.
Tree branches that overhang the street must be pruned to provide fourteen feet
(14') of vertical clearance. No limbs shall be trimmed or cut from any tree on
any public right of way which is larger than six inches (6") in diameter
without the city arborist's approval. Utility providers shall trim or cut trees
in public right of way according to ANSI A300 part 1, pruning standards. (Ord.
853, 5-8-2008)
8-17-7:   TREE PLANTING, MAINTENANCE, AND REMOVAL:
   (A)   Tree Species: The tree committee develops and maintains a list,
desirable tree list for McCall, defining approved trees for planting along
streets and other public property.
   (B)   Tree Planting In Public Right Of Way: A tree permit shall be required
to plant a tree in any public right of way.
   (C)   Utilities: Only class 1 trees can be planted within fifteen (15)
lateral feet of any overhead utility wire, public underground water line, sewer
line, transmission line or other utility.
   (D)   Distance From Curb: The distance street trees shall be planted from
curbs or curb lines is three feet (3') from face of curb to center of tree.
   (E)   Trees In Sidewalk Areas: All trees planted in sidewalk areas shall be
provided with a sufficient opening in the sidewalk area to provide adequate
water for the tree. All trees located in sidewalks shall be provided with a
frame and grate. Design, construction plans, specifications and materials must
be approved by the city arborist prior to the start of construction and
planting.
   (F)   Stump Removal: All stumps of street trees, park trees, and airport
trees shall be flush cut so that the top of the stump shall not project above
the surface of the ground.
   (G)   Topping: It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any person,
firm, or city department to top any street tree, park tree, or other tree on
public property. Trees severely damaged by storms or other causes, or certain
trees under utility wires or other obstructions where other pruning practices
are impractical, or airport trees may be exempted from this topping prohibition
at the determination of the city arborist or public works director.
   (H)   Replacement Tree: Whenever a street tree, park tree, or other tree on
public property is removed by permit, the permit holder shall replace it or
cause it to be replaced with a suitable replacement tree approved by the city
arborist, unless the tree committee authorizes otherwise in writing. The
planting of replacement tree(s) shall be completed successfully by the time
specified in the signed tree removal permit, "special provisions" section, or
within thirty (30) days of removal, or as soon as weather conditions allow.
   (I)   Trees Adjacent To Public Property: Any person in possession of private
property shall maintain trees upon adjacent public rights of way and any trees
upon private property, which may affect said property, in a safe, healthy
condition in compliance with the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 853, 5-8-
2008)
8-17-8:   TREE PROTECTION:
   (A)   Upon the discovery of any pest that endangers the growth or health of
trees, or threatens to spread disease or insect infestations, the city arborist
shall have the right to cause written notice to be served upon the owner of the
property upon which such diseased or infested tree is situated, whether a
public tree or a private tree. The notice shall advise such property owner to
eradicate, remove, or otherwise control such condition within reasonable time
to be specified in such notice.
      1.   Assessment Of Claim: In the event that a nuisance is not abated by
the date specified in the notice, the city arborist is authorized to cause the
abatement of said nuisance.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      1.   Damage, destroy, mutilate, or remove any public tree, including
vehicle impacts.
      2.   Attach any device or structure (signs, tree houses, lights, nails,
etc.) to or on a public tree unless authorized in writing by the city arborist.
      3.   Store, spill, or dump on any part of a public tree (or within the
critical root zone of a public tree), a substance (whether liquid or solid)
that may be harmful to trees.
      4.   Damage a public tree through construction or maintenance activities
in violation of a permit issued under this chapter. Such activities include,
but are not limited to:
         (a)   Making excavations or cuts in the soil near roots of a public
tree unless authorized in the permit by the city arborist.
         (b)   Skinning the bark; tipping back the trunk; or dumping, piling,
or plowing dirt, gravel, or snow on or against a public tree by heavy equipment
or other machinery.
         (c)   Damaging roots of a public tree by compacting or placing fill
within the critical root zone of the tree.
         (d)   Engaging in any pruning activity on public trees not in
accordance with ANSI A300 including, but not limited to: topping, heading,
rounding, or shearing unless authorized in the permit by the city arborist or
public works director.
      5.   Remove any public or street tree and fail to plant a replacement
tree. The replacement shall be an approved variety from the desirable tree list
for McCall, and shall be a minimum of a fifteen (15) gallon specimen unless
otherwise approved by the city arborist. (Ord. 853, 5-8-2008)
8-17-9:   REVIEW AND DESIGNATION RESPONSIBILITIES:
   (A)   Landmark Trees: The tree committee shall have as one of its
responsibilities the location, selection, and identification of any trees,
which qualify as a landmark tree or stand, meeting one or more of the following
criteria:
      1.   Species rarity.
      2.   Age.
      3.   Association with a historical event or person.
      4.   Abnormality.
      5.   Scenic enhancement.
The tree committee shall recommend for adoption by resolution of the city
council the list of landmark trees and stands, and shall recommend updates of
the list periodically with additions and subtractions.
   (B)   Street Tree Criteria: The tree committee shall have the responsibility
of identifying and inventorying street trees. The suitability of a tree to
serve as a street tree shall include consideration of:
      1.   Shade to streets, sidewalks, tree lawns, parks, or other public
areas.
      2.   Enhancement of desirable views.
      3.   Choice of species, as listed in the city's list of desirable trees
for McCall.
   (C)   Reviews: The tree committee shall have the responsibility of reviewing
development proposals that may affect landscaping and provide comment to the
planning and zoning commission and city council.
   (D)   Private Trees: The city arborist or his/her official designee has the
authority to advise private property owners regarding protection of private
trees and removal of problem trees. If there is a private tree suspected to be
a public nuisance, then he/she may require its removal if necessary. This
applies to any tree affected by a pest; a dead or dying tree; a tree limb(s)
that obstructs streetlights, traffic signs, or the free passage of pedestrians
or vehicles; or a tree that poses a threat to safety. (Ord. 853, 5-8-2008)
8-17-10:   PERMITS:
   (A)   Required; Fee: No person shall plant, remove, cut above the ground, or
disturb any tree on any street, park, city golf course, airport, public right
of way or other public place without first obtaining a signed permit from the
city arborist, or public works director. The person receiving the permit shall
abide by the standards set forth in this chapter. The fee to accompany the
permit to defray administrative expenses shall be set by resolution of the city
council.
   (B)   Exception: The city arborist or public works director, his/her agent,
or a contractor hired by the city, may work on or remove a public tree or a
street tree without first obtaining a tree removal permit from the city.
   (C)   Violations: Any person who violates any provision of this chapter or
who fails to comply with any notice issued pursuant to provision of this
chapter, upon being found guilty of violation, shall be guilty of an infraction
and be subject to any penalties allowed by the city or state. Each day during
which any violation of the provisions of this chapter shall occur or continue
shall be a separate offense. Any person found guilty of any infraction under
this section for a second time in any twelve (12) month period shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and subject to any of the penalties allowed by the city or
state. If, as the result of the violation of any provision of this chapter, the
injury, mutilation, or death of a tree, shrub, or other plant located on city
owned property or public right of way is caused, the cost of repair or
replacement, or the appraised dollar value of such tree, shrub, or other plant,
shall be borne by the party in violation. The value of trees and shrubs shall
be one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per tree and one hundred dollars ($100.00)
per shrub, or the value determined in accordance with the latest version of "A
Guide To The Professional Evaluation Of Landscape Trees, Specimen Shrubs, And
Evergreens", as published by the International Society of Arboriculture,
whichever is higher. (Ord. 853, 5-8-2008)
8-17-11:   ENFORCEMENT:
The city arborist shall have the authority to enforce rules, regulations and
specifications concerning the trimming, spraying, removal, planting, pruning
and protection of trees and shrubs upon the right of way of any street, alley,
sidewalk, or other public place in the city. (Ord. 853, 5-8-2008)
8-17-12:   CERTIFICATION PROCESS:
The city arborist shall maintain a list of contractors that may remove or
maintain public and private trees within the McCall city limits:
   (A)   Eligibility Requirements: At least one of the following:
      1.   Arborist certification acquired through the International Society of
Arboriculture testing program.
      2.   Prologger certification.
      3.   List of qualification and experience.
   (B)   Contractor Responsibility:
      1.   Provide proof of insurance showing the contractor has a policy of
liability and property damage insurance covering the work of the contractor and
the contractor's employees. The insurance policy should also list the city as
an additional insured party in a sum not less than provided by Idaho Code
section 6-926 et seq.
      2.   The contractor must provide proof of workers' compensation insurance
as required by Idaho Code.
      3.   The contractor shall be responsible for the work performed under the
provisions of this section:
         (a)   Utilize safety measures and equipment to protect workers and the
public as prescribed by laws and ANSI standard.
         (b)   Obtain required permits for tree removal.
         (c)   Comply with city, county, state, and federal laws.
   (C)   Certification Revocation/Suspension: The city arborist may suspend or
revoke the contractor's certification if any of the following acts are
committed:
      1.   Violation of any provisions of this chapter.
      2.   Knowingly conspiring with another person to permit the certification
to be used by such other parties unless employed or subcontracted by the
contractor.
   (D)   Appeal:
      1.   Contractor whose certification is suspended or revoked may appeal
that action to the tree committee. (Ord. 853, 5-8-2008)
8-17-13:   OPERATION:
The tree committee shall keep minutes of its meetings. The committee shall meet
as necessary. A majority of the members shall be present for the transaction of
business. (Ord. 853, 5-8-2008)
8-17-14:   INTERFERENCE WITH TREE COMMITTEE OR CITY STAFF:
It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, delay, or interfere with the
city arborist while engaging in and about the planting, cultivating, mulching,
pruning, spraying, tending, or removing of any street trees, park trees, golf
course trees, public trees, shrubs, or vegetation on other public places as
authorized in this chapter. (Ord. 853, 5-8-2008)
8-17-15:   APPEAL OR REQUEST FOR HEARING BY AGGRIEVED PERSONS:
   (A)   Right To Appeal: An "aggrieved person", as defined in section
8-17-4 of this chapter, may appeal a decision of the city arborist or tree
committee, by filing a notice of appeal or request for hearing in writing with
the city clerk no later than ten (10) days after the decision is issued. When
such notice of appeal or request is received, proceedings before the council
shall be on the record made below. A notice of appeal shall set out with
particularity the decision or part thereof from which the appeal is being
taken, and whether or not facts found by the city arborist or tree committee
are disputed by appellant.
   (B)   Time Limits For Actions: The council shall hold a hearing on the
appeal and the decision appealed within forty five (45) days of the request and
shall follow the hearing procedures established in section
3.15.04 of this code except that such hearing shall not be a public hearing and
testimony will only be allowed from staff, the appellant, and any experts or
fact witnesses called by the city or the appellant. The council shall set the
hearing on its agenda upon a date certain for the consideration of written and
oral arguments; notice of such hearing shall be provided to appellant no later
than fifteen (15) days before the hearing. Should appellant desire to file
written arguments, appellant shall do so no later than five (5) days prior to
the hearing.
   (C)   Stay Of Proceedings: An appeal hearing stays all proceedings in
furtherance of the action appealed from unless, after the notice of appeal or
request for hearing is filed, the council finds that by reason of the facts
stated in the application, a stay would cause imminent peril to health, safety
or property.
   (D)   Council Action: After the hearing has been held, the council may:
      1.   Grant or deny the appeal or the permit; or
      2.   Delay such decision for no longer than sixty (60) days after the
hearing date for further study or hearing; provided, however, that the council
must render a decision no later than sixty (60) days from the date of the
hearing. (Ord. 853, 5-8-2008)
8-17-16:   PENALTIES:
   (A)   Damage or destruction of a public tree by any person, except as
lawfully stated herein, is a misdemeanor punishable pursuant to this code and
Idaho Code provided that restitution may also be imposed so that the affected
tree may be replaced according to the tree mitigation standards noted in
subsection
8-17-8(B)5.
   (B)   Intentional interference with the city arborist in the performance of
his or her duties is unlawful and a misdemeanor punishable pursuant to this
code and Idaho Code.
   (C)   Failure to perform tree services on public lands in compliance with
accepted and established arboricultural standards and specifications guide
shall be a misdemeanor punishable pursuant to this code and Idaho Code. (Ord.
853, 5-8-2008)
TITLE IX
SUBDIVISION AND DEVELOPMENT
CHAPTER 1
SUBDIVISION AND DEVELOPMENT PROVISIONS 1
SECTION:
9.1.01: Short Title
9.1.02: Authority, Purpose And General Provisions
9.1.03: Affected Lands
9.1.04: Area Of City Impact Identified
9.1.05: Scope
9.1.06: Compliance With City Comprehensive Plan
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  3.2.02 of this code for definitions of terms applicable to this title.
9.1.01: SHORT TITLE:
This title may be cited and referred to as the SUBDIVISION AND DEVELOPMENT
ORDINANCE FOR THE CITY OF McCALL. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
9.1.02: AUTHORITY, PURPOSE AND GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   (A)   Statutory Authority: These regulations are authorized by title 50,
chapter 13 of the Idaho Code; title 67 of the Idaho Code; and article XII,
section 1, "General Laws For Cities And Towns", of the Idaho constitution, as
amended or subsequently codified.
   (B)   Purpose And Intent: The purpose and intent of this title is to promote
the health, safety, convenience and general welfare of the population of the
city and area of city impact; help assure the orderly development of the city
consistent with applicable policies and plans adopted by the council through
the proper subdivision of land and street layout; and clarify and make more
useful the public records in the office of the recorder.
   (C)   Design Provisions; Orderly Development Of City: These regulations are
declared reasonable and necessary to accomplish the above purposes. They are
designed, among other things, to achieve well laid out streets and building
sites in accordance with proposed uses and adapted to the terrain and natural
setting, to conserve the natural beauty of the city and area of city impact, to
provide safe access, adequate drainage and utilities for the proposed sites, to
facilitate and reduce ambiguity in the transfer of real property and in general
to provide for the orderly development of the city and area of city impact.
   (D)   Implementation Of Comprehensive Plan: This title is intended to
implement the comprehensive plan of the city of McCall.
   (E)   Planned Unit Development Required: A proposed subdivision with land
area equal to or larger than the areas shown in
table 9.1.02 of this subsection shall require the submittal of a planned unit
development proposal in accordance with the appropriate section of title III,
chapter 10, "Planned Unit Development", of this code. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006,
eff. 3-16-2006)
TABLE 9.1.02
Zone Area (Acres)
Zone  Area (Acres)
 RR  40
 RE  20
 R1  5
 R4  4
 R8  4
 R16 3
 CBD 2
 CC  2
 NC  2
 CV  2
 I   2
(Ord. 866, 2-12-2009)
If, in the judgment of the commission, there is an attempt to subdivide a
property which is subject to the above provision, and is under one ownership,
or is considered to be under the control of one entity, and the proposed
subdivision obviously is designed so as to thwart the above provision, then the
commission shall declare that the entire property shall only be subdivided
under the provisions of title III, chapter 10, "Planned Unit Development", of
this code.
   (F)   Area Of City Impact, County Authority: For subdivisions located within
the area of city impact, the responsible public agency is the Valley County
board of commissioners.
   (G)   Political Subdivisions Of State; Mitigation: No subdivision shall be
approved which affects the ability of a political subdivision of the state,
including school districts, to deliver services without compromising quality or
service delivery to current residents or imposing substantial additional costs
upon current residents, unless the subdivider provides for the mitigation of
the effects of subdivision. Such mitigation may include, but in not limited to,
the following:
      1.   Provision of on site or off site street or intersection
improvements.
      2.   Provision of other off site improvements.
      3.   Dedications and/or public improvements on property frontages.
      4.   Dedication of provision of parks or green space.
      5.   Provision of public service facilities.
      6.   Construction of flood control canals or devices.
      7.   Provisions for ongoing maintenance.
   (H)   Area Development Plan; Site Criteria: When an owner of contiguous
parcels proposes to subdivide any portion of the contiguous parcels, an area
development plan shall be submitted and approved. The commission and council
shall evaluate the following basic site criteria and make appropriate findings
of fact regarding the area development plan.
      1.   Streets, whether public or private, provide an interconnected system
and shall be adequate to accommodate anticipated vehicular and pedestrian
traffic and to meet the requirements of its functional classification.
      2.   Nonvehicular circulation routes provide safe pedestrianways and
bicycleways and provide an interconnected system to streets, parks and green
space, public lands, or other destinations.
      3.   Water main lines and sewer main lines are designed in the most
effective layout feasible and meeting the applicable standards.
      4.   Other utilities, including power, telephone, and cable, are designed
in the most effective layout feasible.
      5.   Park land is most appropriately located on the contiguous parcels.
      6.   Grading and drainage are appropriate to the contiguous parcels.
      7.   Development avoids easements and hazardous or sensitive natural
resource areas.
The commission or council may require that any or all contiguous parcels be
included in the subdivision. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
9.1.03: AFFECTED LANDS:
This title applies to all land within the boundaries of the city of McCall, and
to all land within the boundaries of the city of McCall area of city impact,
both of which areas are commonly referred to together in this title as the
"planning jurisdiction", including any lands that may become part of the city
of McCall or of the impact area. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
9.1.04: AREA OF CITY IMPACT IDENTIFIED:
The land and water areas included within the boundaries set out in the most
recent city and county ordinances fixing the same boundary of the city of
McCall area of city impact, is the area of city impact referred to in this
title and to which, along with lands in the city proper, this title applies.
Copies of a map of the impact area shall be on file for use and examination by
the public in the office of the city clerk; the current such map is labeled:
   McCall, Idaho
   Area Of City Impact
(Ord. 822, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
9.1.05: SCOPE:
   (A)   Submission Of Plat Required: It is unlawful to make a "subdivision" of
land as defined by this title 1 , or to set apart land for any public street,
road, alley or any part thereof, until a plat thereof is submitted to and
approved by the city.
   (B)   Exceptions (Record Of Survey Approved For Zoning):
      1.   Eligibility For Record Of Survey Procedure: To be eligible for
processing under subsection (B)2 of this section, an application for approval
of a plat or survey must be signed by all owners and determined by the
administrator to meet one or more of the standards set out in this subsection
(B)1:
         (a)   No lot or parcel which would be created by the plat or survey is
less than forty (40) acres in extent; or
         (b)   A single, existing lot of record is being divided into not more
than four (4) lots other than as part of an evident marketing program of
greater extent, each lot or parcel within the proposed plat or survey clearly
meets the lot size regulations of the applicable zone, and the McCall area
comprehensive plan, and each lot or parcel within the proposed survey either
meets lot street frontage, width and depth requirements of the applicable zone
or is no less conforming in each such regard than is the single, existing lot
of record; or
         (c)   Two (2) or more lots of record are being combined; or
         (d)   Two (2) or more lots of record are shown, and lots are being
combined and/or divided in such fashion that the lot sizes would be proper were
the land the subject of a formal subdivision of no greater extent, and each lot
or parcel within the proposed survey either meets lot street frontage, width
and depth requirements of the applicable zone or is no less conforming in each
such regard than are the lots of record; or
         (e)   The proposed plat or survey implements a judicial decision in a
probate, partition, or quiet title action, which decision decrees the setting
off of individual lots or parcels to individual parties to or beneficiaries of
the action, and every lot or parcel within the proposed plat or survey meets
applicable zoning and the applicable comprehensive plan; provided, that the
administrator need not recognize for these purposes a partition or quiet title
action to which the city was not made a party and which the administrator
concludes in the administrator's discretion was maintained to evade these
regulations; or
         (f)   The proposed plat or survey is coextensive with and only further
defines (including combining) one or more existing, contiguous lots of record,
and each such lot of record was both of record and in several ownerships from
any contiguous other lot of record on March 16, 2006; or
         (g)   The proposal is an amended plat which amends an existing final
plat of record so as to make one or more minor adjustments in lot boundaries
reflecting final construction of roads or amenities, the number and
configuration of lots is unchanged, and there are no significant land use
planning considerations not addressed as of the time of such final plat; or
         (h)   Except that no lot may be redivided to undo a previous
combination of lots except by application in accordance with chapter 2 of this
title; or
         (i)   A lot line adjustment between two (2) or more existing adjacent
parcels, provided:
            (1)   No additional parcels or building sites have been created,
and
            (2)   The adjustment does not create the potential to further
divide either of the two (2) parcels into more parcels than would have been
otherwise possible, and
            (3)   There are no resulting violations of this title or title III
of this code.
         (j)   Land conveyed to or from a public utility, or for land conveyed
to a subsidiary of a public utility for conveyance to such a public utility for
right of way, unless a showing is made in individual cases, upon substantial
evidence, that public policy necessitates a parcel map. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006,
eff. 3-16-2006)
      2.   Record Of Survey Procedure:
         (a)   Application: The surveyor or the owner shall apply for approval
to proceed under this record of survey procedure. The application shall
disclose the name and address of the owner, disclose the property in question,
state the alleged purpose of the proposed survey, and either be accompanied by
a preliminary survey or a drawing depicting the layout of the proposed survey
in the context of the existing lots or tracts to which the survey or the
purpose of the survey relates. (For example, if a survey is for the purpose of
splitting an intervening lot between adjoiners, the application shall depict
the land included in all 3 existing lots showing the new lot line in question,
and the configuration of each of the 2 resulting lots.) The depiction may be
based on record information, and not newly surveyed, but must be clearly
depicted so a proper recordation may be filed and accepted by the county. The
record of survey shall be tied to two (2) McCall modified grid control point
network (MMGCPN) control points. Information including bearing, distance and
point name shall be provided. Digital data shall be provided according to the
digital data submittal standards policy. (Ord. 899, 5-24-2012)
         (b)   Review: The administrator shall review the proposed survey and
determine whether the application qualifies for record of survey procedure.
         (c)   Application Does Not Qualify: If the administrator determines
that the proposed survey does not qualify for this procedure, the administrator
shall give written notice of that determination to the surveyor and the owner,
stating the reason(s), and advising the owner that the owner should either
correct the deficiencies or proceed to formal platting. If the owner modifies
the plan of survey to conform to the requirements of this title, the
administrator may proceed under subsection (B)2(d) of this section; otherwise,
an application for a formal plat must be filed before any further proceedings
can be conducted. However, if the owner proceeds to create a record of survey
without corrections to the plan of the survey, it shall bear the following
certificate:
This record of survey has not been approved by the City of McCall with respect
to its compliance with McCall City Code. It may constitute an illegal
subdivision. A building permit may be refused with respect to any individual
lot shown on this record of survey.
         (d)   Application Qualifies: If the administrator determines that the
application qualifies for record of survey procedure, the administrator may
thereafter waive the application of some or all provisions of this title.
However, the following three (3) conditions cannot be waived:
            (1)   Name, and evidence of ownership; and
            (2)   The preparation and recording of a record of survey pursuant
to Idaho Code; and
            (3)   The preparation, execution, and securing of the performance
of an agreement in form and scope similar to a development agreement, which
addresses necessary improvements. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
         (e)   Approval Certificate: Following commission approval of use of
the procedure, the administrator shall notify the surveyor to proceed with the
record of survey. Such survey shall be prepared with a signature line for the
city clerk and the following certificate:
This record of survey has been reviewed and approved by the City of McCall with
respect to its compliance with the Subdivision and Development Ordinance and
exemption from formal platting; an individual lot shown on this record of
survey shall be considered a single lot for purposes of City ordinances. If
this record of survey combines lots shown on a plat or survey of record, the
separate sale of such former separate lots will constitute an illegal
subdivision under the McCall City Code.
(Ord. 899, 5-24-2012)
         (f)   Compliance: A surveyor who has complied with this section does
not violate this title by recording an unapproved record of survey when
required by state law to do so. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
         (g)   Approval Period: The final plat shall be filed with the county
recorder by the applicant within eighteen (18) months after written approval by
the commission. Otherwise, such approval shall become null and void. (Ord. 899,
5-24-2012)
   (C)   Application Of Planning And Zoning Regulations: Wherever applicable,
requirements herein also are delineated in title III, "Planning And Zoning", of
this code. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006; amd. Ord. 1009, 10-6-2022)
 
Notes
1 1. See also definition of "subdivision" in section
  3.2.02 of this code.
9.1.06: COMPLIANCE WITH CITY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN:
To carry out the purpose of these regulations, all subdivisions of land,
records of survey, and all dedications and vacations of streets must comply
with the McCall area comprehensive plan as adopted by the council and with the
current zone as defined in title III of this code. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006, eff.
3-16-2006)
CHAPTER 2
SUBDIVISIONS PLATS AND PROCEDURES
SECTION:
9.2.01: Preapplication Review
9.2.02: Preliminary Plat Required
9.2.03: Contents Of Preliminary Plat Application
9.2.04: Contents Of Preliminary Plat
9.2.041: Other Requirements
9.2.05: Fees
9.2.06: Review And Action, Preliminary Plat
9.2.07: Final Plat
9.2.08: Condominium Development
9.2.081: Conditional Use Permit Required
9.2.082: Condominium Property Act
9.2.083: Bylaws
9.2.084: Garages
9.2.085: Parking, Overflow And Storage
9.2.086: Conversion
9.2.09: Townhouses
9.2.091: Conditional Use Permit Required
9.2.092: Agreements
9.2.093: Garages
9.2.094: Parking, Overflow And Storage
9.2.095: Expiration
9.2.096: Conversion
9.2.01: PREAPPLICATION REVIEW:
Prior to filing a preliminary plat and application for approval of the
preliminary plat, the applicant shall submit generalized plans and data and
discuss the proposed application with the commission at a work session (not a
public hearing). Such discussions should cover the general objectives of the
subdivision, platting procedures and requirements. Said discussions are
advisory in nature and not binding. The minutes of the work session shall
constitute the city's record of comments. Preapplication reviews for
subdivisions shall follow the procedural steps in section
3.15.02 of this code. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
9.2.02: PRELIMINARY PLAT REQUIRED:
   (A)   Filing Of Application: Following the preapplication review process in
section
9.2.01 of this chapter, and within one year from the commission work session,
the applicant may file an application for preliminary subdivision. The
application shall not be deemed accepted for filing, nor the time limits
hereinafter set out for action commence to run, until the preliminary plat and
all supplementary material required in this chapter have been received by the
administrator. When all required material has been received and deemed
complete, the administrator shall sign and date the application.
   (B)   Application Review: The administrator shall indicate on the
application form the names of those city or county officials, departments,
bodies or agencies that have legal jurisdiction to review the application in
matters affecting the health, safety or welfare of the area. (Ord. 822, 2-23-
2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
9.2.03: CONTENTS OF PRELIMINARY PLAT APPLICATION:
The preliminary plat application shall comply with these regulations and shall
have the following form and content:
   (A)   Name Of Proposed Subdivision: When a proposed subdivision is an
extension of an existing subdivision and both subdivisions are under the same
ownership, the same name may be used to identify the additional subdivision,
except that two (2) or more subdivisions shall be distinguished from each other
by the addition of a number in sequence. Block numbers in the additional
subdivision shall not duplicate those in any other subdivision of the same name
except the blocks themselves may expand. Otherwise, the proposed name shall not
duplicate or resemble the name of another subdivision in the city or county.
   (B)   Existing Title Status To Tract: The applicant shall attach to one copy
of the application, for the commission file only, a statement setting forth:
      1.   Over the signature of a title officer licensed to do business in
Valley County:
         (a)   The names and addresses of the owners of record;
         (b)   The record nature of the interest of each in the development;
         (c)   A copy of any existing easement or deed restriction of record
applicable to the tract; and
         (d)   A notation of the nature of any other lien or encumbrance of
record.
      2.   The zoning classification applicable to the tract, including
existing and proposed land use.
      3.   The total acreage of the tract and such adjacent lands under the
same ownership.
      4.   Any unrecorded matter known to the applicant that would have been
disclosed under subsection (B)1 of this section, if it had been of record.
   (C)   Existing Physical Conditions Of Tract And Vicinity: The applicant
shall attach to the preliminary application a statement and maps describing the
existing physical characteristics of the tract and vicinity with respect to:
      1.   Terrain.
      2.   Type of soil.
      3.   Location and direction of flow of all watercourses, permanent or
intermittent, on the tract and abutting properties.
      4.   The possibilities of the tract being subject to inundation of storm
water overflow and the approximate high water elevation; if within an area of
special flood hazard, a map of the area taken from any applicable FIRM 1 .
      5.   Any significant natural features such as rock outcroppings, marshes
or wooded areas; a "marsh", for these purposes, includes any wetland as defined
by the army corps of engineers regulations.
      6.   The location of existing sewers, water mains, culverts, drain pipes,
and electric conduits or telephone lines proposed to service the property to be
subdivided.
      7.   The location of adjacent streets or existing structures that might
affect the proposed improvement program.
      8.   Existing easements by use such as, but not limited to, roads,
driveways, buried or overhead utilities, and drainage.
   (D)   Building Program: The applicant shall indicate the type of subdivision
intended. For example: single-family, condominium, or commercial.
   (E)   Proposed Street, Utility Or Other Off Site Improvements: The applicant
shall attach to the application an explanation of the program to make the
required improvements and indicate other improvements proposed in connection
with the proposed subdivision which shall address:
      1.   Street dedication and standards of improvements.
      2.   Irrigation, drainage, and snow storage.
      3.   Proposed sources of potable and fire flow water, whether public,
water associations, or individual wells.
      4.   Proposed methods of disposing of sanitary waste by public systems or
individual disposal, and refuse by landfill service.
      5.   Proposed source of electric power, gas, telephone service and cable
television.
      6.   Any additional corrective or improvement programs.
   (F)   Development Program: The applicant shall submit information pertaining
to the development program, including proposed stages of development and the
program for the installation of off site improvements, the number of lots,
typical width and depth of lots, typical lot areas, linear feet of street
average, street length per lot, percentage of area in street, and maximum
street gradient.
   (G)   Property Description: Legal description of subject property.
   (H)   General Description Of Area: A vicinity map showing streets, adjoining
subdivisions, creeks, rivers, or water containments, and other data sufficient
to locate the proposed subdivision and show its relation to the community, as
well as a general description of the location of the plat, shall be submitted.
   (I)   Signatures: Signatures of applicant and of the administrator, the date
of acceptance of the application and a notation that filing fees have been paid
shall be placed on the form.
   (J)   Defined Plat: "Preliminary plat" as defined in subsection
9.2.04 of this chapter. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
 
Notes
  1. See referenced documents, appendix A, "Flood Insurance Rate Map", on file
1 in the office of the city clerk.
   
9.2.04: CONTENTS OF PRELIMINARY PLAT:
The preliminary plat shall include the information listed below, which may be
submitted on multiple drawings:
   (A)   Mapped Information: All mapped information shall be prepared in a neat
and legible manner in accordance with title 50, chapter 13 of the Idaho Code.
All map data must be submitted in scale but need not be based upon an actual
ground survey, except that the exterior tract dimensions and boundaries must be
based on a recorded survey made by a registered professional land surveyor.
   (B)   Contiguous Lands And Owners: The preliminary plat shall show all
contiguous land owned by the same owner or by a related owner; two (2) owners
are "related", for purposes of this subsection, if one owner has an interest in
land in which the other owner also has an interest. Lands which the owner does
not wish to subdivide or resubdivide shall be depicted according to their
existing platted configurations; if not platted, they shall either be shown by
their description of record, or be denoted "unsubdivided tract" plus a letter,
e.g., "unsubdivided tract A".
   (C)   Applicant And Surveyor Information: The name(s), address(es) and phone
number(s) of the applicant(s) and land surveyor shall be noted.
   (D)   Information On Maps: All maps containing data shall contain the name
of the person or firm responsible for the drawing together with the date drawn
and a drawing number in order that further reference to information contained
and responsibility for same may be easily identified.
   (E)   Name Of Plat Or Subdivision; Easements Shown: The name of the proposed
plat, subdivision or dedication, shall be shown including an appropriate
identification clearly stating that the map is a preliminary plat. The plat
shall show easement(s) to be granted.
   (F)   Drawing Date, Other Information: The drawing date, scale, true north
point and section, township and range shall be shown.
   (G)   Drawing Scale, Other Requirements: The preliminary plat shall be drawn
to a scale adequate to show detail in a clearly legible fashion, including all
information required such as street centerlines, boundary lines and ties to
monuments, etc., and all other drawings required such as engineering data and
contour maps. Aerial photographs, in color, are preferred, overlain with the
subdivision boundaries, proposed streets, lots and open space.
   (H)   Improvements: Proposed improvements to be shown shall include, but not
be limited to:
      1.   The location, grade, centering radius and arc length of curves,
pavement and right of way width and name of all streets. Typical sections of
all streets shall be shown.
      2.   The location and radius of all curb returns and cul-de-sacs.
      3.   The angle of intersecting streets if such angle deviates from a
right angle more than four degrees (4°).
      4.   The approximate lot layout and the approximate dimensions of each
lot and of each building site. Engineering data shall show the approximate
finished grading of each lot, the preliminary design of all grading, the
elevation of proposed building pads, the top and toe of cut and fill slopes to
scale and the number of each lot.
      5.   Proposed recreation sites, trails and parks for private or public
use.
      6.   Proposed common areas to be dedicated to public open space;
      7.   The location and size of sanitary sewers, water mains or storm
drains, including:
         (a)   A general layout showing the proposed location and approximate
sizes and grade of sewer lines, catch basins, pumps, and other drainage and
sewerage structures. Proposed slopes and approximate elevations shall be
indicated.
         (b)   A general layout showing the proposed location and approximate
size and grade of water distribution systems, pipes and valves and fire
hydrants.
         (c)   If these improvements are not to be installed at the time of
platting and subdivision, easements on the plat and other provisions shall be
provided, as required by the director of public works or Payette Lakes water
and sewer district, whichever may be applicable.
   (I)   Street Names; Numbering Of Lots: Proposed street names and the
numbering of lots, together with the layout of proposed street right of way
lines, lot lines, alley and easement lines, including all approximate
dimensions and any and all proposed street extensions shall be shown.
   (J)   Streets And Public Ways; Other Features: The location, width and names
of all existing or platted streets or other public ways within or adjacent to
the proposed development and other important features, such as the general
outline of power lines, telephone lines, municipal boundaries, including area
of city impact, and section lines, shall be shown.
   (K)   Wetlands And Watercourses: The location, dimensions, and description
of all wetlands and watercourses (permanent or intermittent).
   (L)   Adjacent Plats Or Subdivisions: The tract designation of the immediate
adjacent plats, subdivisions, or dedications as shown in the files of the
Valley County recorder, if any.
   (M)   Zone Boundary Lines: Zone boundary lines, if any are interior to or
abut the plat, shall be shown; if no lines are applicable, the zone in which
the plat is located shall be shown in a note.
   (N)   Yard Setbacks: The minimum setbacks for front yards, side yards, side
streets, and the rear yards of buildings to be placed on the property shall be
noted.
   (O)   Parcels Of Land For Public Use: All parcels of land or interest
therein intended to be dedicated or temporarily reserved for public use or to
be reserved in the deeds for the common use of property owners of the
subdivision and the purpose, condition, or limitations of such reservations
shall be indicated. In residential plats, all parcels lawfully intended for
other than residential use shall be indicated by hatching and appropriate
labeling.
   (P)   Phased Development: If the applicant plans a phased development of the
area contained in the preliminary plat, the respective areas of development
shall be designated and shown on the preliminary plat as to area and priority
of development.
   (Q)   Percolation Test; Water Table Data: Preliminary percolation test and
water table data required by the health department in order to approve each lot
for individual sanitary waste disposal.
   (R)   Elevations: The elevations of all corner points on the boundaries of
the proposed plat, subdivision, or dedication.
   (S)   Topography: Existing topography of the proposed site and at least one
hundred feet (100') beyond its boundary, including, but not limited to:
      1.   Existing contours at two foot (2') intervals if the existing ground
slope is less than ten percent (10%) and five feet (5') intervals for existing
ground slopes equal to or greater than ten percent (10%).
      2.   The approximate location and outline of existing structures
identified by type. Buildings to be removed shall be so marked.
      3.   The approximate location of all areas subject to inundation or storm
water overflow and the location, width and direction of flow of each
watercourse.
   (T)   Drainage Courses; Irrigation Facilities: Inclusion on topographical
drawings of the course, distance, and dimensions of the rerouting of
drainagecourses and irrigation facilities as well as documentary evidence of
consent to rerouting by all interested land owners affected and having rights
to and in such facilities.
   (U)   PUD, Restrictive Covenants: For all subdivisions that are planned unit
developments, per subsection
9.1.02(E) of this title, the applicant shall submit proposed restrictive
covenants, in outline form, as are required to ensure continuing conformance
with the standards set forth in this title, including, but not limited to,
building setback lines. The covenants shall also include other conditions or
restrictions that shall be applied to the subdivision, including, at least,
architectural or design controls, organization of a homeowners' association,
assessments, various homeowners' committees, draft articles of incorporation
and bylaws of the homeowners' association and easements.
   (V)   Other Information: Such other information as may be required by the
city. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
9.2.041: OTHER REQUIREMENTS:
The administrator may waive any of the foregoing preliminary subdivision plat
requirements whenever he or she finds that the type of subdivision is such as
not to necessitate compliance with these requirements or that other
circumstances justify such waiver. The administrator may require other such
drawings, data or other information as deemed necessary. The burden of
providing a complete application is on the applicant. The administrator may
supplement information for use during the commission's review. (Ord. 822, 2-23-
2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
9.2.05: FEES:
Every plat filed with the administrator for review and approval shall be
accompanied by a receipt from the city clerk for the payment of a filing fee in
the amount set by the council. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
9.2.06: REVIEW AND ACTION, PRELIMINARY PLAT:
   (A)   Submission Of Application; Supplementary Materials: Fifteen (15)
copies of the application, primary plat, and supplementary material specified
shall be submitted, plus additional copies (specified by the city) as are
required for referral to those agencies having jurisdiction or advisory
interest over the proposed subdivision. A complete application must be received
at least seventy five (75) days prior to the public hearing. Supplementary
material shall include:
      1.   Eleven inch by seventeen inch (11" x 17") reductions.
      2.   Electronic files of drawings in a format specified by the city.
(Ord. 866, 2-12-2009)
   (B)   Time Limit On Recommendations: If no written recommendations are
received by the commission from any department or agency hereinafter referred
to within thirty (30) days from the date that said applications and preliminary
drawings were sent to such department or agency by the administrator, then in
such event, the commission, at its option, may assume that such department or
agency did approve the preliminary application or plat.
   (C)   Additional Materials Submitted; Meeting Continued: If the applicant
submits additional, or revised, materials for consideration by the commission
after the notice for a public meeting has been posted, then the meeting may be
continued to a future, renoticed date.
   (D)   Copies Referred To Officials, Agencies: Officials, departments and
agencies to which the administrator may refer copies of the preliminary
application and plat include the following:
      1.   Fire chief of the McCall fire protection district.
      2.   McCall-Donnelly superintendent of schools.
      3.   Idaho transportation department.
      4.   Utility companies.
      5.   Payette Lakes recreational water and sewer district.
      6.   Idaho department of lands.
      7.   Valley County central district health.
      8.   Director of public works.
      9.   Other agencies, committees, or groups as deemed necessary by the
administrator.
   (E)   Commission Action: The commission shall review and approve, approve
conditionally, recommend approval to the city council (or board), recommend
approval to the city council (or board) with conditions, disapprove or table
the preliminary plat for additional information. An application for preliminary
plat which is accompanied by an application for annexation, rezoning, and/or
planned unit development of the same property or a portion thereof shall be
subject to recommendation for approval to city council (or board),
recommendation for approval to the city council (or board) with conditions,
disapproval, or tabling. All other preliminary plat applications shall be
reviewed and approved, approved conditionally, disapproved or tabled. Approval
or conditional approval of the preliminary plat by the commission shall be
approval by the city (or county). If tabled, the application shall come before
the commission at a date set in the motion to table the application. The action
to table may not be appealed. In approving, recommending approval,
conditionally approving, or recommending conditional approval of the tentative
map, the commission shall find that the proposed subdivision, together with
provisions for its design and improvements, is consistent with applicable
general or specific plans as specified in title III of this code, this title,
and the comprehensive plan. Upon the commission's recommendation for approval
or disapproval, the application and plat, together with a complete copy of the
commission's findings and report of action, shall be delivered to the council
(or board). The commission shall deny approval of the preliminary plat if it
makes any of the following findings:
      1.   The proposed plat is not consistent with applicable general and
specific plans as specified in title III of this code, or this title, or the
comprehensive plan.
      2.   The design or improvement of the proposed subdivision is not
consistent with applicable general and specific plans.
      3.   The site is not physically suitable for the type of development.
      4.   The site is not physically suitable for the proposed density of
development.
      5.   The design of the subdivision or the proposed improvements is likely
to cause substantial environmental damage or substantially and avoidably injure
wildlife or their habitat.
      6.   The design of the subdivision or the type of improvement is likely
to cause serious public health problems.
      7.   The design of the subdivision or the type of improvements will
conflict with easements, acquired by the public at large, for access through or
use of, property within the proposed subdivision. In this connection, the city
(or county) may approve a plat if it finds that alternate easements for access
or for use will be provided, and that these will be substantially equivalent to
ones previously acquired by the public. This subsection shall apply only to
easements of record or to easements established by judgment of a court of
competent jurisdiction, and no authority is hereby granted to a legislative
body to determine that the public at large has acquired easements for access
through or use of property within the proposed subdivision.
      8.   The proposed subdivision is not in compliance with all other
ordinances or laws of the city and/or county.
   (F)   Commission Specifications: The action taken by the commission shall
specify:
      1.   The comprehensive plan provisions, ordinances and standards used in
evaluating the application.
      2.   The reasons for denial, or approval, including conditions of
approval.
      3.   A recommendation of approval and/or a second public hearing before
the council (or county board).
   (G)   Council (Or County Board) Action: The council (or county board) shall
review any recommendation for approval or recommendation for approval with
conditions received from the commission and either approve the action or
recommend that the commission consider changes in the plat or conditions of
approval. Such review, if any, shall occur within forty five (45) days (or 60
days if a second public hearing is recommended) following approval by the
commission of findings and conclusions related to the commission
recommendation. Otherwise, the council (or county board) will act only on
appeal of the actions to the commission in accordance with title III, chapter
15, "Procedures, Appeals And Action", of this code. Approval of the preliminary
plat by the council (or the board) is approval by the city (or county).
   (H)   Plat Approval Authorizes Final Plat Processing: Preliminary plat
approval constitutes authorization for the applicant to proceed with
preparation of the final plat and with engineering plans and specifications for
public improvements. Approval is valid for eighteen (18) months from the date
of commission or council (or county board) action, at which date a final plat
must have been submitted for approval.
   (I)   Phased Developments: Application for development of a proposed
subdivision in phases may be made if the subdivision is to include fifteen (15)
or more lots, parcels or sites, or more than ten (10) units of a multi-family
dwelling unit development. Applicants requesting phased subdivisions shall
enter into a phasing agreement with the city. Any phasing agreements shall be
approved and executed by the council (or board) and the applicant on or before
the preliminary plat approval by the council (or board). (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006,
eff. 3-16-2006)
      1.   In the event that the development of the proposed subdivision
approved in preliminary plat form is to be completed in more than one phase,
the applicant may file and obtain certification of the acceptance of successive
final plats for continuous segments of the preliminary area without
reapplication for preliminary plat approval; provided, that the application for
final plat approvals are submitted in successive intervals of not more than
thirteen (13) months each, or pursuant to an approved phasing plan; and
provided, that development standards adopted by the city subsequent to
preliminary approval are followed. (Ord. 883, 11-4-2010)
      2.   All items in each phase shall be completed, or financially assured
for completion, before commission approval will be given for any subsequent
phases.
   (J)   Action Noted On Plat: The action of the commission or council (or
board) shall be noted on two (2) copies of the preliminary plat, referenced and
attached to any conditions determined. One copy shall be returned to the
applicant and one copy shall be retained for the files of the commission.
   (K)   Major Changes; Second Public Hearing: When conditional approval of the
preliminary plat requires major changes, the commission may provide that a
second public hearing be held to permit the public an opportunity to review and
comment on the changes. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
9.2.07: FINAL PLAT:
   (A)   Filing Of Final Plat: After the approval or conditional approval of
the preliminary plat, the applicant may cause the total parcel or any part
thereof to be surveyed and a final plat prepared in accordance with the
approved preliminary plat. The applicant shall submit to the administrator the
following:
      1.   Fifteen (15) copies of the final plat (3 copies full size and 12
copies reduced to 11 x 17 inches).
      2.   Three (3) copies of the final engineering construction drawings for
streets, water, sewer, sidewalks, drainage, and other public improvements.
      3.   The final plat must be submitted to the commission within eighteen
(18) months from the date of approval of the preliminary plat by the commission
unless an extension of time is applied for and granted by the commission or
unless otherwise allowed for with a phasing agreement. Failure to comply will
result in the loss of approval of the preliminary plat.
      4.   Electronic files in a form specified by the city.
   (B)   Phased Developments:
      1.   Filing of final plat(s) on phased developments after the eighteen
(18) month deadline may be subject to modifications or changes, since the
applicant's failure to meet the time limit would result in a loss of
entitlement to proceed based solely on their preliminary plat. (Ord. 822, 2-23-
2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
      2.   In all cases of phased development, the submittal of final plats
must be complete within seven (7) years from the date of approval of the
preliminary plat by the council. However, at its discretion, the council may
approve three (3) year extensions to this deadline. (Ord. 883, 11-4-2010)
   (C)   Contents: The final plat shall include and be in accordance with all
items required under title 50, chapter 13 of the Idaho Code and shall include
the following:
      1.   An application for approval of final plat.
      2.   Proof of current ownership of the real property included in the
proposed final plat.
      3.   Such other information as the administrator or city council (or
county board) may deem necessary to establish whether or not all proper parties
have signed and/or approved final plat.
      4.   Conformance with the approved preliminary plat and meeting all
requirements and conditions thereof.
      5.   Conformance with all current requirements and provisions of this
title.
      6.   Acceptable engineering practices and local standards.
      7.   Building sites on each lot adjusted to setback requirements.
      8.   A detailed landscaping plan if required by the commission as
specified at the preliminary plat hearing.
      9.   Boundaries of flood prone or environmentally sensitive areas to be
protected, including wetlands and watercourses.
      10.   The book, page, and recorder's instrument number of the covenants
governing the subdivision shall be noted and shown on the plat.
      11.   Portions of the subdivision reserved for utility, irrigation,
drainage, and all other classes of easements shall be clearly shown and
identified.
      12.   For subdivisions that include covenants per subsection
9.2.04(U) of this chapter as part of the preliminary plat approved, the
applicant shall submit in final form any covenants or conditions that shall be
applied to the subdivision, including, at least, architectural or design
standards, organization of a homeowners' association, assessments, various
homeowners' committees, easements, and a legal description of the property.
Also to be submitted, if required, are the final bylaws and articles of
incorporation of the homeowners' association. To be included on the final plat
are notes attesting to the documents submitted per this subsection.
      13.   Dedications of streets, rights of way, easements, parks and/or open
space, and public trails or paths.
      14.   Land becomes dedicated for purposes of title immediately upon the
recording of an approved final plat showing the dedication. For purposes of
street maintenance, or for purposes of a deed dedicating the land, dedication
is effective only when accepted by the council (or board) as a public
dedication, either by the passage of a city ordinance or by entry of a
resolution of approval in the official minute book of the official meetings of
the council (or board). The offer of dedication heretofore made in a final plat
may be accepted at any time after the plat becomes final.
      15.   Boundaries of the tract to be subdivided shall be fully balanced
and closed showing bearings and distances. Linear curves for street centerlines
and property lines shall include radii, central angle, arc length, points of
tangency, long chord length and bearing, and tangent length.
      16.   The exterior boundary of the subdivision shall be tied to not less
than two (2) recognized county or city survey monuments.
      17.   The size of each lot shall be shown in acres only for lots of one
or more acres in size, and in both square feet and acres if the lot is less
than one acre in size.
      18.   All plat notes required by the commission and/or the council (or
board) shall be shown on the face of the plat. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-
2006)
      19.   Plat boundary shall be tied to two (2) McCall modified grid control
point network (MMGCPN) control points. Information including bearing, distance
and point name shall be provided.
      20.   Digital data shall be provided according to the digital data
submittal standards policy. (Ord. 899, 5-24-2012)
   (D)   Procedure For Approval Of Final Plat:
      1.   Review By Administrator:
         (a)   Acceptance: Upon receipt of the final plat, and compliance with
all other requirements as provided herein, the administrator shall certify the
application as complete and shall affix the date of acceptance thereon.
         (b)   Resubmission Of Final Plat: The administrator shall review the
final plat for compliance with the approved or conditionally approved
preliminary plat. If the administrator determines that there is material change
in the final plat than from which was approved as a preliminary plat or
conditions which have not been met, the administrator may require that the
final plat be submitted to the commission and council (or board) in the same
manner as required in the preliminary plat process.
         (c)   Submission To Commission: Within forty five (45) days (or 60
days, if a public hearing, in the opinion of the commission, is required) of
receipt of the final plat, the commission shall review the plat for compliance
with the decisions made upon the review of the preliminary plat, PUD
development plan, subdivision and other agreements subsequent thereto, and if
in order, shall recommend approval of the plat by motion and transmit the final
plat to the council (or board).
         (d)   Submission To Council (Or Board): Upon determination by the
commission that the final plat is in compliance with the preliminary plat and
that all conditional requirements have been met, the administrator shall place
the final plat on the council (or board) agenda within forty five (45) days
from the date that the final plat has been recommended for approval by the
commission.
      2.   Agency Review: The administrator may transmit one copy of the final
plat, and other documents submitted, for review and recommendation to the
departments and agencies as deemed necessary to ensure compliance with the
preliminary approval and/or conditions of preliminary approval. Such agency
review may also include the construction standards of improvements, compliance
with health standards, the cost estimate for all improvements and the legal
review of the performance bond.
      3.   Council (Or Board) Action: The administrator's report and the final
plat, together with the development agreement, shall be placed on the council
(or board) agenda for its approval. The council (or board) shall consider the
final plat for approval at its next regular meeting after the meeting at which
it receives the plat prepared in accordance with this chapter. The council (or
board) shall have approved any development agreement before approving the final
plat.
The council (or board) shall consider the comments from concerned departments
and agencies to arrive at a decision on the final plat. The city council (or
board) shall approve, approve conditionally, disapprove or table to a date
certain and request additional information to be provided within thirty (30)
days of the date of the first regular meeting at which the final plat is
considered. An extension of time may be granted by the administrator to permit
preparation of additional work not previously considered. A copy of the
approved plat shall be filed with the administrator. Upon granting or denying
the final plat, the city council (or county board) shall specify:
         (a)   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the application.
         (b)   The reasons for approval or denial.
         (c)   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain
approval.
         (d)   If the final plat and development agreement, if any, are
approved by the council (or board), it shall instruct the city manager to
execute the agreement on behalf of the city.
      4.   Omission Of Information: In the event it is determined that the
applicant has omitted significant information, if such information is publicly
known and available, regarding adjacent properties (see subsection
9.2.04(J) of this chapter) from the preliminary or the final plat, the
commission or council (or board) may elect to reopen the public hearing for
reconsideration of the plat in order to determine if a change in plat is
justified or desirable. Such determination must be disclosed by the city no
later than one year after approval of the final plat. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006,
eff. 3-16-2006)
   (E)   Financial Guarantees: With respect to financial guarantees, the
approval of all final subdivision plats shall be conditioned on the provision
of a surety acceptable to the city clerk in the amount of one hundred twenty
five percent (125%) of infrastructure improvements (including landscaping and
erosion control) filed in the form of a cash deposit, certified check,
irrevocable bank letter of credit, or performance bond at the time of the final
plat approval with the required development agreement.
Infrastructure construction or site disturbance generally should not begin
until the final plat is recorded with the respective development and financial
guarantees. If the applicant proposes to perform infrastructure work or site
work prior to final plat recordation, then the applicant shall submit a plan
for administrative review and approval which includes the following:
      1.   The nature and scope of the proposed work;
      2.   The estimated cost of the proposed work;
      3.   The schedule for commencement and completion of the proposed work;
and
      4.   The means of financing the proposed work.
The administrator shall review the application and document any additional
conditions required to issue the administrative approval for infrastructure
improvements. Conditions shall be designed to mitigate the impacts on public
interests in the case of the noncompletion of the proposed work. (Ord. 866, 2-
12-2009)
   (F)   Approval Period: The final plat shall be filed with the county
recorder by the applicant within eighteen (18) months after written approval by
the city council (or board). Otherwise, such approval shall become null and
void unless the applicant, prior to said filing date, applies for an extension
and such extension is granted by the city council (or board).
   (G)   Time Period Expiration: In the event the time period for approval of
any final plat has expired, the preliminary plat approval shall also become
null and void.
   (H)   Required Certificates: The following certifications and signatures
shall be included on the final plat prior to recording by the county recorder:
      1.   Certification and signature of the chairman of the planning and
zoning commission and the council (or board) verifying that the subdivision has
been approved.
      2.   Certification and signatures of the city clerk and city engineer
verifying that the subdivision meets the requirements of the city and has been
approved by the council (or board).
      3.   Certification of the sanitation restriction on the face of the plat
in accordance with the provisions of section 50-1326, Idaho Code.
      4.   Other certification as may be required by other city, county, or
state personnel.
   (I)   Record Of Final Plat: Upon approval of the final plat by the city
council (or board), the applicant's prepayment of recording fees, posting of
surety bond or other acceptable guarantee and the inclusion of those
certifications and signatures on the final plat as set forth in subsection (H)
of this section, the applicant shall furnish proof to the administrator that
the final plat has been recorded, including two (2) copies of the final plat,
plus an electronic copy.
   (J)   Further Subdivision After Final Plat Approval: Further subdivision of
a property after final plat approval is not permitted, except by resubmission
of another subdivision application.
   (K)   Final Plat Amendment: A final plat may be amended, at the discretion
of the commission, when minor changes to the plat may be required as a result
of actions by a government body. A notice of plat revision is required, but a
public hearing is not required. Final approval by the council (or board) is
required. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
9.2.08: CONDOMINIUM DEVELOPMENT:
9.2.081: CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT REQUIRED:
Every condominium project, except in the R16 zone, requires a conditional use
permit application and shall be subject to all conditional use procedures. In
addition, all city code provisions relating to plats, recording, subdivisions
and zoning shall apply to condominium developments. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006, eff.
3-16-2006)
9.2.082: CONDOMINIUM PROPERTY ACT:
A condominium shall be developed in accordance with section 55-101B, Idaho
Code, the condominium property act, as amended. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-
16-2006)
9.2.083: BYLAWS:
The developer of a condominium project shall submit with the preliminary plat
application, as required by this title, a copy of the proposed bylaws and
condominium declarations of the proposed development. These documents shall
adequately provide for the control (including billing where applicable) and
maintenance of all common utilities, common area, recreational facilities, and
open space. Prior to final plat approval, the developer shall submit to the
city a copy of the final bylaws and condominium declarations which shall be
approved by the council (or board) and filed with the county recorder,
including the instrument(s)/number(s) under which each document was recorded.
(Ord. 822, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
9.2.084: GARAGES:
In residential zones, all garages shall be designated on the preliminary and
final plats and on all deeds as part of the particular condominium units.
Detached garages may be platted on separate sublots; provided, that the
ownership of detached garages is tied to specific condominium units on the
condominium plat and in any owner's documents, and that the detached garage(s)
may not be sold and/or owned separate from any dwelling unit(s) within the
condominium project. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
9.2.085: PARKING, OVERFLOW AND STORAGE:
Condominium projects in residential zones shall provide overflow parking and
enclosed storage for guests and for the use of owners with snowmobile trailers
or boat trailers. Condominium projects shall provide a minimum of two (2)
parking spaces per residential unit and one parking space, in addition to that
required by this section, of no less than ten feet by twenty feet (10' x 20')
dimension, for every two (2) units within the development. In some cases, this
additional parking may be utilized for snow storage in the winters. In all
other zones, the association bylaws shall state that the storage of anything
other than licensed motor vehicles in parking spaces is prohibited. (Ord. 822,
2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
9.2.086: CONVERSION:
The conversion by subdivision of existing units into condominiums shall not be
subject to section
9.3.10, "Parks", of this title. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
9.2.09: TOWNHOUSES:
9.2.091: CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT REQUIRED:
All townhouse projects, except in the R16 zone, require the submittal of a
conditional use permit, and shall be subject to all conditional use procedures.
In addition, all townhouse projects shall be subject to all other provisions of
this title and title III of this code, and to all other rules and regulations
of the city and other government entities having jurisdiction, as applicable.
Townhouse sublots shall have a minimum area equal to that of the perimeter of
each individual townhouse unit, and an additional area three feet (3') in width
adjacent to any opening, measured at the foundation. Said sublots shall not be
buildable for structures other than a townhouse unit as defined herein.
Platting of sublots shall follow the procedures set forth in this title and
other applicable code provisions in effect. All other detached and/or accessory
buildings are prohibited. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
9.2.092: AGREEMENTS:
The applicant for a townhouse development shall submit with the preliminary
plat application and all other information required herein a copy of the
proposed party wall agreement and the proposed document(s) creating an
association of owners of the proposed townhouse sublots, which shall adequately
provide for the control (including billing where applicable) and maintenance of
all common utilities, commonly held facilities, garages, parking and/or open
spaces. Prior to final plat approval, the applicant shall submit to the city a
final copy of said party wall agreement and any other such documents and shall
record said documents prior to recordation of the plat, which plat shall
reflect the recording instrument numbers thereupon. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006, eff.
3-16-2006)
9.2.093: GARAGES:
In residential zones, all garages shall be designated on the preliminary and
final plats and on all deeds as part of the particular townhouse units.
Detached garages may be platted on separate sublots; provided, that the
ownership of detached garages is tied to specific townhouse units on the
townhouse plat and in any owner's documents, and that the detached garage(s)
may not be sold and/or owned separate from any dwelling unit(s) within the
townhouse development. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
9.2.094: PARKING, OVERFLOW AND STORAGE:
Residential townhouse projects in residential zones shall provide overflow
parking and enclosed storage for guests and for the use of owners with
snowmobile trailers or boat trailers. Townhouse projects shall provide a
minimum of two (2) parking spaces per residential unit and one parking space,
in addition to that required by this title, of no less than ten feet by twenty
feet (10' x 20') dimension, for every two (2) units within the development. In
some cases, this additional parking may be utilized for snow storage in the
winters. In all other zones, the association bylaws shall state that the
storage of anything other than licensed motor vehicles in parking spaces is
prohibited. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
9.2.095: EXPIRATION:
Townhouse developments which have received final plat approval shall have a
period of three (3) years from the date of final plat approval by the council
(or board) to obtain a building permit. Developments which have not received a
building permit shall be null and void and the plats associated therewith shall
be vacated by the council (or board). If a development is to be phased,
construction of the second and succeeding phases shall be contingent upon
completion of the preceding phase, unless the requirement is waived by the
council (or board). Further, if construction of any townhouse development or
phase of any development ceases or is not diligently pursued for a period of
three (3) years without the prior consent of the council (or board), that
portion of the plat pertinent to the undeveloped portion of the development
shall be vacated. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
9.2.096: CONVERSION:
The conversion by subdivision of existing units into townhouses shall not be
subject to section
9.3.10, "Parks", of this title. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
CHAPTER 3
SUBDIVISION DESIGN STANDARDS
SECTION:
9.3.01: General Standards And Purpose
9.3.02: Blocks
9.3.03: Lots
9.3.04: Streets
9.3.05: Alleys
9.3.06: Easements
9.3.07: Pedestrian And Bicycle Pathways And Greenbelts
9.3.08: Snow Storage And Drainage Easements
9.3.09: Monuments
9.3.10: Parks
9.3.101: Local Governing Body Powers
9.3.102: Contribution
9.3.103: Required Improvements
9.3.104: Standards
9.3.105: Dedication Credit
9.3.106: Dedication And Maintenance
9.3.107: In Lieu Contributions
9.3.01: GENERAL STANDARDS AND PURPOSE:
   (A)   Subdivisions shall conform to the standards of the adopted
comprehensive plan, the zoning regulations of the city, and other ordinances
and regulations of the city. Higher standards of development which are
officially adopted by other local, state and federal jurisdictions shall
prevail over those set forth herein in accordance with prevailing laws and
agreements.
   (B)   The overall purpose of this chapter is to promote the safety, general
health, welfare and livability of the community and future residents. This
includes prohibiting or conditioning development and subdivisions that, through
the provisions of this chapter and other applicable regulations, are determined
to include lands unsuitable for development. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-
2006)
9.3.02: BLOCKS:
The length, widths and shapes of blocks shall be determined with due regard to:
   (A)   Adequate building sites suitable for the type of use contemplated,
including the zoning requirements as to lot size and dimensions, shall be
provided.
   (B)   Blocks should have sufficient width to provide for two (2) tiers of
lots; exceptions require commission approval when shown to be the only
practical or possible arrangement.
   (C)   The needs for convenient access, circulation, control and safety of
pedestrians and vehicular traffic shall be met. The number of intersecting
streets with designated arterial roads shall be held to a minimum.
   (D)   The limitations and opportunities of topography shall be recognized.
   (E)   Block lengths shall be between three hundred feet (300') and seven
hundred fifty feet (750'), with a recommended distance of five hundred feet
(500'), provided block lengths may be a greater, or lesser, length upon showing
of cause or to conform to major existing terrain features. The block lengths
are controlled to provide for adequate connectivity, convenient pedestrian
circulation, access, and to control traffic rates. Alternative, traffic calming
measures of an approved type may be a part of street design. Generally, smaller
block lengths should be used in more pedestrian oriented and/or mixed use
settings and projects.
   (F)   Three-way intersections shall only be permitted where most appropriate
or where no other configurations are possible. A minimum distance of one
hundred fifty feet (150'), measured from centerlines, shall separate any two
(2), three-way intersections. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
9.3.03: LOTS:
   (A)   The lot size, width, depth, shape, orientation, and the minimum
building setback lines shall conform to applicable zoning and be appropriate
for the location of the subdivision and for the type of development and use
contemplated. Every lot shall abut upon a street, except for those lots which
abut upon a common driveway which then abuts upon a street. Corner lots for
residential use shall have extra width to permit building setbacks from and
orientation to both streets.
   (B)   Double frontage and reverse frontage lots shall be avoided, except
where essential to provide separation of residential development from collector
streets or to overcome specific disadvantages of topography and orientation. A
screening easement at least ten feet (10') wide parallel to the lot line and
across which there shall be no right of access shall be provided along the line
of a collector street or other easily incompatible use. Common space provided
must be landscaped. See subsection
9.6.02(N) of this title.
   (C)   Side lot lines shall be within twenty degrees (20°) of right angles or
radial to street lines, with exceptions possible for unusual topography or
vegetation.
   (D)   The applicant, upon request by the administrator, shall provide the
following information or such portion thereof as the administrator deems
necessary.
      1.   Data setting forth the highest known water tables for the proposed
subdivision and for the property lying downgrade and contiguous to subject
subdivision.
      2.   A geological analysis addressing the suitability of the subsurface
of the land for the proposed development.
      3.   The location of all existing or proposed irrigation ditches, streams
(permanent or intermittent), drainage ditches, or known underground
watercourses.
   (E)   If, upon consideration of the information provided in subsection (D)
of this section, it is determined that by reason of the factual situation and
circumstances concerning the subdivision in question, the health, safety and
welfare of the inhabitants of the subdivision and the aquifers and streams in
question would not suffer from pollution, the commission may approve minimum
lot sizes for areas within the plat in accordance with the applicable minimum
or minimum average lot sizes in the applicable zone.
   (F)   Unbuildable lots shall not be platted as lots. Platted areas that are
not buildable shall be noted as such and designated as "parcels" on the plat.
Open space parcels or tracts shall be clearly designated as such on the plat.
   (G)   At the direction of the commission, the applicant will arrange for
fronting of lots onto a street (public or private) in an adjacent subdivision,
if such direction results in an overall improvement in the arrangement of lots.
   (H)   Flag lots are acceptable with the pole width of thirty feet (30')
minimum; no more than two (2) lots may be created with one lot fronting onto a
street and the second created via a flag lot with pole access.
   (I)   Lots platted which abut on either emergency access streets or alleys
shall not have the street address from either. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-
2006)
9.3.04: STREETS:
   (A)   The arrangement, character, extent, width, grade, profile, location,
and other specifications of all streets shall conform to adopted standards and
policies, and shall be considered in their relation to existing and planned
streets, topographic conditions, to public convenience or safety, and in their
appropriate relation to the proposed uses of the land to be served by such
streets 1 . The minimum street right of way width in the city shall be sixty
feet (60') for minor streets, seventy feet (70') for collector streets, and
eighty feet (80') for arterial streets, whether public or private. A lesser
width for some private streets may be permitted. However, street right of way
widths within the impact area shall not be less than seventy feet (70') or as
specified by the county. The commission will decide which streets will become
arterial or collector after considering adopted master plans, the comprehensive
plan, and applicable provisions of this title and title III of this code. The
right of way for collector and arterial streets shall not be private property,
but must be dedicated; where the actual collector or arterial use of the right
of way is in the judgment of the commission not a near-term use, the commission
may authorize interim construction as a private roadway without public
maintenance for a term not to exceed three (3) years.
   (B)   All streets and alleys within any subdivision shall be dedicated for
public use.
   (C)   The arrangement of streets in a subdivision shall either:
      1.   Provide for the continuation or appropriate projection of existing
principal streets in surrounding areas; or
      2.   Conform to a plan for the neighborhood approved or adopted by the
council to meet a particular situation where topographic or other conditions
make continuance of or conformance to existing streets impracticable.
   (D)   Where a subdivision abuts or contains an existing or proposed arterial
street, the city may require marginal access streets, frontage streets, shared
driveways, reverse frontage streets, or similar treatment necessary for
adequate protection of residential properties.
   (E)   Where a subdivision borders on or contains a railroad right of way or
limited access highway right of way, the city may require a street
approximately parallel to and on each side of such right of way, at a distance
suitable for the appropriate use of the intervening land.
   (F)   Reserve strips controlling access to streets shall be prohibited
except where their control is placed in the city under conditions approved by
the council.
   (G)   Street layout shall conform to the most advantageous development of
adjoining areas and the entire neighborhood, and shall provide for the
following:
      1.   Adequate access to adjoining lands to facilitate future subdivisions
of such land.
      2.   Appropriate contribution to the incremental creation of a connected
network of streets and circulation within the city and impact area.
      3.   Implementation of the comprehensive plan.
      4.   Streets intersecting at right angles, or as nearly as possible.
Where possible, four-way intersections shall be used.
      5.   Half streets shall be prohibited, except where essential to the
reasonable development of the subdivision in conformity with the other
requirements of these regulations and where the council finds it will be
practicable to require the dedication of the other half when the adjoining
property is subdivided. In all other instances where a half street is adjacent
to an undeveloped tract, the other half of the street shall be platted within
such tract.
      6.   No street names shall be used which will duplicate or be confused
with the names of existing streets in any town or county area. Street names
shall be subject to the approval of the administrator. Street names, where the
street continues across an intersection, shall normally be continuous.
      7.   If street trees are required by the commission to be installed, the
minimum standard shall be of two inch (2") caliper, forty feet (40') to sixty
feet (60') apart. Trees or shrubs placed within twenty five feet (25') of a
street corner shall not obstruct clear vision of and across the corner between
three feet (3') and eight feet (8') above the ground level of the traveled way.
Tree species are subject to the approval of the city arborist.
      8.   Cul-de-sacs and other discontinuous streets shall generally be
avoided in favor of a connected network.
      9.   Cul-de-sac streets, designed to be permanent, shall not be longer
than nine hundred feet (900') when measured from the intersection line of the
cross street to the center of the cul-de-sac, and shall be provided with a
turnaround with a right of way diameter of at least one hundred twenty feet
(120') and a paved roadway of at least ninety feet (90'). Cul-de-sac streets
shall be private streets, to be maintained by the owners of the subdivision.
The city may require pedestrian accessways connecting cul-de-sac streets to
adjacent streets, rights of way, or open space. (See section
9.6.05 of this title.)
      10.   Emergency access streets, which are designed to alleviate
excessively long cul-de-sac streets (or other conditions), require the approval
of the commission and shall be private streets. The minimum right of way shall
be forty feet (40').
   (H)   Property lines at street intersections shall be rounded with a radius
of twenty feet (20') or a greater radius where the city may deem it necessary.
   (I)   Street jogs with centerline offsets of less than one hundred twenty
five feet (125') shall be avoided.
   (J)   A tangent of at least one hundred feet (100') shall be introduced
between reverse curves on arterial and collector streets.
   (K)   Subdivisions or planned unit developments in excess of five (5) acres
or twenty five (25) residential units must have at least two (2) points of
access to public roads outside the subdivision, if possible, for purposes of
public safety and access by emergency vehicles. Where through roads are not
possible, the developer shall provide stubbed out roads to the boundary of the
subdivision or development at points established by the city. Preferably, the
two (2) points of access will be located on opposite, or different, sides of
the subdivision.
   (L)   In the event an existing subdivision has only one point of access to
an outside public street, then any future contiguous subdivision, whether by
the same developer or a different developer, must provide for at least one
additional point of access. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
 
Notes
1 1. See referenced documents, appendix A, on file in the office of the city
  clerk.
9.3.05: ALLEYS:
   (A)   Alleys shall be provided in commercial, business park and industrial
zones, and may be provided in other zones, except that the council may approve
other types of service access for off street loading, unloading and parking
consistent with and adequate for the uses proposed. (Ord. 885, 3-24-2011)
   (B)   The width of an alley shall be not less than twenty feet (20').
   (C)   Alley intersections and sharp changes in alignment shall be avoided,
and where necessary, corners shall be cut off sufficiently to permit safe
vehicular movement.
   (D)   Dead end alleys exceeding one hundred fifty feet (150') in length
shall be avoided where possible; but, if unavoidable, shall be provided with
adequate turnaround facilities at the dead end, as determined by the fire chief
and city staff.
   (E)   All infrastructure to be installed underground shall, where possible,
be installed in the platted alleys. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
   (F)   Where alleys are not provided, easements of not less than ten feet
(10') in width may be required on each side of all rear and/or side lot lines
(total width equals 20 feet) where necessary for wires, conduits, storm or
sanitary sewers, gas and water lines. Easements of greater width may be
required along lot lines, across lots, or along boundaries, where necessary for
surface drainage or for the extension of utilities. Digital data shall be
provided according to the digital data submittal standards policy. (Ord. 899,
5-24-2012)
9.3.06: EASEMENTS:
   (A)   Easements shall be provided for utilities inside the front lot line
with a minimum width of twelve feet (12'), subject to the right of access, and
elsewhere as and where considered necessary by the utility providers and
approved by the council. Digital data shall be provided according to the
digital data submittal standards policy. (Ord. 899, 5-24-2012)
   (B)   Where a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, drainageway,
channel or stream there shall be provided a stormwater easement or drainage
right of way which substantially conforms to the lines of such watercourse, and
such further width or construction, or both, as will be adequate for that
purpose. The commission may require additional setbacks from watercourses,
applicable not only to buildings, but also to any disturbance of the stream
banks and edge habitats.
   (C)   Provisions for adequate snow storage and drainage shall be made by the
applicant in accordance with the drainage management guidelines as adopted by
the city of McCall, and amended. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
9.3.07: PEDESTRIAN AND BICYCLE PATHWAYS AND GREENBELTS:
   (A)   Pedestrian and bicycle crosswalks, not less than ten feet (10') wide,
may be required by the commission where deemed essential to provide
circulation, or access to schools, playgrounds, shopping centers,
transportation and other community facilities, and shall be constructed in
accordance with the standards and specifications adopted by the city. (Ord.
822, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
   (B)   Pedestrian and bicycle paths, where identified on an adopted plan or
when required to ensure public transportation and circulation, shall be within
dedicated easements, fifteen foot (15') minimum width, and shall be constructed
in accordance with the standards and specifications adopted by the city.
Digital data for easements shall be provided according to the digital data
submittal standards policy. See the McCall area pathways master plan. If
recommended by the commission, the easement may be shared with easements for
city owned utilities. (Ord. 899, 5-24-2012)
   (C)   Greenbelts are required along floodplains and permanent streams as
indicated on the McCall area pathways master plan. The greenbelt area shall be
a minimum of twenty five feet (25') wide and fully accessible to the public
from interior lots and adjacent public roads or paths. For new developments
along the North Fork of the Payette River, a seventy five foot (75') riparian
easement shall be dedicated, as measured from the high water mark, upon which
no permanent structure shall be built, in order to protect the natural
vegetation and prevent riverbank erosion. Removal of live vegetation within the
riparian easement is prohibited, except for the removal of hazardous trees,
approved by the city arborist. Pruning of trees within the riparian easement is
permitted to alleviate danger from wildfire. The riparian easement shall be
fenced off during any construction on the property. (Ord. 898, 5-10-2012)
   (D)   Pedestrian accessways may be required to connect a dead end or cul-de-
sac street to another street, right of way, or open space. (Ord. 822, 2-23-
2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
9.3.08: SNOW STORAGE AND DRAINAGE EASEMENTS:
   (A)   Drainage Management Guidelines: The city has adopted drainage
management guidelines to protect water quality in both Payette Lake, the North
Fork of the Payette River, and other permanent streams. Those guidelines, as
amended periodically, prescribe design criteria that shall govern the sizing
and configuration of drainage structures, the location of easements, and design
flows.
   (B)   Snow Storage Areas: Wherever public parking, public or private
streets, or other uses requiring the removal of snow are identified, the
developer shall provide specific site locations protected for the storage of
snow and the consequences of meltwater. If an off site location is identified,
developer shall provide evidence of perpetual commitment, to be so designated
on the plat, to allow the storage of snow. Snow storage areas shall be not less
than thirty three percent (33%) of parking, sidewalk, and driveway areas. This
area shall not be designated between any property line and setback line.
   (C)   Owner Responsibility: It shall be the duty of the owner, or the
representative of the owner or owners, of each parcel or real property within
the city to clear off snow, and maintain free from snow, sufficient space on
such real property as is necessary to meet the off street parking requirements,
pedestrian and bike paths and transit facilities, for such parcel and
structures thereon, as provided in section
3.8.06 of this code.
   (D)   Parked Vehicles Impeding Snow Removal: Vehicles which are parked on
any public street which impede the removal of snow from the driving surface by
city crews are subject to removal and impoundment by the city.
   (E)   Construction Plan: Developers shall provide a copy of a construction
plan which is prepared in accordance with EPA's NPCES general permit for
stormwater discharge from construction activity for all construction activity
affecting more than one acre.
   (F)   Disposal Of Snow On City Streets:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person, firm or entity to dispose of snow on
any city street. It is also unlawful to push snow across or onto any street for
the purpose of disposing of the snow on other properties unless owned by the
same.
      2.   The phrase "dispose of snow" includes blowing, pushing, ramping,
shoving or otherwise depositing snow on city streets. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006,
eff. 3-16-2006)
9.3.09: MONUMENTS:
Monuments shall be set in accordance with section 50-1303, Idaho Code.
Monuments shall be placed at all section and quarter corners, and elsewhere as
required by the city. All monuments located in paved streets, alleys or
sidewalks will be encased in protective boxes approved by the city. For each
subdivision phase or development, any portion of which is located within a
regulated floodplain, one elevation monument setting forth the elevation and
datum shall be located within a monument box and shall be filed as a corner
perpetuation record as well as identified on record drawings. The location of
this monument shall be approved by the city. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-
2006)
9.3.10: PARKS:
9.3.101: LOCAL GOVERNING BODY POWERS:
The McCall parks board shall review and make a recommendation to the commission
and city council regarding each application for subdivision or development of
nine (9) residential units or more. Such recommendation will be based on
compatibility with the McCall parks master plan (called "master plan" herein)
and the recreation section of the comprehensive plan, and compliance with the
provisions of this title. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
9.3.102: CONTRIBUTION:
   (A)   The applicant for each residential subdivision or planned unit
development, or any part thereof, consisting of nine (9) or more dwelling
units, without regard to the number of phases within the subdivision, shall set
aside or acquire land area within, adjacent to, or in the general vicinity of
the subdivision for parks. Parks shall be within the city of McCall or the
impact area. Parks shall be set aside in accordance with the following formula:
P = N multiplied by .0277
"P" is the parks contribution in acres
"N" is the number of single-family lots, townhouse sublots, or condominium
units contained within the plat. Where multi-family lots are being platted with
no fixed number of units, "N" is maximum number of residential units possible
within the subdivision based on current zoning regulations. For example, for a
subdivision with one hundred (100) platted lots, the total area of parks to be
dedicated would be: 2.77 acres.
   (B)   Where a parcel of land is owned or otherwise controlled, in any
manner, directly or indirectly:
      1.   By the same individual(s) or entity(ies), including, but not limited
to, corporation(s), partnership(s), limited liability company(ies) or trust(s);
or
      2.   By different individuals or entities, including, but not limited to,
corporations, partnerships, limited liability companies or trusts where:
         (a)   Such individual(s) or entity(ies) have a controlling ownership
or contractual right with the other individual(s) or entity(ies); or
         (b)   The same individual(s) or entity(ies) act in any manner as an
employee, owner, partner, agent, stockholder, director, member, officer or
trustee of the entity(ies); or
         (c)   Multiple subdivisions of said parcel that cumulatively result in
nine (9) or more dwelling units.
These cases are subject to the provisions of this title, and shall provide the
required improvements subject to the required standards at or before the
platting or development of nine (9) or more dwelling units.
      3.   Wetlands, if designated in accordance with federal laws, are not to
be included in calculation of land to meet this requirement. (Ord. 822, 2-23-
2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
9.3.103: REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS:
Improvements for parks shall be based on size and be considered either a
community (between 0.1 acre and 1 acre), or a neighborhood park (between 1 and
10 acres).
   (A)   Community Park: Minimum improvements: finished grading and ground
cover, trees and shrubs, picnic table, trash container(s), park bench(es). All
parks shall provide an average of fifteen (15) trees per acre, of which at
least fifteen percent (15%) shall be of four inch (4") caliper or greater. A
maximum of fifty percent (50%) of any single tree species may be used.
   (B)   Neighborhood Park: Minimum improvements: finished grading and ground
cover, large grassy areas, trees and shrubs, sheltered picnic table(s), trash
container(s), park bench(es), parking as required by ordinance, and one or more
of the following: play structure, restrooms, an athletic field, trails, hard
surface multiple use court (tennis or basketball courts), or gardens that
demonstrate conservation principles. All parks shall provide an average of
fifteen (15) trees per acre, of which at least fifteen percent (15%) shall be
of four inch (4") caliper or greater. A maximum of fifty (50) of any single
tree species may be used. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
9.3.104: STANDARDS:
Land proposed to be dedicated for recreation purposes shall meet identified
needs and standards contained within the McCall parks master plan (called
"master plan" herein). All parks, green space, and trails shall meet the
following criteria for development, location and size (unless terrain, existing
vegetation, wetland, or similar conditions exist that prohibit meeting 1 or
more of the criteria):
   (A)   Shall provide safe and convenient access, including ADA standards.
   (B)   Shall not be gated so as to restrict access.
   (C)   Shall not be configured in such a manner that will create a perception
of intruding on private space.
   (D)   Shall be configured in size, shape, topography and improvements to be
functional for the intended users.
   (E)   Shall not create undue negative impact on adjacent properties and
shall be buffered from conflicting land uses.
   (F)   Shall not create undue demands on city services.
   (G)   Shall require low maintenance, or provide for maintenance or a
maintenance endowment, or provide for transfer to city ownership.
   (H)   Shall not conflict with the use or planned use depicted in the master
plan.
   (I)   Shall be connected, wherever possible, in a useful manner to other
recreation opportunities. Preserved green space within proposed developments
shall be designed to be contiguous and interconnecting with adjacent green
space (both existing and potential future space). (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-
16-2006)
   (J)   The following criteria for connections shall be met:
      1.   The applicant shall define a meaningful pedestrian circulation
system for each development, which connects to the major trail system, parks,
schools, shopping areas and community assets. Subdividers shall install such
sidewalks and trails as required by ordinance and according to city standards.
No park dedication credit will be given for pedestrian improvements required by
ordinance.
      2.   The applicant shall construct and pave all trails through and
abutting their developments. Such trail improvements shall be undertaken at the
same time as other public improvements are installed within the development
(i.e., grading with site grading and paving with street or parking lot paving).
Deviation from this timing requirement may be allowed only when deemed
beneficial for the project. Park dedication credit will be given for trails and
pedestrian improvements identified in the McCall area pathways master plan.
      3.   The city may permit easements to be granted by developers for trail
corridors identified in the McCall area pathways master plan, thereby allowing
the developer to include the land area in the determination of setbacks and
building density on the site. In such cases, park dedication credit will not be
given. (Ord. 898, 5-10-2012)
   (K)   Shall have installed necessary irrigation system(s) to be specified by
the parks board, using either well water or city water.
   (L)   Detailed plans, including landscaping and amenities shall be approved
by the city prior to the commencement of construction. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006,
eff. 3-16-2006)
9.3.105: DEDICATION CREDIT:
To be eligible for park dedication credit, land dedicated must be located on
slopes less than twenty five degrees (25°), and must be located outside of
drainways, floodways and wetland areas. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
9.3.106: DEDICATION AND MAINTENANCE:
All park land shall be dedicated to the city of McCall upon completion, unless
otherwise allowed by the city council upon recommendation by the parks board.
Parks shall be guaranteed and maintained by the developer for a period of two
(2) years after which the city will assume responsibility for maintenance. Any
privately owned and maintained park or recreation space (by the future
residents or business owners of the subdivision) must meet the following:
   (A)   Land area shall not be occupied by nonrecreational buildings and shall
be available for the use of all the residents or employees of the proposed
subdivision.
   (B)   The use of the private green space shall be restricted for park,
playground, trail green space or recreational purposes by recorded covenants
which run with the land in favor of the future owners of the property within
the tract and which cannot be modified without the consent of the city council.
   (C)   The proposed private green space shall be reasonably adaptable for use
for such purposes, taking into consideration such factors as size, shape,
topography, geology, access and location of the private green space land.
   (D)   The facilities proposed for such purposes are in accordance with the
provisions of the recreational element of the comprehensive plan.
   (E)   The private ownership and maintenance of the green space shall be
adequately provided for by written agreement.
   (F)   Public and private green space for park or recreation purposes shall
be complementary to one another, and the use of private facilities should not
be exclusive to the homeowners, residents, or employees of the development
only. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
9.3.107: IN LIEU CONTRIBUTIONS:
After receiving a recommendation by the parks board, the city council may, at
their discretion, approve and accept voluntary cash contributions in lieu of
park land dedication and park improvements, which contributions must be
segregated by the city and not used for any other purpose other than the
acquisition of park land and/or park improvements. The fee structure for cash
contributions for acquisition of park land shall be the appraised value of the
required land area at the time of the application. The appraisal shall be
submitted by a mutually agreed upon appraiser whose services are paid by the
applicant. The fee structure for park improvements, including all costs of
acquisition, construction and all related costs, shall be based upon the
estimated costs of an approved project provided by a qualified contractor and/
or vendor. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
CHAPTER 4
MOBILE HOMES, MOBILE HOME PARKS AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKS
SECTION:
9.4.01: Purpose
9.4.02: Exceptions
9.4.03: Mobile Homes Prohibited On Individual Lots Outside Parks
9.4.04: Parking Or Storage Of Recreational Vehicles Or Mobile Homes
9.4.05: Other Mobile Home/Manufactured Units
9.4.06: Permits And Inspection
9.4.07: Mobile Home Park Development Standards And Procedures
9.4.071: General Conditions And Limitations
9.4.072: Zoning Approval Required For New Mobile Home Park Or Expansion
9.4.073: Site Requirements
9.4.074: Mobile Home Space Requirements
9.4.075: Improvement Requirements
9.4.08: Recreational Vehicle Parks
9.4.09: Violations And Penalties
9.4.10: Nonconforming Mobile Homes
9.4.01: PURPOSE:
This chapter establishes minimum standards and requirements for the occupation
of mobile homes, as well as for the construction of mobile home parks and
recreational vehicle parks, as they relate to adjacent land uses and the
general purposes set forth in the zoning and subdivision ordinances. (Ord. 822,
2-23-2006, eff. 8-16-2006)
9.4.02: EXCEPTIONS:
   (A)   Applications: A petition may be filed requesting an exception to any
portion of the standards of design or required improvements of this chapter.
The petition shall be filed with the commission and shall state fully the
grounds for the request.
   (B)   Commission: The commission may approve an exception to any portion of
the standards of design or required improvements, set forth herein where the
applicant can show that: 1) due to topographical or other conditions peculiar
to the site, a departure may be made without destroying the intent of such
provisions; and 2) the granting of the exception will not be detrimental to the
public welfare nor injurious to other property in the vicinity. The reasons for
granting any exception shall be stated in writing in the minutes of the
commission.
   (C)   Appeal: A decision of the commission may be appealed by the petitioner
or other interested party to the council within fifteen (15) calendar days of
the decision. The appeal shall be written and filed with the zoning
administrator, who shall notify the appellant of the hearing date scheduled by
the council. If an appeal is not submitted within fifteen (15) calendar days,
the decision shall be conclusive and no further right of appeal shall exist.
(Ord. 822, 2-23-2006, eff. 8-16-2006)
9.4.03: MOBILE HOMES PROHIBITED ON INDIVIDUAL LOTS OUTSIDE PARKS:
   (A)   Prohibition: Mobile homes are prohibited on individual lots outside of
mobile home parks.
   (B)   RV As Permanent Dwelling: Nothing within these regulations shall be
construed to allow a recreational vehicle as a permanent dwelling.
   (C)   Manufactured Homes: Manufactured homes on permanent foundations are
subject to the regulations for single-family residences and are further defined
in chapter 5 of this title.
   (D)   Single Building Site: No person shall maintain two (2) or more
occupied mobile homes on a single legal building site other than in a mobile
home park. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006, eff. 8-16-2006)
9.4.04: PARKING OR STORAGE OF RECREATIONAL VEHICLES OR MOBILE HOMES:
   (A)   Unlawful Parking: It is unlawful for any person to park any
recreational vehicle or mobile home, occupied or unoccupied, on any street,
alley, or highway or other public place, or on any tract of land owned by any
person, except as provided in this chapter.
   (B)   Exceptions:
      1.   Emergency or temporary stopping or parking for not more than four
(4) hours and subject to any other limitations.
      2.   The storage of any unoccupied and uninhabited recreational vehicle
or mobile home not exceeding eight feet (8') in width shall be permitted in the
rear yard of any premises; provided, that it does not extend into any setback
area, nor shall it be connected to water, sewer, electricity or gas and that
such storage is not in conflict with any other section or regulation. (Ord.
822, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
9.4.05: OTHER MOBILE HOME/MANUFACTURED UNITS:
   (A)   Security Unit: A mobile home or manufactured unit used as residential
quarters for watchmen or caretakers and located on the premises of an
industrial or business establishment in any zone except R1, R4, R8, and R16
residential zones may be permitted by conditional use permit approved by the
commission, provided the sanitary regulations of the city are met. The unit
shall be registered with the building official or his authorized representative
within thirty (30) days of the effective date of the conditional use permit and
shall be subject to annual inspection by the building official. Discontinuance
of residential use of any such mobile home for thirty (30) days on the lot
where originally permitted or any change of ownership shall result in voidance
of the permit.
   (B)   Use Of Mobile Homes And Other Manufactured Units At Construction
Sites: A commercial coach, mobile home, recreational vehicle or other licensed
vehicle used for office purposes or the temporary housing of tools, equipment,
etc., during the duration of construction shall be conditionally permitted in
any zone. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
   (C)   Use Of Mobile Home Or Commercial Coach As Temporary Office: A mobile
home or commercial coach may be used for a temporary office in commercial,
business park and industrial zones by conditional use permit granted by the
commission. The unit must be connected to the city water and sewer systems, if
restroom facilities are provided. A building permit must be obtained prior to
installation. (Ord. 885, 3-24-2011)
   (D)   Commercial Coach For Temporary Classroom:
      1.   A commercial coach or unit specially designed for classroom purposes
may be used as a temporary classroom for schools in any zone where schools are
permitted. The unit must be connected to the city water and sewer systems if
restroom facilities are provided. A building permit must be obtained prior to
installation.
      2.   Temporary classroom units which are moved periodically from school
to school and are not considered permanent must obtain a building permit and
are subject to site location approval by the building official. (Ord. 822, 2-
23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
   (E)   Mobile Home/Commercial Coach As Portable Lab: A specially equipped
mobile home or commercial coach may be used for portable laboratory purposes in
the R1, R4, R8, and R16 zones and commercial, business park and industrial
zones subject to approval of a conditional use permit by the commission. (Ord.
885, 3-24-2011)
9.4.06: PERMITS AND INSPECTION:
   (A)   Building Permits:
      1.   Prior to occupancy of any mobile home upon real property in the
city, the property owner shall obtain a building permit. The fee for such
installation permit is established by resolution of the council and includes
the cost of inspection by the building official.
      2.   Said permit shall be valid until removal of the mobile home from the
property.
      3.   A building permit shall not be transferable from one location to
another, but may be transferable from one person to another for the same mobile
home in the same location.
      4.   When an approved mobile home installation for which a fee has been
paid is replaced by its owner with a mobile home using the same connections,
the permit fee for replacement shall be the same as a new installation.
      5.   Upon issuance of a building permit for the installation of a mobile
home, a decal indicating approval of the mobile home shall be placed on the
unit by the building official so as to be visible from the street, unless
otherwise screened from view.
   (B)   Temporary Use Permits:
      1.   Emergency Permits: When a true emergency condition exists (example:
fire or flood), a mobile home may be used for temporary living quarters for a
period of time not to exceed sixty (60) days. Documentation of the emergency
condition must be submitted with an application for an emergency permit. Said
permit may at the time be issued by the building official when an extended
emergency exists. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006, eff. 8-16-2006; amd. Ord. 983, 12-19-
2019, eff. 1-1-2020)
9.4.07: MOBILE HOME PARK DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS AND PROCEDURES:
9.4.071: GENERAL CONDITIONS AND LIMITATIONS:
   (A)   Land Area: The minimum land area necessary to establish a mobile home
park shall be two (2) acres.
   (B)   Density:
      1.   Density shall not exceed eight (8) mobile homes per gross acre. If
it is determined by the commission that a street widening or terminating
dedication is necessary, the amount of land dedicated shall be subtracted from
the gross site area when calculating the proposed density.
      2.   When a mobile home park is located adjacent to a waterway, gross
site area shall not include property behind the edge of the bank or the right
of way access to the waterway. When waterways are fenced, property behind the
fence shall not be included as a part of gross site area.
   (C)   Yard Requirements:
      1.   The setback required in each instance shall be a line parallel to
and measured at right angles from the front, side or rear property line. The
front and rear building setback lines shall extend the full width of the
property. No building, structure or mobile home shall be located so that any
part extends into the area between the building setback line and the property
line. Fences and signs may be placed within the aforementioned area as an
exception to this subsection.
      2.   Mobile homes and other structures within mobile home parks shall be
set back at least ten feet (10') from any interior property line. The setback
from any abutting public street right of way shall be at least twenty feet
(20') from the property line.
      3.   In any required yard through which there is vehicle access between a
public or private parking area and a street, no fence, wall, hedge, or other
vegetation shall be permitted which materially impedes vision from a public
sidewalk to vehicles backing from said parking area(s) across the public
sidewalk.
   (D)   Boundary Development: An ornamental sight obscuring fence or wall of
not less than five feet (5') nor more than six feet (6') in height, and/or
earthen berm not more than three feet (3') in height together with evergreen
planting is required to surround the mobile home park in instances where the
commission decides such requirement will enhance the successful operation of
the park and the surrounding area, and/or secure safety of residents. Such
fence, wall, berm, or planting may be placed up to the property line if
adequate vision clearance for entrances and exits is maintained.
   (E)   Parking Requirements:
      1.   There shall be two (2) vehicle parking spaces at least nine by
twenty feet (9 x 20') for each mobile home space, with clear and unobstructed
access to an accessway. Any parking space in the accessway shall not fulfill
this requirement.
      2.   Guest parking shall be provided on a mobile home park parking site
(but not in the required accessway if said accessway has less than 34 feet of
surfaced roadway) at the rate of one space for each mobile home space.
   (F)   Access To Public Street: A mobile home park must have two (2) points
of access to a public street or streets having not less than sixty feet (60')
of right of way width. Each park shall have not less than sixty feet (60') of
frontage on a public street, except as authorized by the commission. No mobile
home space shall be located in such a manner that a public street must be used
to maneuver the mobile home into that space.
   (G)   Emergency Sanitation Facilities: Each mobile home park shall be
provided, for emergency purposes, with the sanitation facilities as prescribed
by state law.
   (H)   Service Buildings: Service buildings which house sanitation facilities
shall be permanent structures, complying with all applicable city and state
statutes regulating building, electrical installations and plumbing and
sanitation systems.
   (I)   Structures: Structures located on any mobile home space shall be
limited to a storage building, ramada, garage or carport. These structures may
be combined as one structure. No structural additions shall be built onto or
become a part of any mobile home, and no mobile home shall support any building
in any manner. The words "structural addition" shall not be construed to
exclude the construction of an awning or patio cover adjacent to a mobile home.
All structures shall be of a material, size, color and pattern so as to be
compatible with the mobile home to which they are associated.
   (J)   Skirting: Skirting of mobile homes is required within thirty (30) days
of installation. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006, eff. 8-16-2006)
9.4.072: ZONING APPROVAL REQUIRED FOR NEW MOBILE HOME PARK OR EXPANSION:
No building permit shall be issued for the construction of a new mobile home
park or expansion of an existing park within the city limits until the proposed
location is approved by the commission and a conditional use permit for a
mobile home park development is granted following a public hearing held in
accordance with the procedures set forth in title III, chapter 15 "Procedures,
Appeals And Action", of this code. Such showing shall be made in accordance
with the following procedures:
   (A)   Plot Plan Required: The application for a conditional use permit to
construct a new mobile home park or to expand an existing mobile home park
shall be accompanied by four (4) copies of the plot plan of the proposed park.
The plot plan should show the general layout of the entire mobile home park,
and should be drawn to a scale not smaller than one inch representing forty
feet (1" = 40'). The following information is required on the plot plan:
      1.   Name of the person who prepared the plan.
      2.   Name of the mobile home park and address.
      3.   Scale and north point of plan.
      4.   Vicinity map showing relationship of the mobile home park to
adjacent properties.
      5.   Boundaries and dimensions of the mobile home park.
      6.   Location and dimensions of each mobile home space and a designation
of each space by number or letter combination.
      7.   Location and dimensions of each existing or proposed building.
      8.   Location and width of accessways.
      9.   Location and width of walkways.
      10.   Location of each lighting fixture for lighting the mobile home
spaces and grounds.
      11.   Location of recreation areas and buildings, and area of recreation
space in square feet.
      12.   Location and type of landscaping plantings, fence, wall or
combination of any of these or other screening materials.
      13.   Location of point where mobile home park water and sewer system
connects with the public system.
      14.   Location of available fire hydrants and irrigation.
      15.   Enlarged plot plan of a typical mobile home space, showing location
of the patio, parking, sidewalk, utility connections and landscaping.
   (B)   Detailed Plans: In addition to the plot plan, detailed plans are
required showing:
      1.   New structures.
      2.   Water and sewer systems.
      3.   Electrical systems.
      4.   Road, sidewalk and patio construction.
      5.   Parking location and layout.
      6.   Drainage system and snow storage.
      7.   Recreation area improvements.
   (C)   Conditions Of Permit: A conditional use permit shall be subject to the
plans and other conditions upon the basis of which it was granted.
   (D)   Noncompliance: In the event of failure to comply with the plans and/or
other conditions of the conditional use permit, the commission may, after
notice and hearing, revoke the conditional use permit.
   (E)   Permitted Uses Within Park: No building, structure or land within the
boundaries of a mobile home park shall be used for any purpose except the
following:
      1.   Mobile homes for residential use only, together with the normal
accessory uses to residential living such as patio slab, carport or garage and
a storage or washroom building.
      2.   Private and public utilities.
      3.   Community recreation facilities, including swimming pools.
      4.   A fixed residence for the use of a caretaker or a manager
responsible for maintaining the operation. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006, eff. 8-16-
2006)
9.4.073: SITE REQUIREMENTS:
The following shall be considered the minimum site requirements for a new
mobile home park or the expansion of an existing mobile home park:
   (A)   Accessways: At least two (2) accessways shall connect each mobile home
space to public right of way and shall be a minimum of thirty four feet (34')
in width. Where the entrance accessway is divided by a median planting strip,
the minimum width shall be fifty feet (50') and each side shall then be one
way.
   (B)   Recreation Area: A minimum of two hundred (200) square feet of
recreation area shall be provided for each mobile home space. The recreation
area may be in one or more locations in the park. At least one recreation area
shall have a minimum size of five hundred (500) square feet and be of a shape
that will make it usable for its intended purpose.
   (C)   Electricity:
      1.   Installation of meter bases to serve each mobile home shall comply
with provisions of the state electrical code.
      2.   An electrical permit must be obtained from the state for inspection
of any placement or replacement of mobile homes in the park.
   (D)   Sewage Disposal:
      1.   All plumbing in the mobile home park must connect to the public
sewer system and shall comply with the most current version of the
international plumbing code.
      2.   Each mobile home space shall be provided with at least a three inch
(3") sewer connection. Said connection shall be provided with suitable
fittings, so that a watertight connection can be made between the mobile home
drain and sewer connection. Such individual mobile home connections shall be so
constructed that they can be closed when not linked to a mobile home, and shall
be trapped in such a manner as to maintain them in an odor free condition.
      3.   Sewer connection fees for each mobile home space will be that amount
established by resolution of the city council.
      4.   A plumbing permit must be obtained from the state for inspection of
the placement or replacement of each mobile home in the park.
   (E)   Water Supply: An accessible, adequate, safe and potable supply of
water shall be furnished in each mobile home park, capable of furnishing a
minimum of five (5) gallons per minute per mobile home space. All water piping
shall be constructed and maintained in accordance with state of Idaho
regulations for public drinking water systems.
      1.   Individual water service connections which are provided for direct
use by mobile homes shall be so constructed that they will not be damaged by
the parking of such homes. The mobile home park water system shall be adequate
to provide thirty five (35) pounds per square inch of pressure at all mobile
home connections.
      2.   Fees for connecting to the city water system will be that amount
established by resolution of the city council.
   (F)   Hydrants: Hydrants will be installed in accordance with the
international fire code. An adequate water supply of at least three hundred
(300) gallons per minute shall be provided.
   (G)   Building Permit: Construction or alteration of a mobile home park
requires a permit from the building department.
   (H)   Setbacks: Setbacks from adjacent developments or properties shall be
in accordance with the setback requirements of those properties. (Ord. 822, 2-
23-2006, eff. 8-16-2006)
9.4.074: MOBILE HOME SPACE REQUIREMENTS:
The minimum mobile home space requirements for a new mobile home park or
expansion of an existing mobile home park are as follows:
   (A)   Mobile homes up to and including fourteen foot (14') single wides
shall be placed on lots not less than forty feet (40') wide with not less than
four thousand (4,000) square feet of space. Doublewides and expansion mobile
homes shall be placed on lots not less than fifty feet (50') wide with not less
than five thousand (5,000) square feet of space.
   (B)   Minimum space requirements between mobile homes.
      1.   End to end, fifteen feet (15').
      2.   Side to side, fifteen feet (15').
      3.   No detached accessory structure may be located closer than three
feet (3') from the rear or side lot line or any lot line abutting a property
line or another mobile home lot.
   (C)   Each mobile home space shall be provided with a patio or deck having a
minimum area of one hundred forty (140) square feet (minimum width of 7 feet
and minimum length of 20 feet), which shall be constructed adjacent to and
parallel with each mobile home parking space. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006, eff. 8-16-
2006)
9.4.075: IMPROVEMENT REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   Roadways And Sidewalks: Roadways within an accessway shall be
constructed to the city's standard for residential or local street construction
and sidewalks shall be paved with a crushed rock base and asphalt, concrete, or
similar surfacing according to structural specifications established by the
city.
   (B)   Surfaced Width Of Roadways: Minimum surfaced width of the roadway
within an accessway shall be twenty four feet (24') if no on street parking is
allowed and thirty four feet (34') if parking is allowed on one side. The first
fifty feet (50') of the accessway measured from the street shall be surfaced to
a width of thirty four feet (34') and shall be connected to an existing street
in accordance with plans approved by the city.
   (C)   Public Streets Adjacent To Park: Any unimproved public street adjacent
to a new mobile home park must be improved by the developer with curb, gutter,
and pavement to city standard. At a minimum, the city may accept a width of
one-half (1/2) plus eight feet (8') of roadway.
   (D)   Patios: Patios shall be paved with concrete or other suitable hard
surfaced materials.
   (E)   Lighting: All accessways and walkways within the park shall be lighted
at night to provide a minimum of one and one-half (11/2) foot-candles of
illumination but shall be otherwise in accordance with of title III, chapter
14, "Outdoor Lighting", of this code.
   (F)   Underground Wires To Light Poles: Wires for service to light poles and
mobile home spaces shall be underground.
   (G)   Drainage: The mobile home park shall be well drained. Provisions for
drainage shall be made in accordance with the McCall drainage management
guidelines and as approved by the city.
   (H)   Recreation Areas: Recreation areas shall be suitably improved and
maintained for recreational purposes and shall be appropriate for the planned
number of residents of the park.
   (I)   Storage Area: A fenced storage area shall be provided by each mobile
home park for the storage of accessory items such as boats, recreational
vehicles, campers and related equipment owned by the park residents. Such items
shall be stored in the storage area and not be parked beside the mobile home.
Said storage area shall contain a minimum of sixty (60) square feet per mobile
home space. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006, eff. 8-16-2006)
9.4.08: RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKS:
   (A)   Zoning: Recreational vehicle parks are permitted in all residential
and commercial zones, except the CBD zone, with a conditional use permit.
   (B)   Permit Required: A planned unit development permit (see title III,
chapter 10, "Planned Unit Development", of this code) will be required for the
development of any recreational vehicle park with an area of two (2) acres, or
greater.
   (C)   Application For Permit: To obtain a permit for construction of a
recreational vehicle park, the applicant shall:
      1.   Submit an application with two (2) sets of plans and specifications
to the city for review by the building official and other departments to check
compliance with applicable laws or ordinances. If a conditional use permit is
required, the application will be accompanied by a nonrefundable fee to be
established by resolution of the city council and the matter scheduled before
the commission for public hearing.
      2.   The material submitted shall include a plot plan and building plans
and specifications for all buildings, improvements and facilities, such as
electrical, plumbing, gas and sewerage system to be constructed within the
park. If the building official is satisfied that the proposal, as submitted, or
subject to corrections, meets the requirements as set forth in this chapter, he
shall then issue the permit to the applicant based upon the true valuation of
construction.
      3.   A permit issued under the provisions of this chapter may be revoked
or suspended whenever the permit is issued on the basis of incorrect
information supplied or in violation of any ordinance or regulation or any of
the provisions of this chapter. Said suspension or revocation shall be in
writing and the permit may be reinstated upon correction of the problem within
an established period of time.
   (D)   Development Standards: The following minimum standards shall apply to
the development of a recreational vehicle park:
      1.   Landscaping And Screening: The park boundaries shall be reasonably
screened whether by barriers or ornamental fences, walls, trees, shrubs, or
open spaces, to assure reasonable integration with adjoining land usages and to
assure health, safety and quiet enjoyment of the area.
      2.   Play Areas: Recreation and children's play area shall be provided in
a ratio of two hundred (200) square feet per space and consist of a well kept
lawn with shade trees.
      3.   Occupant Improvements: Any space occupant shall not be permitted to
erect, install or place any structure or facility upon the space.
      4.   Waste Disposal: Waste disposal facilities for recreational vehicles
shall be provided in an isolated, screened service area in a manner and method
acceptable to the building official and/or health officer.
      5.   Access: All spaces shall abut upon a road right of way not less than
thirty four feet (34') in width which shall have unobstructed access to a
public street or highway. Dead end roadways shall provide adequate vehicle
turning space or a cul-de-sac with not less than a fifty foot (50') radius,
exclusive of parking. All roads shall have an approved surface at least twenty
four feet (24') wide.
      6.   Utilities: All utilities shall be underground.
      7.   RV Spaces: Minimum requirements for each RV space:
         (a)   Dimensions: Forty feet (40') wide (minimum) with two thousand
five hundred (2,500) square feet of area.
         (b)   Parking Area: One off street, paved parking area not less than
nine by twenty feet (9 x 20') or, in lieu of off street parking, a thirty four
foot (34') paved roadway.
         (c)   Minimum Yards: Front, ten feet (10'); side and rear, five feet
(5').
         (d)   Patio: Masonry or concrete patio, one hundred (100) square feet.
         (e)   Hydrant: One frostproof exterior potable water supply hydrant.
         (f)   Pull through design spaces are strongly recommended for the
majority of the spaces in the park.
      8.   Central Facilities:
         (a)   Adequate space for clothes drying and adjoining laundry
facilities.
         (b)   Sufficient supply of pure, healthful drinking water, and not
less than one water outlet for each recreational vehicle. There shall be no
common drinking vessel. An abundant supply of hot water for bathing, washing,
and laundry facilities is to be provided at all times.
         (c)   Flush toilets in conveniently located buildings, well lighted,
ventilated with screened openings and constructed of moistureproof materials
permitting satisfactory cleaning. Floors made with concrete or similar
materials, slightly pitched to floor drain. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006, eff. 8-16-
2006)
9.4.09: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
Any person or corporation, whether owner, lessee, principal, agent, employee or
otherwise, who violates any of the provisions of this chapter or permits any
such violation or fails to comply with any of the requirements thereof shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by imprisonment in a county jail not
exceeding six (6) months, or by a fine not exceeding three hundred dollars
($300.00), or by both. Each week's continued violation shall constitute a
separate additional violation. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006, eff. 8-16-2006)
9.4.10: NONCONFORMING MOBILE HOMES:
A mobile home which has been placed upon an individual lot and maintained prior
to March 16, 2006, shall be a legal nonconforming use. Such mobile home shall
not be relocated within the city or area of city impact without conforming to
all applicable provisions contained herein. Likewise, a nonconforming mobile
home shall not be replaced for any reason, including damage due to weather or
other factor, with another nonconforming mobile home, even if new, larger, or
otherwise different. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006, eff. 8-16-2006)
CHAPTER 5
MANUFACTURED HOME REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9.5.01: Purpose
9.5.02: Definitions
9.5.03: Development Standards
9.5.04: Accessory Structures
9.5.05: Administration And Enforcement
9.5.06: Nonconforming Manufactured Homes
9.5.01: PURPOSE:
This chapter establishes the minimum standards for the location and approval of
manufactured housing as permanent dwelling units on individual lots zoned for
single-family residential uses. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
9.5.02: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE: A structure attached to or located adjacent to a
manufactured home, such as awnings, carports, garages, porches, or steps.
FOUNDATION FASCIA: A weather resistant material surrounding the entire
perimeter of a manufactured home which completely encloses the space between
the exterior wall of the manufactured home and the ground.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure constructed according to HUD/FHA mobile home
construction and safety standards and section 39-4105(10), Idaho Code, which is
designed to be used as a permanent residential dwelling.
PERMANENTLY AFFIXED: A manufactured home which has been installed on a
permanent foundation per the Idaho manufactured homes standards. (Ord. 822, 2-
23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
9.5.03: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
The use of a manufactured home as a permanent residential dwelling on a parcel
of land shall be permitted in any zoning district of title III of this code
which permits a single-family site built dwelling, except for lands falling
within an area defined as an "historic district" under section 67-4607, Idaho
Code, provided the following standards are met:
   (A)   Size: The manufactured home is multi-sectional with a minimum width of
twenty feet (20') and a minimum enclosed floor space of not less than one
thousand (1,000) square feet.
   (B)   Foundation: The manufactured home is placed on a foundation per the
Idaho manufactured homes standards.
   (C)   Pitched Roof: Manufactured homes shall have pitched roofs with a
minimum slope of a nominal three feet (3') in height for each twelve feet (12')
in width.
   (D)   Siding And Roofing Material: The manufactured home has exterior siding
and roofing materials which in color, material, and appearance are generally
similar to the exterior siding and roofing material commonly used on
residential dwellings within the community, or which are comparable to the
predominant materials used on surrounding dwellings.
   (E)   Other Requirements: For other local single-family building
requirements, see titles II and III of this code.
   (F)   Garage: Provision on the property shall be made for the future
addition of a garage to replace an approved parking area. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006,
eff. 3-16-2006)
9.5.04: ACCESSORY STRUCTURES:
Accessory structures to manufactured housing shall be constructed in compliance
with any applicable code adopted by the city. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-
2006)
9.5.05: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
   (A)   Application: Application shall be made to the building official on a
building permit application form. The completed application shall include all
information necessary to determine conformity with required development
standards of this chapter. The applicant shall also attach to the application:
      1.   A plot plan showing existing conditions and the proposed location of
the home and other improvements at a scale of at least one inch equals twenty
feet (1" = 20').
      2.   A copy of any additional manufacture's instructions not covered by
the Idaho manufactured homes standards.
      3.   Other local single-family building requirements.
   (B)   Certificates And Inspection:
      1.   The applicant shall sign the completed application certifying the
manufactured home meets the required development standards of this chapter and
that site development will be in accordance with said standards and the plot
plan submitted. The applicant shall also certify that once the manufactured
house is permanently affixed, the applicant will declare the house as real
property for taxation purposes in accordance with section 63-304 of the Idaho
Code.
      2.   Following application and plot plan approval by the building
official, the building official shall issue a building permit for the footings
and foundation for the attachment of the manufactured home; and the building
official shall verify, in writing, that all development standards have been met
as certified by the applicant. The home may then be attached to the foundation
in accordance with city codes for permanent utility connections and other
building requirements.
      3.   Prior to occupancy, a final inspection shall be made to assure
proper attachment of the home to the foundation. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-
16-2006)
9.5.06: NONCONFORMING MANUFACTURED HOMES:
A manufactured home which has been placed upon an individual lot and maintained
prior March 16, 2006 shall be a legal nonconforming use. Such a manufactured
home shall not be relocated within the city or area of city impact without
conforming to all applicable provisions contained herein. Likewise, another
nonconforming manufactured home may not replace one which has been moved or has
suffered unrecoverable damage. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
CHAPTER 6
SUBDIVISION AND DEVELOPMENT IMPROVEMENT REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
9.6.01: Design Standards
9.6.02: Improvement Requirements
9.6.03: Driveways, Residential
9.6.04: Drainage Plan Requirements
9.6.05: Private Streets
9.6.06: Development Agreements
9.6.061: General Requirements
9.6.062: Preapplication Procedure
9.6.063: Development Plan
9.6.064: Schedule Of Development
9.6.065: Length Of Time Of Agreement
9.6.066: Findings
9.6.067: Guarantee Required
9.6.068: Hearings And Fees
9.6.069: Annual Review
9.6.070: Approval
9.6.07: Notice Of Construction
9.6.08: Maintenance During Construction
9.6.09: Inspection And Initiation Of Warranty Period
9.6.10: Construction Drawings And As Built Information
9.6.01: DESIGN STANDARDS:
The following design standards shall be incorporated in any plat, subdivision,
development or dedication, and each of the requirements hereinafter set forth
shall be considered mandatory unless the particular provision indicates to the
contrary.
   (A)   Subdivisions Unsuitable For Development: In order to promote the
safety, general health, welfare and livability of the community and future
residents, the city may find that certain portions of the subdivision are
unsuitable for development because of risk of flooding, poor drainage, steep
slopes, rock formations, or other features, and shall not be developed unless
adequate methods approved by the city are planned for overcoming these
conditions.
   (B)   Construction Standards Adopted: The city of McCall hereby adopts
specifications and details of the latest edition of the "Idaho Standards For
Public Works Construction", or as amended by resolution, as standards for
construction. These standards are augmented by general addenda, approved by
resolution of the council as necessary, to ensure uniform material selection
and construction practice for those items specific to the city of McCall and
area of city impact.
   (C)   PUD; Density Transfers And Bonuses: Density transfers and density
bonuses may be approved through a planned unit development in accordance with
title III, chapter 10 of this code, and the applicable provisions of this
title.
   (D)   Expenditure Of Public Funds: Nothing in this title shall ever be
construed to require the city to expend public funds not budgeted and
appropriated for any subdivision improvement. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-
2006)
9.6.02: IMPROVEMENT REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   Streets: All streets in the subdivision must be platted and developed
with a width, alignment, and improvements such that the street is adequate to
accommodate existing and anticipated vehicular and pedestrian traffic and meets
city standards for the appropriate functional classification. Streets shall be
aligned in such a manner as to provide through and efficient access from and to
adjacent developments and properties and shall provide for the integration of
the proposed streets with the existing pattern. Streets shall be aligned
consistent with the comprehensive plan and applicable master plans.
      1.   Installation: Street, utility and requisite on site and off site
improvements, as hereinafter listed, shall be installed in each new subdivision
at the subdivider's expense, or their later installation at subdivider's
expense as provided for in the development agreement.
      2.   City Acceptance: The city shall not accept the dedication of any
public rights of way, any easements shown on the plat, or any appurtenant
facilities lying therein which are not improved, or construction thereof
guaranteed in accordance with the provisions of this title, or with policies,
standards, designs and specifications set forth in the road and street
specifications adopted by the city, county, or state.
      3.   Paving And Dedication: The subdivider shall construct paved streets
in residential, commercial, business park or industrial subdivisions. All
streets and alleys within any subdivision shall be dedicated for public use.
(Ord. 885, 3-24-2011)
      4.   Design Plans: Design plans for street construction and subdivision
drainage shall be submitted to and approved by the city prior to construction.
Subgrade construction must be approved before placing subbase course and
subbase course approved before placing base course 1 . Digital data shall be
provided according to the digital data submittal standards policy. (Ord. 899,
5-24-2012)
      5.   Clearing Rights Of Way: The right of way beyond the limits of fill
and back slopes shall be cleared to the extent and not beyond the extent
required by the city upon request of the subdivider for direction, having
regard for the safety of the traveling public and the appearance of the city.
      6.   Materials Standards And Construction: The latest edition of "Idaho
Standards For Public Works Construction" shall govern materials used in the
streets and their placement.
      7.   Street Design: Street design shall be in accordance with the most
current version of the applicable American Association Of State Highway And
Transportation Officials (AASHTO), the federal highways administration (FHWA),
and the transportation research board (TRB) guidelines. Designers are
specifically directed to the following manuals: a "Policy On Geometric Design
Of Highways And Streets" (AASHTO), the "Manual On Uniform Traffic Control
Devices" (FHWA), and the "Highway Capacity Manual" (TRB).
      8.   Street Grade: The maximum permitted grade is six percent (6%). Grade
may exceed six percent (6%), where necessary, by one percent (1%) (total 7
percent) for no more than three hundred feet (300') or two percent (2%) (total
8 percent) for no more than one hundred fifty feet (150'). Grades of up to ten
percent (10%) may be permitted where the city and the fire chief are satisfied
by reason of site topography and soils that a reasonable lesser grade
alternative does not exist. No street may be artificially elevated over an
underpass location merely to permit a private underpass.
      9.   Snow Storage Easement: A snow storage easement of ten feet (10')
shall be provided on both sides of any street with a right of way less than
standard.
   (B)   Street Name Signs: The developer shall provide and install all street
name signs at all intersections per city standards. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006, eff.
3-16-2006)
   (C)   Street Lighting: Street lighting shall be placed at all intersections
with arterial streets and within industrial, business park and commercial
zones. Streetlights in residential areas are required at intersections with
collector or arterial streets. All street lighting is to be in accordance with
title III, chapter 14, "Outdoor Lighting", of this code. (Ord. 885, 3-24-2011)
   (D)   Sidewalks: Sidewalks shall be provided with all new development or
major exterior remodeling in the commercial zones, the CV zone and the
residential R16 zone, and constructed to city standards. Where sidewalks or
curb and gutter are constructed, a corresponding stormwater conveyance and
treatment plan shall be required. The city has the authority to require
sidewalks in any zone in which the subject property is along a route that leads
to a pedestrian oriented destination (e.g., schools, parks, community centers,
corner stores, etc.). All sidewalks shall accommodate anticipated pedestrian
traffic, include street trees where required by the commission, be constructed
per city standards and allow for impaired access. See the "City Of McCall
Design Guidelines".
   (E)   Drainage Facilities: Appropriate natural, storm, and melt water
drainage and treatment facilities shall be provided, to include provisions for
natural, storm and melt water drainage and treatment within street rights of
way and other drainages on and through the property. Drainage facilities shall
be constructed in accordance with best management practices under state and
federal storm and melt water regulatory programs to which the city is subject,
with the McCall drainage management guidelines and with other city plans in
these regards. Off site improvements necessary for interconnection may be
required of the developer as a condition of plat approval, or platting and
development may be postponed until others provide such improvements.
   (F)   Water Supply: Connection to city water system is required for all
developments within the city. The extension of water lines shall be at the
developer's expense and shall have the capacity and placement necessary to
serve property beyond the development. If the city requires a larger water main
to accommodate future development than the size of the line required for the
subdivision or development, the developer shall install the larger line size
required by the city. Four inch (4") blowoffs for water lines shall be required
at the terminus of all dead end water lines unless a standard fire hydrant is
available, in which case a tee and valve shall terminate the line 2 . Water
systems shall be designed in accordance with the "Ten State Standards" 3 .
   (G)   Area Of City Impact; Domestic Water Source: Developments within the
area of city impact must provide for a domestic water source approved by
Central district health.
   (H)   Sanitary Sewer: Connection to the city sewer system is required for
all developments within the city. Connection to the Payette Lakes recreational
water and sewer district sewer system is allowed for developments in the area
of city impact or beyond or by special permission of the city. The extension of
sewer lines shall be at the developer's expense and shall have the capacity and
placement necessary to serve property beyond the development. If the city
requires a larger sewer main or increased lift station capacity to accommodate
future development than the size of the line required for the subdivision or
development, the developer shall install the larger line and/or lift station
required by the city 4 . Sanitary sewer systems shall be designed in accordance
with the "Ten State Standards" 5 .
   (I)   Individual Septic Systems: Where lot size and soil conditions are
appropriate, and where connection to an existing sanitary sewer system is
deemed unreasonable by the commission, a development may install individual
septic systems with the approval of Central district health. However, the
development must anticipate future conditions and recognize a possible need for
connecting to either the city or the Payette Lakes recreational water and sewer
district facilities.
   (J)   Underground Dry Lines: The city may require the installation of dry
water or sewer lines when the land being subdivided is in whole or pertinent
part within that area identified as to be annexed to the city by the then
current comprehensive plan, and is shown as to be provided with water or sewer,
as the case may be, in adopted water or sewer master plans either within the
city or the area of city impact. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
   (K)   Paved Pathways: Paved pathways shall be required where shown on an
approved park or path plan (see the McCall area pathways master plan) or where
deemed necessary by the administrator or commission to provide for safe and
convenient access for students and the general public. Pathways shall be
designed in accordance with the most current AASHTO guide for the development
of bicycle facilities. Bicycle paths shall be a minimum of ten feet (10') of
paved surface over six inches (6") of three-fourths inch (3/4") minus compacted
gravel, separated from an adjacent street by a minimum of six feet (6').
Reduced width surface and separation will be considered if terrain or other
conditions exist which could preclude the standard. Signs and bollards to
prevent vehicular access shall be installed at path intersection with all
streets. (Ord. 898, 5-10-2012)
   (L)   Underground Power And Telephone: All power and telephone lines within
the development must be buried, except transmission lines of such voltage as to
make burial impractical in the opinion of the city based upon competent advice.
   (M)   Underground Cable Requirement; Exception: Underground cable television
service is required except where waived by the administrator because the
property is too remote from existing service or planned expansions of service.
   (N)   Landscaping: A landscaping plan is required which depicts ground
cover, trees, shrubs, and other landscaping, and which provides for permanent
irrigation. The plan shall be required for common areas, street dedications,
and other dedications where natural vegetation was excavated, covered or
otherwise disturbed during construction. Landscaped areas shall include fill
and cut slopes. Homeowners' associations, where formed, shall be responsible
for maintenance of vegetation and irrigation systems within common areas,
street dedications, and other dedications. Vegetation within drainageways shall
be designed to improve appearance, hold down dust, and to cleanse, but not
obstruct, drainage, consistent with best management practices outlined in state
and federal storm and meltwater programs to which the city is subject, and
consistent with the McCall drainage management guidelines, and other city
programs in these regards, all as established to the satisfaction of the city.
See appendix B, on file in the office of the city clerk, for a plant listing.
   (O)   Buffers: In order to enhance the rural and natural environment,
buffers a minimum of five feet (5') in width shall be incorporated in the
landscaping plan for all developments in all residential zones at the
boundaries of subdivisions. These buffers will use natural features, including
vegetation and terrain elements, which are common in the area. The buffers can
also be designed to provide for area for the storage of snow or rain runoff.
The intended purpose, however, is to provide some natural screening of the
developed properties so as to soften the sightlines of residents and visitors
when viewing the natural surroundings. The buffers shall be designed so that at
plant maturity the total buffering width will be five (5) to ten feet (10')
with a height of at least ten feet (10').
   (P)   Irrigation Wells: Irrigation wells are allowed if the irrigation
system meets the requirements for cross connection control established by the
state of Idaho, where any occupied structure on the irrigated property is
connected to city water, and the city receives payment for water connection.
   (Q)   Drainage: Drainage must be provided.
      1.   Surface drainage shall be provided where a storm sewer is not
present, according to the following standards and consistent with the best
management practices described in the McCall drainage management guidelines. If
flowing water is generally present, then standards shall be as directed by the
city with an eye to both high water and risks of winter glaciations.
         (a)   Street side ditches shall drain to cross drains; the size of
both is subject to approval by the city.
         (b)   Cross drains at intersections shall be set back ten feet (10')
from the property line or located as approved by the city.
         (c)   Driveway approach culverts shall be not less than fifteen inches
(15") in diameter.
      2.   A storm sewer may be employed where connection is possible to a
properly sized storm sewer facility with appropriate treatment capability
within three hundred feet (300'). If an existing facility is not available or
is not capable of adequate treatment, stormwater shall be retained and treated
on site before discharging at rates not to exceed predevelopment flows.
   (R)   Building Numbers Required: All principal dwelling units or buildings
shall have house or building numbers not less than four inches (4") tall, of a
color contrasting with the color of the background and visible by day and night
from the street at the point of driveway or other access from the street, or
directly in front of the building.
   (S)   Perimeter Walls, Gates And Berms: The city of McCall shall not approve
any residential subdivision application that includes any type of perimeter
wall or gate that restricts pedestrian or native animal or vehicular access to
the subdivision, when traveling on approved rights of way. This regulation does
not prohibit fences on or around individual residential lots. The city also
does not permit any perimeter landscaped berm more than three feet (3') higher
than the previously existing (original) grade. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-
2006)
   (T)   Perimeter Fencing: Perimeter fencing is fencing which encloses a
property with more than two (2) residential units. Perimeter fencing which
surrounds, or substantially surrounds, a residential subdivision shall be
primarily constructed of natural materials, such as log poles or split rails.
Perimeter fencing for residential developments shall have periodic openings to
allow for the movement of larger wild animals, such as deer and elk, and shall
be constructed so that the height of the top rail is no more than forty two
inches (42") above grade and the minimum gap between the bottom rail and grade
is fifteen inches (15"). Perimeter fencing proposed for a residential
development is subject to the approval of the commission either as a part of
the proposed subdivision or requested via a conditional use permit. Fencing,
including gates, enclosing industrial, business park and commercial
developments, or units within industrial and business park zones, shall require
a conditional use permit. Perimeter fencing in zones CC, CBD, BP and I is not
permitted except as a screen abutting residential properties and when
conditionally approved to provide security for hazardous materials or
operations. (Ord. 885, 3-24-2011)
 
Notes
1 1. See appendix A, applicable documents for street standards, on file in the
  office of the city clerk.
  1. The developer may include in the development agreement a requirement that
2 future users pay a fair share of the costs of the excess capacity built by
  the developer into the water and sanitary sewer systems. This would require a
  separate "latecomer's agreement" with the city.
3 2. "Recommended Standards For Water Works", 2003 edition; "Policies For
  Review And Approval Of Plans And Specifications For Public Water Supplies".
  3. The developer may include in the development agreement a requirement that
4 future users pay a fair share of the costs of the excess capacity built by
  the developer into the water and sanitary sewer systems. This would require a
  separate "latecomer's agreement" with the city.
  1. "Recommended Standards For Wastewater Facilities", 1997 edition; "Policies
5 For Review And Approval Of Plans And Specifications For Wastewater Collection
  And Treatment Facilities".
9.6.03: DRIVEWAYS, RESIDENTIAL:
   (A)   Driveway Design:
      1.   The maximum grade permitted is ten percent (10%) where a private
driveway abuts a public or private street but must include a five foot (5')
wide landing to the street with a maximum grade of six percent (6%). Upon an
administrative approval and in consultation with the McCall Fire Protection
District, exceptions may be granted based on topographic constraints.
      2.   Driveways may provide access to not more than two (2) residential
dwelling units for lots equal to, or greater than, ten thousand (10,000) square
feet in area. For lots less than ten thousand (10,000) square feet in area,
driveways may access not more than five (5) residential dwelling units. Such
driveways are limited to a maximum length of one hundred feet (100') and are
subject to design review.
      3.   Driveways shall be constructed with an all weather surface (asphalt,
concrete, crushed gravel, etc.) or in the I zone, consist of other material
that does not generate significant dust or other particulate matter in the air
during ordinary use by wheeled equipment/vehicles.
      4.   Unless authorized by the public works director due to safety and
traffic conditions, driveways widths shall be as follows:
         a.   For a single-family dwelling unit and development in the CBD,
driveways shall provide a minimum unobstructed width of twelve feet (12'), and
a maximum width of twenty feet (20').
         b.   For multi-family dwelling units and in the CC, NC, I, BP, AP, and
CV zones, driveways shall provide a minimum unobstructed width of fourteen feet
(14'), and a maximum width of thirty feet (30').
      5.   Driveways longer than one hundred fifty feet (150') must have a
turnaround area, and fire lane signage must be provided as approved by the fire
chief, adhere to any other requirements determined by the McCall Fire
Protection District for fire safety.
      6.   No part of the required fire lane width of any driveway in a multi-
family development may be utilized for parking. Driveways shall not be named.
   (B)   Shared Driveways: The number of driveway intersections with streets
should be minimized through the use of shared driveways with adjoining uses
where feasible. The city may require the use of shared driveways for traffic
safety and access management purposes in accordance with the following
standards:
      1.   Driveways accessing more than one residential dwelling unit shall be
maintained by an owners' association or in accordance with a plat note.
      2.   The area designated for a driveway serving more than one dwelling
unit shall be platted as a separate parcel or as a dedicated driveway easement.
Easements and parcels shall clearly indicate the beneficiary of the easement or
parcel and that the property is unbuildable except for ingress/egress,
utilities or as otherwise specified on the plat.
      3.   Shared driveways or frontage streets may be required to consolidate
access onto a collector or arterial street.
      4.   Access easements (for the benefit of affected properties) must be a
condition of land use or development approval and should be recorded for all
shared driveways. Digital data for easements shall be provided according to the
digital data submittal standards policy.
      5.   Shared driveways are not required when existing development patterns
or physical constraints (e.g., topography, parcel configuration, or similar
conditions) prevent extending the driveway with reciprocal access in the
future. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006; amd. Ord. 899, 5-24-2012; Ord.
998, 1-14-2021)
9.6.04: DRAINAGE PLAN REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   Drainage Report Required:
      1.   A drainage plan and report prepared by a registered professional
engineer is required for all new subdivisions, and for building permits for
commercial construction, or multi-family developments within the planning
jurisdiction.
      2.   This section is intended to define the basic criteria for drainage
plans which shall be subject to review and evaluation by the city. Supplemental
information may be requested. The design of drainage and treatment facilities
to handle development drainage and storm and meltwater cannot be efficiently
covered by a set of rigid requirements. Each development and designer may have
unique solutions to their specific development project's needs. This section
therefore outlines the elements to be considered during planning and design to
promote consistency in natural, storm and meltwater drainage and treatment
system design and evaluation.
      3.   Failure to provide required information will result in delays in
processing applications and, in appropriate cases, rejection of those
applications by the administrator.
   (B)   Content Of Report: A drainage and treatment plan and report must
address each of the following areas furnishing all requested information.
Submittals not providing the required information will be returned without
review.
      1.   Basin Characteristics:
         (a)   Project site.
         (b)   Upstream contributing area.
         (c)   Combined drainage areas.
         (d)   Physical characteristics.
         (e)   Existing drainage facilities impacted by the proposed
development on the site and downstream of the development.
         (f)   Existing treatment facilities.
      2.   Hydrological analysis of the project site and total drainage area
(including upstream tributary areas). Minimum design frequencies shall be based
upon
tables 9.6.04A and
9.6.04B in this section. Rainfall intensities shall be based upon
figure 9.6.04 in this section. The report shall show all calculations,
assumptions, and methods.
   (C)   Drainage Plan: A drainage and treatment plan shall be developed in
accordance with the requirements herein and the McCall drainage management
guidelines.
TABLE 9.6.04A
MINIMUM DESIGN STORM FREQUENCY FOR CONVEYANCE SYSTEM
Storm water conveyance systems shall be designed using the 10-year design storm
frequency, with the following exceptions:
 
Land Use Zone                                            Design Storm Frequency
Any drainage crossing a roadway                          25
Slopes in excess of 12 percent                           25
Major structures, such as bridges                        100
Where an existing, primary storm conveyance runs through
a property (a primary storm conveyance is defined as a   100
channel, ditch, or pipe with a drainage area of 10 acres
or larger)
Where an existing, secondary storm conveyance runs
through a property (a secondary storm conveyance is      25
defined as a channel, ditch or pipe with a drainage area
from 3 to 10 acres)
Note: The minimum pipe size that will be accepted by the city of McCall for new
conveyances will be 15 inches in diameter.
TABLE 9.6.04B
MINIMUM DESIGN STORM FREQUENCY FOR RETENTION SYSTEMS
 
All land improvement activities which
contain from 2 to 5 acres of total site Must detain the 2-year 24 hour design
area or from 5,000 to 15,000 square     storm
feet of proposed impervious surface
All land improvement activities which   Must detain, on site, the increase in
contain greater than 5 acres of total   runoff that is estimated will be caused
site area or greater than 15,000 square by the proposed project for the 10-year
feet of proposed impervious surface     24 hour storm
 
Note: Emergency spillways must be designed for the 100-year design storm.
Figure 9.6.04
RAINFALL INTENSITIES
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/da309f2534fb351bbed1003b3bd0777eedff815e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2010.png]
      1.   Drainage Control And Treatment Facilities:
         (a)   The plan shall include drainage and treatment plan showing all
proposed facilities.
         (b)   Final design submittal shall show detailed information of all
proposed drainage and treatment facilities and improvements.
      2.   Downstream Impacts: Downstream impacts, if any.
      3.   Operation And Maintenance: A description of operation and
maintenance requirements must be included in the drainage and treatment plan
and report. Items to be discussed include access, maintenance procedures,
safety procedures, operation and control procedures, ownership, and any unique
elements of the system. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
9.6.05: PRIVATE STREETS:
   (A)   Private Streets Discouraged: Private streets are discouraged, and
cause must be shown for their approval. The commission and council will decide
in every case which streets, if any, are to be private. Normally, these will
only be emergency access streets, cul-de-sac streets and streets to serve a
maximum of ten (10) residential dwelling units, in which case the street is
essentially an extended two-way driveway.
   (B)   Cul-De-Sac Streets: Cul-de-sac streets shall be allowed only if
connectivity is not possible due to surrounding topography or existing platted
development. A street right of way extended into unplatted areas shall not be
considered a dead end or cul-de-sac street.
   (C)   Dedication: Private streets shall be dedicated to the public, devoted
to public use, but the question of opening it as a public street or for public
maintenance rests in the sound discretion of the council with respect to lands
at the time inside the city limits, and the board with respect to lands at the
time in the impact area.
   (D)   Construction:
      1.   Private streets shall be built to city standards or better with
respect to structural material and section.
      2.   Private streets shall be built with an all weather and all season
surface not less than twenty feet (20') wide.
      3.   Private streets shall be built in accordance with the international
fire code, and along alignment and grades approved to handle the largest and
heaviest equipment available to the city and McCall Fire Protection District.
      4.   Private streets shall have adequate and unencumbered ten foot (10')
wide snow storage easements on both sides of the street, or an accessible
dedicated snow storage easement representing not less than twenty five percent
(25%) of the improved area of the private street.
      5.   Private streets, wherever possible, shall provide interconnection
with other streets, subdivisions or other developments. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006,
eff. 3-16-2006)
      6.   In no case shall a gate be placed across private or public streets,
except in:
         (a)   Those cases where the street serves no more than two (2)
residential units, or where, under the current zoning designation for the
property, it could be developed or subdivided for no more than two (2)
residential units; or
         (b)   Those cases where a perimeter fence is approved for an
industrial, business park or commercial development (see subsection
9.6.02(T) of this chapter). (Ord. 885, 3-24-2011)
   (E)   Responsibility, Enforcement, Penalty: Development documentation,
including at least both a plat and covenants, shall make plain that:
      1.   Police, fire, ambulance, and other emergency services and public or
private utilities have full access to private streets exactly as if they were
public.
      2.   The owners' association shall maintain a full roadway width free of
accumulation of snow and free of parked vehicles.
      3.   In the event of the failure of the association to comply in a timely
manner with subsection (E)2 of this section, the city may clear snow and tow
parked vehicles either with its own crews and equipment, or with specially
hired crews and equipment.
      4.   In the event of either or both such city actions, the association
shall be liable to the city in the amount of the cost to the city of doing the
work, plus a civil penalty of the greater of:
         (a)   One thousand dollars ($1,000.00); or
         (b)   Twenty percent (20%) of the total cost for doing the work.
      5.   The area designated for private streets shall be platted as a
separate, unbuildable, parcel or as a dedicated access easement. When a private
street is platted as an easement, a building envelope may be required in order
to provide for adequate building setback.
   (F)   Access And Maintenance Requirements: Provisions shall be made for the
future maintenance of and access to private streets as follows:
      1.   A plan and schedule for the future repair and maintenance of the
private street and drainage facilities for the period of the expected lifetime
thereof and a cost estimate therefor prepared by a licensed engineer in the
state, together with a proposed method for funding the same, including, but not
limited to, the creation and maintenance of a reserve fund for that purpose,
shall be submitted to the city for review and approval prior to execution of
the final plat by the city. The reserve fund is to be held and disbursed by the
owners’ association for the express purpose of street maintenance within the
subdivision.
      2.   The location of the private street shall be clearly depicted on the
face of the plat which shall:
         (a)   Act to convey to each lot owner within the subdivision to be
served by the private street the perpetual right of ingress and egress over the
described private street;
         (b)   Provide that such perpetual easement shall run with the land;
and
         (c)   Provide that the restrictive covenant for maintenance of the
private street cannot be modified and the owners’ association or other entity
cannot be dissolved without the express consent of the city.
      3.   Private street names shall not end with the word “Road”,
“Boulevard”, “Avenue” or “Street”.
   (G)   Council Order To Repair And Maintain Roads: The council may, in the
reasonable exercise of its discretion, order the owners or the entity
responsible for the maintenance of any private street approved in accordance
with the provisions of this section to undertake such repair and maintenance
activities as it may determine is necessary to protect the public health,
safety, or welfare and make such expenditures from the funds reserved therefor.
In the event that such owners or entities have exhausted a reserve fund for
maintenance and the city determines that repairs are required, then the city
may proceed with such repairs and debit the owners or entities for the entire
costs involved. The owners or responsible entities shall, as a condition of
approval of any such private street, be deemed to have agreed to comply with
any such order and to reimburse the city all of its costs, including attorney
fees, incurred in obtaining or enforcing any such order. Any order entered by
the council pursuant to this subsection may be enforced by a court of competent
jurisdiction, and the city shall be entitled to recover its costs and attorney
fees incurred in connection herewith. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006;
amd. Ord. 1009, 10-6-2022)
9.6.06: DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS:
All provisions of this section, and sections
9.6.07,
9.6.08,
9.6.09 and
9.6.10 of this chapter are mandatory, and may not be altered by a development
agreement. The obligations contained in these four (4) sections shall be
enforceable by methods of enforcement of ordinances, as well as under the law
respecting contracts; the doctrine of election of remedies shall have no
application.
In addition to the objectives outlined in chapter 1 of this title, provisions
to allow the city and developers to enter into development agreements are
included in these subdivision regulations to achieve the following purposes:
   (A)   To assure the city and the applicant that the development will be of
greater community benefit and that, in turn for providing needed facilities,
improvements or services, the applicant will be able to plan for and proceed
with development.
   (B)   To provide a procedure whereby developers of large scale and/or multi-
use projects may continue with the development of such projects in accordance
with the rules, regulations and policies of the city as such existed at the
time the development agreement was adopted, notwithstanding subsequent changes
in such rules, regulations, and policies which may occur during the time frame
of the development agreement subject to and in compliance with conditions of
approval.
   (C)   To enable the city to more accurately plan and budget for necessary
public improvements in full confidence that development will proceed in a
timely and phased manner in accordance with the provisions of the development
agreement.
   (D)   To strengthen the public planning process, encourage private
participation in comprehensive planning and reduce the economic costs of
development. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
9.6.061: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   Qualifications Of Applicant: Only a qualified applicant may file an
application to enter into a development agreement. A qualified applicant is a
person who has legal interest in the real property which is the subject of the
agreement. Applicant also includes an authorized agent.
   (B)   Development Plan Required: An application for a development agreement
shall include and be accompanied by a development plan for the entire property.
   (C)   Application To Planning Department: An application for a development
agreement shall be made to the planning department on a form provided for that
purpose.
   (D)   Acceptance Of Application: Acceptance of an application for a
development agreement is subject to the approval of the council. (Ord. 822, 2-
23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
9.6.062: PREAPPLICATION PROCEDURE:
Prior to submitting an application for a development agreement, the applicant
should hold preliminary consultations with the planning department. The purpose
of these preliminary consultations is to provide the applicant information and
guidance before entering into binding commitments or incurring substantial
expense in the preparation of plans, surveys or other data. Such preliminary
consultations should be relative to the proposed development plan and other
material which expresses the relationship between the various land uses and the
development concepts to be employed; the density or intensity of development;
the types of uses to be permitted and any conditions prerequisite to
development, such as required use permits and subdivision maps; the size of
buildings proposed for development; the provisions for dedication or
reservation of land for public purposes; and the construction timing and
estimated costs of needed public improvements. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-
2006)
9.6.063: DEVELOPMENT PLAN:
An application for a development agreement shall be made to the administrator
and shall be accompanied by a development plan consisting of maps, plans,
reports, development and performance standards, schematic drawings which
conform to the zoning requirements of the project site, and such other
documents deemed necessary by the administrator. Before a final plat for a
subdivision is either approved or recorded, the subdivider shall enter into a
subdivision agreement with the city in accordance with this section
9.6.06. Such agreement shall run as their interests may appear to the benefit
of the city, the county, the state of Idaho, the McCall fire protection
district, and the Payette Lakes water and sewer district, and/or any other
governmental entity that is relevant at the time, according to the location of
the property, the nature of the improvements, and the respective jurisdiction
of each of those entities.
   (A)   Detailed Plan: The development plan shall be sufficiently detailed to
show all intended uses and their location on the property.
   (B)   Required Information: The development agreement may include, but need
not be limited to, the following provisions:
      1.   The type and character of buildings or structures, including the
size, height and design of all proposed buildings and the number of dwelling
units per gross acre proposed for each residential area;
      2.   A statement of the standards of population density for the various
proposed residential land uses;
      3.   The general location of school sites, recreational areas and other
public and quasi-public sites and the approximate area of each;
      4.   The general location of all arterial and collector streets, all
transit systems, and all trails systems coordinated with the transportation and
circulation element of the town general plan;
      5.   A topographic map and conceptual grading plan of the property;
      6.   A preliminary report and overall plan describing proposed provisions
for storm drainage, sewage disposal, water supply, fire protection and such
other public improvements and utilities as the city may require;
      7.   A designation of the public and private improvements required to be
constructed;
      8.   The construction and inspection requirements of the entity for which
or in whose interest the improvements are constructed or by which standards
prescribed for them are enforced;
      9.   The time schedule for completing the improvements;
      10.   The required guaranty;
      11.   A schedule for any payments required under this chapter;
      12.   The allocation, if any, of costs between the city and the
subdivider for required public improvements;
      13.   The warranty required;
      14.   The consent of the developer for the ownership of public
improvements to vest in the city upon final acceptance by the city; and
      15.   A warranty that the developer has title to the land within the plat
and the authority to execute the development agreement. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006,
eff. 3-16-2006)
9.6.064: SCHEDULE OF DEVELOPMENT:
   (A)   A development agreement shall contain a specific time schedule which
sets forth a program for the phasing of construction, when construction is to
begin and the proposed financing and timing for the installation or
construction of public improvements.
   (B)   A development agreement shall require the applicant to proceed with
construction within the time period specified by the council and as
incorporated into the agreement. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
9.6.065: LENGTH OF TIME OF AGREEMENT:
The maximum time period for a development agreement shall be seven (7) years
unless the council makes specific findings that exceptional circumstances exist
to justify a longer period of time; provided, however, that the maximum period
of time shall be twenty (20) years. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
9.6.066: FINDINGS:
The planning commission shall review an application for a development agreement
and shall forward a recommendation to the council based upon the findings
enumerated below. The council shall make the following findings before
approving a development agreement:
   (A)   That the agreement is consistent with the goals, policies, general
land uses and programs specified in the general plan for the city.
   (B)   That the agreement and accompanying development plan are compatible
with the uses authorized in, and the performance and development standards
prescribed for, the zone classification in which the subject property is
located.
   (C)   That the agreement is in conformity with and will promote public
convenience, the general welfare and good land use and development practices.
   (D)   The development agreement shall be shown to be of greater benefit to
the community than development without such agreement. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006,
eff. 3-16-2006)
9.6.067: GUARANTEE REQUIRED:
   (A)   Guarantee Of Completion Of Public Improvements:
      1.   Guarantee: To assure the installation of required public
improvements which are not accepted at the time the final plat is filed, the
development agreement shall require the developer to guarantee the completion
of all such improvements by one or more of the methods specified below. The
means of a guarantee may be changed during the guarantee period through a
written modification of the agreement. The amount of the guarantee shall be
determined on the basis of the developer's cost estimates supported by
engineering estimates. The guarantee shall remain in effect until final
acceptance of the public improvements and the posting of an acceptable security
for the warranty period. The guarantee shall run as their interests may appear
to the benefit of the city, the county, the McCall rural fire district,
including the emergency medical service, and the Payette Lakes recreation water
and sewer district, and/or other governmental entity, as the same may be
relevant at the time, according to the location of the property, the nature of
the improvements, and the respective jurisdiction of each of those entities.
      2.   Cost Estimates: The city's cost estimate provided for in this
chapter shall state the estimated cost of completion for each required public
improvement. Cost estimates for each required public improvement must be
approved by the administrator.
   (B)   Methods Of Public Improvement Guarantee: The development agreement
shall include one or more of the following methods to guarantee the
construction of required public improvements and substantial private amenities
material to the approval of the development; the actual documents also must be
acceptable to the city attorney and city treasurer:
      1.   Performance Bond: The developer may elect to provide a surety bond
from a company authorized to do such business in the state of Idaho. The bond
shall be in an amount equal to one hundred fifty percent (150%) of the
estimated cost of all unaccepted public improvements. The bond shall be payable
to the city in the event that any required public improvements are not finally
accepted in accordance with the provisions of this title and shall be posted by
no person other than the developer.
      2.   Deposit In Escrow: The developer may elect to deposit a cash sum
equal to one hundred twenty five percent (125%) of the estimated cost of all
unaccepted public improvements either with the city or in escrow with a
responsible financial institution authorized to do such business in Idaho. In
the case of an escrow account, the developer shall file with the city an escrow
agreement which includes the following terms:
         (a)   Funds of the escrow account shall be held in trust until
released by the city and may not be used or pledged by the subdivider as
security in any manner during that period other than as provided in this
subsection (B)2(a). The funds may be used for payment of improvements as made,
except that the escrow holder shall withhold from disbursement so much of the
funds as is estimated by the city to be necessary to complete the construction
and installation of such improvements, plus an overrun allowance as provided
above.
         (b)   In the case of the failure of the developer to complete any
improvement within the required time period, the institution shall immediately
make all funds in such account available to the city for use in the completion
of those improvements.
      3.   Letter Of Credit: The developer may elect to provide from a bank or
other responsible financial institution authorized to do such business in Idaho
an irrevocable letter of credit. Such letter shall be filed with the city and
shall certify the following:
         (a)   That the creditor irrevocably guarantees funds in an amount
equal to one hundred twenty five percent (125%) of the estimated cost of all
unaccepted public improvements; and
         (b)   That in the case of the failure of the developer to complete any
improvement within the required time period, the creditor shall pay to the city
immediately and without further action such funds as are estimated to be
necessary to complete the construction and installation of such improvements up
to the limit of credit stated in the letter. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-
2006)
9.6.068: HEARINGS AND FEES:
   (A)   An application for a development agreement or an amendment to same
shall be subject to the same administrative procedures required for amendments
to this title.
   (B)   All direct costs of processing, reviewing, reporting, hearing and
acting upon an application for a development agreement shall be borne by the
applicant. These costs shall be prepaid to the city whether the agreement is
approved, approved in modified form or denied by the council. An initial
deposit shall be required by the city based upon an estimate of the municipal
costs associated with processing, including preapplication meetings. The city
shall then charge its expenses against the deposit. If the funds deposited are
insufficient to cover the city's costs, work on the development agreement shall
cease until adequate funds are deposited and/or city expenditures are fully
reimbursed. Adequate notice shall be given to the applicant when insufficient
funds are remaining to process the application. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-
16-2006)
9.6.069: ANNUAL REVIEW:
A development agreement shall include provisions requiring a review by the
city, on an annual basis, of the terms of the agreement and compliance thereto.
(Ord. 822, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
9.6.070: APPROVAL:
City council approval shall be required to enter into all development
agreements. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
9.6.07: NOTICE OF CONSTRUCTION:
The developer shall give the city seven (7) days' advance notice of
commencement of construction of each of the improvements to be dedicated to the
public and secure a permit from the city for such work. No underground
construction shall be covered without written approval of the director or
administrator. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
9.6.08: MAINTENANCE DURING CONSTRUCTION:
A written construction plan shall be prepared and submitted for approval by the
city for all construction projects within the city or the area of city impact.
A more detailed plan may be required for larger projects as specified by the
action of the commission. A developer and all contractors working at the site
shall take care to maintain the construction site and access roads in a manner
protective of the public and surrounding property owners or residents. The plan
shall address the following elements:
   (A)   Traffic Control Signing: The plan shall describe the traffic control
signing required, if any.
   (B)   Construction Sign: A four by four foot (4 x 4') sign shall be
constructed at the main entrance or on the major frontage street of the
development advising the public of the name of the development, the name and
phone number of both the general contractor and developer, and a twenty four
(24) hour emergency number. See title III, chapter 9, "Signs", of this code.
   (C)   Notification Of Damage To Infrastructure: Within twenty four (24)
hours of notification by the city, repair and protect damaged service lines to
prevent inflow, sedimentation, or other damage to the city's infrastructure.
Service shall not be left in a damaged condition until service is restored to
the property under construction.
   (D)   Repair Of Streets: Within forty eight (48) hours of notification by
the city, potholes in asphalt or gravel streets shall be filled and compacted
with like material.
   (E)   Final Repairs And Cleaning: Within seventy two (72) hours of
notification by the city:
      1.   Cuts in asphalt shall be patched and rolled. Temporary patches may
be approved if requested in writing with a permanent patch date given.
      2.   Paved areas shall be cleaned to remove dirt, mud, gravel, concrete
and all other debris.
      3.   Sediment and debris shall be removed from any catch basin, valley
drain, gutter, or sand and grease trap to prevent further flow into any
receiving stream.
   (F)   Erosion And Sedimentation Control Plan: Submit an erosion and
sedimentation control plan to the city for review two (2) weeks prior to the
beginning of construction. The plan shall have addressed periodic maintenance
and response to precipitation events. If precipitation events create a
situation requiring mud or snow removal, the city shall review the project site
to define appropriate measures and time lines for maintenance activities.
   (G)   Hours Of Operation: Equipment operation shall be limited to the hours
of six o'clock (6:00) A.M. to ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. If construction is
within one thousand feet (1,000') of a residential area, equipment operation
shall be limited to the hours of seven thirty o'clock (7:30) A.M. to ten
o'clock (10:00) P.M., and auxiliary construction lighting shall be limited to
one hour before and after daylight, unless otherwise approved by the
administrator. On Sunday, the hours of operation are limited to nine o'clock
(9:00) A.M. to six o'clock (6:00) P.M. Hours of operation may be extended with
the approval of the city depending on natural events or other concerns which
may require continuous operation.
   (H)   Parking: Construction vehicle parking may be restricted at
construction sites so as to not block reasonable public and safety vehicle
access along the street and sidewalks.
   (I)   Deliveries: Deliveries of construction materials and supplies,
including concrete, may be regulated as to time (hours of operation, but not to
exceed the hours of subsection (G) of this section), and routing.
   (J)   Temporary Fencing: Orange safety fencing or other fencing materials
shall be installed and maintained to prevent inappropriate pedestrian traffic
from access to adjacent construction activity and to prevent damage to adjacent
vegetation.
   (K)   Access: Access to private property shall be maintained. In the event
that access must be cut off, notification shall be given to affected property
owners forty eight (48) hours in advance explaining the construction and the
time access will be restored. Access shall be restored no later than four
thirty o'clock (4:30) P.M. each night and shall remain open until eight thirty
o'clock (8:30) A.M. each morning.
   (L)   Grading And Excavation: Because of the truck hauling involved in
grading and excavation, restrictions on trucking routes as well as the hours of
operation may be necessary to mitigate the adverse impacts from such
operations.
   (M)   Control Of Dust And Mud: Sediment control structures, basins, silt
fences, catch basin filters and other items contained in EPA pollution
prevention plans or in any sediment control plan shall be maintained at all
times. A program for the control of dust or other airborne debris shall be
required. Provisions must be made to prevent the tracking of mud onto streets,
and it will be required to remove any such mud daily. Placing gravel on egress
and ingress areas of sites is a method to control mud and dust problems.
   (N)   Storage On Public Streets: No equipment or materials shall be left
parked or stored in public rights of way without traffic control devices in
place, including signage and flashing lights, in accordance with the manual on
uniform traffic control devices, as amended. Equipment or materials which may
impede traffic flow on a public right of way shall be removed or relocated
within four (4) hours.
   (O)   Stockpiling And Staging: In order to reduce the number of delivery
trips to construction sites, the stockpiling of materials is required, with
consideration of the space available on the property for stockpiling.
   (P)   Sanitary Facility: An approved and regularly serviced temporary
sanitary facility shall be in place for use by contractor personnel. The number
and location of facilities shall be appropriate to the site and the number of
workers.
   (Q)   Trash Management: Construction sites shall provide adequate storage
and a program for regular trash removal. Construction bins are encouraged on
sites with adequate room for separation of materials. Burning of scrap wood or
other materials on site is not permitted, except in an approved container and
with a current burning permit, if required.
   (R)   Temporary Lighting: An approved lighting plan must be obtained from
the administrator if any exterior, temporary lighting is necessary for
construction.
   (S)   Dogs: Dogs are prohibited at active construction sites unless under
strict leash control at all times.
   (T)   Area Restoration: In the event that the developer, builder or their
contractors fail to protect and clean streets or public ways, including
adjacent private property as is necessary to provide safe, unimpeded access to
the public, the city may hire equipment, staff, or an outside contractor to
restore the area. The direct cost for all associated work, along with the costs
for staff time, consultants and attorney fees, if any, shall be paid for by the
developer. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
   (U)   Protection And Restoration: Provide protection to all intermittent
watercourses or streams and wetlands and return any disturbed areas to their
original state. (Ord. 866, 2-12-2009)
9.6.09: INSPECTION AND INITIATION OF WARRANTY PERIOD:
   (A)   The owner and/or developer shall retain a full time licensed
professional engineer or licensed construction manager who shall supervise the
construction inspection and certify that all improvements were constructed in
accordance with the approved drawings and city standards.
   (B)   A three (3) year warranty period for public infrastructure constructed
and accepted for maintenance by the city shall commence when a final walkover
is conducted and written acceptance of the utilities by the city is completed.
Final walkover and acceptance shall include the following items:
      1.   Inspection of utility systems and review of test data furnished by
the developer.
      2.   Review of site cleanliness and serviceability of street and drainage
system.
      3.   Evidence that lot or property pins are in place. (Ord. 822, 2-23-
2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
9.6.10: CONSTRUCTION DRAWINGS AND AS BUILT INFORMATION:
A full set of as built (record) drawings of all improvements intended for
public use and maintenance, including, but not limited to, water and sewer
lines, and including also private and public streets, shall be furnished to the
city for the permanent records of the city within sixty (60) days of completion
of the construction. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
Such drawings shall take the form of regular construction drawings at one
hundred (100) scale with detail at ten (10) scale. In addition, a digital file
according to the digital data submittal standards policy, written to an
appropriate media, in AutoCAD® compatible format (or other electronic format
specified by the city) containing all drawing information, shall accompany the
drawings. The warranty period for utilities, streets and other improvements
shall not begin until as builts are delivered and acknowledged by the city.
(Ord. 899, 5-24-2012)
CHAPTER 7
SPECIAL SUBDIVISION AND DEVELOPMENT PROVISIONS
SECTION:
9.7.01: Purpose
9.7.02: Applicability
9.7.03: Hillside Subdivisions
9.7.031: Preservation Of Natural Features
9.7.032: Vegetation And Revegetation
9.7.033: Cuts, Fills And Grading
9.7.034: Development Evaluation
9.7.04: Engineering Reports
9.7.05: Large Scale Subdivisions
9.7.06: Environmental And Aesthetics
9.7.07: Cemetery Subdivisions
9.7.08: Subdivision Or Development Within Area Of Critical Concern
9.7.09: Other Provisions Applicable To All Subdivisions And Developments
9.7.091: Public Places
9.7.092: Streets And Access
9.7.093: Public Realm
9.7.094: Community
9.7.095: Environmental
9.7.096: Rural Settlement
9.7.097: Culture/Community
9.7.098: Visual
9.7.099: Architecture And Design
9.7.0910: Site Design
9.7.0911: Other Elements
9.7.01: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to identify various types of developments that
normally pose special concerns to the city when reviewing and acting upon
subdivision requests. This chapter outlines the plan submittal requirements and
design standards that shall be taken into consideration when acting on special
developments. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
9.7.02: APPLICABILITY:
The provisions of this chapter apply to all permits and approvals regulated by
this title and title III of this code. They are in addition to the provisions
of those titles. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
9.7.03: HILLSIDE SUBDIVISIONS:
9.7.031: PRESERVATION OF NATURAL FEATURES:
The following list of natural features shall be protected in order to preserve,
retain, enhance and promote the existing and future appearance of the
community.
   (A)   Skyline and ridge tops;
   (B)   Rolling grassy landforms, including knolls, ridges and meadows;
   (C)   Tree and shrub masses, grass, wildflowers and topsoil;
   (D)   Rock outcroppings;
   (E)   Streambeds, draws and drainage swales, especially where unique tree
and plant forms occur; and
   (F)   Characteristic vistas and scenic panoramas.
When necessary to protect the above natural features, the commission may
require dedication of land or recordation of a conservation easement to protect
such resources. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
9.7.032: VEGETATION AND REVEGETATION:
   (A)   The developer shall submit a slope stabilization and revegetation plan
which shall include a complete description of the existing vegetation, the
vegetation to be removed and the method of disposal, the vegetation to be
planted and slope stabilization measures to be installed. The plan shall
include an analysis of the environmental effects of such operations, including
the effects on slope stability, soil erosion, water quality and fish and
wildlife.
   (B)   Vegetation sufficient to stabilize the soil shall be established on
all disturbed areas as each stage of grading is completed. Areas not contained
within lot boundaries shall be protected with perennial vegetal cover. After
all construction is completed, efforts shall be made to plant those species
that tend to recover from fire damage and do not contribute to a rapid rate of
fire spread.
   (C)   The developer shall be fully responsible for any destruction of native
vegetation proposed for retention. He shall carry the responsibility both for
his own employees and for all subcontractors from the first day of construction
until the notice of completion is filed. The developer shall be responsible for
replacing such destroyed vegetation. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
9.7.033: CUTS, FILLS AND GRADING:
   (A)   Planning: Proposed subdivisions shall be carefully planned to be
compatible with natural topography, soil conditions, geology and hydrology of
the site, as well as to minimize cuts; fills; alterations of topography,
streams, drainage channels; and disruption of soils or vegetation. Fill within
the floodplain shall comply with the requirements of the chapter 8 of this
title.
   (B)   Preliminary Soil Report: A preliminary soil report prepared by a
qualified engineer may be required by the city as part of the preliminary plat
application.
   (C)   Preliminary Grading Plan; Required Information: A preliminary grading
plan prepared by a civil engineer may be required by the commission and/or the
council as part of the preliminary plat application, to contain the following
information:
      1.   Proposed contours at a maximum of two foot (2') contour intervals;
cut and fill banks in pad elevations;
      2.   Areas where trees and/or natural vegetation will be preserved;
      3.   Location of all street and utility improvements including driveways
to building envelopes; and
      4.   Any other information which may reasonably be required by the
administrator, commission, and/or council.
   (D)   Design Standards: The proposed subdivision shall conform to the
following design standards:
      1.   Grading shall be designed to blend with natural land forms and to
minimize the necessity of padding or terracing of building sites, excavation
for foundations, and minimize the necessity of cuts and fills for streets and
driveways.
      2.   Areas within a subdivision which are not well suited for development
because of existing soil conditions, steepness of slope, geology or hydrology
shall be allocated for open space for the benefit of future property owners
within the subdivision.
      3.   Where existing soils and vegetation are disrupted by subdivision
development, provision shall be made by the applicant for revegetation of
disturbed areas with perennial vegetation sufficient to stabilize the soil upon
completion of the construction, including temporary irrigation for a sufficient
period to establish perennial vegetation. Until such time as said vegetation
has been installed and established, the applicant shall maintain and protect
all disturbed surfaces from erosion.
      4.   Where cuts, fills, or other excavation are necessary, the following
development standards shall apply:
         (a)   Fill areas for structures or roads shall be prepared by removing
all organic material detrimental to proper compaction for soil stability.
         (b)   Fill for structures or roads shall be compacted as specified in
the ISPWCs 1  and in accordance with any special provisions specified by a
soils report developed by a qualified engineer.
         (c)   Cut slopes shall be no steeper than two horizontal to one
vertical (2:1) and this steep only when adequate revegetation and stability can
be shown to be met. Subsurface drainage shall be provided as necessary for
stability.
         (d)   Fill slopes shall be no steeper than three horizontal to one
vertical (3:1). Neither cut nor fill slopes shall be located on natural slopes
of three to one (3:1) or steeper, or where fill slope toes out within twelve
feet (12') horizontally of the top of existing or planned cut slope.
         (e)   Tops and toes of cut and fill slopes shall be set back from
structures and property lines as necessary to accommodate drainage features and
drainage structures. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
 
Notes
1 1. ISPWCs refers to: Idaho standards for public works construction.
9.7.034: DEVELOPMENT EVALUATION:
   (A)   All development proposals shall take into account and shall be judged
by the way in which land use planning, soil mechanics, engineering geology,
hydrology, civil engineering, environmental and civil design, architectural and
landscape design are applied in hillside areas, including but not limited to:
      1.   Planning on development to fit the topography, slope steepness,
soils, geology, hydrology and other conditions existing on the proposed site;
      2.   Orientations of development on the site so that grading and other
site preparation is kept to an absolute minimum;
      3.   Shaping of essential grading to blend with natural land forms and to
minimize the necessity of padding and/or terracing of building sites;
      4.   Division of large tracts into smaller workable units on which
construction can be completed within one construction season so that large
areas are not left bare and exposed during the winter- spring runoff period;
      5.   Completing of paving as rapidly as possible after grading;
      6.   Allocation of areas not well suited for development because of soil,
geology, or hydrology limitations for open space and recreation uses;
      7.   Minimizing the disruption of existing plant and animal life; and
      8.   Consideration of the view from and of the hills.
   (B)   Areas having soil, geology or hydrology hazards as documented in an
evaluation prepared by a professional as outlined in section
9.7.04 of this chapter shall not be developed unless it is shown that:
      1.   Their limitations can be overcome.
      2.   That hazard to life or property will not exist.
      3.   That the safety, use or stability of a public way or drainage
channel is not jeopardized.
      4.   That the natural environment is not subjected to undue impact.
      5.   Lots with building sites with a slope steepness greater than twenty
percent (20%) require a geotechnical analysis prior to issuance of a building
permit.
      6.   Areas of a development with building sites with average slope
steepness greater than thirty five percent (35%) will require an engineering
analysis and report of all site preparation, foundations, and construction.
(Ord. 822, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
9.7.04: ENGINEERING REPORTS:
The developer shall retain a professional geologist(s), professional engineer
(s), or other professional(s) as needed, to prepare a physical site evaluation
report to be submitted with the preliminary plat or preliminary development
plan containing the following information:
   (A)   The report shall include an adequate description of the site geology,
soils, topography, hydrology, and seismic setting to support an evaluation of
their influence on the proposed development with recommendations for
appropriate remedial action.
   (B)   The report shall include a description of the rock and soil type(s),
their distribution, their physical and engineering properties; including, where
applicable, settlement or swell potential, bearing strength, slope stability,
and susceptibility to erosion or seismic hazards.
   (C)   The report shall include the hydrologic conditions unique to the site,
the maximum height and grade of existing slopes, the recommended maximum height
and grade of permanent constructed slopes, and any specified soil compaction,
materials selection, soils stabilization, grading criteria, setbacks, or
foundation and drainage requirements that are necessary to maintain safety to
the public and property as well as to minimize environmental damage.
   (D)   The report shall delineate any special areas to be avoided or
requiring specific treatment in site development, earthworks or construction
for reasons of safety or natural aesthetic value including the considerations
of section
9.7.03 of this chapter.
   (E)   The report shall include a description of prevalent plant species,
including location and description of old growth forest or trees used as animal
or bird sanctuary. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
9.7.05: LARGE SCALE SUBDIVISIONS:
Due to the impact that a large scale development (any development which
requires a planned unit development process) would have on public utilities and
services, the developer shall submit the following information along with the
preliminary plat:
   (A)   Identification of all public services that would be provided to the
development including, but not limited to, fire protection, police protection,
central water, central sewer, road construction, parks and open space,
recreation, maintenance, schools and solid waste collection;
   (B)   Estimate of the public service costs, or required expansion in these
services, to provide adequate service to the development;
   (C)   Estimate of the tax revenue as applied to the several taxing agencies
that will be generated from the development; and
   (D)   Suggested public means for financing the services for the development
if the costs for the public services would not be offset by tax revenue
received from the development where such tax revenue is collected over a period
of at least ten (10) years but less than twenty (20) years. (Ord. 822, 2-23-
2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
9.7.06: ENVIRONMENTAL AND AESTHETICS:
All development shall:
   (A)   Be designed to take advantage of natural settings, preserving natural
features such as streamside environments, intermittent watercourses or streams,
wetlands, and vegetation.
   (B)   Have cluster parking where feasible, and minimize the number and width
of driveways and access roads to avoid tree removal. (Ord. 866, 2-12-2009)
   (C)   Locate parking along sides or in back of commercial, business park or
industrial buildings. (Ord. 885, 3-24-2011)
   (D)   Have roofing of nonreflective materials and be fire resistant; use of
wood shingles of any type is discouraged.
   (E)   Avoid development in wildfire prone areas. Site homes and arrange
landscaping in a manner so as to maximize wildfire defensible space and allow
access to firefighting equipment and personnel. (Ord. 866, 2-12-2009)
9.7.07: CEMETERY SUBDIVISIONS:
   (A)   Submission Of Proposed Function: The developer of any cemetery
subdivision shall provide the commission with written documentation that will
sufficiently explain the functions of the proposed cemetery for either human or
animal remains.
   (B)   Compliance With State Law: The developer of any cemetery subdivision
shall submit a written statement that has been prepared by an attorney that
adequately assumes the compliance of the proposed cemetery with the procedural
management requirements that are outlined in title 27, "cemeteries and
crematoriums", Idaho Code. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
9.7.08: SUBDIVISION OR DEVELOPMENT WITHIN AREA OF CRITICAL CONCERN:
   (A)   Designation Of Areas Of Critical Concern: Hazardous or unique areas
may be designated as an area of critical concern by the city council or by the
state of Idaho. Special consideration shall be given to any proposed
development within, or contiguous with, an area of critical concern to assure
that the development is necessary and desirable and in the public interest in
view of the existing unique conditions. Hazardous or unique areas that may have
been designated as areas of critical concern are as follows:
      1.   Earthquake fault zone location.
      2.   Unstable soils.
      3.   Unique animal life.
      4.   Unique plant life or major stands of locally important species.
      5.   Scenic areas.
      6.   Protect significant historical areas or structures, and sacred or
prehistoric sites.
      7.   Lakes, wetlands, permanent or intermittent streams.
      8.   Floodplain.
      9.   Center city (central business district).
      10.   Areas within the area of city impact but outside city boundaries.
   (B)   Environmental Assessment Plan: The commission may require that the
developer prepare and submit an environmental assessment along with the
preliminary plat application for any development that is proposed within an
area of critical concern if it is apparent that the development will have, or
may have, a serious impact on any one of those areas.
   (C)   Preparation By Team Of Professionals: The content of the environmental
assessment shall be prepared by an interdisciplinary team of professionals.
(Ord. 822, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
9.7.09: OTHER PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO ALL SUBDIVISIONS AND DEVELOPMENTS:
The following sections
9.7.091 through
9.7.0911 provide a list of development provisions which the applicant should
use as a guide in preparing the proposal; the commission will evaluate the
proposal by considering each of these provisions as they relate to the location
and size of the development 1 . See also title III, chapter 16, "Design
Review", of this code and the McCall design guidelines. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006,
eff. 3-16-2006)
 
Notes
1 1. Extracted from: True West: Authentic Development Patterns for Small Towns
  & Rural Areas - C. Duerksen & J.V. Hemert (2003).
9.7.091: PUBLIC PLACES:
   (A)   Provide and incorporate common areas within clusters of homes.
   (B)   Create public places appropriately sized for the community and within
walking distance of all citizens.
   (C)   Reserve sufficient space within the core of each neighborhood for at
least several public community facilities.
   (D)   Concentrate community facilities around public "squares" at the
intersection of community pathways or streets. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-
2006)
9.7.092: STREETS AND ACCESS:
   (A)   Orient streets in such a manner as to take advantage of the solar heat
and light provided by the sun during winter months.
   (B)   For the long winters in McCall, provide adequate street rights of way
for maximum sunlight penetration and to preserve distant views and create a
sense of spaciousness.
   (C)   Establish a connected fabric of streets that respect topographical
constraints without resorting to dead ends.
   (D)   Encourage planting of street trees to create shade canopies of
sidewalks and public streets.
   (E)   Construct streets in such a manner so as to take advantage of distant
views. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
9.7.093: PUBLIC REALM:
   (A)   Create and intimate relationship between buildings and the street by
placing buildings close to the public right of way.
   (B)   Consider the orientation of buildings relative to public space to take
advantage of the noontime sun.
   (C)   Ensure appropriately scaled, quasi-public space between public streets
and residential structures.
   (D)   Encourage outdoor seating on sidewalks and courtyards. (Ord. 822, 2-
23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
9.7.094: COMMUNITY:
   (A)   Provide diverse housing opportunities, including primary housing.
   (B)   Build neighborhoods, not just subdivisions, with street and pedestrian
connections, common open space, and limitations upon gates and fencing. (Ord.
822, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
9.7.095: ENVIRONMENTAL:
   (A)   The applicant is responsible for the identification and the proper
treatment or removal of noxious weed infestations before significant
infrastructure work commences. These costly infestations are easily transported
to other areas by construction vehicles.
   (B)   Maintain agricultural land in close proximity to city dwellers.
   (C)   Collect and conserve water through simple and ingenious methods and
incorporate them into the design of buildings and neighborhoods.
   (D)   Provide native, draught resistant, trees, shrubs, ground cover, and
grasses, or provide and maintain landscaping, so as to cover all areas not
actually used for structures, drives, walks, usable yard, improved off street
parking, or lawful open storage. All developments submitted for action by the
commission shall provide a site plan which describes the intended landscaping,
either retention of natural features or the placement of new materials, whether
vegetation, rocks, gravel, etc. See appendix B, on file in the office of the
city clerk.
   (E)   Wetland and riparian areas: Development in these sensitive areas must
take into account applicable federal regulations and guidelines. All structures
should be placed so as to have minimal impact, both visually and structurally
on these areas. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
9.7.096: RURAL SETTLEMENT:
   (A)   Salvage and replant native plants that lie in the path of development.
   (B)   Protect significant geological features such as rock outcroppings.
   (C)   Cluster development in a manner so as to maximize environmentally
significant, unfragmented open space.
   (D)   Protect wildlife habitat and enhance wildlife movement corridors in a
manner that allows for continued free movement of the broadest possible variety
of species.
   (E)   Restrict development of steep slopes (greater that 35 percent) and in
geologically hazardous areas.
   (F)   Construct the narrowest streets possible, consistent with other
considerations. Minimize impacts on vegetation, natural drainage patterns and
minimize the need for "cut and fill". (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
9.7.097: CULTURE/COMMUNITY:
   (A)   Preserve and integrate historic ranching or farming operations through
sensitive home placement, conservation easements, and other means.
   (B)   Ensure that new development respects and complements the existing
agricultural land use through the use of approved fencing, setbacks, and
overall placement of structures.
   (C)   Preserve significant historical buildings.
   (D)   Integrate historical buildings in new development.
   (E)   Protect sacred sites to preserve people's spiritual roots and their
connection to the past. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
9.7.098: VISUAL:
   (A)   Identify and preserve unique views.
   (B)   Minimize exotic landscaping, the size of building footprints, and the
amount of impervious surface devoted to roadways.
   (C)   Where vegetation of the natural landscape is sparse, limit additional
landscape plantings, except for native plants.
   (D)   Where natural vegetation or topography does not allow for "hiding"
development, locate structures such that they are subordinate to the horizon
and significant view sheds.
   (E)   Cluster developments in a manner so as to maximize visually
significant open space.
   (F)   Nestle structures below ridgelines and with the folds of hills.
   (G)   Avoid or mitigate ridge top "skylining" that alters the natural land
profiles with built structures.
   (H)   Minimize visual clutter within scenic corridors.
   (I)   Design buildings on hillsides to follow the natural terrain in a
manner that minimizes earth disturbance.
   (J)   Preserve and protect significant foreground views along scenic
corridors.
   (K)   Avoid fencing altogether to allow the landscape to flow uninterrupted.
(Ord. 822, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
9.7.099: ARCHITECTURE AND DESIGN:
   (A)   Design buildings that mimic the profiles of the natural landscape.
   (B)   Limit the majority of buildings to two (2) stories; taller buildings
should be exceptional and reserved for cultural, civic or community housing
purposes.
   (C)   Avoid building large, monolithic structures. Buildings should comprise
a complex of smaller buildings or sections.
   (D)   Limit the size of residential buildings relative to lot size.
   (E)   Arrange roofs so that each distinct roof corresponds to an
identifiable entity in the building.
   (F)   Build arcades at the edge of buildings to provide shelter from sun and
rain.
   (G)   Vary roof pitches, lines, shapes, etc.
   (H)   In designing a complex, leave room for organic future growth.
   (I)   In pedestrian oriented areas, encourage narrow storefronts with large
display windows. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
9.7.0910: SITE DESIGN:
   (A)   Avoid nonnative vegetation and turf landscaping. Maintain existing
vegetation and minimize land disturbance and lot grading.
   (B)   Limit the size of secondary buildings, including garages. (Ord. 822,
2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
9.7.0911: OTHER ELEMENTS:
   (A)   Construct fences of historical, or natural, materials that are
unobtrusive.
   (B)   Construct fences that are wildlife friendly.
   (C)   Restrict or shield lighting so as to preserve the night sky.
   (D)   Avoid large entryway signs and monumentation; allow the natural
landscape to dominate. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
CHAPTER 8
FLOOD CONTROL REGULATIONS (OVERLAY)
SECTION:
9.8.01: Statutory Authorization, Findings Of Fact, Purpose, And Objectives
9.8.02: Definitions
9.8.03: General Provisions
9.8.031: Lands To Which This Chapter Applies
9.8.032: Basis For Special Flood Hazard Areas
9.8.033: Establishment Of Floodplain Development Permit
9.8.034: Compliance
9.8.035: Abrogation And Greater Restrictions
9.8.036: Interpretation
9.8.037: Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability
9.8.038: Penalties For Violation
9.8.04: Administration
9.8.041: Designation Of Floodplain Administrator
9.8.042: Duties And Responsibilities Of The Floodplain Administrator
9.8.043: Floodplain Development Application, Permit, And Certification
Requirements
9.8.044: Corrective Procedures
9.8.045: Variance Procedures
9.8.05: Provisions For Flood Hazard Reduction
9.8.051: General Standards
9.8.052: Specific Standards
9.8.053: Standards For Floodplains Without Established Base Flood Elevations
9.8.054: Standards For Riverine Floodplains With Base Flood Elevations But
Without Established Floodways
9.8.055: Standards For Floodways
9.8.056: Standards For Areas Of Shallow Flooding (Zone AO, AH, AR/AO, Or AR/AH)
9.8.06: Legal Status Provisions
9.8.061: Effect On Rights And Liabilities Under The Existing Flood Damage
Prevention Ordinance
9.8.062: Effect Upon Outstanding Floodplain Development Permits
9.8.01: STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT, PURPOSE, AND OBJECTIVES:
   (A)   Statutory Authority: The Legislature of the State of Idaho, pursuant
to Idaho Code sections 46-1020, 46-1023, and 46-1024, authorizes local
governments to adopt Floodplain Management Ordinances that identify floodplains
and minimum floodplain development standards to minimize flood hazards and
protect human life, health, and property. Therefore, the City Council of the
City of McCall Idaho does hereby ordain as follows.
   (B)   Findings Of Fact:
      1.   The flood hazard areas of the City of McCall are subject to periodic
inundation that results in:
         (a)   Loss of life and property;
         (b)   Health and safety hazards;
         (c)   Disruption of commerce and governmental services;
         (d)   Extraordinary public expenditures for flood relief and
protection; and
         (e)   Impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely affect the
public health, safety, and general welfare.
      2.   These flood losses are caused by development in flood hazard areas,
which are inadequately elevated, floodproofed, or otherwise unprotected from
flood damages, and by the cumulative effect of obstructions in floodplains
causing increases in flood heights and velocities.
      3.   Local government units have the primary responsibility for planning,
adopting, and enforcing land use regulations to accomplish proper floodplain
management.
   (C)   Statement Of Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to promote public
health, safety, and general welfare and to minimize public and private losses
due to flood conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
      1.   Protect human life, health, and property;
      2.   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
purification and sewage treatment plants, water and gas mains, electric,
telephone and sewer lines, streets, and bridges located in floodplains;
      3.   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas;
      4.   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
      5.   Minimize the need for rescue and emergency services associated with
flooding, generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
      6.   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
      7.   Ensure potential buyers are notified the property is in an area of
special flood hazard; and
      8.   Ensure those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard assume
responsibility for their actions.
   (D)   Objectives And Methods Of Reducing Flood Losses: In order to
accomplish its purpose, this chapter includes methods and provisions to:
      1.   Require that development which is vulnerable to floods, including
structures and facilities necessary for the general health, safety, and welfare
of citizens, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
      2.   Restrict or prohibit developments which are dangerous to health,
safety, and property due to water or erosion hazards, or which increase flood
heights, velocities, or erosion;
      3.   Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase flood damage or erosion;
      4.   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers that will
unnaturally divert flood waters or that may increase flood hazards to other
lands;
      5.   Preserve and restore natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers which carry and store flood waters. (Ord. 977, 1-3-
2019, eff. 2-1-2019)
9.8.02: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter shall
be interpreted according to the meaning they have in common usage and to give
this chapter its most reasonable application.
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE): A structure on the same lot or
parcel as a principal structure, the use of which is incidental and subordinate
to the principal structure.
ADDITION (To An Existing Building): An extension or increase in the floor area
or height of a building or structure.
APPEAL: A request for review of the Floodplain Administrator's interpretation
of provisions of this chapter or request for a variance.
AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING: A designated AO, AH, AR/AO, or AR/AH Zone on a
community's Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with a one percent (1%) or greater
annual chance of flooding to an average depth of one foot (1') to three feet
(3') where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding
is unpredictable, and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is
characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD: See definition of special flood hazard area
(SFHA).
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year.
BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE): A determination by the Federal Insurance
Administrator of the water surface elevations of the base flood, that is, the
flood level that has a one percent (1%) or greater chance of occurrence in any
given year. When the BFE has not been provided in a special flood hazard area,
it may be obtained from engineering studies available from a Federal, State, or
other source using FEMA-approved engineering methodologies. This elevation,
when combined with the freeboard, establishes the flood protection elevation.
BASEMENT: Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
BUILDING: See definition of structure.
CRITICAL FACILITIES: Facilities that are vital to flood response activities or
critical to the health and safety of the public before, during, and after a
flood, such as a hospital, emergency operations center, electric substation,
police station, fire station, nursing home, school, vehicle and equipment
storage facility, or shelter; and facilities that, if flooded, would make the
flood problem and its impacts much worse, such as a hazardous materials
facility, power generation facility, water utility, or wastewater treatment
plant.
DATUM: The vertical datum is a base measurement point (or set of points) from
which all elevations are determined. Historically, that common set of points
was the National Geodetic Vertical Datum of 1929 (NGVD29). The vertical datum
currently adopted by the Federal government as a basis for measuring heights is
the North American Vertical Datum of 1988 (NAVD88).
DEVELOPMENT: Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials.
DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITY: Any activity defined as development which will
necessitate a floodplain development permit; such as: the construction of
buildings, structures, or accessory structures; additions or substantial
improvements to existing structures; bulkheads, retaining walls, piers, and
pools; the placement of mobile homes; or the deposition or extraction of
materials; the construction or elevation of dikes, berms and levees.
DIGITAL FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (DFIRM): The digital official map of a
community, issued by the Federal Insurance Administrator, on which both the
special flood hazard areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the
community are delineated.
ELEVATED BUILDING: For insurance purposes, a non-basement building which has
its lowest elevated floor raised above ground level by foundation walls, shear
walls, posts, piers, pilings, or columns.
ELEVATION CERTIFICATE: The Elevation Certificate is an important administrative
tool of the NFIP. It is used to determine the proper flood insurance premium
rate; it is used to document elevation information; and it may be used to
support a request for a Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA) or Letter of Map
Revision Based On Fill (LOMR-F).
ENCLOSURE: An area enclosed by solid walls below the BFE/FPE or an area formed
when any space below the BFE/FPE is enclosed on all sides by walls or
partitions. Insect screening or open wood lattice used to surround space below
the BFE/FPE is not considered an enclosure.
ENCROACHMENT: The advance or infringement of uses, fill, excavation, buildings,
structures, or development into a floodplain, which may impede or alter the
flow capacity of a floodplain.
EXISTING CONSTRUCTION: For the purposes of determining rates, structures for
which the "start of construction" commenced before the effective date of the
FIRM or before January 1, 1975, for FIRMs effective before that date. "Existing
construction" may also be referred to as "existing structures".
EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION: A
manufactured home park or subdivision where the construction of facilities for
servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed
before the effective date of the original floodplain management regulations
adopted by the community, November 17, 1975.
EXISTING STRUCTURES: See definition of existing construction.
EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: The preparation
of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the installation of
utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads).
FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM): The FBFM shows how the floodplain is
divided into the floodway and flood fringe where streams are studied in detail.
They also show general floodplain areas where floodplains have been studied by
approximate methods.
FLOOD ELEVATION DETERMINATION: See definition of base flood elevation (BFE).
FLOOD ELEVATION STUDY: See definition of Flood Insurance Study (FIS).
FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM): An official map of a community, issued by the
Federal Insurance Administrator, where the boundaries of the flood, mudslide
(i.e., mudflow) related erosion areas having special hazards have been
designated as Zones A, M, and/or E.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM): An official map of a community, on which the
Federal Insurance Administrator has delineated both the special flood hazard
areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the community. A FIRM that has
been made available digitally is called a Digital Flood Insurance Rate Map
(DFIRM).
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS): An examination, evaluation, and determination of
flood hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations; or
an examination, evaluation and determination of mudslide (i.e., mudflow) and/or
flood-related erosion hazards.
FLOOD OR FLOODING: (A) A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
1. The overflow of inland or tidal waters.
2. The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any
source.
3. Mudslides (i.e., mudflows) which are proximately caused by flooding as
defined in subsection (A)2 of this definition and are akin to a river of liquid
and flowing mud on the surfaces of normally dry land areas, as when earth is
carried by a current of water and deposited along the path of the current.
   (B)   The collapse or subsidence of land along the shore of a lake or other
body of water as a result of erosion or undermining caused by waves or currents
of water exceeding anticipated cyclical levels or suddenly caused by an
unusually high water level in a natural body of water, accompanied by a severe
storm, or by an unanticipated force of nature, such as flash flood or an
abnormal tidal surge, or by some similarly unusual and unforeseeable event
which results in flooding as defined in subsection (A)1 of this definition.
FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (FPE): The base flood elevation plus the freeboard.
   (A)   In "special flood hazard areas" where base flood elevations (BFEs)
have been determined, this elevation shall be the BFE plus two feet (2') of
freeboard; and
   (B)   In "special flood hazard areas" where no BFE has been established,
this elevation shall be at least two feet (2') above the highest adjacent
grade.
FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM: Those physical structural works for which funds have
been authorized, appropriated, and expended and which have been constructed
specifically to modify flooding in order to reduce the extent of the area
within a community subject to a "special flood hazard" and the extent of the
depths of associated flooding. Such a system typically includes dams,
reservoirs, levees, or dikes. These specialized flood modifying works are those
constructed in conformance with sound engineering standards.
FLOOD ZONE: A geographical area shown on a Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM) or
Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) that reflects the severity or type of flooding
in the area, and applicable insurance rate.
FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR: The individual appointed to administer and enforce
the floodplain management regulations.
FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT: Any type of permit that is required in
conformance with the provisions of this chapter, prior to the commencement of
any development activity.
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT: The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including but not limited to
emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, and floodplain management
regulations.
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS: Zoning Ordinances, subdivision regulations,
Building Codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances (such as a
Floodplain Ordinance, Grading Ordinance, and Erosion Control Ordinance), and
other applications of police power. The term describes such State or local
regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards for the
purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.
FLOODPLAIN OR FLOOD-PRONE AREA: Any land area susceptible to being inundated by
water from any source (see definition of "flooding").
FLOODPROOFING: Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
FLOODWAY: The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a designated
height.
FREEBOARD: A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level for
the purposes of floodplain management. Freeboard tends to compensate for the
many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than the
height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such as
wave action, obstructed bridge openings, debris and ice jams, and the
hydrologic effects of urbanization in a watershed. The base flood elevation
(BFE) plus the freeboard establishes the flood protection elevation (FPE).
Freeboard shall be at least two feet (2').
FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE: A facility that cannot be used for its intended
purpose unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water, such
as a docking or port facility necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo
or passengers, shipbuilding, or ship repair facilities. The term does not
include long-term storage, manufacture, sales, or service facilities.
HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE (HAG): The highest natural elevation of the ground
surface prior to construction, adjacent to the proposed walls of a structure.
Refer to the FEMA Elevation Certificate for HAG related to building elevation
information.
HISTORIC STRUCTURE: A structure that is:
   (A)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the U.S. Department of Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the National Register;
   (B)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic
district or to a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify
as a registered historic district;
   (C)   Individually listed on a State Inventory of Historic Places and
determined as eligible by states with historic preservation programs which have
been approved by the Secretary of the Interior; or
   (D)   Individually listed on a Local Inventory of Historic Places and
determined as eligible by communities with historic preservation programs that
have been certified either:
1. By an approved State program as determined by the Secretary of the Interior,
or
2. Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without approved
programs.
LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC): A general term used to refer to the several types
of revisions and amendments to FIRMs that can be accomplished by letter. They
include Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA), Letter of Map Revision (LOMR), and
Letter of Map Revision Based On Fill (LOMR-F).
Conditional Letter Of Map Revision (CLOMR): A formal review and comment as to
whether a proposed flood protection project or other project complies with the
minimum NFIP requirements for such projects with respect to delineation of
special flood hazard areas. A CLOMR does not revise the effective Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) or Flood Insurance Study (FIS). Upon submission and
approval of certified as-built documentation, a Letter of Map Revision (LOMR)
may be issued by FEMA to revise the effective FIRM. Building permits and/or
flood development permits cannot be issued based on a CLOMR, because a CLOMR
does not change the NFIP map.
Letter Of Map Amendment (LOMA): An official amendment, by letter, to an
effective National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) map. A LOMA establishes a
property's or structure's location in relation to the special flood hazard area
(SFHA). LOMAs are usually issued because a property or structure has been
inadvertently mapped as being in the floodplain but is actually on natural high
ground above the base flood elevation.
Letter Of Map Revision (LOMR):   FEMA's modification to an effective Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) or a Flood Boundary and Floodway Map (FBFM) or both.
LOMRs are generally based on the implementation of physical measures that
affect the hydrologic or hydraulic characteristics of a flooding source and
thus result in the modification of the existing regulatory floodway, the
effective base flood elevations (BFEs), or the special flood hazard area
(SFHA). The LOMR officially revises the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) or
Flood Boundary and Floodway Map (FBFM), and sometimes the Flood Insurance Study
(FIS) report, and when appropriate, includes a description of the
modifications. The LOMR is generally accompanied by an annotated copy of the
affected portions of the FIRM, FBFM, or FIS report.
Letter Of Map Revision Based On Fill (LOMR-F):   FEMA's modification of the
special flood hazard area (SFHA) shown on the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM)
based on the placement of fill outside the existing regulatory floodway. The
LOMR-F does not change the FIRM, FBFM, or FIS report.
LEVEE: A man-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed according to sound engineering practices, to contain, control, or
divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary flooding.
LEVEE SYSTEM: A flood protection system that consists of a levee, or levees,
and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are
constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE (LAG): The lowest point of the ground level next to the
structure. Refer to the FEMA Elevation Certificate for LAG related to building
elevation information.
LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor; provided, that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of 44 CFR section 60.3 and this
chapter.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure, transportable in one or more sections, built on
a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a permanent
foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term "manufactured
home" does not include a "recreational vehicle".
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land
divided into two (2) or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
MARKET VALUE: The building value, not including the land value and that of any
accessory structures or other improvements on the lot. Market value may be
established by independent certified appraisal; replacement cost depreciated
for age of building and quality of construction (actual cash value); or
adjusted tax assessed values.
MEAN SEA LEVEL: For purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP),
the National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 or other datum (such as
North American Vertical Datum of 1988 - NAVD88) to which base flood elevations
(BFEs) shown on a community's FIRM are referenced.
MUDSLIDE (i.e., MUDFLOW): Describes a condition where there is a river, flow,
or inundation of liquid mud down a hillside usually as a result of a dual
condition of loss of brush cover and the subsequent accumulation of water on
the ground preceded by a period of unusually heavy or sustained rain. A
mudslide (i.e., mudflow) may occur as a distinct phenomenon while a landslide
is in progress, and will be recognized as such by the Administrator only if the
mudflow, and not the landslide, is the proximate cause of damage that occurs.
MUDSLIDE (i.e., MUDFLOW) AREA MANAGEMENT: The operation of an overall program
of corrective and preventive measures for reducing mudslide (i.e., mudflow)
damage, including but not limited to emergency preparedness plans, mudslide
control works, and floodplain management regulations.
MUDSLIDE (i.e., MUDFLOW) PRONE AREA: An area with land surfaces and slopes of
unconsolidated material where the history, geology, and climate indicate a
potential for mudflow.
NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP): The NFIP is a Federal program created
by Congress to mitigate future flood losses nationwide through sound,
community-enforced Building and Zoning Ordinances and to provide access to
affordable, Federally backed flood insurance protection for property owners.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: For floodplain management purposes, a structure for which the
start of construction commenced on or after the effective date of a floodplain
management regulation adopted by a community and includes any subsequent
improvements to such structures.
Any construction started after November 17, 1975 and before the effective start
date of this chapter is subject to the ordinance in effect at the time the
permit was issued, provided the start of construction was within one hundred
eighty (180) days of permit issuance.
NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A place where the construction of
facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be
affixed (including at a minimum the installation of utilities, the construction
of streets, and final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed on or after the effective date of floodplain management regulations
adopted by the City of McCall November 17, 1975.
POST-FIRM: Construction or other development for which the "start of
construction" occurred on or after the effective date of the initial Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM).
PRE-FIRM: Construction or other development for which the "start of
construction" occurred before April 17, 1989, the effective date of the initial
Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM).
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicle that is:
   (A)   Built on a single chassis, and
   (B)   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection, and
   (C)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towed by a light duty
truck, and
   (D)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
REGULATORY FLOODWAY: See definition of floodway.
REMEDY A VIOLATION: To bring the structure or other development into compliance
with State or local floodplain management regulations, or, if this is not
possible, to reduce the impacts of its non-compliance. Ways that impacts may be
reduced include protecting the structure or other affected development from
flood damages, implementing the enforcement provisions of this chapter or
otherwise deterring future similar violations, or reducing Federal financial
exposure with regard to the structure or other development.
REPETITIVE LOSS STRUCTURE: An NFIP-insured structure that has had at least two
(2) paid flood losses of more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) each in any
10-year period since 1978.
RIVERINE: Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook, etc.
SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA): The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
For purposes of these regulations, the term "special flood hazard area" is
synonymous in meaning with the phrase "area of special flood hazard".
START OF CONSTRUCTION: Includes substantial improvement, and means the date the
building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair,
reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement, or other improvement was
within one hundred eighty (180) days of the permit date. The actual start means
either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site,
such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the
placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading, and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or
foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
STRUCTURE: A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage tank
that is principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the
cost of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition would equal or
exceed fifty percent (50%) of its market value before the damage occurred. See
definition of "substantial improvement". Substantial damage also means flood-
related damage sustained by a structure on two (2) separate occasions during a
10-year period for which the cost of repairs at the time of each such flood
event, on the average, equals or exceeds twenty five percent (25%) of the
market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other
improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent
(50%) of the market value of the structure before the "start of construction"
of the improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred
"substantial damage", regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term
does not, however, include either:
   (A)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of State or local Health, Sanitary, or Safety Code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
   (B)   Any alteration of a "historic structure", provided that the alteration
will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a "historic
structure" and the alteration is approved by variance issued pursuant to this
chapter.
TECHNICAL BULLETINS AND TECHNICAL FACT SHEETS:   FEMA publications that provide
guidance concerning the building performance standards of the NFIP, which are
contained in title 44 of the U.S. Code of Federal Regulations section 60.3. The
bulletins and fact sheets are intended for use primarily by State and local
officials responsible for interpreting and enforcing NFIP regulations and by
members of the development community, such as design professionals and
builders. New bulletins, as well as updates of existing bulletins, are issued
periodically as needed. The bulletins do not create regulations. Rather they
provide specific guidance for complying with the minimum requirements of
existing NFIP regulations.
It should be noted that Technical Bulletins and Technical Fact Sheets provide
guidance on the minimum requirements of the NFIP regulations. State or
community requirements that exceed those of the NFIP take precedence. Design
professionals should contact the community officials to determine whether more
restrictive State or local regulations apply to the building or site in
question. All applicable standards of the State or local Building Code must
also be met for any building in a flood hazard area.
TEMPERATURE CONTROLLED: Having the temperature regulated by a heating and/or
cooling system, built-in or appliance.
VARIANCE: A grant of relief by the Governing Body from a requirement of this
chapter.
VIOLATION: The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the Finished Construction Elevation Certificate,
other certifications, or other evidence of compliance required in 44 CFR
section 60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)(10), (d)(3), (e)(2), (e)(4), or (e)(5) is
presumed to be in violation until such time as that documentation is provided.
WATER SURFACE ELEVATION: The height, in relation to the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 or the North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of
1988 (or other specified datum), of floods of various magnitudes and
frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine areas.
WATERCOURSE: A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel, or other topographic
feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically. Watercourse
includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood damage may
occur. (Ord. 977, 1-3-2019, eff. 2-1-2019)
9.8.03: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
9.8.031: LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES:
This chapter shall apply to all special flood hazard areas within the
jurisdiction of the City of McCall. Nothing in this chapter is intended to
allow uses or structures that are otherwise prohibited by the Zoning Ordinance.
(Ord. 977, 1-3-2019, eff. 2-1-2019)
9.8.032: BASIS FOR SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS:
The special flood hazard areas identified by the Federal Insurance
Administrator in a scientific and engineering report titled "Flood Insurance
Study (FIS) for Valley County, Idaho and Incorporated Areas", dated February 1,
2019, with accompanying Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRM) or Digital Flood
Insurance Rate Maps (DFIRM), and other supporting data, are adopted by
reference and declared a part of this chapter. The FIS and the FIRM are on file
at the Office of the City Clerk, 216 E. Park St., McCall, ID 83638. (Ord. 977,
1-3-2019, eff. 2-1-2019)
9.8.033: ESTABLISHMENT OF FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
A floodplain development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities within special flood hazard areas determined in accordance with the
provisions of section
9.8.043 of this chapter. (Ord. 977, 1-3-2019, eff. 2-1-2019)
9.8.034: COMPLIANCE:
No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended, converted, altered,
or developed in any way without full compliance with the terms of this chapter
and other applicable regulations. (Ord. 977, 1-3-2019, eff. 2-1-2019)
9.8.035: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS:
This chapter shall not in any way repeal, abrogate, impair, or remove the
necessity of compliance with any other laws, ordinances, regulations,
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions, etcetera. However, where this
chapter and another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes more stringent or
greater restrictions shall control. (Ord. 977, 1-3-2019, eff. 2-1-2019)
9.8.036: INTERPRETATION:
   (A)   In the interpretation and application of this chapter all provisions
shall be:
      1.   Considered as minimum requirements;
      2.   Liberally construed in favor of the Governing Body; and
      3.   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
State Statutes. (Ord. 977, 1-3-2019, eff. 2-1-2019)
9.8.037: WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur. Flood heights may be
increased by man-made or natural causes. This chapter does not imply that land
outside the special flood hazard areas or uses permitted within such areas will
be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall not create liability
on the part of the City of McCall or by any officer or employee thereof for
flood damages that result from reliance on this chapter or an administrative
decision lawfully made hereunder. (Ord. 977, 1-3-2019, eff. 2-1-2019)
9.8.038: PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION:
No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended, converted, or
altered unless in full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other
applicable regulations.
Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of
its requirements, including violation of conditions and safeguards established
in connection with grants of variance or special exceptions, shall constitute a
misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to comply with any
of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) or imprisoned for not more than one hundred eighty
(180) days, or both. Each day the violation continues shall be considered a
separate offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the City of McCall
from taking such other lawful actions as is necessary to prevent or remedy any
violation. (Ord. 977, 1-3-2019, eff. 2-1-2019)
9.8.04: ADMINISTRATION:
9.8.041: DESIGNATION OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR:
The City Planner, hereinafter referred to as the "Floodplain Administrator", is
hereby appointed to administer and implement the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 977, 1-3-2019, eff. 2-1-2019)
9.8.042: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR:
   (A)   The Floodplain Administrator shall perform, but not be limited to, the
following duties:
      1.   Applications And Permits: Review all floodplain development
applications and issue permits for all proposed development within special
flood hazard areas to assure that the requirements of this chapter have been
satisfied.
      2.   Proposed Development: Review all proposed development within special
flood hazard areas to assure that all necessary local, State, and Federal
permits have been received, including section 404 of the Federal Water
Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, 33 USC 1334.
      3.   Notifications: Notify adjacent communities and the Idaho Department
of Water Resources State Coordinator for the National Flood Insurance Program
(NFIP) prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse and submit
evidence of such notification to the Federal Insurance Administrator (FIA).
      4.   Flood Carrying Capacity: Assure that the flood carrying capacity
within the altered or relocated portion of any watercourse is maintained.
      5.   Encroachments: Prevent encroachments into floodways unless the
certification and flood hazard reduction provisions of section
9.8.055 of this chapter are met.
      6.   Actual Elevation Of Lowest Floor: Obtain and maintain actual
elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the lowest floor (including
basement) and all attendant utilities of all new and substantially improved
structures, in accordance with the provisions of subsection
9.8.043(A)3 of this section
9.8.04.
      7.   Actual Elevation Of Structures And Utilities: Obtain and maintain
actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which all new and
substantially improved structures and utilities have been floodproofed, in
accordance with the provisions of subsection
9.8.043(A)3 of this section
9.8.04.
      8.   Public Utilities: Review plans to verify public utilities are
constructed in accordance with the provisions of subsections 9.8.051(A)5
through (A)7 of this chapter.
      9.   Floodproofing Certificates: When floodproofing is utilized for a
particular structure, obtain and maintain certifications from a registered
professional engineer or architect in accordance with the provisions of
subsection
9.8.043(A)3 of this section
9.8.04 and subsection
9.8.052(A)2 of this chapter.
      10.   Boundary Interpretation: Where interpretation is needed as to the
exact location of boundaries of the special flood hazard areas, and floodways
(for example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary
and actual field conditions), make the necessary interpretation. The person
contesting the location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity
to appeal the interpretation as provided in this section
9.8.04.
      11.   BFE Data: When base flood elevation (BFE) data has not been
provided in accordance with the provisions of section 9.08.032 of this chapter,
obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any BFE data, along with floodway data
available from a Federal, State, or other source, including data developed
pursuant to subsection
9.8.053(A)2 of this chapter, in order to administer the provisions of this
chapter.
      12.   Floodway Data: When base flood elevation (BFE) data is provided but
no floodway data has been provided in accordance with the provisions of section
9.8.032 of this chapter, require that no new construction, substantial
improvements, or other development (including fill) shall be permitted within
Zones A1-30 and AE on the community's FIRM, unless it is demonstrated that the
cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined with all other
existing and anticipated development, will not increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood more than one foot (1') at any point within the
community.
      13.   Letter Of Map Amendment: When the lowest floor and the lowest
adjacent grade of a structure or the lowest ground elevation of a parcel in a
special flood hazard area (SFHA) is above the base flood elevation (BFE),
advise the property owner of the option to apply for a Letter of Map Amendment
(LOMA) from FEMA. Maintain a copy of the LOMA issued by FEMA in the floodplain
development permit file.
      14.   Records: Permanently maintain all records that pertain to the
administration of this chapter and make these records available for public
inspection, recognizing that such information may be subject to the Privacy Act
of 1974, as amended.
      15.   Make On-Site Inspections Of Work In Progress: As the work pursuant
to a floodplain development permit progresses, the Floodplain Administrator
shall make as many inspections of the work as may be necessary to ensure that
the work is being done according to the provisions of the local ordinance and
the terms of the permit. In exercising this power, the Floodplain Administrator
has a right, upon presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises
within the jurisdiction of the community at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action.
      16.   Issue Stop-Work Orders As Required: Whenever a building or part
thereof is being constructed, reconstructed, altered, or repaired in violation
of this chapter, the Floodplain Administrator may order the work to be
immediately stopped. The stop-work order shall be in writing and directed to
the person doing or in charge of the work. The stop-work order shall state the
specific work to be stopped, the specific reason(s) for the stoppage, and the
condition(s) under which the work may be resumed. Violation of a stop-work
order constitutes a misdemeanor.
      17.   Revoke Floodplain Development Permits As Required: The Floodplain
Administrator may revoke and require the return of the floodplain development
permit by notifying the permit holder in writing stating the reason(s) for the
revocation. Permits shall be revoked for any substantial departure from the
approved application, plans, and specifications; for refusal or failure to
comply with the requirements of State or local laws; or for false statements or
misrepresentations made in securing the permit. Any floodplain development
permit mistakenly issued in violation of an applicable State or local law may
also be revoked.
      18.   Inspections: Make periodic inspections throughout the Special Flood
Hazard Areas within the jurisdiction of the community. The Floodplain
Administrator and each member of his or her inspections department shall have a
right, upon presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises within
the territorial jurisdiction of the department at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action.
      19.   Corrective Procedures: Follow through with corrective procedures of
section
9.8.044 of this section
9.8.04.
      20.   Variance Requests: Review, provide input, and make recommendations
for variance requests.
      21.   Current Map Repository: Maintain a current map repository to
include, but not limited to, the FIS Report, FIRM and other official flood
maps, and studies adopted in accordance with the provisions of section
9.8.032 of this chapter, including any revisions thereto including Letters of
Map Change, issued by FEMA. Notify the NFIP State Coordinator and FEMA of your
community's mapping needs.
      22.   Revisions: Coordinate revisions to FIS reports and FIRMs, including
Letters of Map Revision Based On Fill (LOMR-Fs) and Letters of Map Revision
(LOMRs).
      23.   BFE Changes: A community's base flood elevations may increase or
decrease resulting from physical changes affecting flooding conditions. As soon
as practicable, but not later than six (6) months after the date such
information becomes available, a community shall notify the Federal Insurance
Administrator (FIA) of the changes by submitting technical or scientific data
in accordance with this section. Such a submission is necessary so that upon
confirmation of those physical changes affecting flooding conditions, risk
premium rates and floodplain management requirements will be based upon current
data.
      24.   Boundary Modifications: Upon occurrence, notify the Federal
Insurance Administrator (FIA) in writing whenever the boundaries of the
community have been modified by annexation or the community has otherwise
assumed or no longer has authority to adopt and enforce floodplain management
regulations for a particular area. In order that all FHBMs and FIRMs accurately
represent the community's boundaries, include within such notification a copy
of a map of the community suitable for reproduction, clearly delineating the
new corporate limits or new area for which the community has assumed or
relinquished floodplain management regulatory authority. (Ord. 977, 1-3-2019,
eff. 2-1-2019)
9.8.043: FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT APPLICATION, PERMIT, AND CERTIFICATION
REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   Requirements:
      1.   Application Requirements: Application for a floodplain development
permit shall be made to the Floodplain Administrator prior to any development
activities located within special flood hazard areas. The following items shall
be presented to the Floodplain Administrator to apply for a floodplain
development permit:
         (a)   A plot plan drawn to scale which shall include, but shall not be
limited to, the following specific details of the proposed floodplain
development:
            (1)   The nature, location, dimensions, and elevations of the area
of development/disturbance; existing and proposed structures, utility systems,
grading/pavement areas, fill materials, storage areas, drainage facilities, and
other development;
            (2)   The boundary of the special flood hazard area as delineated
on the FIRM or other flood map as determined in section
9.8.032 of this chapter, or a statement that the entire lot is within the
special flood hazard area;
            (3)   The flood zone(s) designation of the proposed development
area as determined on the FIRM or other flood map as determined in section
9.8.032 of this chapter;
            (4)   The boundary of the floodway(s) as determined in section
9.8.032 of this chapter;
            (5)   The base flood elevation (BFE) where provided as set forth in
section
9.8.032, 9.8.033, or 9.8.053 of this chapter;
            (6)   The old and new location of any watercourse that will be
altered or relocated as a result of proposed development; and
         (b)   Proposed elevation, and method thereof, of all development
within a special flood hazard area including but not limited to:
            (1)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level of the proposed
lowest floor (including basement) of all structures;
            (2)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any non-
residential structure in Zone A, AE, AH, AO, or A1-30 will be floodproofed; and
            (3)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any proposed
utility equipment and machinery will be elevated or floodproofed.
         (c)   If floodproofing, a Floodproofing Certificate (FEMA Form 086-0-
33) with supporting data, an operational plan, and an inspection and
maintenance plan that include, but are not limited to, installation, exercise,
and maintenance of floodproofing measures will be required prior to Certificate
of Occupancy/Completion.
         (d)   A Foundation Plan, drawn to scale, which shall include details
of the proposed foundation system to ensure all provisions of this chapter are
met. These details include but are not limited to:
            (1)   The proposed method of elevation, if applicable (i.e., fill,
solid foundation perimeter wall, solid backfilled foundation, open foundation,
or on columns/posts/piers/piles/shear walls); and
            (2)   Openings to facilitate automatic equalization of hydrostatic
flood forces on walls in accordance with subsection
9.8.051(A)8(b) of this chapter when solid foundation perimeter walls are used
in Zones A, AE, AH, AO, and A1-30.
         (e)   Usage details of any enclosed areas below the lowest floor.
         (f)   Plans and/or details for the protection of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems to be located and
constructed to minimize flood damage.
         (g)   Certification that all other local, State, and Federal permits
required prior to floodplain development permit issuance have been received.
         (h)   Documentation for placement of recreational vehicles and/or
temporary structures, when applicable, to ensure that the provisions of
subsections 9.8.052(A)5 and (A)6 of this chapter are met.
         (i)   A description of proposed watercourse alteration or relocation,
when applicable, including an engineering report on the effects of the proposed
project on the flood-carrying capacity of the watercourse and the effects to
properties located both upstream and downstream; and
         (j)   A map (if not shown on plot plan) showing the location of the
proposed watercourse alteration or relocation.
      2.   Permit Requirements: The floodplain development permit shall
include, but not be limited to:
         (a)   A complete description of all the development to be permitted
under the floodplain development permit (i.e. house, garage, pool, septic,
bulkhead, cabana, pole barn, chicken coop, pier, bridge, mining, dredging,
filling, rip-rap, docks, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, or
storage of equipment or materials, etcetera).
         (b)   The special flood hazard Area determination for the proposed
development in accordance with available data specified in section
9.8.032 of this chapter.
         (c)   The flood protection elevation required for the lowest floor and
all attendant utilities.
         (d)   The flood protection elevation required for the protection of
all utility equipment and machinery.
         (e)   All certification submittal requirements with timelines.
         (f)   A statement that no fill material or other development shall
encroach into the floodway of any watercourse, as applicable.
         (g)   The flood openings requirements.
         (h)   All floodplain development permits shall be conditional upon the
start of construction of work within one hundred eighty (180) days. A
floodplain development permit shall expire one hundred eighty (180) days after
issuance unless the permitted activity has commenced as per the start of
construction definition.
         (i)   Fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor are usable solely
for parking of vehicles, building access, or storage.
         (j)   All materials below BFE/FPE must be flood resistant materials.
      3.   Certification Requirements:
         (a)   Elevation Certificates:
            (1)   A Construction Drawings Elevation Certificate (FEMA Form 86-
0-33) is required prior to the actual start of any new construction. It shall
be the duty of the permit holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a
certification of the elevation of the lowest floor, in relation to mean sea
level. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate data
submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the
permit holder prior to the beginning of construction. Failure to submit the
certification or failure to make required corrections shall be cause to deny a
floodplain development permit.
            (2)   A Building Under Construction Elevation Certificate (FEMA
Form 86-0-33) is required after the lowest floor is established. Within seven
(7) calendar days of establishment of the lowest floor elevation, it shall be
the duty of the permit holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a
certification of the elevation of the lowest floor, in relation to mean sea
level. Any work done within the seven (7) day calendar period and prior to
submission of the certification shall be at the permit holder's risk. The
Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate data submitted.
Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the permit holder
immediately and prior to further work being permitted to proceed. Failure to
submit the certification or failure to make required corrections shall be cause
to issue a stop-work order for the project.
            (3)   A final as-built Finished Construction Elevation Certificate
(FEMA Form 86-0-33) is required after construction is completed and prior to
Certificate of Compliance/Occupancy issuance. It shall be the duty of the
permit holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of
final as-built construction of the elevation of the lowest floor and all
attendant utilities. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate
data submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the
permit holder immediately and prior to Certificate of Compliance/Occupancy
issuance. In some instances, another certification may be required to certify
corrected as-built construction. Failure to submit the certification or failure
to make required corrections shall be cause to withhold the issuance of a
Certificate of Compliance/Occupancy.
The Finished Construction Elevation Certificate certifier shall provide at
least two (2) photographs showing the front and rear of the building taken
within ninety (90) days from the date of certification. The photographs must be
taken with views confirming the building description and diagram number
provided in section A. To the extent possible, these photographs should show
the entire building including foundation. If the building has split-level or
multi-level areas, provide at least two (2) additional photographs showing side
views of the building. In addition, when applicable, provide a photograph of
the foundation showing a representative example of the flood openings or vents.
All photographs must be in color and measure at least 3" x 3". Digital
photographs are acceptable.
         (b)   Floodproofing Certificate: If non-residential floodproofing is
used to meet the flood protection elevation requirements, design plans, with
supporting data, an operational plan, and an inspection and maintenance plan
are required prior to the actual start of any new construction. It shall be the
duty of the permit holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a
certification of the floodproofed design elevation of the lowest floor and all
attendant utilities, in relation to mean sea level. Floodproofing certification
shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a professional engineer
or architect and certified by same. The Floodplain Administrator shall review
the certificate data, the operational plan, and the inspection and maintenance
plan. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the applicant
prior to permit approval. Failure to submit the certification or failure to
make required corrections shall be cause to deny a floodplain development
permit. Prior to request for a Certificate of Compliance/Occupancy a
Floodproofing Certificate (FEMA Form 086-0-34) shall be provided to the
Floodplain Administrator for review and approval.
         (c)   Engineered Foundation Certification: If a manufactured home is
placed within Zone A, AE, AH, AO, or A1-30 and the elevation of the chassis is
more than thirty six inches (36") in height above grade, an engineered
foundation certification is required in accordance with the provisions of
subsection
9.8.052(A)3(b) of this chapter.
         (d)   Altered Or Relocated Watercourse: If a watercourse is to be
altered or relocated, the following shall all be submitted by the permit
applicant prior to issuance of a floodplain development permit:
            (1)   A description of the extent of watercourse alteration or
relocation; and
            (2)   A professional engineer's certified report on the effects of
the proposed project on the flood-carrying capacity of the watercourse and the
effects to properties located both upstream and downstream; and
            (3)   A map showing the location of the proposed watercourse
alteration or relocation; and
            (4)   An Idaho stream channel alteration permit approval shall be
provided by the applicant to the Floodplain Administrator.
         (e)   Certification Exemptions: The following structures, are exempt
from the elevation/floodproofing certification requirements specified in
subsections (A)3(a) and (A)3(b) of this section:
            (1)   Recreational vehicles meeting requirements of subsection
9.8.052(A)5(a) of this chapter;
            (2)   Temporary structures meeting requirements of subsection
9.8.052(A)6 of this chapter; and
            (3)   Accessory structures less than two hundred (200) square feet
meeting requirements of subsection
9.8.052(A)7 of this chapter.
      4.   Determinations For Existing Buildings And Structures: For
applications for building permits to improve buildings and structures,
including alterations, movement, enlargement, replacement, repair, change of
occupancy, additions, rehabilitations, renovations, improvements, repairs of
damage, and any other improvement of or work on such buildings and structures,
the Floodplain Administrator, in coordination with the building official,
shall:
         (a)   Estimate the market value or require the applicant to obtain an
appraisal of the market value prepared by a qualified independent appraiser, of
the building or structure before the start of construction of the proposed
work. In the case of repair, the market value of the building or structure
shall be the market value before the damage occurred and before any repairs are
made;
         (b)   Compare the cost to perform the improvement, the cost to repair
a damaged building to its pre-damaged condition, or the combined costs of
improvements and repairs, if applicable, to the market value of the building or
structure;
         (c)   Determine and document whether the proposed work constitutes
substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage; and
         (d)   Notify the applicant if it is determined that the work
constitutes substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage and that
compliance with the flood resistant construction requirements of the adopted
Idaho Building Code and this chapter is required. (Ord. 977, 1-3-2019, eff. 2-
1-2019)
9.8.044: CORRECTIVE PROCEDURES:
   (A)   Procedures:
      1.   Violations To Be Corrected: When the Floodplain Administrator finds
violations of applicable State and local laws, it shall be his or her duty to
notify the owner or occupant of the building of the violation. The owner or
occupant shall immediately remedy each of the violations of law cited in such
notification.
      2.   Actions In Event Of Failure To Take Corrective Action: If the owner
of a building or property shall fail to take prompt corrective action, the
Floodplain Administrator shall give the owner written notice, by certified or
registered mail to the owner's last known address or by personal service,
stating:
         (a)   That the building or property is in violation of the floodplain
management regulations;
         (b)   That a hearing will be held before the Floodplain Administrator
at a designated place and time, not later than ten (10) days after the date of
the notice, at which time the owner shall be entitled to be heard in person or
by counsel and to present arguments and evidence pertaining to the matter; and
         (c)   That following the hearing, the Floodplain Administrator may
issue an order to alter, vacate, or demolish the building; or to remove fill as
applicable.
      3.   Order To Take Corrective Action: If, upon a hearing held pursuant to
the notice prescribed above, the Floodplain Administrator shall find that the
building or development is in violation of the Flood Damage Prevention
Ordinance, he or she shall issue an order in writing to the owner, requiring
the owner to remedy the violation within a specified time period, not less than
sixty (60) calendar days, nor more than one hundred eighty (180) calendar days.
Where the Floodplain Administrator finds that there is imminent danger to life
or other property, he or she may order that corrective action be taken in such
lesser period as may be feasible.
      4.   Appeal: Any owner who has received an order to take corrective
action may appeal the order to the local elected Governing Body by giving
notice of appeal in writing to the Floodplain Administrator and the Clerk
within ten (10) days following issuance of the final order. In the absence of
an appeal, the order of the Floodplain Administrator shall be final. The local
Governing Body shall hear an appeal within a reasonable time and may affirm,
modify and affirm, or revoke the order.
      5.   Failure To Comply With Order: If the owner of a building or property
fails to comply with an order to take corrective action for which no appeal has
been made or fails to comply with an order of the Governing Body following an
appeal, the owner shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished at the
discretion of the court. (Ord. 977, 1-3-2019, eff. 2-1-2019)
9.8.045: VARIANCE PROCEDURES:
   (A)   Procedures:
      1.   Appeal Board: The McCall Area Planning and Zoning Commission as
established by the City of McCall, hereinafter referred to as the "Appeal
Board", shall hear and decide requests for variances from the requirements of
this chapter.
      2.   Variances Issued: Variances may be issued for:
         (a)   The repair or rehabilitation of historic structures upon the
determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the
structure's continued designation as a historic structure and that the variance
is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the
structure;
         (b)   Functionally dependent facilities, if determined to meet the
definition as stated in section
9.8.02 of this chapter, provided provisions of subsections (A)8(b), (A)8(c),
and (A)8(d) of this section, have been satisfied, and such facilities are
protected by methods that minimize flood damages during the base flood and
create no additional threats to public safety; or
         (c)   Any other type of development, provided it meets the
requirements of this section.
      3.   Passing Variances: In passing upon variances, the Appeal Board shall
consider all technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards
specified in other sections of this chapter, and:
         (a)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
         (b)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion
damage;
         (c)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
         (d)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility
to the community;
         (e)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location as
defined under section
9.8.02 of this chapter as a functionally dependent facility, where applicable;
         (f)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to
flooding or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
         (g)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and
anticipated development;
         (h)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan
and floodplain management program for that area;
         (i)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
         (j)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
         (k)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
      4.   Written Report: The applicant shall include a written report
addressing each of the above factors in subsections (A)3(a) through (A)3(k) of
this section with their application for a variance.
      5.   Conditions: Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the
purposes of this chapter, the Appeal Board may attach such conditions to the
granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes and
objectives of this chapter.
      6.   Notice Of BFE: Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be
given written notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation
(BFE) and the elevation to which the structure is to be built and that such
construction below the BFE increases risks to life and property, and that the
issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the BFE will result in
increased premium rates for flood insurance up to twenty five dollars ($25.00)
per one hundred dollars ($100.00) of insurance coverage. Such notification
shall be maintained with a record of all variance actions, including
justification for their issuance.
      7.   Records: The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of
all appeal actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management
Agency and the State of Idaho upon request.
      8.   Conditions For Variances:
         (a)   Variances shall not be issued when the variance will make the
structure in violation of other Federal, State, or local laws, regulations, or
ordinances.
         (b)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if
the variance would result in any increase in flood levels during the base flood
discharge.
         (c)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
         (d)   Variances shall only be issued prior to development permit
approval.
         (e)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
            (1)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
            (2)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in exceptional hardship; and
            (3)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not
result in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, or
extraordinary public expense, create nuisance, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      9.   Variance For Certain Facilities: A variance may be issued for solid
waste disposal facilities or sites, hazardous waste management facilities,
salvage yards, and chemical storage facilities that are located in special
flood hazard areas provided that all of the following conditions are met.
         (a)   The use serves a critical need in the community.
         (b)   No feasible location exists for the use outside the special
flood hazard area.
         (c)   The lowest floor of any structure is elevated or floodproofed to
at least the flood protection elevation.
         (d)   The use complies with all other applicable Federal, State and
local laws.
      10.   Intention To Grant Variance: The City of McCall will notify the
State NFIP Coordinator of the Idaho Department of Water Resources of its
intention to grant a variance at least thirty (30) calendar days prior to
granting the variance.
      11.   Appeal: Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board
may appeal such decision to the court, as provided in Idaho Code 67-6535. (Ord.
977, 1-3-2019, eff. 2-1-2019)
9.8.05: PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION:
9.8.051: GENERAL STANDARDS:
   (A)   In all special flood hazard areas the following provisions are
required:
      1.   All new construction, substantial improvements, and development
shall be designed (or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, and lateral movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and
hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
      2.   All new construction, substantial improvements, and development
shall be constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood
damage in accordance with the Technical Bulletin 2, Flood Damage-Resistant
Materials Requirements, and available from the Federal Emergency Management
Agency.
      3.   All new construction, substantial improvements, and development
shall be constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damages.
      4.   All new and replacement electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing,
air conditioning equipment, and other service facilities shall be designed and/
or located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding to the flood protection elevation.
These include, but are not limited to, HVAC equipment, water softener units,
bath/kitchen fixtures, ductwork, electric/gas meter panels/boxes, utility/cable
boxes, hot water heaters, and electric outlets/switches.
      5.   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
      6.   All new and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into flood waters.
      7.   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
      8.   A fully enclosed area, of new construction and substantially
improved structures, which is below the lowest floor used solely for parking,
access, and storage shall:
         (a)   Be constructed entirely of flood resistant materials at least to
the flood protection elevation; and
         (b)   Include, in Zones A, AE, AH, AO, and A1-30, flood openings to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on walls by allowing for the
entry and exit of floodwaters. To meet this requirement, the openings must
either be certified by a professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed
the following minimum design criteria:
            (1)   A minimum of two (2) flood openings on different sides of
each enclosed area subject to flooding;
            (2)   The total net area of all flood openings must be at least one
square inch for each square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding;
            (3)   If a building has more than one enclosed area, each enclosed
area must have flood openings to allow floodwaters to automatically enter and
exit;
            (4)   The bottom of all required flood openings shall be no higher
than one foot (1') above the interior or exterior adjacent grade;
            (5)   Flood openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or
other coverings or devices, provided they permit the automatic flow of
floodwaters in both directions; and
            (6)   Enclosures made of flexible skirting are not considered
enclosures for regulatory purposes, and, therefore, do not require flood
openings. Masonry or flood resistant wood underpinning, regardless of
structural status, is considered an enclosure and requires flood openings as
outlined above.
      9.   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements to a
structure, which is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, shall
meet the requirements of "new construction" as contained in this chapter.
      10.   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the repair, reconstruction,
or replacement of a building or structure existing on the effective date of
this chapter and located totally or partially within the floodway, or stream
setback, provided there is no additional encroachment below the flood
protection elevation in the floodway, or stream setback, and provided that such
repair, reconstruction, or replacement meets all of the other requirements of
this chapter.
      11.   New solid waste disposal facilities and sites, hazardous waste
management facilities, salvage yards, and chemical storage facilities shall not
be permitted, except by variance as specified in subsection
9.8.045(A)9 of this chapter. A structure or tank for chemical or fuel storage
incidental to an allowed use or to the operation of a water treatment plant or
wastewater treatment facility may be located in a special flood hazard area
only if the structure or tank is either elevated or floodproofed to at least
the flood protection elevation and certified in accordance with the provisions
of subsection
9.8.043(A)3 of this chapter.
      12.   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall be
consistent with the need to minimize flood damage and determined to be
reasonably safe from flooding.
      13.   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall
have public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water
systems located and constructed to minimize flood damage.
      14.   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall
have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
      15.   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall
have received all necessary permits from those governmental agencies for which
approval is required by Federal or State law, including section 404 of the
Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, 33 USC 1334.
      16.   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals greater
than fifty (50) lots or five (5) acres, whichever is the lesser, shall include
within such proposals base flood elevation data.
      17.   When a structure is partially located in a special flood hazard
area, the entire structure shall meet the requirements for new construction and
substantial improvements.
      18.   When a structure is located in multiple flood hazard zones or in a
flood hazard risk zone with multiple base flood elevations, the provisions for
the more restrictive flood hazard risk zone and the highest base flood
elevation (BFE) shall apply. (Ord. 977, 1-3-2019, eff. 2-1-2019)
9.8.052: SPECIFIC STANDARDS:
   (A)   In all special flood hazard areas where base flood elevation (BFE)
data has been provided, as set forth in section
9.8.032 of this chapter or section
9.8.054 of this section
9.8.05, the following provisions, in addition to the provisions of section
9.8.051 of this section
9.8.05, are required:
      1.   Residential Construction: New construction, substantial
improvements, and development of any residential structure (including
manufactured homes) shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated
no lower than the flood protection elevation, as defined in section
9.8.02 of this chapter.
      2.   Non-Residential Construction: New construction, substantial
improvements, and development of any commercial, industrial, or other non-
residential structure shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated
no lower than the flood protection elevation, as defined in section
9.8.02 of this chapter. Structures located in Zones A, AE, AH, AO, and A1-30
may be floodproofed to the flood protection elevation in lieu of elevation
provided that all areas of the structure, together with attendant utility and
sanitary facilities, below the flood protection elevation are watertight with
walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water, using structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads and the effect of buoyancy. For AH and AO Zones, the floodproofing
elevation shall be in accordance with subsection
9.8.056(A)2 of this section
9.8.05. A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that the
floodproofing standards of this subsection are satisfied. Such certification
shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator as set forth in subsection
9.8.043(A)3 of this chapter, along with the operational plan and the inspection
and maintenance plan.
      3.   Manufactured Homes:
         (a)   New and replacement manufactured homes shall be elevated so that
the lowest floor of the manufactured home is no lower than the flood protection
elevation, as defined in section
9.8.02 of this chapter.
         (b)   Manufactured homes shall be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement, either
by certified engineered foundation system, or in accordance with the most
current edition of the Idaho Division of Building Safety's "Idaho Manufactured
Home Installation Standard" in accordance with Idaho Code section 44-2201(2).
Additionally, when the elevation would be met by an elevation of the chassis
thirty six inches (36") or less above the grade at the site, the chassis shall
be supported by reinforced piers or engineered foundation. When the elevation
of the chassis is above thirty six inches (36") in height, an engineering
certification is required.
         (c)   All enclosures or skirting below the lowest floor shall meet the
requirements of subsections 9.8.051(A)8(a) and (A)8(b) of this section
9.8.05.
         (d)   An evacuation plan must be developed for evacuation of all
residents of all new, substantially improved, or substantially damaged
manufactured home parks or subdivisions located within flood prone areas. This
plan shall be filed with and approved by the Floodplain Administrator and the
local Emergency Management Coordinator.
      4.   Additions/Improvements:
         (a)   Additions and/or improvements to pre-FIRM structures when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure are:
            (1)   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or
improvements must be designed to minimize flood damages and must not be any
more non-conforming than the existing structure; or
            (2)   A substantial improvement, both the existing structure and
the addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
         (b)   Additions to non-compliant post-FIRM structures that are a
substantial improvement with no modifications to the existing structure other
than a standard door in the common wall shall require only the addition to
comply with the standards for new construction.
         (c)   Additions and/or improvements to non-compliant post-FIRM
structures when the addition and/or improvements in combination with any
interior modifications to the existing structure are:
            (1)   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or
improvements only must comply with the standards for new construction; or
            (2)   A substantial improvement, both the existing structure and
the addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
      5.   Recreational Vehicles: Recreational vehicles shall be either:
         (a)   Temporary Placement:
            (1)   Be on site for fewer than one hundred eighty (180)
consecutive days and be fully licensed and ready for highway use (a
recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking
system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities, and
has no permanently attached additions); or
         (b)   Permanent Placement:
            (1)   Recreational vehicles that do not meet the limitations of
temporary placement shall meet all the requirements for new construction, as
set forth in section
9.8.051 of this section
9.8.05.
      6.   Temporary Non-Residential Structures: Prior to the issuance of a
floodplain development permit for a temporary structure, the applicant must
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a plan for the removal of such structure
(s) in the event of a flash flood or other type of flood warning notification.
The following information shall be submitted in writing to the Floodplain
Administrator for review and written approval:
         (a)   A specified time period for which the temporary use will be
permitted. Time specified may not exceed six (6) months, renewable up to one
year;
         (b)   The name, address, and phone number of the individual
responsible for the removal of the temporary structure;
         (c)   The time frame prior to the event at which a structure will be
removed (i.e., immediately upon flood warning notification);
         (d)   A copy of the contract or other suitable instrument with the
entity responsible for physical removal of the structure; and
         (e)   Designation, accompanied by documentation, of a location outside
the special flood hazard area, to which the temporary structure will be moved.
         (f)   Temporary structures in the floodway must provide a hydraulic
and hydrology analysis along with a No-Rise Certification.
      7.   Accessory Structures (Appurtenant Structures): When accessory
structures (sheds, detached garages, etc.) used solely for parking, and storage
are to be placed within a special flood hazard area, elevation or floodproofing
certifications are required for all accessory structures in accordance with
subsection
9.8.043(A)3 of this chapter, and the following criteria shall be met:
         (a)   Accessory structures shall not be used for human habitation
(including working, sleeping, living, cooking, or restroom areas);
         (b)   Accessory structures shall not be temperature-controlled;
         (c)   Accessory structures shall be designed to have low flood damage
potential;
         (d)   Accessory structures shall be constructed and placed on the
building site so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
         (e)   Accessory structures shall be firmly anchored in accordance with
the provisions of subsection
9.8.051(A)1 of this section
9.8.05;
         (f)   All utility equipment and machinery, such as electrical, shall
be installed in accordance with the provisions of subsection
9.8.051(A)4 of this section
9.8.05; and
         (g)   Flood openings to facilitate automatic equalization of
hydrostatic flood forces shall be provided below flood protection elevation in
conformance with the provisions of subsection
9.8.051(A)8 of this section
9.8.05.
         (h)   Accessory structures not used solely for parking, access, and
storage must be elevated per subsections (A)1 and (A)2 of this section.
An accessory structure with a footprint less than two hundred (200) square feet
and is a minimal investment of seven thousand five hundred dollars ($7,500.00)
or less and satisfies the criteria outlined in subsections (A)7a through (A)7g
of this section is not required to provide the elevation certificate per
subsection (A)2 of this section.
      8.   Tanks: When gas and liquid storage tanks are to be placed within a
special flood hazard area, the following criteria shall be met:
         (a)   Underground tanks in flood hazard areas shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement resulting from hydrodynamic
and hydrostatic loads during conditions of the base flood, including the
effects of buoyancy (assuming the tank is empty);
         (b)   Elevated above-ground tanks, in flood hazard areas shall be
attached to and elevated to or above the design flood elevation on a supporting
structure that is designed to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement
during conditions of the base flood. Tank-supporting structures shall meet the
foundation requirements of the applicable flood hazard area;
         (c)   Not elevated above-ground tanks may be permitted in flood hazard
areas provided the tanks are anchored or otherwise designed and constructed to
prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement resulting from hydrodynamic and
hydrostatic loads during conditions of the design flood, including the effects
of buoyancy assuming the tank is empty and the effects of flood-borne debris.
         (d)   Tank inlets, fill openings, outlets and vents shall be:
            (1)   At or above the flood protection elevation or fitted with
covers designed to prevent the inflow of floodwater or outflow of the contents
of the tanks during conditions of the base flood; and
            (2)   Anchored to prevent lateral movement resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy, during
conditions of the base flood.
      9.   Construction Of Below-Grade Crawlspace:
         (a)   The interior grade of a crawlspace must not be below the BFE and
must not be more than two feet (2') below the exterior lowest adjacent grade
(LAG).
         (b)   The height of the below-grade crawlspace, measured from the
interior grade of the crawlspace to the top of the crawlspace foundation wall,
must not exceed four feet (4') at any point.
         (c)   There must be an adequate drainage system that removes
floodwaters from the interior area of the crawlspace. The enclosed area should
be drained within a reasonable time after a flood event.
         (d)   The velocity of floodwaters at the site should not exceed five
feet (5') per second for any crawlspace.
See Technical Bulletin 11 for further information.
Caution: Buildings that have below-grade crawlspaces will have higher flood
insurance premiums than buildings that have the preferred crawlspace
construction, with the interior elevation of the crawlspace soil at or above
the base flood elevation (BFE).
      10.   Other Development In Regulated Floodways:
         (a)   Fences that have the potential to block the passage of
floodwaters, such as stockade fences and wire mesh fences, in regulated
floodways shall meet the limitations of section
9.8.055 of this section
9.8.05.
         (b)   Retaining walls, bulkheads, sidewalks, and driveways that
involve the placement of fill in regulated floodways shall meet the limitations
of section
9.8.055 of this section
9.8.05.
         (c)   Roads and watercourse crossings, including roads, bridges,
culverts, low-water crossings, and similar means for vehicles or pedestrians to
travel from one side of a watercourse to the other side, which encroach into
regulated floodways, shall meet the limitations of section
9.8.055 of this section
9.8.05.
         (d)   Drilling water, oil, and/or gas wells including fuel storage
tanks, apparatus, and any equipment at the site that encroach into regulated
floodways shall meet the limitations of section
9.8.055 of this section
9.8.05.
         (e)   Docks, piers, boat ramps, marinas, moorings, decks, docking
facilities, port facilities, shipbuilding, and ship repair facilities that
encroach into regulated floodways shall meet the limitations of section
9.8.055 of this section
9.8.05.
      11.   Subdivision Plats:
         (a)   Flood Zones:
            (1)   A note must be provided on the final plat documenting the
current flood zone in which the property or properties are located. The
boundary line must be drawn on the plat in situations where two (2) or more
flood zones intersect over the property or properties being surveyed.
            (2)   FEMA FIRM panel(s): #160xxxxxxC, & 160xxxxxxE, etc.
FIRM effective date(s): mm/dd/year
Flood Zone(s): Zone X, Zone A, Zone AE, Zone AO, Zone AH, Zone D, etc.
Base Flood Elevation(s): AE     .0 ft., etc.
Flood Zones are subject to change by FEMA & all land within a floodway or
floodplain is regulated by               chapter/section of the City/County
Code. (Ord. 977, 1-3-2019, eff. 2-1-2019)
9.8.053: STANDARDS FOR FLOODPLAINS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATIONS:
Within the special flood hazard areas designated as Zone A (also known as
Unnumbered A Zones) and established in section
9.8.032 of this chapter, where no base flood elevation (BFE) data has been
provided by FEMA, the following provisions, in addition to the provisions of
section
9.8.051 of this section
9.8.05, shall apply:
   (A)   The BFE used in determining the flood protection elevation (FPE) shall
be determined based on the following criteria:
      1.   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is available from other
sources, all new construction and substantial improvements within such areas
shall also comply with all applicable provisions of this chapter and shall be
elevated or floodproofed in accordance with standards in sections
9.8.051 and
9.8.052 of this section
9.8.05.
      2.   When floodway data is available from a Federal, State, or other
source, all new construction and substantial improvements within floodway areas
shall also comply with the requirements of sections
9.8.052 and
9.8.055 of this section
9.8.05.
      3.   Require that all new subdivision proposals and other proposed
developments (including proposals for manufactured home parks and subdivisions)
greater than fifty (50) lots or five (5) acres, whichever is the lesser,
include within such proposals base flood elevation data. Such base flood
elevation (BFE) data shall be adopted by reference in accordance with section
9.8.032 of this chapter and utilized in implementing this chapter. The
applicant/developer shall submit an application for a Conditional Letter of Map
Revision (CLOMR) prior to preliminary plat approval and have obtained a Letter
of Map Revision (LOMR) prior to any building permits for structures being
issued.
See FEMA 480 and/or FEMA 265 for further information.
      4.   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is not available from a
Federal, State, or other source as outlined above, the lowest floor shall be
elevated or floodproofed (non-residential) to two feet (2.0') above the highest
adjacent grade (HAG) at the building site or to the flood protection elevation
(FPE) whichever is higher, as defined in section
9.8.02 of this chapter. All other applicable provisions of section
9.8.052 of this section
9.8.05 shall also apply. (Ord. 977, 1-3-2019, eff. 2-1-2019)
9.8.054: STANDARDS FOR RIVERINE FLOODPLAINS WITH BASE FLOOD ELEVATIONS BUT
WITHOUT ESTABLISHED FLOODWAYS:
   (A)   Along rivers and streams where base flood elevation (BFE) data is
provided by FEMA or is available from another source but floodways are not
identified for a special flood hazard area on the FIRM or in the FIS report,
the following requirements shall apply to all development within such areas:
      1.   Standards of sections
9.8.051 and
9.8.052 of this section
9.8.05; and
      2.   Until a regulatory floodway is designated, no encroachments,
including fill, new construction, substantial improvements, or other
development shall be permitted unless certification with supporting technical
data by a registered professional engineer is provided demonstrating that the
cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined with all other
existing and anticipated development, will not increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood more than one foot (1') at any point within the
community. (Ord. 977, 1-3-2019, eff. 2-1-2019)
9.8.055: STANDARDS FOR FLOODWAYS:
   (A)   Areas designated as floodways located within the special flood hazard
areas established in section
9.8.032 of this chapter. The floodways are extremely hazardous areas due to the
velocity of floodwaters that have erosion potential and carry debris and
potential projectiles. The following provisions, in addition to standards
outlined in sections
9.8.051 and
9.8.052 of this section
9.8.05, shall apply to all development within such areas:
      1.   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements, and other developments shall be permitted unless:
         (a)   It is demonstrated that the proposed encroachment would not
result in any increase in the flood levels during the occurrence of the base
flood, based on hydrologic and hydraulic analyses performed in accordance with
standard engineering practice and presented to the Floodplain Administrator
prior to issuance of floodplain development permit (this is a No-Rise Analysis
and Certification); or
         (b)   A Conditional Letter of Map Revision (CLOMR) has been approved
by FEMA. A Letter of Map Revision (LOMR) must also be obtained within six (6)
months of completion of the proposed encroachment.
      2.   If subsection (A)1 of this section is satisfied, all development
shall comply with all applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of this
chapter.
      3.   Manufactured homes may be permitted provided the following
provisions are met:
         (a)   The anchoring and the elevation standards of subsection
9.8.052(A)3 of this section
9.8.05; and
         (b)   The encroachment standards of subsection (A)1 of this section.
(Ord. 977, 1-3-2019, eff. 2-1-2019)
9.8.056: STANDARDS FOR AREAS OF SHALLOW FLOODING (ZONE AO, AH, AR/AO, OR AR/
AH):
   (A)   Areas designated as shallow flooding areas have special flood hazards
associated with base flood depths of one foot (1') to three feet (3') where a
clearly defined channel does not exist and where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate. In addition to sections
9.8.051 and
9.8.052 of this section
9.8.05, all new construction and substantial improvements shall meet the
following requirements:
      1.   The lowest floor shall be elevated at least as high as the depth
number specified on the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM), in feet, plus a
freeboard of two feet (2'), above the highest adjacent grade; or at least four
feet (4') above the highest adjacent grade if no depth number is specified.
      2.   Non-residential structures may, in lieu of elevation, be
floodproofed to the same level as required in subsection (A)1 of this section
so that the structure, together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities,
below that level shall be watertight with walls substantially impermeable to
the passage of water and with structural components having the capability of
resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy.
Certification is required in accordance with subsection
9.8.043(A)3 of this chapter and subsection
9.8.052(A)2 of this section
9.8.05.
      3.   Accessory structure (appurtenant structure) (sheds, detached
garages, etc.):
         (a)   Used solely for parking, access, and storage:
            (1)   Shall have the lowest floor elevated at least as high as the
depth number specified on the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM), in feet, plus a
freeboard of two feet (2'), above the highest adjacent grade; or at least four
feet (4') above the highest adjacent grade if no depth number is specified, or
            (2)   Shall have flood openings to facilitate automatic
equalization of hydrostatic flood forces shall be provided below flood
protection elevation in conformance with the provisions of subsection
9.8.051(A)8 of this section
9.8.05.
         (b)   Not used solely for parking, access, and storage:
            (1)   Shall be elevated per subsections
9.8.052(A)1 and (A)2 of this section
9.8.05.
      4.   Adequate drainage paths shall be provided around structures on
slopes to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed structures. (Ord.
977, 1-3-2019, eff. 2-1-2019)
9.8.06: LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS:
9.8.061: EFFECT ON RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES UNDER THE EXISTING FLOOD DAMAGE
PREVENTION ORDINANCE:
This chapter, in part, comes forward by re-enactment of some of the provisions
of the Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance enacted February 23, 2006 as amended,
and it is not the intention to repeal but rather to re-enact and continue to
enforce without interruption of such existing provisions, so that all rights
and liabilities that have accrued thereunder are reserved and may be enforced.
The enactment of this chapter shall not affect any action, suit, or proceeding
instituted or pending. All provisions of the Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance
of the City of McCall enacted on February 23, 2006, as amended, which are not
reenacted herein are repealed. (Ord. 977, 1-3-2019, eff. 2-1-2019)
9.8.062: EFFECT UPON OUTSTANDING FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMITS:
Nothing herein contained shall require any change in the plans, construction,
size, or designated use of any development or any part thereof for which a
floodplain development permit has been granted by the Floodplain Administrator
or his or her authorized agents before the time of passage of this chapter.
Provided, however, that when construction is not begun under such outstanding
permit within a period of one hundred eighty (180) days subsequent to the date
of issuance of the outstanding permit, construction or use shall be in
conformity with the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 977, 1-3-2019, eff. 2-1-
2019)
CHAPTER 9
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
9.9.01: Release Of Security; Warranty
9.9.02: Amendments
9.9.03: Vacations And Dedications
9.9.04: Enforcement And Penalties
9.9.05: Amended Plats
9.9.06: Exceptions May Be Made To Avoid Hardship
9.9.07: Procedures, Appeals And Action
9.9.08: Severability
9.9.01: RELEASE OF SECURITY; WARRANTY:
   (A)   Release Of Security: The city shall release the obligation for
performance guarantees for each public improvement upon final acceptance of the
improvement and upon the posting of adequate security for warranty.
   (B)   Warranty:
      1.   The applicant shall warrant and guarantee that required public
improvements constructed under the agreement will remain in good condition and
meet operating needs for three (3) years, commencing with final acceptance of
each improvement. Such warranty includes defects in design, workmanship,
materials and any damage to improvements caused by the applicant. The warranty
shall not include cleaning, snow removal, ditching, grading, dust control, or
similar maintenance, except as inherently the responsibility of the landowner
in an area or on a street where such services are not provided by the public.
The warranty applies to only those improvements that are dedicated to the
public, or accepted by the city of McCall, such as public streets, water and
sewer systems, parks, etc.
      2.   The applicant shall furnish the city with a corporate bond, cash
deposit or letter of credit in an amount equal to five percent (5%) of the
total construction cost of all public improvements. Responsibility and
authority for identifying the necessary repairs or reconstruction shall rest
with the city. Any additional cost for repair or reconstruction, including
administrative costs to the city, that exceed five percent (5%) shall be borne
by the applicant.
      3.   Within thirty (30) days (or reasonable extension, at the sole
discretion of the public works director) of notification by the city of the
need for repair or reconstruction, the applicant shall correct the deficiencies
to the satisfaction of the city. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
9.9.02: AMENDMENTS:
The city council may, from time to time, amend, supplement or repeal the
regulations and provisions of this title upon recommendation from the
commission in the following manner:
   (A)   Commission Hearing; Recommendations: The commission, prior to
recommending an amendment, supplement, or repeal of this title, shall conduct
at least one public hearing in which interested persons shall have an
opportunity to be heard. Following the commission hearing, if the commission
makes a material change in this title other than that published for the present
hearing, further notice and hearing shall be provided before the commission
forwards its recommendation to the council. A record of the hearings, findings
made and actions taken shall be maintained.
   (B)   Council Action: The city council, upon recommendation of the
commission, prior to adopting an amendment, supplement or repeal of this title,
may conduct a hearing using the same notice and hearing procedures as the
commission. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
9.9.03: VACATIONS AND DEDICATIONS:
   (A)   Application For Vacation Or Dedication: Any property owner desiring to
vacate an existing subdivision, public right of way or easement shall complete
and file an application with the administrator. These provisions shall not
apply to the widening of any street which is shown in the comprehensive plan,
or the dedication of streets, rights of way or easements to be shown on a
recorded subdivision.
   (B)   Administrative Action:
      1.   Action By Administrator: Upon receipt of the completed application,
the administrator shall affix the date of application acceptance thereon, shall
place the application on the agenda for consideration at the next regular
meeting of the commission which is held not less than forty five (45) days
after the date of acceptance.
      2.   Recommendation By Commission: The commission shall review the
request and all agency responses and, within forty five (45) days of the
meeting at which the issue was on the agenda, shall make a recommendation to
the council for approval, conditional approval or denial.
   (C)   Action By Council:
      1.   Vacations: When considering an application for vacation procedures,
the council shall establish a date for a public hearing and give such public
notice as required by law. The council may approve, deny or modify the
application. Whenever public rights of way or lands are vacated, the city shall
provide adjacent property owners with a quit claim deed for the vacated rights
of way in such proportions as are prescribed by law.
      2.   Dedications: When considering an application for dedication, the
council may approve, deny or modify the application. When a dedication is
approved, the required street improvements shall be constructed or a bond
furnished assuring the construction prior to acceptance of the dedication. To
complete the acceptance of any dedication of land, the owner shall furnish to
the city a deed describing and conveying such lands to be recorded with the
county recorder.
      3.   Decision: The city shall review the request and all agency responses
and commission recommendation and, within forty five (45) days of the meeting
at which the issue was on the agenda, either approve, conditionally approve or
deny the request.
   (D)   Dedication Of Streets: Within a proposed subdivision, arterial and
collector streets, as specified by the commission or any other adopted traffic
circulation plan, shall be dedicated to the public in all cases. All other
streets also shall be dedicated to public use. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-
2006)
9.9.04: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
   (A)   Enforcement:
      1.   No final subdivision plat required by this title or the Idaho Code
shall be admitted to the public land records of Valley County or recorded by
the county recorder until such subdivision plat has received final approval of
the city council.
      2.   No public board, agency, commission, official or other authority
shall proceed with the construction of or authorize the construction of any of
the public improvements required by this title until the final plat has
received the approval by the city council.
      3.   No permits for construction of any structure shall be issued on any
parcel or lot until it has been determined such parcel or lot meets the
requirements of this title.
      4.   The city attorney, or Valley County prosecuting attorney, shall, in
addition to taking whatever criminal action deemed necessary, take steps to
civilly enjoin any violation of this title.
   (B)   Violations And Penalties: Violations of any of the provisions of this
title or failure to comply with any of its requirements shall constitute a
misdemeanor, and is punishable as provided in title III, chapter 17 of this
code. Each day such violation continues shall be considered a separate offense.
The landowner, tenant, subdivider, builder, developer, public official or any
other person who commits, participates in, assists in, or maintains such
violations may each be found guilty of a separate offense. Nothing herein shall
prevent the city council or any other public official or private citizen from
taking such lawful action as is necessary to restrain or prevent any violation
of this title or of the Idaho Code. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
9.9.05: AMENDED PLATS:
In the event a plat of a subdivision has been recorded and substantial changes
are proposed which change the subdivision materially, the portion of the
subdivision in which these changes are proposed must be approved and the prior
plat vacated in accordance with the regulations set forth in this title. Any
change in street location will require an amended plat for that portion of the
plat that is affected. Unless the administrator, in the administrator's sole
discretion, finds that the proposed changes materially alter the nature and
character of the subdivision, amended plats are subject to the procedure as set
forth in section
9.1.05 of this title. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
9.9.06: EXCEPTIONS MAY BE MADE TO AVOID HARDSHIP:
Whenever the tract to be subdivided is, in the opinion of the commission and
the council, of such unusual shape or size, or is surrounded by such
development or unusual conditions that the strict application of the
requirements contained in this title would result in real difficulties and
substantial hardships or injustices, the city council, in the course of a
properly noticed public meeting, may vary or modify such requirements by an
official entry in the minutes of the city council proceedings so that the
developer is allowed to develop the property in a reasonable manner, but so, at
the same time, the public welfare and interests of the city and surrounding
area are protected and the general intent and spirit of this title and the
comprehensive plan are preserved. As used in this section, the phrase "real
difficulties and substantial hardships or injustices" shall apply only to
situations where strict application of the requirements of this title will deny
to the developer the reasonable and beneficial use of the property in question,
and not in situations where the developer establishes only that exceptions will
allow a more financially feasible or profitable subdivision. (Ord. 822, 2-23-
2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
9.9.07: PROCEDURES, APPEALS AND ACTION:
See the provisions of title III, chapter 15 of this code. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006,
eff. 3-16-2006)
9.9.08: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this title is for any
reason held to be unconstitutional, or unenforceable for any reason, such
holding shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this title.
The city council hereby declares that they would have passed the ordinance
which created this title and each section, subsection, sentence, clause and
phrase thereof separately and irrespective of the fact that any one or more of
the other sections, subsections, sentences, clauses or phrases be
unconstitutional or unenforceable. (Ord. 822, 2-23-2006, eff. 3-16-2006)
TITLE X
FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT
DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEES
CHAPTER 1
SHORT TITLE, APPLICABILITY, FINDINGS AND PURPOSE
SECTION:
10.1.1: Short Title
10.1.2: Authority
10.1.3: Applicability
10.1.4: Findings
10.1.5: Purpose
10.1.6: Advisory Committee/Capital Improvements Plan
10.1.1: SHORT TITLE:
This title shall be known and may be cited as the McCall Fire Protection
District Development Impact Fee Ordinance. (Ord. 1020, 9-7-2023)
10.1.2: AUTHORITY:
This title is enacted pursuant to the City of McCall’s ( the “City”) general
police powers, its authority to enact ordinances, and its authority as provided
by the Idaho Development Impact Fee Act codified at Chapter 82 of Title 67,
Idaho Code (the “Act”) and other applicable laws of the state of Idaho to
impose development impact fees; and the City’s and the McCall Fire Protection
District’s authority to enter into an Intergovernmental Agreement as provided
for in I.C. § 67-8204A to impose, collect and expend development impact fees.
(Ord. 1020, 9-7-2023)
10.1.3: APPLICABILITY:
Except as otherwise exempted in section 10.5.01, these provisions shall apply
to the development of property located within the boundaries of the City of
McCall, Idaho. (Ord. 1020, 9-7-2023)
10.1.4: FINDINGS:
   (A)   McCall Fire Protection District (“the District”) is a taxing District
organized and existing by virtue of Chapter 14 of Title 31, Idaho Code, and the
District’s boundaries include all areas within the City limits of the City and
areas surrounding the City; and
   (B)   The District’s duty and responsibility is to provide protection of
property against fire the enforcement of the fire codes and other rules that
are adopted by the state fire marshal; and to provide for the protection and
preservation of life; and
   (C)   The City is experiencing considerable growth and Development; and
   (D)   The purposes of the Act [I.C. § 67-8202] are as follows:
      1.   Ensure that adequate Public Facilities are available to serve new
growth and Development; and
      2.   Promote orderly growth and Development by establishing uniform
standards by which local governments, such as the City and the District, may
require those who benefit from new growth and Development to pay [development
impact fees] their Proportionate Share of the costs of new Public Facilities
needed to serve that new growth and Development; and
      3.   Establish minimum standards for adoption of development impact fee
ordinances by cities; and
      4.   Ensure that those who benefit from new growth and Development are
required to pay no more than their Proportionate Share of the cost of Public
Facilities needed to serve that new growth and Development and to prevent
duplicate and ad hoc Development Requirements; and
      5.   To empower cities to adopt ordinances to impose development impact
fees.
   (E)      The Act does not authorize the District to enact a development
impact fee ordinance; and
   (F)   The Act does provide, pursuant to I.C. § 67-8204A, in circumstances
where the City and the District are both affected by considerable growth and
Development as is occurring within the City, that the City and the District may
enter into the Intergovernmental Agreement for the purpose of agreeing to
collect and expend development impact fees for System Improvements which
provides for a new funding mechanism for those System Improvements Costs
incurred by the District to meet the demand and growth occurring within the
City, and which promotes and accommodates orderly growth and Development, and
protects the public health, safety and general welfare of the residents within
the boundaries of the City; and
   (G)   New growth within the City imposes and will impose increasing and
excessive demands upon the existing District’s capital facilities; and
   (H)   New growth within the City is expected to continue, and will place
ever-increasing demands on the District to provide and expand the District’s
capital facilities to serve that new growth; and
   (I)   The tax revenues generated from new Development within the City are
often insufficient to provide the necessary improvements and expansion of
existing District’ capital facilities to accommodate for that new growth; and
   (J)   Section 67-8204A of the Act authorizes the City to adopt an impact fee
system and to enter into the Intergovernmental Agreement with the District to
offset, recoup, or reimburse the portion of the costs of needed improvements to
the District’s capital facilities caused by new growth and Development in the
City; and
   (K)   The creation of an equitable impact fee system facilitated by the
Intergovernmental Agreement with the District will promote the purposes set
forth in the Act, in that it would: (a) ensure that adequate District Capital
Facilities are available to serve new growth and Development; (b) promote
orderly growth and Development by establishing uniform standards by which the
City may require that those who benefit from new growth and Development pay a
Proportionate Share of the cost of new District Capital Facilities needed to
serve new growth and Development in the City; (c) establish minimum standards
for the adoption of District impact fees; (d) ensure that those who benefit
from new growth and Development are required to pay no more than their
Proportionate Share of the cost of District Capital Facilities needed to serve
new growth and Development in the City; and (e) prevent duplicate and ad hoc
Development Requirements in the City; and
   (L)   The Capital Improvements Plan contains the Capital Improvements
planned by the District during the term of the Capital Improvements Plan, and
such element has been developed in conformance with the requirements Chapter 82
of Title 67, Idaho Code; and
   (M)   The Capital Improvements Plan sets forth reasonable methodologies and
analyses for determining the impacts of various types of new Development on the
District’s capital facilities and determines the cost of acquiring or
constructing the improvements necessary to meet the demands for such facilities
created by new Development; and
   (N)   In accordance with Idaho Code, the Capital Improvements Plan was based
on actual System Improvement Costs or reasonable estimates of such costs. In
addition, the Capital Improvements Plan uses a fee calculation methodology that
is net of credits for the Present Value of revenues that will be generated by
new growth and Development based on historical funding patterns and that are
anticipated to be available to pay for System Improvements, including taxes,
assessments, user fees, and intergovernmental transfers; and
   (O)   The District impact fees established by this title are based on the
Capital Improvements Plan, and do not exceed a proportionate share of System
Improvement Costs to serve new Development that will pay the District Impact
Fees; and
   (P)   The District’s capital facilities, included in the calculation of fees
in the Capital Improvements Plans, will benefit all new residential Development
throughout the City, and it is therefore appropriate to treat all areas of the
City as a single Service Area for purposes of calculating, collecting, and
spending the District Impact Fees collected from Developers; and
   (Q)   There is both a rational nexus and a rough proportionality between
Development impacts created by each type of Development covered by this title,
the development impact fees assessment of such Development covered by this
title, and the development impact fees that such Developer will be required to
pay; and
   (R)   This title creates a system by which development impact fees paid by
Developers will be used to finance, defray, or reimburse a portion of the costs
incurred by the District to construct and/or purchase System Improvements in
ways that benefit the Development for which each development impact fee was
paid within a reasonable period of time after the development impact fee is
paid, and in conformance with I.C. § 67-8210; and
   (S)   This title creates a system under which development impact fees shall
not be used to correct existing deficiencies for any District Capital
Facilities, or to replace or rehabilitate existing District Capital Facilities,
or to pay for routine operation or maintenance of those facilities; and
   (T)   This title creates a system under which there shall be no double
payment of development impact fees, in accordance with I.C. § 67-8204(19); and
   (U)   This title is consistent with all applicable provisions of the Act
concerning development impact fee ordinances. (Ord. 1020, 9-7-2023)
10.1.5: PURPOSE:
   (A)   This title is adopted to be consistent with, and to help implement the
Capital Improvements Plan.
   (B)   The intent of this title is to ensure that new Development bears a
Proportionate Share of the cost of System Improvements; to ensure that such
Proportionate Share does not exceed the cost of such System Improvements
required to accommodate new Development; and to ensure that funds collected
from new Development are used for System Improvements in accordance with the
Act.
   (C)   It is the further intent of this title to be consistent with those
principles for allocating a fair share of the cost of System Improvements to
new Development, and for adopting development impact fee ordinances,
established by the Act.
   (D)   It is not the intent of this title to collect any more fees from any
new Development than the actual amount necessary to offset new demands for
System Improvements created by such new Development.
   (E)   It is the intent of this title that any monies collected, as an
imposed District Impact Fee, are deposited in the District Impact Fees capital
projects Trust Fund account, are never commingled with monies from a different
impact fee account, are never used for a development impact fee component
different from that for which the fee was paid, are never used to correct
current deficiencies in the District Capital Facilities, and are never used to
replace, rehabilitate, maintain or operate any District Capital Facilities.
(Ord. 1020, 9-7-2023)
10.1.6: ADVISORY COMMITTEE/ CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS PLAN:
   (A)   The City has formed an Advisory Committee as required by I.C. § 67-
8205, and the committee has performed the duties required of it pursuant to
I.C. §§ 67-8205 and 67-8206(2). The City and the District intend that the
committee will continue to exist and perform those duties identified in I.C. §
67-8205 that occur following the adoption of this Development Impact Fee
Ordinance.
   (B)   The District has planned for the improvement of the District Capital
Facilities in the Capital Improvements Plan.
   (C)   The creation of an equitable impact fee system would enable the City
to accommodate new Development and would assist the District in implementing
the Capital Improvements Element of the Capital Improvements Plan.
   (D)   In order to implement an equitable impact fee system for the District
facilities, the City adopted by resolution and the District adopted by
resolution the McCall Fire Protection District Impact Fee Study and Capital
Improvement Plan (the “Capital Improvements Plan”). A qualified professional in
fields related to finance, engineering, planning and transportation was hired
by the District to assist the Advisory Committee in the preparation of the
study.
   (E)   The methodology used in the Capital Improvements Plan, as applied
through this title, complies with all applicable provisions of Idaho law,
including those set forth in I.C. §§ 67-8204(1), (2), (16) and (23), 67-8207
and 67-8208. The incorporation of the Capital Improvements Plan by reference
satisfies the requirement in I.C. § 67-8204(16) for a detailed description of
the methodology by which the District impact fees were calculated, and the
requirement in I.C. § 67-8204(24) for a description of acceptable levels of
service for the District’s System Improvements.
   (F)   In determining the Proportionate Share of the District services System
Improvements Costs, the Capital Improvements Plan has considered:
      1.   the cost of the existing System Improvements; and
      2.   how the existing System Improvements have been financed; and
      3.   the extent to which the new Development will contribute to System
Improvement Costs through taxation, assessment, or Developer or landowner
contributions, or has previously contributed to System Improvement Costs
through Developer or landowner contributions; and
      4.   the extent to which the new Development is required to contribute to
System Improvement Costs in the future; and
      5.   the extent to which the new Development should be credited for
providing System Improvements, without charge to other properties within the
Service Area or areas; and
      6.   Extraordinary Costs, if any, incurred in serving the new
Development; and
      7.   the time and price differential inherent in a fair comparison of
fees paid at different times; and
      8.   the availability of other sources of funding System Improvements
including, but not limited to, user charges, general tax levies,
intergovernmental transfers, and special taxation and includes a plan for
alternative sources of revenue. (Ord. 1020, 9-7-2023)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
10.2.1: Definitions
10.2.1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this title, the following words and terms shall have the following
meanings, unless another meaning is plainly intended and words and terms
appearing in the singular number include the plural and the plural the
singular:
ACCOUNTS: Any of one or more interest bearing accounts within the District
Development Impact Fee Capital Projects Trust Fund established in section
10.11.1  of this title.
ACT: The Idaho Development Impact Fee Act as set forth in Chapter 82 of Title
67, Idaho Code.
ADVISORY COMMITTEE: The City of McCall Development Impact Fee Advisory
Committee formed and staffed by the City and the District pursuant to I.C. §
67-8205 to prepare and recommend the Capital Improvements Plan and any
amendments, revisions, or updates of the same.
APPROPRIATE: To legally obligate by contract or otherwise commit to the
expenditure of funds by appropriation or other official act of the Board of
Commissioners.
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS: The board of commissioners of the McCall Fire
Protection District, which is its governing board.
BUILDING PERMIT: The City permit required for foundations, new construction,
and additions.
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS: Improvements with a useful life of ten (10) years or
more, by new construction or other action, which increases the service capacity
of District Capital Facilities.
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS ELEMENT: A component of the Capital Improvements Plans
identified in the District’s CIP adopted by the Board of Commissioners and the
City Council pursuant to Chapters 65 and 82 of Title 67, Idaho Code, and as
amended, which component meets the requirements of the Capital Improvements
Plan required by the Act.
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS PLAN: The McCall Fire Protection District Impact Fees
Study and Capital Improvements Plan, and amendments and updates thereto,
recommended by the Advisory Committee, and adopted by the Board of
Commissioners and the City Council pursuant to the Act that identifies District
Capital Facilities for which District Impact Fees may be used as a funding
source.
CITY: The City of McCall.
CITY COUNCIL: The City Council of the City of McCall.
DEVELOPER: Any person or legal entity undertaking Development including a
Development that seeks an annexation into the City and/or undertakes the
subdivision of property pursuant to I.C. §§ 50-1301 through 50-1334, as
amended.
DEVELOPMENT: Any construction or installation of a building or structure, or
any change in use of a building or structure, or any change in the use,
character, or appearance of land, which creates additional demand and need for
Public Facilities or the annexation into the City and/or subdivision of
property that would permit any change in the use, character or appearance of
land.
DEVELOPMENT APPROVAL: Any written duly authorized document from the City which
authorizes the commencement of a Development.
DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEE CAPITAL PROJECTS TRUST FUND (the “TRUST FUND”): The
District’s individual impact fee capital projects trust fund account
established by action of the Board of Commissioners.
DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENT: A requirement attached to a developmental approval or
other City governmental action approving or authorizing a particular
Development Project including, but not limited to, a rezoning, which
requirement compels the payment, dedication or contribution of goods, services,
land, or money as condition of approval.
DISTRICT: The McCall Fire Protection District, a fire district organized and
existing by virtue of the Fire Protection District Law, Chapter 14 of Title 31,
Idaho Code.
DISTRICT ADMINISTRATOR: The District’s fire chief, or her, or his designee.
DISTRICT CAPITAL FACILITIES: District facilities, stations, apparatus,
vehicles, and equipment which are identified in Exhibit III-1 of the Capital
Improvements Plan,
DISTRICT IMPACT FEES: A payment of money imposed as condition of Development to
pay for a Proportionate Share of the District’s costs of System Improvements
needed to serve the Development. The term does not include the following:
   (A)   A charge or fee to pay the administrative, plan review, or inspection
costs associated with permits required for Development; or
   (B)   Connection or hookup charges; or
   (C)   Availability charges for drainage, sewer, water or transportation
charges for services provided directly to the Development; or
   (D)   Amounts collected from a Developer in a transaction in which the
District has incurred expenses in constructing Capital Improvements for the
Development if the owner or Developer has agreed to be financially responsible
for the construction or installation of those Capital Improvements, unless a
written agreement is made, pursuant to I.C. § 67-8209(3) as amended, for credit
or reimbursement.
EMS: The emergency medical facilities for preservation of life services
provided by the District.
EXTRAORDINARY COSTS: Those costs incurred as a result of an Extraordinary
Impact.
EXTRAORDINARY IMPACT: An impact which is reasonably determined by the District
Administrator to: (I) result in the need for District System Improvements, the
cost of which will significantly exceed the sum of the development impact fees
to be generated from the Project or the sum agreed to be paid pursuant to a
development agreement as allowed by I.C. § 67-8214(2), as amended; or (ii)
result in the need for District System Improvements that are not identified in
the Capital Improvements Plan.
FEE PAYER: The person who pays or is required to pay a District Impact Fees. A
Fee Payer may include a Developer.
INTERGOVERNMENT AL AGREEMENT: The City of McCall/McCall Fire Protection
District Intergovernmental Agreement to Collect and Expend Development Impact
Fees for Fire District System Improvements entered into by and between the City
and the District pursuant to I.C. § 67-8204A for the collection and expenditure
of District impact fees established pursuant to this title.
LAND USE ASSUMPTIONS: A description of the Service Area and projections of land
uses, densities, intensities, and population in the Service Area over at least
a ten-year period but not to exceed a twenty-year period.
LEVEL OF SERVICE: A measure of the relationship between service capacity and
service demand for Public Facilities.
MANUFACTURED/ MOBILE HOME: A structure, constructed according to HUD/FHA mobile
home construction and safety standards, transportable in one (1) or more
sections, which, in the traveling mode, is eight (8) feet or more in width or
is forty (40) body feet or more in length, or when erected on site, is three
hundred twenty (320) or more square feet, and which is built on a permanent
chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent
foundation when connected to required utilities, and includes the plumbing,
heating, air conditioning and electrical systems contained in such structure,
except that such term shall include any structure which meets all the
requirements of this subsection except the size requirements and with respect
to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a certification required by the
secretary of housing and urban development and complies with the standards
established under 42 U.S.C. §§ 5401 et seq.
MODULAR BUILDING: Any building or building component other than a Manufactured/
Mobile Home, which is constructed according to the International Building Code,
as adopted or any amendments thereto, which is of closed construction and is
either entirely or substantially prefabricated or assembled at a place other
than the building site.
PRESENT VALUE: The total current monetary value of past, present or future
payments, contributions or dedications of goods, services, materials,
construction, or money.
PROJECT: A particular Development on an identified parcel of land.
PROJECT IMPROVEMENTS (in contrast to System Improvements): Site improvements
and facilities that are planned and designed to provide service for a
particular Development Project and that are necessary for the use and
convenience of the occupants or users of the Project.
PROPORTIONATE SHARE: That portion of System Improvements Costs determined
pursuant to I.C. § 67-8207 which reasonably relates to the service demands and
needs of the Project.
PUBLIC FACILITIES: Land, buildings and equipment used for fire protection,
emergency medical and rescue, and water supply production, storage and
distribution facilities which have a useful life of ten (10) years or more.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicular type unit primarily designed as temporary
quarters for recreational, camping, or travel use, which either has its own
motive power or is mounted on or drawn by another vehicle.
SERVICE AREA: Any defined geographic area within the City as identified by the
District in which specific Public Facilities provide service to Development
within the areas defined, on the basis of sound planning or engineering
principles or both. For purposes of this title, there shall be one Service Area
encompassing all of the City of McCall.
SERVICE UNIT: A standardized measure of consumption, use, generation, or
discharge attributable to an individual unit of Development calculated in
accordance with generally accepted engineering or planning standards for a
particular category of Capital Improvements. As specifically used in this
title, Service Units include dwelling units as defined in City code and square
feet of nonresidential Development.
SYSTEM IMPROVEMENTS (in contrast to Project Improvements): Capital Improvements
to Public Facilities which are designed to provide service to a Service Area.
For the purpose of this title, System Improvements are for District Capital
Facilities.
SYSTEM IMPROVEMENT COSTS: Costs incurred for construction or reconstruction of
System Improvements, including design, acquisition, engineering, and other
costs, and also including, without limitation, the type of costs described in
I.C.§ 50-1702(h), as amended, to provide additional Public Facilities needed to
service new growth and development. For clarification, System Improvements
costs do not include:
   (A)   Construction, acquisition, or expansion of Public Facilities other
than Capital Improvements identified in the Capital Improvements Plan; or
   (B)   Improvements, repair, operation, or maintenance of existing or new
Capital Improvements; or
   (C)   Upgrading, updating, expanding, or replacing existing Capital
Improvements to serve existing Development in order to meet stricter safety,
efficiency, environmental or regulatory standards; or
   (D)   Upgrading, updating, expanding, or replacing existing Capital
Improvements to provide better service to existing Development; or
   (E)   Administrative and operating costs of the District and/or the City
unless such costs are attributable to development of the Capital Improvements
Plan, as provided in I.C. § 67-8208, as amended; or
   (F)   Principal payments and interest or other finance charges on bonds or
other indebtedness except financial obligations issued by or on behalf of the
District to finance Capital Improvements identified in the Capital Improvements
Plan. (Ord. 1020, 9-7-2023)
CHAPTER 3
SERVICE AREA AND IMPOSITION OF MCCALL
FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEES
SECTION:
10.3.1: Establishment Of The McCall Fire Protection District Service Area
10.3.2: Imposition Of District Impact Fees
10.3.3: District Impact Fees Schedule
10.3.4: Developer’s Election
10.3.5: Procedures
10.3.1: ESTABLISHMENT OF THE MCCALL FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT SERVICE AREA:
There is hereby established a Service Area of the McCall Fire Protection
District which includes all lands within the boundaries of the City which are
also within the boundaries of the McCall Fire Protection District. (Ord. 1020,
9-7-2023)
10.3.2: IMPOSITION OF DISTRICT IMPACT FEES:
The District Impact Fees are hereby imposed on all new Development in the City
of McCall, Idaho. (Ord. 1020, 9-7-2023)
10.3.3: DISTRICT IMPACT FEES SCHEDULE:
   (A)   The District Impact Fees shall be calculated in accordance with the
fee schedule set forth in the Capital Improvements Plan providing for standard
fees based on the total number of dwelling units or square feet of
nonresidential space in the Development, unless:
      1.   The Fee Payer requests an individual assessment pursuant to section
10.6.1 of this title; or
      2.   The City and the District find the Development will have an
Extraordinary Impact pursuant to section
10.9.1 of this title. The methodology for determining the costs per Service
Unit provided for in the fee schedule is set forth in the Capital Improvements
Plan.
   (B)   District Fire Impact Fees:
 
Residential (per Dwelling Unit)   $1,845.00
Non-Residential (per square foot) $0.74
 
10.3.4: DEVELOPER’S ELECTION:
A Developer shall have the right to elect to pay a Project’s Proportionate
Share of System Improvement Costs by payment of District impact fee, unless the
Administrator determines that the Development may have Extraordinary Impact,
according to the fee schedule as full and complete payment of the Development
Project’s Proportionate Share of System Improvement Costs, except as provided
in I.C. § 67-8214(3), as amended. (Ord. 1020, 9-7-2023)
10.3.5: PROCEDURES:
   (A)   Building Permit. Upon submittal of complete Building Permit plans for
the Development to the City, the City shall calculate the District impact fees
for the Development in accordance with the District Impact Fee Schedule
(section
10.3.3 (B)) unless the Fee Payer requests an individual assessment or is the
subject of a credit or the District Administrator determines that the
Development may have Extraordinary Impact.
   (B)   Exemption. An exemption pursuant to section
10.5.1 of this title must be claimed by the Fee Payer upon application for a
Building Permit or manufactured home installation permit. Any exemption not so
claimed shall be deemed waived by the Fee Payer. (Ord. 1020, 9-7-2023)
CHAPTER 4
COLLECTION OF DISTRICT IMPACT FEES
SECTION:
10.4.1: Certification
10.4.2: Payment And Receipt Of Fees
10.4.1: CERTIFICATION:
Certification. After the District impact fees due for a proposed Development
have been calculated by the City pursuant to the District Impact Fees schedule
pursuant to section 10.3.03 and Exhibit III-4 of the Capital Improvements Plan,
or by the District Administrator using the individual assessment process, or
following the District Administrator’s determination of a credit or
extraordinary impact, if applicable, the Fee Payer may request from the City or
the District Administrator a certification of the amount of the District Impact
Fee due for that Development. Within thirty (30) days after receiving such
request, the City or the District Administrator shall issue a written
certification of the amount of the District Impact Fee due for the proposed
Development. Such certification shall establish the District Impact Fee so long
as there is no material change to the Project as identified in the individual
assessment application, or the impact fees schedule set forth in Exhibit III-
4 of the Capital Improvements Plan. The certification shall include an
explanation of the calculation of the District Impact Fee including an
explanation of factors considered under Idaho Code Section 67-8207 and shall
also specify the System Improvement(s) for which the District Impact Fee is
intended to be used. If the impact fee is calculated by the City pursuant to
the fee schedule, the City shall provide the certification to the Fee Payer and
the District Administrator. If the impact fee is determined by the District
Administrator following an individual assessment of the fee, the District
Administrator shall provide the certification to the Fee Payer and the City.
(Ord. 1020, 9-7-2023)
10.4.2: PAYMENT AND RECEIPT OF FEES:
The District Impact Fees shall be paid to the City at the following times:
   (A)   If a Building Permit or Manufactured/Mobile Home installation permit
is required, then at any time prior to the issuance of the permit; or
   (B)   If no Building Permit or Manufactured/Mobile Home installation permit
is required, then at the time that construction commences; or
   (C)   At such other time as the Developer and the District have agreed upon
in writing with notice to the City.
   (D)   All District Impact Fees paid to the City shall then be delivered to
the District Administrator on a once-a-month basis.
   (E)   In the event District Impact Fees are paid to the District, then the
District Administrator shall immediately notify the City of said payment. (Ord.
1020, 9-7-2023)
CHAPTER 5
EXEMPTIONS
SECTION:
10.5.1: Exemptions
10.5.2: Exemption Claim Process
10.5.1: EXEMPTIONS:
The provisions of this title shall not apply to the following:
   (A)   Rebuilding the same amount of floor space of a structure which is
destroyed by fire or other catastrophe, provided the structure is rebuilt and
ready for occupancy within two (2) years of its destruction; or
   (B)   Remodeling or repairing a structure which does not increase the number
of Service Units;
   (C)   Replacing a residential unit, including a Manufactured/Mobile Home,
with another residential unit on the same lot; provided that, the number of
Service Units does not increase; or
   (D)   Placing a temporary construction trailer or office on a lot; or
   (E)   Constructing an addition on a residential structure which does not
increase the number of Service Units; or
   (F)   Adding uses that are typically accessory to residential uses, such as
tennis court or a clubhouse, unless it can be clearly demonstrated that the use
creates a significant impact on the capacity of System Improvements; or
   (G)   The installation of a Modular Building, Manufactured/Mobile Home or
Recreational Vehicle if the Fee Payer can demonstrate by documentation such as
utility bills and tax records that either:
      1.   a Modular Building, Manufactured/Mobile Home or Recreational Vehicle
was legally in place on the lot or space prior to the effective date of this
title; or
      2.   a District Impact Fee has been paid previously for the Modular
Building, Manufactured/Mobile Home or Recreational Vehicle on that same lot or
space.
   (H)   A development that is undertaken by any governmental entity that has
statutory authority to levy a property tax or public charter school. (Ord.
1020, 9-7-2023)
10.5.2: EXEMPTION CLAIM PROCESS:
An exemption from a District Impact Fee must be claimed on the application by
the Developer (Fee Payer) upon submitting their application for a Building
Permit or manufactured home installation permit. Any exemption not so claimed
shall be deemed waived by the Fee Payer. Applications for exemption shall be
determined by the City within ninety (90) days of receipt of the claim for
exemption. (Ord. 1020, 9-7-2023)
CHAPTER 6
INDIVIDUAL ASSESSMENT PROCESS
SECTION:
10.6.1: Individual Assessment Process
10.6.1: INDIVIDUAL ASSESSMENT PROCESS:
   (A)   In lieu of calculating the amount of the District impact fee pursuant
to Section 10.3.03 and Exhibit III-4 of the Capital Improvements Plan, a Fee
Payer may file a request with the City that the amount of the required District
Impact Fee be determined by the District Administrator through an individual
assessment for the proposed Development. A request for an individual assessment
process shall involve consideration of studies, data, and any other relevant
information submitted by the Fee Payer to adjust the amount of the District
Impact Fee. If a Fee Payer files a request for the use of an individual
assessment, the Fee Payer shall be responsible for retaining a qualified
professional to prepare the individual assessment that complies with the
requirements of this title, at the Fee Payer’s expense. The Fee Payer shall, at
the Fee Payer’s expense, bear the burden of proving by clear and convincing
evidence that the resulting individual assessment complies with the
requirements of this title. The Fee Payer shall bear the burden of proving by
clear and convincing evidence that the resulting individual assessment is a
more accurate measure of its Proportionate Share of the cost of System
Improvements, based on the District’s adopted levels of service, than the
development impact fees that would otherwise be due pursuant to Section 10.3.03
and Exhibit III-4 of the Capital Improvements Plan.
   (B)   Each individual assessment shall be based on the same Level of Service
standards and unit costs for System Improvements used in the Capital
Improvements Plan, shall use an average cost (not a marginal cost) methodology,
and shall document the relevant methodologies and assumptions used.
   (C)   A request for an individual assessment shall be delivered and filed
with the City at any time that the number of dwelling units in the proposed
Development and the types and amounts of Development in each non-residential
category identified in Section 10.3.03 and Exhibit III-4 of the Capital
Improvements Plan are known. Upon filing of a request for individual
assessment, the City shall transmit the request to the District Administrator
for review. The District Administrator shall issue a written decision within
thirty (30) days following receipt of a completed request for individual
assessment together with all supporting information from the Fee Payer, so as
not to unreasonably delay the Developer’s (Fee Payer’s) subsequent applications
to the City for Building Permits.
   (D)   Each individual assessment request delivered to the District
Administrator may then be accepted, rejected, or accepted with modifications by
the District Administrator as the basis for calculating the District Impact
Fee. The criteria for acceptance, rejection or acceptance with modifications
shall be whether the individual assessment is a more accurate measure of demand
for System Improvements element(s) created by the proposed Development, or the
costs of those facilities, than the applicable fee shown in the fee schedule
attached to the Capital Improvements Plan.
   (E)   The decision by the District Administrator on an application for an
individual assessment shall include an explanation of the calculation of the
District Impact Fee, shall specify the system improvement(s) for which the
District Impact Fee is intended to be used, and shall include an explanation of
those factors identified in I.C. § 67-8207.
   (F)   If an individual assessment is accepted or accepted with modifications
by the District Administrator, then the District Impact Fee due under this
title for such Development shall be calculated according to such individual
assessment.
   (G)   The District Administrator shall provide notice of final determination
of an individual assessment to the Developer (Fee Payer) and the City. (Ord.
1020, 9-7-2023)
CHAPTER 7
CREDITS AND REIMBURSEMENTS
SECTION:
10.7.1: Developer Credits And Reimbursement
10.7.2: Limitations
10.7.3: Valuation Of Credit At Present Value
10.7.4: When Credits Become Effective
10.7.5: Credit Request Procedures
10.7.1: DEVELOPER CREDITS AND REIMBURSEMENT:
When a Developer or their predecessor in title or interest has constructed
System Improvements of the same category as a District Capital Improvements
Element, or contributed or dedicated land or money towards the completion of
System Improvements of the same category as a District Capital Improvements
Element, and the District has accepted such construction, contribution or
dedication, the District shall issue a credit, in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter, against the District Impact Fees otherwise due for
the same District Capital Improvements Element in connection with the proposed
Development, as set forth in this section. Credit shall be issued regardless of
whether the contribution or dedication to System Improvements was required by
the District as a condition of Development or was offered by the Developer and
accepted by the District in writing, and regardless of whether the contribution
or dedication was contributed by the Developer or by a local improvement
district controlled by the Developer. (Ord. 1020, 9-7-2023)
10.7.2: LIMITATIONS:
Credits against a District Impact Fee shall not be given for:
   (A)   Project Improvements; or
   (B)   any construction, contribution or dedication not agreed to in writing
by the District prior to commencement of the construction, contribution, or
dedication. Credits issued for one Capital Improvements Element may not be used
to reduce the impact fee due for a different capital improvement. No credits
shall be issued for System Improvements contributed or dedicated prior to the
effective date of this title. (Ord. 1020, 9-7-2023)
10.7.3: VALUATION OF CREDIT AT PRESENT VALUE:
   (A)   Land. Credit for qualifying land dedications shall, at the Fee Payer’s
option, be valued at the Present Value of:
      1.   one hundred (100) percent of the most recent assessed value for such
land as shown in the records of the county assessor; or
      2.   that fair market value established by a private Idaho licensed
appraiser acceptable to the District in an appraisal paid for by the Fee Payer.
   (B)   Improvements. Credit for qualifying acquisition or construction of
System Improvements shall be valued by the District at the Present Value of
such improvements based on complete engineering drawings, specifications, and
construction cost estimates submitted by the Fee Payer to the District. The
District Administrator shall determine the amount of credit due based on the
information submitted, or, if it determines that such information is inaccurate
or unreliable, then on alternative engineering or construction costs acceptable
to the District as a more accurate measure of the value of the offered System
Improvements to the District. (Ord. 1020, 9-7-2023)
10.7.4: WHEN CREDITS BECOME EFFECTIVE:
   (A)   Land. Approved credits for land dedications shall become effective
when the land has been conveyed to the District in a form acceptable to the
District, at no cost to the District, and has been accepted by the District.
Upon request of the Fee Payer, the District shall issue a letter stating the
amount of credit available.
   (B)   Improvements. Approved credits for acquisition or construction of
System Improvements shall generally become effective when (a) all required
construction has been completed and has been accepted by the District, (b) a
suitable maintenance and warranty bond has been received and approved by the
District, and (c) all design, construction, inspection, testing, bonding, and
acceptance procedures have been completed in compliance with all applicable
requirements of the District and the State of Idaho. Upon request of the Fee
Payer, the District shall issue a letter stating the amount of credit
available. (Ord. 1020, 9-7-2023)
10.7.5: CREDIT REQUEST PROCEDURES:
   (A)   Request. In order to obtain a credit against a District impact fee
otherwise due, a Fee Payer shall submit to the City a written offer of request
to dedicate to the District specific parcels of qualifying land or a written
offer to contribute or construct specific System Improvements to the District
Capital Facilities in accordance with all applicable state or City design and
construction standards, and shall specifically request a credit against the
type of District Impact Fee for which the land dedication or System
Improvements is offered. The City shall then deliver the written offer of
request to the District Administrator.
   (B)   Review. After receipt of the written offer of request for credit, the
District Administrator shall review the request and determine whether the land
or System Improvements offered for credit will reduce the costs of providing
District Capital Facilities by an amount at least equal to the value of the
credit. If the District Administrator determines that the offered credit
satisfies those criteria and will be acceptable to the Board of Commissioners,
then the credit shall be issued. The District shall complete its review and
determination of an application within thirty (30) days after receipt of an
application for credit.
   (C)   Credits exceeding fee amounts due. If the credit due to a Fee Payer
pursuant to sections, above, exceeds the District Impact Fee that would
otherwise be due from the Fee Payer pursuant to this title (whether calculated
through the fee schedule attached to the capital improvement plan or through an
independent assessment), the Fee Payer may choose to receive such credit in the
form of either:
      1.   a credit against future District Impact Fee due for the same System
Improvements; or
      2.   a reimbursement from District Impact Fees paid by future Development
that impacts the System Improvements contributed or dedicated by the Fee Payer.
Unless otherwise stated in an agreement with the Fee Payer, the District shall
be under no obligation to use any District funds - other than District Impact
Fees paid by other Development for the same System Improvements - to reimburse
the Fee Payer for any credit in excess of the District Impact Fees that are
due.
   (D)   Written agreement required. If credit or reimbursement is due to the
Fee Payer pursuant to this section, the District shall enter into a written
agreement with the Fee Payer, negotiated in good faith, prior to the
contribution, dedication, or funding of the System Improvements giving rise to
the credit. The agreement shall provide for the amount of credit or the amount,
time and form of reimbursement, and shall have a term not exceeding ten (10)
years.
   (E)   The District Administrator’s determination on the written offer of
request for credit shall be provided to the Fee Payer and the City. (Ord. 1020,
9-7-2023)
CHAPTER 8
METHODOLOGY FOR THE CALCULATION
OF DISTRICT IMPACT FEES
SECTION:
10.8.1: General Provisions
10.8.2: Methodology; Proportionate Methodology
10.8.3: Proportionate Share Determination
10.8.1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   (A)   Accounting principles. The calculation of the District Impact Fee
shall be in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A
development impact fee shall not be deemed invalid because payment of the fee
may result in an incidental benefit to owners or Developers within the Service
Area other than the Fee Payer.
   (B)   Levels of service. The District Impact Fee shall be calculated on the
basis of levels of service for Public Facilities adopted in this title that are
applicable to existing Development as well as new growth and Development. The
construction, improvement, expansion or enlargement of new or existing Public
Facilities for which the District Impact Fee are imposed must be attributable
to the capacity demands generated by the new Development. (Ord. 1020, 9-7-2023)
10.8.2: METHODOLOGY; PROPORTIONATE METHODOLOGY:
The District impact fee shall not exceed a Proportionate Share of the cost of
the System Improvements determined in accordance with I.C. § 67-8207, as
amended. District impact fees shall be based on actual System Improvement Costs
or reasonable estimates of such costs. The amount of the District impact fee
shall be calculated using the methodology contained in the Capital Improvements
Plan. (Ord. 1020, 9-7-2023)
10.8.3: PROPORTIONATE SHARE DETERMINATION:
   (A)   The District Impact Fee shall be based on a reasonable and fair
formula or method under which the District Impact Fee imposed does not exceed a
Proportionate Share of the costs incurred or to be incurred by the District in
the provision of System Improvements to serve the new Development. The
Proportionate Share is the costs attributable to the new Development after the
District considers the following:
      1.   Any appropriate credit, offset or contribution of money, dedication
of land or construction of System Improvements; and
      2.   Payments reasonably anticipated to be made by or as a result of a
new Development in the form of user fees and debt service payments; and
      3.   That portion of general tax or other revenues allocated by the
District to System Improvements; and
      4.   All other available sources of funding such System Improvements.
   (B)   In determining the Proportionate Share of the cost of System
Improvements to be paid by the Developer, the following factors shall be
considered by the District and accounted for in the calculation of the District
Impact Fees:
      1.   The costs of existing System Improvements within the Service Area;
and
      2.   The means by which existing System Improvements have been financed;
and
      3.   The extent to which the new Development will contribute to System
Improvement Costs through taxation, assessments, or Developer or landowner
contributions, or has previously contributed to System Improvement Costs
through Developer or landowner contributions; and
      4.   The extent to which the new Development is required to contribute to
the cost of existing System Improvements in the future; and
      5.   The extent to which the new Development should be credited for
providing System Improvements, without charge to other properties within the
Service Area; and
      6.   Extraordinary Costs, if any, incurred in serving the new
Development; and
      7.   The time and price differential inherent in a fair comparison of
fees paid at different times; and
      8.   The availability of other sources of funding System Improvements
including, but not limited to, user charges, general tax levies,
intergovernmental transfers, and special taxation. (Ord. 1020, 9-7-2023)
CHAPTER 9
EXTRAORDINARY IMPACTS
SECTION:
10.9.1: Extraordinary Impacts
10.9.1: EXTRAORDINARY IMPACTS:
Determinations of Extraordinary Impacts are made as follows:
   (A)   In the event the City makes an initial determination that a
Development may impose an Extraordinary Impact, the City shall provide the
Development application to the District Administrator along with the City’s
initial determination. The District Administrator shall then review and
determine whether the Development application will impose Extraordinary Impact.
   (B)   If the District Administrator determines that a proposed Development
generates Extraordinary Impact that will result in extraordinary Systems
Improvement Costs, the District Administrator will notify the Fee Payer and the
City of such District Impact Fee determination within thirty (30) days after
District Administrator’s receipt from the City of the Development application
and the City’s initial determination. Such notice shall include a statement
that the potential impacts of such Development on System Improvements are not
adequately addressed by the Capital Improvements Plan, and that a supplemental
study, at the Fee Payer’s expense, will be required.
   (C)   Circumstances that may lead to a determination of Extraordinary Impact
include, but are not limited to:
      1.   an indication the assumptions used in the Capital Improvements Plan
underestimate the level of activity or impact on District Capital Facilities
from the proposed Development or activity.
   (D)   Within thirty (30) days following the designation of a Development
with Extraordinary Impact, the District Administrator shall meet with the Fee
Payer to discuss whether the Fee Payer wants to:
      1.   pay for the supplemental study necessary to determine the System
Improvement Costs related to the proposed Development; or
      2.   modify the proposal to avoid generating Extraordinary Impact; or
      3.   withdraw the application for certification, Building Permit or
Development.
   (E)   If the Fee Payer agrees to pay for the supplemental study required to
document the proposed Development’s Proportionate Share of System Improvement
Costs, then the District and the Fee Payer shall jointly select an individual
or organization acceptable to both to perform such study. The Fee Payer shall
enter into a written agreement with such individual or organization to pay the
costs of such study. Such agreement shall require the supplemental study to be
completed within thirty (30) days of such written agreement unless the Fee
Payer agrees to a longer time.
   (F)   Once the study has been completed, the Fee Payer may choose to:
      1.   pay the Proportionate Share of System Improvement Costs documented
by the supplemental study; or
      2.   modify the proposed Development to reduce such costs; or
      3.   withdraw the application. If the Fee Payer agrees to pay the System
Improvement Costs documented in the supplemental study, that agreement shall be
reduced to writing between the District and the Fee Payer prior to review and
consideration of any application for any Development or Building Permit related
to the proposed Development.
   (G)   Notwithstanding any agreement by the Fee Payer to pay the
Proportionate Share of System Improvement Costs documented by the supplemental
study, nothing in this ordinance shall obligate the City to approve Development
that results in an Extraordinary Impact to the District. (Ord. 1020, 9-7-2023)
CHAPTER 10
FEE PAYER REFUNDS
SECTION:
10.10.1: Duty To Refund
10.10.1: DUTY TO REFUND:
   (A)   District Impact Fees shall be refunded to the Fee Payer, or to a
successor in interest, in the following circumstances:
      1.   Service is available but never provided; or
      2.   A Building Permit, or permit for installation of a manufactured
home, is denied by the City or abandoned; or
      3.   The Fee Payer pays District Impact Fees under protest and a
subsequent review of the fee paid or the completion of an individual assessment
determines that the fee paid exceeded the Proportionate Share which the
District was entitled to receive; or
      4.   The City collected a District Impact Fee and the District failed to
Appropriate or expend the collected fees pursuant to section
10.10.1 (B) below; or
      5.   Failure of the District to commence construction or encumber the
fund in the development impact fee capital projects Trust Fund.
   (B)   Any impact fee paid shall be refunded if the District has failed to
commence construction of System Improvements in accordance with this title, or
to Appropriate funds for such construction, within eight (8) years after the
date on which such fee was collected by the District. Any refund due shall be
paid to the owner of record of the parcel for which the District impact fee was
paid. The District may hold District Impact Fees for longer than eight (8)
years if the District identifies in writing and in written notice to the owner
of record of the parcel:
      1.    a reasonable cause why the fees should be held longer than eight
(8) years; and (b) an anticipated date by which the fees will be expended, but
in no event greater than eleven (11) years from the date they were collected.
If the District complies with the previous sentence, then any District Impact
Fees so identified shall be refunded to the Fee Payer if the District fails to
commence construction of System Improvements in accordance with the written
notice, or to Appropriate funds for such construction on or before the date
identified in such writing.
   (C)   No refund due for subsequent reduction in size of development or
Service Units. After a District Impact Fee has been paid pursuant to this title
and after a certificate of occupancy has been issued by the City, no refund of
any part of such fee shall be made if the Project for which the fee was paid is
later demolished, destroyed, or is altered, reconstructed, or reconfigured so
as to reduce the size of the Project or the number of units in the Project.
   (D)   Interest. Each refund shall include a refund of interest at one-half
the legal rate provided for in I.C. § 28-22-104 from the date on which the fee
was originally paid.
   (E)   Timing. The District shall make a determination of whether a refund is
due within thirty (30) days after receipt of a written request for a refund
from the owner of record of the property for which the fee was paid. When the
right to a refund exists, the District shall send the refund to the owner of
record within ninety (90) days after the District determines that a refund is
due. (Ord. 1020, 9-7-2023)
CHAPTER 11
ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICT DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEE
CAPITAL PROJECTS TRUST FUND
SECTION:
10.11.1: Established By District
10.11.2: Deposits
10.11.1: ESTABLISHED BY DISTRICT:
The Trust Fund established by the District will be maintained by the District
for the purpose of ensuring that all District Impact Fees collected, pursuant
to this title, are used to address impacts reasonably attributable to new
Development for which the District Impact Fees are paid. The Trust Fund shall
be divided into the Accounts. All funds in all Accounts in the Trust Fund shall
be maintained in an interest-bearing account. The interest earned on each
account pursuant to I.C. § 67-8210(1) shall not be governed by I.C. § 57-127,
as amended, but shall be considered funds of the account and shall be subject
to the same restrictions on uses of funds as the fire District Impact Fees on
which the interest is generated. (Ord. 1020, 9-7-2023)
10.11.2: DEPOSITS:
Deposit of District Impact Fees. All monies paid by a Fee Payer, pursuant to
this title, shall be identified as District Impact Fees and shall be promptly
deposited by the District Administrator in the appropriate account of the Trust
Fund.
   (A)   First-in/first-out. Monies in each account shall be spent in the order
collected, on a first-in/first-out (FIFO) basis.
   (B)   Maintenance of records. The District shall maintain and keep accurate
financial records for each account that shall show the source and disbursement
of all revenues, that shall account for all monies received, that shall ensure
that the disbursement of funds from each account shall be used solely and
exclusively for the provisions of Projects specified in the Capital
Improvements Plan, and that shall provide an annual accounting for each
District Impact Fee account showing the source and amount of all funds
collected and the Projects that were funded. (Ord. 1020, 9-7-2023)
CHAPTER 12
EXPENDITURE AND SURCHARGE REIMBURSEMENT
SECTION:
10.12.1:Expenditure Eligibility
10.12.2:Surcharge Reimbursement
10.12.1: EXPENDITURE ELIGIBILITY:
Expenditures of District impact fees collected and deposited in the Trust Fund
shall be made only for System Improvements within the Service Area for which
the impact fee was collected in accordance with the Capital Improvements Plan.
(Ord. 1020, 9-7-2023)
10.12.2: SURCHARGE REIMBURSEMENT:
Capital Improvements Plan reimbursement; surcharge. A portion of each impact
fee collected shall be designated as a surcharge for reimbursement for the cost
of preparing the Capital Improvements Plan in accordance with I.C. § 67-8208.
The surcharge shall not exceed the Development’s Proportionate Share of the
cost of preparing the Capital Improvements Plan. (Ord. 1020, 9-7-2023)
CHAPTER 13
APPEALS, PROTEST AND MEDIATION
SECTION:
10.13.1: Appeals To The Fire District Board Of Commissioners
10.13.2: Appeals To The City Council
10.13.3: Payment Under Protest
10.13.4: Mediation
10.13.1: APPEALS TO THE FIRE DISTRICT BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS:
Any Fee Payer that is or may be obligated to pay a District Impact Fee, or that
claims a right to receive a refund, reimbursement, exemption, or credit under
this Title, and who is dissatisfied with inaction, or a decision made by the
Fire District Administrator in applying this Title, may appeal such decision to
the Board of Commissioners.
   (A)   The Fee Payer shall have the burden on appeal of demonstrating that
the decision was in error.
   (B)   In order to pursue the appeal described in this subsection, the Fee
Payer shall file a written notice of appeal with the Fire District
Administrator within thirty (30) days after the date of the Fire District
Administrator’s decision, or the date on which the Fee Payer submitted a
payment of the Fire District Impact Fees under protest, whichever is later.
Such written notice of appeal shall include a statement describing why the Fee
Payer believes that the appealed decision was in error, together with copies of
any documents that the Fee Payer believes support the claim.
   (C)   The Board of Commissioners shall hear the appeal within sixty (60)
days after receipt of a written notice of appeal. The Fee Payer shall have a
right to be present and to present evidence in support of the appeal. The Fire
District Administrator shall likewise have the right to be present and to
present evidence in support of the decision. The criteria to be used by the
Board of Commissioners in considering the appeal shall be whether:
      1.   the decision or interpretation made by the Fire District
Administrator; or
      2.   the alternative decision or interpretation offered by the Fee Payer,
more accurately reflects the intent of this title that new Development in the
City pay its Proportionate Share of the costs of System Improvements to Fire
District facilities necessary to serve new Development and whether the
provisions of this title have been correctly applied. The Board of
Commissioners shall issue a decision upholding, reversing, or modifying the
decision being appealed within thirty (30) days after hearing the appeal. (Ord.
1020, 9-7-2023)
10.13.2: APPEALS TO THE CITY COUNCIL:
Any Fee Payer that is or may be obligated to pay a District Impact Fee, or that
claims a right to receive a refund, reimbursement, exemption, or credit under
this title, and who is dissatisfied with a decision made on appeal by the Board
of Commissioners of the Fire District in applying this title, may appeal such
decision to the City Council.
   (A)   The Fee Payer shall have the burden on appeal of demonstrating that
the Board of Commissioners’ decision on appeal was in error.
   (B)   In order to pursue the appeal described in this subsection, the Fee
Payer shall file a written notice of appeal with the Fire District
Administrator within thirty (30) days after the date of the Board of
Commissioners’ decision. Such written notice of appeal shall include a
statement describing why the Fee Payer believes that the appealed decision of
the Board of Commissioners was in error, together with copies of any documents
that the Fee Payer believes support the claim. The District Administrator shall
within three (3) business days deliver the notice of appeal together with
copies of any documents filed with it to the City Clerk.
   (C)   The City Council shall hear the appeal within sixty (60) days after
receipt by the City Clerk of a written notice of appeal. The Fee Payer shall
have a right to be present and to present evidence in support of the appeal.
The District Administrator shall likewise have the right to be present and to
present evidence in support of the decision. The criteria to be used by the
City Council in considering the appeal shall be whether:
      1.   the decision or interpretation made by the District Administrator
and the decision on appeal by the Board of Commissioners; or
      2.   the alternative decision or interpretation offered by the Fee Payer,
more accurately reflects the intent of this Title that new Development in the
City pay its Proportionate Share of the costs of System Improvements to
District facilities necessary to serve new Development and whether the
provisions of this title have been correctly applied. The City Council shall
issue a decision upholding, reversing, or modifying the decision being appealed
within thirty (30) days after hearing the appeal. (Ord. 1020, 9-7-2023)
10.13.3: PAYMENT UNDER PROTEST:
A Fee Payer may pay a District Impact Fee under protest in order not to delay
the issuance of a Building Permit by the City. A Fee Payer making a payment
under protest shall not be estopped from exercising the right to appeal
provided herein, nor shall such Fee Payer be estopped from receiving a refund
of any amount deemed to have been illegally collected. (Ord. 1020, 9-7-2023)
10.13.4: MEDIATION:
   (A)   Any Fee Payer that has a disagreement with the City or the District
Administrator regarding a District Impact Fee determination that is or may be
due for a proposed Development pursuant to this title, may enter into a
voluntary agreement with (depending upon the progress of the protest) the City
or the District to subject the disagreement to mediation by a qualified
independent party acceptable to both the Fee Payer and the District.
   (B)   Mediation may take place at any time following the filing of a timely
appeal pursuant to sections 10.13.01 and 10.13.02, or as an alternative to such
appeal, provided that the request for mediation is filed no later than the last
date on which a timely appeal could be filed pursuant to section 10.13.01 and
10.13.02.
   (C)   Participation in mediation does not preclude the Fee Payer from
pursuing other remedies provided for in this section.
   (D)   If mediation is requested, any related mediation costs shall be shared
equally by the Fee Payer and the City or the District, (depending upon the
progress of the protest), and a written agreement regarding the payment of such
costs shall be executed prior to the commencement of mediation.
   (E)   In the event that mediation does not resolve the issues between the
District and the Fee Payer, the Fee Payer retains all rights to seek relief
from a court of competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 1020, 9-7-2023)
CHAPTER 14
PERIODIC REVIEWS
SECTION:
10.14.1: Review And Modification Of Capital Improvements Plan
10.14.2: Annual Capital Budget
10.14.1: REVIEW AND MODIFICATION OF CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS PLAN:
Unless the City and the Board of Commissioners deems some other period is
appropriate, the City and the Board of Commissioners shall, at least once every
five (5) years, commencing from the date of the original adoption of the
Capital Improvements Plan, review the Development potential and update the
Capital Improvements Plan in cooperation and in accordance with the procedures
set forth in I.C. § 67-8206, as amended. Each update shall be prepared by the
District Administrator in consultation with the Advisory Committee. (Ord. 1020,
9-7-2023)
10.14.2: ANNUAL CAPITAL BUDGET:
The District shall annually adopt a capital budget. (Ord. 1020, 9-7-2023)
CHAPTER 15
AUDIT
SECTION:
10.15.1: Annual Report
10.15.1: ANNUAL REPORT:
   (A)   As part of their annual audit process, the District shall prepare an
annual report:
      1.   describing the amount of all District Impact Fees collected,
Appropriated, or spent during the preceding year by category of public
facility; and
      2.   describing the percentage of taxes and revenues from sources other
than the District Impact Fees collected, Appropriated, or spent for System
Improvements during the preceding year by systems improvements category of
District Capital Facilities. (Ord. 1020, 9-7-2023)
CHAPTER 16
ENFORCEMENT AND COLLECTION
SECTION:
10.16.1: City And District Administrator Powers To Require Payment Of Impact
Fees
10.16.1: CITY AND DISTRICT ADMINISTRATOR POWERS TO REQUIRE PAYMENT OF IMPACT
FEES:
When any District Impact Fee is due pursuant to this title, or pursuant to the
terms of any written agreement between a Fee Payer and the District, and such
District Impact Fee has not been paid in a timely manner, the City, or District
Administrator on behalf of the District, may exercise any or all of the
following powers as applicable to their authority, in any combination, to
enforce the collection of the District Impact Fee:
   (A)   Withhold Building Permits, manufactured home installation permits, or
other City Development related to the Development for which the District Impact
Fee is due until all District Impact Fees due have been paid, and issue stop
work orders, and revoke or suspend a Building Permit.
   (B)   Withhold utility services from the Development for which the District
Impact Fee is due until all District Impact Fees due have been paid; and
   (C)   Add interest to the District Impact Fees not paid in full at the legal
rate provided for in I.C. § 28-22-104, as amended, plus five percent (5%)
beginning on the date at which the payment of the District Impact Fees was due
until paid in full.
   (D)   Impose a penalty of five (5) percent of the total District Impact Fee
(not merely the portion dishonored, late or not paid in full) per month
beginning on the date at which the payment of the District Impact Fee was due
until paid in full.
   (E)   Impose a lien pursuant to the authority of I.C. § 67-8213(4) for
failure to timely pay District Impact Fees following the procedures contained
in Idaho Code Title 45, Chapter 5. (Ord. 1020, 9-7-2023)
CHAPTER 17
CITY/DISTRICT INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT
SECTION:
10.17.1: Authority To Enter Into Intergovernmental Agreements
10.17.2: City And District Intergovernmental Agreement
10.17.3: District Governed By This Title
10.17.4: Amendments To Intergovernmental Agreement
10.17.1: AUTHORITY TO ENTER INTO INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENTS:
The City is a governmental entity that is empowered by the Act to adopt
development impact fee ordinances and as such is authorized, by I.C. § 67-
8204A, to enter into the Intergovernmental Agreement with the District for the
purpose of collecting and expending District Impact Fees for System
Improvements as provided in this title. (Ord. 1020, 9-7-2023)
10.17.2: CITY AND DISTRICT INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT:
The City and the District have entered into the Intergovernmental Agreement
which is in full force and effect. (Ord. 1020, 9-7-2023)
10.17.3: DISTRICT GOVERNED BY THIS TITLE:
The Intergovernmental Agreement complies with this title and requires the
District to be governed by and to fully abide by the provisions of this title.
(Ord. 1020, 9-7-2023)
10.17.4: AMENDMENTS TO INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT:
Any amendments of the Intergovernmental Agreement shall be implemented by
corresponding relevant amendments of this title which amendments shall not
apply to any District Impact Fees then not expended and currently held in the
Trust Fund. (Ord. 1020, 9-7-2023)
CHAPTER 18
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10.18.1: Fire Codes And Other Rules Applicable To Project Improvements
10.18.2: Agreements Between Property Owners And ITD And Other Governmental
Entities For Construction Or Installation Of System Improvements
10.18.3: No Requirement Of The City To Approve Extraordinary Impact Development
10.18.4: District Not Obligated To Approve Development That Reduces Levels Of
Service
10.18.5: No Additional Right To Develop Created By This Title
10.18.6: No Limit On City’s Eminent Domain Authority
10.18.7: No Limit On City’s Power To Annex Property
10.18.8: District Plan Of Alternative Sources Of Revenue
10.18.9: Development Approved By The City Prior To The Effective Date Of This
Title Not Subject To Impact Fees
10.18.10: Monies In Trust Fund Not Expended Carried Over From Fiscal Year To
Fiscal Year
10.18.11: Capital Improvements Plan Error Discovery
10.18.12: Impact Fee Payment Mistake Or Misrepresentation
10.18.1: FIRE CODES AND OTHER RULES APPLICABLE TO PROJECT IMPROVEMENTS:
Nothing in this title shall prevent the District from requiring a Developer to
construct reasonable Project Improvements, as are required by the fire codes
and other rules that are adopted by the state fire marshal, in conjunction with
a Development. (Ord. 1020, 9-7-2023)
10.18.2: AGREEMENTS BETWEEN PROPERTY OWNERS AND ITD AND OTHER GOVERNMENTAL
ENTITIES FOR CONSTRUCTION OR INSTALLATION OF SYSTEM IMPROVEMENTS:
Nothing in this title shall be construed to prevent or prohibit private
agreements between property owners or Developers, the Idaho Transportation
Department and governmental entities in regard to the construction or
installation of System Improvements or providing for credits or reimbursements
for System Improvement Costs incurred by a Developer including inter-project
transfers of credits or providing for reimbursement for Project Improvements
which are used or shared by more than one (1) Development Project. (Ord. 1020,
9-7-2023)
10.18.3: NO REQUIREMENT OF THE CITY TO APPROVE EXTRAORDINARY IMPACT
DEVELOPMENT:
Nothing in this title shall obligate the City to approve Development which
results in an Extraordinary Impact. (Ord. 1020, 9-7-2023)
10.18.4: DISTRICT NOT OBLIGATED TO APPROVE DEVELOPMENT THAT REDUCES LEVELS OF
SERVICE :
Nothing in this title shall obligate the District to approve any Development
request which may reasonably be expected to reduce levels of service below
minimum acceptable levels established in this title. (Ord. 1020, 9-7-2023)
10.18.5: NO ADDITIONAL RIGHT TO DEVELOP CREATED BY THIS TITLE:
Nothing in this title shall be construed to create any additional right to
develop real property or diminish the City in regulating the orderly
development of real property within its boundaries. (Ord. 1020, 9-7-2023)
10.18.6: NO LIMIT ON CITY’S EMINENT DOMAIN AUTHORITY:
Nothing in this title shall work to limit the use by the City of the power of
eminent domain or supersede or conflict with requirements or procedures
authorized in the Idaho Code for local improvement districts or general
obligation bond issues. (Ord. 1020, 9-7-2023)
10.18.7: NO LIMIT ON CITY’S POWER TO ANNEX PROPERTY:
Nothing herein shall restrict or diminish the power of the City to annex
property into its territorial boundaries or exclude property from its
territorial boundaries upon request of a Developer or owner, or to impose
reasonable conditions thereon, including the recovery of Project or System
Improvement Costs required as a result of such voluntary annexation. (Ord.
1020, 9-7-2023)
10.18.8: DISTRICT PLAN OF ALTERNATIVE SOURCES OF REVENUE:
The District shall develop a plan for alternative sources of revenue, which
shall include, but not necessarily be limited to, plans generated during the
District’s annual budget process, lobbying efforts, tax increment financing,
and implementation of user fees, administrative and regulatory fees and other
forms of revenue. (Ord. 1020, 9-7-2023)
10.18.9: DEVELOPMENT APPROVED BY THE CITY PRIOR TO THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF THIS
TITLE NOT SUBJECT TO IMPACT FEES:
Notwithstanding any other provision of this title, that portion of a Project
for which a complete application for a Building Permit has been received by the
City, prior to the effective date of this title, shall not be subject to the
District Impact Fee imposed by this title. If the resulting Building Permit is
later revised or replaced after the effective date of the ordinance codified in
this title, and the new Building Permit(s) reflects a Development density,
intensity, Development size or number of units more than ten (10) percent
higher than that reflected in the original Building Permit, then the District
Impact Fee may be charged on the difference in density, intensity, Development
size or number of units between the original and the revised or replacement
Building Permit. (Ord. 1020, 9-7-2023)
10.18.10: MONIES IN TRUST FUND NOT EXPENDED CARRIED OVER FROM FISCAL YEAR TO
FISCAL YEAR:
Any monies, including any accrued interest not assigned to specific System
Improvements within such Capital Improvements Plan and not expended pursuant to
chapter 12 of title 10 or refunded pursuant to section
10.10.1 shall be retained in the same account until the next District fiscal
year. (Ord. 1020, 9-7-2023)
10.18.11: CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS PLAN ERROR DISCOVERY:
   (A)   If the District discovers an error in the Capital Improvements Plan
which results in assessment or payment of more than a Proportionate Share of
System Improvement Costs on any proposed Development, the District
Administrator shall:
      1.   adjust the District Impact Fee to collect no more than a
Proportionate Share; or
      2.   discontinue the collection of any District Impact Fees until the
error is corrected by ordinance. (Ord. 1020, 9-7-2023)
10.18.12: IMPACT FEE PAYMENT MISTAKE OR MISREPRESENTATION:
If District impact fees are calculated and paid based on a mistake or
misrepresentation, they shall be recalculated. Any amounts overpaid by a Fee
Payer shall be refunded by the District within thirty (30) days after the
District’ acceptance of the recalculated amount, with interest at one-half (1/
2) of the legal rate provided for in I.C. § 28-22-104 from the date on which
the fee was paid. Any amounts underpaid by the Fee Payer shall be paid to the
District within thirty (30) days after the District Administrator’s acceptance
of the recalculated amount, with interest at the legal rate provided for in
I.C. § 28-22-104 from the date on which the fee was paid. In the case of an
underpayment to the District, the Administrator may request that the City
withhold issuance of the Building Permits or Development for the Project for
which the District impact fees were paid until such underpayment is corrected,
and if amounts owed to the District are not paid within such thirty-day period,
the District Administrator may also request that the City revoke any Building
Permits or Development Approval issued in reliance on the previous payment of
such District impact fees and refund such fees to the Fee Payer. (Ord. 1020, 9-
7-2023)
CHAPTER 19
PUNISHMENT
SECTION:
10.19.1: Punishment
10.19.1: PUNISHMENT:
Any person who violates any provision of this title shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, punishable by up to one (1) year in the county jail, and/or a one
thousand dollar ($1,000.00) fine, or both. Knowingly furnishing false
information to any official of the City or the District charged with the
administration of this title, including, without limitation, the furnishing of
false information regarding the expected size, use or impacts from a proposed
Development, shall be a violation of this title. (Ord. 1020, 9-7-2023)
CHAPTER 20
CONSTRUCTION OF INTENT
SECTION:
10.20.1 : Liberal Construction
10.20.1: LIBERAL CONSTRUCTION:
All provisions, terms, phrases, and expressions contained in this title shall
be liberally construed in order that the true intent and meaning of the Act and
the City Council and the Board of Commissioners may be fully carried out. (Ord.
1020, 9-7-2023)
APPENDIX A
ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Annexation Date
Ord. Annexation                                                                      Date
No.
     Tract 1: Subdivided Lot 10 of Block 1, Section 8, T. 18 N., R. 3 E., B.M.
     according to the Recorder's Plat thereof on file and of record in the office of 6-4-
384  the Recorder of Valley County, Idaho.                                           79
     Tract 2: SW1/4NW1/4, Section 10, T. 18 N., R. 3E., B.M.

     A portion of the SE1/4SE1/4 of Section 16, Township 18 North, Range 3 East,
     B.M., Valley County, Idaho, being more particularly described as follows:
     Commencing at East one-quarter corner of Section 16, Township 18 North, Range 3
     East, B.M., Valley County, Idaho; thence South 0°12'20" West along the East
     section line of said Section 16, 1321.108 feet to the Northeast corner of the
400  SE1/4SE1/4 of said Section 16, the real point of beginning thence South         5-5-
     0°12'20" West along said East section line, 349.07 feet to a point; thence     80
     South 89°59' West, 1000.78 feet to a point; thence North 0°11'28" East, 348.27
     feet to a point on the North boundary line of said SE1/4SE1/4; thence North
     89°56'16" East along said North boundary line, 1000.87 feet to the real point
     of beginning. Said tract of land contains 8.01 acres more or less, subject to
     easements of record or in use.
     Lot 9, Block 1 of Recorder's Plat 1; Section 8, Township 18 North, Range 3      1-3-
458  East, B.M., Valley County, Idaho; commonly known as the property adjoining      83
     Elevation 5000 on the Northwest side.
     A parcel of land situate in Government Lot 2, Sec. 8, T. 18 N., R. 3 E., B.M.,
     Valley County, Idaho, more particularly described as:
     Commencing at the northeast corner of Government Lot 2, Sec. 8, T. 18 N., R. 3
     E., B.M., Valley County, Idaho, the REAL POINT OF BEGINNING:
     Thence S. 89° 53' W., 631.41 feet along the north line of said Government Lot 2
     to the easterly right-of-way line of Warren Wagon Road,
     thence, S. 33°51'51" E., 409.23 feet along said easterly right-of-way,
     thence, S. 20°02'00" E., 253.21 feet along said easterly right-of-way,
     thence, S. 7°14'00" E., 159.24 feet along said easterly right-of-way to the
     extended northerly line of Lot 1, Shellworth Park Subdivision, as shown on the
503  official plat thereof on file in the Office of the Recorder of Valley County,   10-
     Idaho, in Book 1, Page 37 of Plats,                                             6-86
     thence, N. 89°53' E., 477.87 feet along said northerly line to the meander line
     of Payette Lake,
     thence N. 27°33' W., 284.50 feet along said meander line,
     thence N. 25°48' W., 145.20 feet along said meander line,
     thence N. 2°11'22" E., 353.28 feet along said meander line to the Point of
     Beginning, containing 7.791 acres, more or less.
     Bearings based on Recorders Plat on file in Book 4, Page 15 of Plats in the
     Office of the Recorder of Valley County, Idaho.
     And, also, Lots 11, 12, 13, 14 and 15 of the Recorders Plat on file in Book 4,
     Page 15 of Plats in the Office of the Recorder of Valley County, Idaho.
     A parcel of land situate in the N1/2 of Section 18, T. 18 N., R. 3 E., B.M.,
     Valley County, Idaho, more particularly described as follows:
     Commencing at a 31/4" brass cap marking the section corner common to Sections
     7, 8, 17, and 18, T. 18 N., R. 3 E., B.M., Valley County, Idaho, the REAL POINT
     OF BEGINNING:
     Thence, S. 00°10'56"W., 1,289.03 feet along the line common to said Sections 17
     and 18, thence, N. 89°48'12"W., 1,359.51 feet along the north right-of-way of
     West Valley Road, thence, S. 00°15'32"W., 1,300.14 feet along the west right-  5-1-
730  of-way of Wisdom Road, thence, N. 89°50'03"W., 2,618.53 feet along the         1999
     northerly right-of-way of West Mountain Road to the westerly boundary of the
     E1/2 of the NW1/4 of said Section 18, thence, N. 00°17'30"E., 2,593.25 feet to
     the W1/16 corner common to said Sections 7 and 18, thence, S. 89°45'59"E.,
     1,328.26 feet to a brass cap the quarter corner common to said Sections 7 and
     18, thence, S. 89°45'23"E., 1,324.34 feet to a 5/8" rebar marking the E1/16
     corner common to said Sections 7 and 18, thence, S. 89°46'18"E., 1,322.23 feet
     to the Point of Beginning, containing 195.96 acres, more or less.
     Bearings based on State Plane Grid Azimuth.
     A parcel of land situated in Sections 19, 20, 29, and 30, T.18N., R.3E., B.M.,
     more particularly described as follows:
     COMMENCING at the southeast corner of said Section 20; thence, along the south
     line of said section 20,
     N.89°59'40"W., 35.00 feet; thence, departing said section line,
     N.00°32'47"W., 35.00 feet to a point on the northerly Right-of- Way line of
     Moonridge Road, the POINT OF BEGINNING; thence, along said Right-of-Way line,
     N.89°59'40"W.,1699.48 feet to a point on a tangent curve; thence,
     along said curve to the left having a radius of 335.00 feet, an arc length of
     370.55 feet, through a central angle of 63°22'33", and a chord bearing and
     distance of S.58°19'03"W., 351.94 feet; thence, tangent from said curve,
     S.26°37'47"W.,1518.68 feet to a point on a tangent curve; thence,
     along said curve to the right having a radius of 765.00 feet, an arc length of
     87.80 feet, through a central angle of 6°34'33", and a chord bearing and
     distance of S.29°55'04"W., 87.75 feet; thence, tangent from said curve,
     S.33°12'20"W., 198.29 feet to a point on a tangent curve; thence,
     along said curve to the left having a radius of 2535.00 feet, an arc length of
     501.73 feet, through a central angle of 11°20'24", and a chord bearing and
     distance of S.27°32'09"W., 500.92 feet; thence, tangent from said curve,
     S.21°51'58"W., 327.21 feet to a point on a tangent curve; thence,
     along said curve to the right having a radius of 765.00 feet, an arc length of
     427.76 feet, through a central angle of 32°02'15", and a chord bearing and
     distance of S.37°53'04"W., 422.21 feet; thence, tangent from said curve,
     S.53°54'10"W., 623.18 feet to a point on a tangent curve; thence,
     along said curve to the right having a radius of 965.00 feet, an arc length of
     328.27 feet, through a central angle of 19°29'27", and a chord bearing and
     distance of S.63°38'54"W., 326.69 feet; thence, tangent from said curve,
     S.73°23'37"W., 685.87 feet to a point on a tangent curve; thence,
     along said curve to the right having a radius of 665.00 feet, an arc length of
     291.47 feet, through a central angle of 25°06'45", and a chord bearing and
     distance of S.85°56'59"W., 289.14 feet; thence, tangent from said curve,
     N.81°29'38"W., 121.76 feet to a point on the west line of said section 29;
     thence, departing said Right-of-Way, along said section line,
     N.00°16'47"E., 896.21 feet to the west 1/4 corner of said section 29; thence,
     N.00°00'50"E., 1322.83 feet to the north 1/16 corner of said section 29;
     thence, departing said section line, along the north line of Government Lot 6
     of said Section 30,
     N.89°48'17"W., 431.20 feet to a point on the mean high water line of Payette
     River; thence, departing said lot line, along said high water line,
     N.07°54'17"W., 150.64 feet; thence,
     N.11°26'47"W., 194.18 feet; thence,
     N.16°02'41"W., 152.34 feet; thence,
     N.66°12'42"W., 253.28 feet; thence,
     N.82°11'41"W., 162.54 feet; thence,
     N.71°16'52"W., 247.46 feet; thence,
     N.41°30'31"W., 141.00 feet; thence,
     N.05°25'48"E., 149.64 feet; thence,
     N.60°38'40"E., 98.11 feet; thence,
     N.79°29'13"E., 118.12 feet; thence,
     N.66°43'29"E., 288.33 feet; thence,
     N.32°14'07"E., 184.72 feet; thence,
     N.12°40'07"E., 41.24 feet to a point on the line between Sections 19 and 30,
     which bears N.89°45'14"W., 665.24 feet from the northeast corner of said
     Section 30; thence, continuing along said high water line,
     N.12°40'07"E., 151.37 feet; thence,
     N.12°13'11"W., 296.85 feet; thence,
     N.33°04'22"W., 212.59 feet; thence,
     N.46°53'17"W., 485.08 feet; thence,
     N.31°46'47"W., 266.08 feet; thence,
     N.07°09'19"W., 183.59 feet; thence,                                            10-
759  N.33°36'07"E., 178.29 feet; thence,                                            25-
     N.79°07'12"E., 575.93 feet; thence,                                            2001
     N.71°46'45"E., 165.60 feet; thence,
     N.47°00'20"E., 390.42 feet; thence,
     N.56°32'04"E., 267.48 feet to a point on the line between said Sections 19 and
     20, the northwest corner of Government Lot 6 of said Section 20; thence, along
     said section line,
     S.00°03'42"W., 757.91 feet to the southwest corner of said Government Lot 6;
     thence, along the south line of said lot,
     S.89°59'06"E., 1339.79 feet to the southeast corner of said government lot;
     thence, along the east line of said lot,
     N.00°18'16"E., 564.16 feet to the northeast corner of said lot 6, a point on
     the mean high water line of Payette River; thence, along said high water line,
     S.68°24'20"E., 48.16 feet; thence,
     N.71°39'31"E., 217.29 feet; thence,
     N.38°12'38"E., 190.14 feet; thence,
     N.04°54'18"W., 201.13 feet; thence,
     N.27°37'55"W., 210.23 feet; thence,
     N.37°39'42"W., 106.90 feet; thence,
     S.50°24'10"W., 188.24 feet; thence,
     N.82°51'08"W., 152.18 feet; thence,
     N.40°23'46"W., 171.86 feet; thence,
     N.03°53'13"E., 247.34 feet; thence,
     N.28°49'04"E., 144.58 feet; thence,
     N.79°57'49"E., 234.30 feet; thence,
     S.79°13'53"E., 338.12 feet; thence,
     N.84°33'15"E., 236.13 feet; thence,
     N.49°33'08"E., 140.41 feet; thence,
     N.38°26'24"E., 283.81 feet; thence,
     N.00°44'20"W., 437.07 feet; thence,
     N.71°55'48"W., 95.20 feet; thence,
     N.29°17'20"W., 176.93 feet; thence,
     N.10°41'12"W., 389.37 feet; thence,
     N.04°43'10"E., 276.23 feet; thence,
     N.36°24'20"E., 189.75 feet; thence,
     S.80°51'22"E., 153.08 feet; thence,
     S.42°03'36"E., 224.66 feet; thence,
     S.47°40'18"E., 255.56 feet; thence,
     S.83°19'39"E., 241.11 feet; thence,
     S.87°40'30"E., 233.39 feet; thence,
     N.81°31'06"E., 365.91 feet; thence,
     N.67°59'28"E., 210.65 feet; thence,
     N.47°17'37"E., 211.04 feet; thence,
     N.17°46'27"W., 97.30 feet; thence,
     N.07°56'34"W., 180.13 feet; thence,
     N.06°37'42"E., 308.64 feet; thence,
     N.22°13'53"E., 101.28 feet; thence,
     N.04°27'33"E., 36.57 feet to a point on the north line of said Section 20;
     thence, departing said high water line, along said section line,
     S.89°45'05"E., 619.85 feet; thence, departing said section line,
     S.00°34'03"W., 518.31 feet; thence,
     N.86°31'18"E., 227.75 feet; thence,
     S.07°21'38"W., 165.55 feet; thence,
     S.34°56'17"W., 117.99 feet; thence,
     S.02°32'23"E., 309.79 feet; thence,
     N.81°19'36"E., 714.63 feet to a point on the west Right-of-Way line for Mission
     Street; thence, along said Right-of-Way line,
     S.00°32'46"W., 1683.25 feet; thence,
     S.00°32'47"W., 2611.99 feet to the POINT OF BEGINNING.
     CONTAINING 683.73 Acres, more or less.
     SUBJECT TO all Covenants, Rights, Rights-of-Way, and Easements of Record.
     A parcel of land being part of the Southwest 1/4 of Section 17, T18N, R3E,
     B.M., Valley County, and more particularly described as follows:
     Commencing at a found brass cap marking the West 1/4 corner of Section 17,
     T18N, R3E, B.M., Valley County; thence South 89°52'18" East along the East-West
     Center Section line of said Section 17, 1,337.20 feet to a found 5/8" iron pin
     marking the Center West 1/16 corner of said Section 17; thence leaving said
     Center Section line South 00°09'19" West, 128.34 feet to a found 5/8" iron pin;
     thence South 00°10'42" West, 38.15 feet to the POINT OF BEGINNING;
     thence South 89°54'08" East, 334.26 feet to a point;
     thence South 00°11'24" West, 1,157.51 feet to a point on the Northerly boundary
     of Pine Terrace Addition No. 2, a subdivision recorded in Book 7, Page 75, of   9-
760  the Valley County Records;                                                      13-
     thence along said Northerly boundary North 89°59'38" West, 1,146.65 feet to a  2001
     found 5/8" iron pin on the Northeasterly Right-of-Way of Chad Drive;
     thence along said Right-of-Way, on a non-tangent curve to the left, having a
     radius of 200 feet, a length of 95.05 feet, and a long chord which bears North
     44°13'34" West, 94.16 feet to a point;
     thence continuing along said Right-of-Way North 57°50'28" West, 81.90 feet to a
     point;
     thence leaving said Right-of-Way North 00°00'00" West, 928.80 feet to a point;
     thence South 89°54'08" East, 168.43 feet to a point;
     thence North 00°00'00" West, 119.70 feet to a point;
     thence South 89°54'08" East, 782.80 feet to the POINT OF BEGINNING.
     Said parcel contains 33.47 acres, more or less.
     Westerly Part of Tax No. 43 in Government Lot 6                                 1-
762  and                                                                             24-
     Westerly Part of Tax No. 44 in Government Lot 6                                 2002

     A parcel of land being part of the Southwest 1/4 of Section 17, T18N, R3E,
     B.M., Valley County, and more particularly described as follows:
     A parcel of land situate in the West 1/2 of Section 21, T.18N., R.3E., B.M.,
     Valley County, Idaho, more particularly described as follows:
     Commencing at a brass cap marking the corner common to Sections 16, 17, 20 and
     21, T.18N., R.3E., B.M., Valley County, Idaho; thence N. 89°38'17" E., 798.49
     feet along the line common to said Sections 16 and 21 to the REAL POINT OF
     BEGINNING:
     Thence, continuing N. 89°38'17" E., 600.05 feet to an aluminum cap,            6-
776  Thence, S. 01°06'28" E., 2656.89 feet to an aluminum cap,                      12-
     Thence, S. 89°59'04" E., 58.71 feet to an aluminum cap,                        2003
     Thence, S. 01°09'04" E., 263.58 feet to an iron pipe,
     Thence, S. 01°20'23" E., 1,101.09 feet to an aluminum cap,
     Thence, S. 88°50'56" W., 720.00 feet to an aluminum cap,
     Thence, N. 01°19'05" W., 1,117.870 feet to an iron pipe,
     Thence, N. 01°09'04" W., 261.45 feet to an aluminum cap,
     Thence, S. 89°59'04" E., 60.96 feet to an aluminum cap,
     Thence, N. 01°06'28" W., 2,652.94 feet to the Point of Beginning, containing
     59.239 acres, more or less.
     Bearings are based on Record of Survey Inst. No. 202221.
     A parcel of land situated in the southeast 1/4 of the southeast 1/4 of section
     7, township 18 north, range 3 east, Boise Meridian, city of McCall, Valley
     County, Idaho, being a portion of that certain 15.00 acre parcel of land shown
     on record of survey book 7, page 95, Valley County records, more particularly,
     described as follows:
     Commencing at the southeast corner of said section, from which corner, the east
     1/16 corner common to said section 7 and 18 bears N.89°47'03"W., 1322.24 feet;
     thence, along the south line said section 7,
     A) N.89°47'03"W., 703.88 feet to a point on the westerly line of an existing
     county road as shown on said survey; thence, along said westerly line,
     B) N.50°24'33"E., 97.65 feet to the beginning of a non-tangent curve, and the
     point of beginning; thence,
     1) Northwesterly along said curve to the right having a radius of 30.00 feet,
     an arc length of 42.55 feet, through a central angle of 81°15'24", and a chord
     bearing and distance of N.88°57'45"W., 39.07 feet; thence, tangent from said
     curve,
     2) N.48°20'03"W., 77.80 feet; thence,
     3) N.43°35'01"E., 97.60 feet; thence,
     4) N.35°38'43"W., 90.67 feet; thence,
     5) N.04°00'00"W., 180.84 feet; thence,
     6) N.89°47'44"W., 275.63 feet; thence,
     7) N.23°06'50"E., 82.99 feet; thence,
     8) N.59°58'03"W., 111.22 feet; thence,
     9) S.38°30'42"W., 63.37 feet to the beginning of a tangent curve; thence,
     10) Southwesterly along said curve to the left having a radius of 120.00 feet,
     an arc length of 8.09 feet, through a central angle of 03°51'40", and a chord
     bearing and distance of S.36°34'52"W., 8.09 feet; thence, non-tangent from said
     curve,
     11) N.55°20'58"W., 60.00 feet to the beginning of a non- tangent curve; thence,
     12) Northeasterly along said curve to the left having a radius of 20.00 feet,
     an arc length of 24.08 feet, through a central angle of 68°59'16", and a chord
     bearing and distance of N.00°09'47"E., 22.65 feet to a point of reverse
     curvature; thence,
     13) Northwesterly along said curve to the right having a radius of 50.00 feet,
     an arc length of 13.88 feet, through a central angle of 15°54'19", and a chord
     bearing and distance of N.26°22'18"W., 13.84 feet; thence, non-tangent from
     said curve,
     14) N.89°44'00"W., 157.11 feet to a point on the westerly line of said parcel;
     thence, along the exterior boundary of said parcel through the following
     courses:
     15) N.00°13'33"E., 275.07 feet; thence,
     16) S.89°45'24"E., 831.91 feet; thence,
     17) S.00°19'43"W., 179.82 feet to a non-tangent point on a curve on the above-
     described westerly line of said county road; thence, along said westerly line,
     18) Southwesterly along said curve to the left having a radius of 355.00 feet,
     an arc length of 293.86 feet, through a central angle of 47°25'38", and a chord
     bearing and distance of S.19°44'56"W., 285.54 feet; thence, tangent from said
     curve,
     19) S.03°57'52"E., 220.00 feet to the beginning of a tangent curve; thence,
     20) Southwesterly along said curve to the right having a radius of 145.00 feet,
     an arc length of 137.60 feet, through a central angle of 54°22'25", and a chord
     bearing and distance of S.23°13'21"W., 132.50 feet; thence, tangent from said
     curve,
     21) S.50°24'33"W., 9.00 feet to the point of beginning.
     Containing 7.76 acres, more or less.
     Individual Timbercrest Lots
     Parcel J - RP18N03E078405
     Parcel K - RP18N03E079020
     Inst # 334433
     Parcel J:
     The E 1/2 E 1/2 SW 1/4 SE 1/4 section 7, township 18 north range 3 east Boise
     Meridian Valley County, Idaho.
     Parcel K:
     A parcel of land situate in SE 1/4 of the SE 1/4 of section 7, township 18
     north range 3 east Boise Meridian city of McCall, Idaho more particularly
     described as follows:
     Commencing at a brass cap marking the southeast corner of section 7, township
     18 north range 3 east Boise Meridian, city of McCall Valley County Idaho thence
     north 89° 47'44" west 1,323.34 feet along the south boundary of said section 7
     to a 5/8 inch rebar marking the east 1/16 corner on the south boundary of said
     section 7; thence north 00°16'00" east 858.85 feet along the west boundary of
     said SE 1/4 SE 1/4 section 7 to a 1/2 inch rebar, the real point of beginning.
     Thence continuing north 00°15'00" east 464.55 feet to a 5/8 inch rebar marking
     the south east 1/16 corner of said section 71 thence south 89°44'19" east
     906.61 feet along the north boundary of said SE 1/4 SE 1/4 section 7 to a 5/
     8 inch rebar thence south 00°13'05" west 581.86 feet to a 1/2 inch rebar on the
     north right of way of a county road, thence 96.76 feet along a non-tangent
     curve to the left, whose long chord bears south 51°15'01" west 96.46 feet whose
     radius is 355.00 feet and delta angle is 15°37'02" along said westerly right of
     way to a 1/2 inch rebar, thence north 00°13'05" east 177.95 feet to a 1/2 inch
     rebar thence north 89°44'00" west 832.00 feet to the point of beginning.
     Parcel #1 - RP18N03E079840
     Parcel #2 - RP18N03E079201
     Inst #344588
     Parcel 1:
     A parcel of land situated in the southeast 1/4 of the southeast 1/4, section 7,
     township 18 north, range 3 east, Boise Meridian, city of McCall, Valley County,
     Idaho. Said parcel was surveyed in alignment with the deed description offered
     in instrument #287388 filed on September 14, 2004, being the remainder of that
     parcel less those areas incorporated into the plat of Timbercrest Subdivision
     phase 1, filed at book 10 page 31 as instrument #302871 on November 16, 2005,
     and more particularly described as follows: Commencing at the southeast corner
     of said section 7; thence along the south boundary of said section, N. 89° 47'
     32" W., 703.15 feet to the southeast corner of said remainder parcel on the
     west right of way of Verita Road, and the point of beginning. Thence, along
     said west right of way, N. 50° 06' 49" E., 97.51 feet to a point of curvature
     on the boundary of lot 1, block 2 of said Timbercrest Subdivision; thence,
     departing said west right of way, and along the lot boundaries of Timbercrest
     Subdivision, 42.80 feet along a non-tangent curve to the right having a radius
     of 30.00 feet a delta angle of 81° 43' 16", and a long chord of 39.26 feet;
     bearing N. 88° 49' 56" W., to a point; thence N. 48° 14' 04" W., 77.98 feet to
     a point; thence N. 43° 52'21" E., 97.35 feet to a point on the west boundary of
     lot 2, block 2; thence N. 35° 22' 54" W., 90.99 feet to a point on the west
     boundary of lot 3, block 2; thence N. 3° 55' 57" W., 156.35 feet to a point on
     the west boundary of lot 5, block 2; thence departing said lot boundaries, N.
     89° 47' 31" W., 308.07 feet to a point; thence S. 0° 14' 53" W., 415.54 feet to
     a point on the south boundary of said section 7; thence, along said south
     boundary, S. 89° 47' 32" E., 328.41 feet to the point of beginning. Bearings
     based on state plane grid.
     Parcel 2:
     A parcel of land situated in the southeast 1/4 of the southeast 1/4, section 7,
     township 18 north, range 3 east, Boise Meridian, city of McCall, Valley County,
     Idaho. Said parcel was surveyed in alignment with the deed description offered
     in instrument #289097 filed on November 2, 2004, being the remainder of that
     parcel less those areas incorporated into the plat of Timbercrest Subdivision
     phase 1, filed at book 10 page 31 as instrument #302871 on November 16, 2005,
     and more particularly described as follows:
     Commencing at the southeast corner of said section 7; thence along the south
     boundary of said section, N. 89° 47' 32" W., 703.15 feet to a point on the west
     right of way of Verita Road; thence, along said west right of way, N. 50° 06'
     49" E., 97.51 feet to a point of curvature on the boundary of lot 1, block 2 of
     said Timbercrest Subdivision; thence, departing said west right of way, and
     along the lot boundaries of Timbercrest Subdivision, 42.80 feet along a non-
     tangent curve to the right, having a radius of 30.00 feet, a delta angle of 81°
     43' 16", and a long chord of 39.26 feet bearing N. 88° 49' 56" W., to a point;
     thence N. 48° 14' 04" W., 77.98 feet to a point; thence N. 43° 52' 21" E.,    2-9-
893  97.35 feet to a point on the west boundary of lot 2, block 2; thence N. 35° 22'2012
     54" W., 90.99 feet to a point on the west boundary of lot 3, block 2; thence N.
     3° 55' 57" W., 156.35 feet to a point on the west boundary of lot 5, block 2,
     and the point of beginning. Thence, departing said lot boundaries, N. 89° 47'
     31" W., 308.07 feet to a point; thence S. 0° 14' 53" W., 415.54 feet to a point
     on the south boundary of said section 7; thence, along said south boundary, N.
     89° 47' 32" W., 290.59 feet to the east 1/16 corner of said section 7; thence,
     along the 1/16 line of said section, N. 0° 16' 26" E., 584.38 feet to the
     southwest corner of lot 9, block 1, Timbercrest Subdivision; thence, along the
     lot boundaries of Timbercrest Subdivision, S. 89° 34' 04" E., 157.03 feet to
     the southeast corner of said lot 9; thence along the right of way of
     Timbercrest Loop, 13.86 feet along a non-tangent curve to the left, having a
     radius of 50.00 feet, a delta angle of 15° 52' 59", and a long chord of 13.82
     feet bearing S. 26° 26' 57" E., to a point; thence 23.99 feet along a curve to
     the right having a radius of 20.00 feet, a delta angle of 68° 42' 51", and a
     long chord of 22.57 feet bearing S. 0° 12' 59" W., to a point; thence crossing
     Timbercrest Loop, S. 55° 25' 00" E., 60.00 feet to a point; thence 8.07 feet
     along a non-tangent curve to the right having a radius of 120.00 feet, a delta
     angle of 3° 51' 19", and a long chord of 8.07 feet bearing N. 36° 06' 19" E.,
     to a point; thence N. 38° 26' 40" E., 63.25 feet to the southwest corner of lot
     9, block 2; thence S. 60° 02' 05" E., 111.01 feet to the southeast corner of
     lot 9, block 2; thence S. 23° 03' 52" W., 82.65 feet to the southwest corner of
     lot 7, block 2; thence S. 89° 47' 31" E., 275.63 feet to the southeast corner
     of lot 7, block 2; thence S. 3° 55' 57" E., 24.45 feet to the point of
     beginning. Bearings based on state plane grid.
     Parcel # RP18N03E079225
     Inst # 287388
     Parcel 1
     A tract of land in the southeast quarter of the southeast quarter of section 7,
     township 18 north, range 3 east, Boise Meridian, Valley County Idaho, more
     particularly described as follows:
     Commencing at the southeast corner of said quarter section; thence west along
     the south boundary line thereof a distance of 616 feet to the real point of
     beginning; thence north 416 feet; thence west 416 feet, thence south 416 feet,
     thence east 416 feet to the real point of beginning.
     Together with that: certain "existing road access easement" as shown on that
     certain record of survey as filed for record in the office of the recorder,
     Valley County, Idaho, as instrument no. 182127,
     Save and except parcel 2
     A parcel of land situate in the SE 1/4 of the SE 1/4 of section 7. T. 18 N. R.3
     E. B.M., city of McCall, Valley County, Idaho, more particularly described as
     follows:
     Commencing at a brass cap marking the southeast corner of section 7, T. 18 N.,
     R. 3 E., B.M., city of McCall, Valley County, Idaho; thence, N. 89° 47' 44" W.,
     415.60 feet along the south boundary of said section 7 to a 1/2 inch rebar, the
     real point of beginning:
     Thence continuing N. 89° 47' 44" W., 269.06 feet along said south boundary to a
     1/2 inch rebar,
     Thence, N. 50° 22' 25" E., 108.33 feet along the west boundary of a county road
     to a 1/2 inch rebar,
     Thence, 137.60 feet along curve to the left whose radius is 145.00 feet, and
     delta angle is 54° 22' 25" along the west boundary of said county road to a 1/
     2 inch rebar.
     Thence, N. 04° 00' 00" W., 220.00 feet along the west boundary of said county
     road to a 1/2 inch rebar.
     Thence, 390.71 feet along a curve to the right whose radius is 355.00 feet, and
     delta angle is 63° 03' 33" along the west boundary of said county road to a 1/
     2 inch rebar.
     Thence, S. 00° 13' 05" W., 72.95 feet to a 5/8 inch rebar on the easterly
     boundary of said county road.
     Thence, 286.83 feet along a non-tangent curve to the left whose long chord
     bears S. 23° 51' 13" W., 275.66 feet. Whose radius is 295.00 feet, and delta
     angle is 55° 42' 29" along said easterly boundary to a 5/8 inch rebar.
     Thence, S. 04° 00' 00"E., 220.00 feet along said easterly right- of-way to a 5/
     8 inch rebar.
     Thence, 132.03 feet along a curve to the right, whose radius is 205.00 feet,
     and delta angle is 36° 54' 66" along said easterly boundary to a 1/2 inch
     rebar.
     Thence, S. 89° 41' 44" E., 126.23 feet to a 1/2 inch rebar,
     Thence, S. 00° 13' 05" W., 70.00 feet to the point of beginning, containing
     1.351 acres.
     Bearings are based on the record of survey inst. no.182127.
     Parcel# RP18N03E079506
     Inst # 289348
     A parcel of land situate in the SE 1/4 of the SE 1/4 of section 7, T. 18 N., R.
     3 E., B.M., Valley County, Idaho, more particularly described as follows:
     Commencing at a brass cap marking the section corner common to sections 7, 8,
     17 and 18, T. 18 N., R. 3 E., B.M., Valley County, Idaho;
     Thence, N. 89° 47' 44" W., 416.00 feet along the southerly boundary of said
     section 7 to a 1/2 inch rebar; thence, N. 0° 13' 04" E., 70.00 feet along a
     line parallel to the easterly boundary of said section 7 to a 1/2 inch rebar,
     the real point of beginning:
     Thence, continuing N. 0° 13' 04" E., 597.68 feet to the easterly boundary of a
     60 foot road.
     Thence, 286.82 feet along a non-tangent curve to the left whose long chord
     bears S. 23° 51' 12" W., 276.66 feet and radius is 295.00 feet and delta angle
     is 55° 42' 25" along said road boundary,
     Thence, S. 4° 00' 00" E., 220.00 feet along said road boundary,
     Thence, 132.03 feet along a curve to the right whose radius is 205.00 feet and
     delta angle is 36° 54' 01" along said road boundary to a 1/2 inch rebar,
     Thence, S. 89° 47' 114" E., 126.23 feet along a line parallel to and 70.00 feet
     northerly of the south boundary of said section 7, to the point of beginning,
     containing 1.280 acres, more or less.
     Bearings based on state plane grid azimuth.
     Verita Rd
     A parcel of land situate in the SE 1/4 of the SE 1/4 of section 7, T. 18 N., R.
     3E. B.M., city of McCall, Valley County, Idaho, more particularly described as
     follows:
     Commencing at a brass cap marking the south east corner of section 7, T. 18 N.,
     R. 3 E., B.M., city of McCall, Valley County, Idaho; thence, N. 89° 47' 44" W.,
     415.60 feet along the south boundary of said section 7 to a 1/2 inch rebar. The
     real point of beginning:
     Thence continuing N. 89° 47' 44" W., 269.06 feet along said south boundary to a
     1/2 inch rebar,
     Thence, N. 50° 22' 25" E., 108.33 feet along the west boundary of a county road
     to a 1/2 inch rebar,
     Thence, 137.60 feet along curve to the left whose radius is 145.00 feet, and
     delta angle is 54° 22' 25" along the west boundary of said county road to a 1/
     2 inch rebar.
     Thence, N. 04° 00' 00" W., 220.00 feet along the west boundary of said county
     road to a 1/2 inch rebar.
     Thence, 390.71 feet along a curve to the right whose radius is 355.00 feet, and
     delta angle is 63° 03' 33" along the west boundary of said county road to a 1/
     2 inch rebar.
     Thence, S. 00° 13' 05" W., 72.95 feet to a 5/8 inch rebar on the easterly
     boundary of said county road.
     Thence, 286.83 feet along a non-tangent curve to the left whose long chord
     bears S. 23° 51' 13" W., 275.66 feet. Whose radius is 295.00 feet, and delta
     angle is 55° 42' 29" along said easterly boundary to a 5/8 inch rebar.
     Thence, S. 04° 00' 00"E., 220.00 feet along said easterly right- of-way to a 5/
     8 inch rebar.
     Thence, 132.03 feet along a curve to the right, whose radius is 205.00 feet,
     and delta angle is 36° 54' 66" along said easterly boundary to a 1/2 inch
     rebar.
     Thence, S. 89° 41' 44" E., 126.23 feet to a 1/2 inch rebar,
     Thence, S. 00° 13' 05" W., 70.00 feet to the point of beginning, containing
     1.351 acres.
     Parcel # RP18N03E177803
     Inst # 268550
     A parcel of land for right-of-way purposes for Deinhard Lane, project no. STP-
     3270(101), situated in the N1/2 of the SE1/4 of section 17, T.18N., R.3E.,
     B.M., Valley County, Idaho, being a portion of that certain 15.838 acre parcel
     of land as shown on record of survey recorded in book 6, page 549. Valley
     County records, more particularly described as follows: Commencing at the 1/
     4 corner common to said section 17 and 16, from which corner the west 1/
     4 corner of section 17 bears N. 89° 52' 02"W., 1633.469 meters, (5359.14 feet);
     thence, along the east-west mid-section line of said section,
     A) N. 89°52'02"W., 330.483 meters, (1084.26 feet) to the point of beginning;
     thence,
     1) S. 57°36'22"W., 40.603 meters, (133.21 feet) to the beginning of a tangent
     curve; thence,
     2) Southwesterly along said curve to the right having a radius of 180.480
     meters, (592.12 feet), an arc length of 154.699 meters, (507.54 feet), through
     a central angle of 49°06'40", and a chord bearing and distance of
     S.82°09'42"W., 150.006 meters, (492.14 feet); thence, tangent from said curve,
     3) N. 73°16' 58"W., 69.185 meters, (226.98 feet) to the east bank of the north
     fork of the Payette River; thence, along said east bank,
     4) N. 34°52'38"E., 15.413 meters, (50.57 feet); thence,
     5) N. 42°00'28"E., 13.729 meters, (45.04 feet) to a point on the above-
     described mid-section line; thence, along said line,
     6) S. 89°52'02"E., 231.150 meters, (758.36 feet) to the point of beginning.
     Containing 2.17 acres, (0.879 HA).
     Subject to all covenants, rights, right-of-way, and easements of record.
     Parcel # RP18N03E177855
     Inst# 245010
     A parcel of land situate in the NE 1/4 of the SE 1/4, and government lot 6, of  2-9-
894  section 17, T. 18N., R. 3E., B.M., city of McCall, Valley County, Idaho, more   2012
     particularly described as follows:
     Commencing at a brass cap marking the corner common to sections 16 and 17, T.
     18N., R. 3E., B.M., city of McCall, Valley County, Idaho, the real point of
     beginning:
     Thence, S. 00° 33' 24" W., 285.69 feet along the line common to said sections
     16 and 17 to a 1/2" x 24" rebar, thence, N. 89° 52' 18" W., 1,517.59 feet to a
     1/2" x 24" rebar,
     Thence, S. 63° 36' 33" W., 631.38 feet to a 1/2" x 24" rebar,
     Thence, S. 69° 00' 40" W., 349.18 feet to a 1/2" x 24" rebar,
     Thence, continuing S. 69° 00' 40" W., 37.00 feet to the high water mark of the
     north fork of the Payette River, thence, northeasterly along said high water
     mark:
     N. 29° 29' 43" E., 93.73 feet;
     N. 34° 21' 24" E., 104.66 feet;
     N. 53° 45' 36" E., 76.43 feet;
     N. 44° 59' 18" E., 142.34 feet;
     N. 49° 54' 47" E., 119.30 feet;
     N. 56° 17' 53" E., 75.15 feet;
     N. 29° 02' 39" E., 116.93 feet;
     N. 34° 52' 38" E., 167.64 feet;
     N. 42° 00' 28" E., 44.79 feet to the north boundary of said government lot 6,
     Thence, S. 89° 52' 18" E., 42.78 feet along said north boundary to a 5/8"
     rebar,
     Thence, continuing S. 89° 52' 18" E., 1799.85 feet to the point of beginning,
     containing 15.838 acres, more or less.
     Payette River Parcel
     The portion of the Payette River from where the Payette River crosses the
     section line shared by section 17 and 20 of township 18N range 3E then north to
     the existing city limits which lays 320 ft south of the Deinhard Lane Bridge.
     The zoning classification is hereby established as the RR for the four
     properties - Tax no. 1 in NE4 NE4 S12 T18N R2E; pt. gov't lot 1 pt. NW NE NW S7
     T18N R3E; tax no. 84 in SW4 NE4 S7 T18N R3E; s'rly pt. of tax no. 120 in gov't
     lot 1 S7 T18N R3E and R4 zone for tax no. 89 in NE4 NW4 S7 T18N R3E; tax no. 91 10-
905  in NE NW S7 T18N R3E; and amended tax no. 68 in NE4 NW4 S7 T18N R3E. The zoning 25-
     classification is hereby established as the R4 for the three properties - tax   2012
     no. 91 in NE NW S7 T18 R3E; amended tax no. in 68 NE4 NW4 S7 T18N R3E; and tax
     no. 89 in NE4 NW4 S7 T18N R3E.
      
     This ordinance replaced by ordinance 910.
     A parcel of land situated in the southeast 1/4 of the southeast 1/4 of section
     7, township 18 north, range 3 east, Boise Meridian, city of McCall, Valley
     County, Idaho, being a portion of that certain 15.00 acre parcel of land shown
     on record of survey book 7, page 95, Valley County records, more particularly,
     described as follows:
     Commencing at the southeast corner of said section, from which corner, the east
     1/16 corner common to said section 7 and 18 bears N. 89° 47' 03" W., 1322.24
     feet;
     Thence, along the south line said section 7,
     A) N. 89° 47' 03" W., 703.88 feet to a point on the westerly line of an
     existing county road as shown on said survey;
     Thence, along said westerly line,
     B) N. 50° 24' 33" E., 97.65 feet to the beginning of a non-tangent curve, and
     the point of beginning; thence,
     1) Northwesterly along said curve to the right having a radius of 30.00 feet,
     an arc length of 42.55 feet, through a central angle of 81° 15' 24", and a
     chord bearing and distance of N. 88° 57' 45" W., 39.07 feet;
     Thence, tangent from said curve,
     2) N. 48° 20' 03" W., 77.80 feet; thence,
     3) N. 43° 35' 01" E., 97.60 feet; thence,
     4) N. 35° 38' 43" W., 90.67 feet; thence,
     5) N. 04° 00' 00" W., 180.84 feet; thence,
     6) N. 89° 47' 44" W., 275.63 feet; thence,
     7) N. 23° 06' 50" E., 82.99 feet; thence,
     8) N. 59° 58' 03" W., 111.22 feet; thence,
     9) S. 38° 30' 42" W., 63.37 feet to the beginning of a tangent curve; thence,
     10) Southwesterly along said curve to the left having a radius of 120.00 feet,
     an arc length of 8.09 feet, through a central angle of 03° 51' 40", and a chord
     bearing and distance of S. 36° 34' 52" W., 8.09 feet; thence, non-tangent from
     said curve,
     11) N. 55° 20' 58" W., 60.00 feet to the beginning of a non-tangent curve;
     thence,
     12) Northeasterly along said curve to the left having a radius of 20.00 feet,
     an arc length of 24.08 feet, through a central angle of 68° 59' 16", and a
     chord bearing and distance of N. 00° 09' 47" E., 22.65 feet to a point of
     reverse curvature; thence,
     13) Northwesterly along said curve to the right having a radius of 50.00 feet,
     an arc length of 13.88 feet, through a central angle of 15° 54' 19", and a
     chord bearing and distance of N. 26° 22' 18" W., 13.84 feet; thence, non-
     tangent from said curve,
     14) N. 89° 44' 00" W., 157.11 feet to a point on the westerly line of said
     parcel; thence, along the exterior boundary of said parcel through the
     following courses:
     15) N. 00° 13' 33" E., 275.07 feet; thence,
     16) S. 89° 45' 24" E., 831.91 feet; thence,
     17) S. 00° 19' 43" W., 179.82 feet to a non-tangent point on a curve on the
     above-described westerly line of said county road; thence, along said westerly
     line,
     18) Southwesterly along said curve to the left having a radius of 355.00 feet,
     an arc length of 293.86 feet, through a central angle of 47° 25' 38", and a
     chord bearing and distance of S. 19° 44' 56" W., 285.54 feet; thence, tangent
     from said curve,
     19) S. 03° 57' 52" E., 220.00 feet to the beginning of a tangent curve; thence,
     20) Southwesterly along said curve to the right having a radius of 145.00 feet,
     an arc length of 137.60 feet, through a central angle of 54° 22' 25", and a
     chord bearing and distance of S. 23° 13' 21" W., 132.50 feet; thence, tangent
     from said curve,
     21) S. 50° 24' 33" W., 9.00 feet to the point of beginning.
     Containing 7.76 acres, more or less.
     Individual Timbercrest Lots
     Parcel J - RP18N03E078405
     Parcel K - RP18N03E079020
     Inst # 334433
     Parcel J:
     The E 1/2 E 1/2 SW 1/4 SE 1/4 section 7, township 18 north range 3 east Boise
     Meridian Valley County, Idaho.
     Parcel K:
     A parcel of land situated in SE 1/4 of the SE 1/4 of section 7, township 18
     north range 3 east Boise Meridian city of McCall, Idaho more particularly
     described as follows:
     Commencing at a brass cap marking the south east corner of section 7, township
     18 north range 3 east Boise Meridian, city of McCall, Valley County, Idaho
     Thence north 89° 47' 44" west 1,323.34 feet along the south boundary of said
     section 7 to a 5/8 inch rebar marking the east 1/16 corner on the south
     boundary of said section 7;
     Thence north 00° 16' 00" east 858.85 feet along the west boundary of said SE 1/
     4 SE 1/4 section 7 to a 1/2 inch rebar, the real point of beginning.
     Thence continuing north 00° 15' 00" east 464.55 feet to a 5/8 inch rebar
     marking the south east 1/16 corner of said section 7;
     Thence south 89° 44' 19" east 906.61 feet along the north boundary of said SE
     1/4 SE 1/4 section 7 to a 5/8 inch rebar
     Thence south 00° 13' 05" west 581.86 feet to a 1/2 inch rebar on the north
     right of way of a county road,
     Thence 96.76 feet along a non-tangent curve to the left, whose long chord bears
     south 51° 15' 01" west 96.46 feet whose radius is 355.00 feet and delta angle
     is 15° 37' 02" along said westerly right of way to a 1/2 inch rebar,
     Thence north 00° 13' 05" east 177.95 feet to a 1/2 inch rebar
     Thence north 89° 44' 00" west 832.00 feet to the point of beginning.
     Parcel #1 - RP18N03E079840
     Parcel #2 - RP18N03E079201
     Inst #344588
     Parcel 1:
     A parcel of land situated in the southeast 1/4 of the southeast 1/4, section 7,
     township 18 north, range 3 east, Boise Meridian, city of McCall, Valley County,
     Idaho. Said parcel was surveyed in alignment with the deed description offered
     in instrument #287388 filed on September 14, 2004, being the remainder of that
     parcel less those areas incorporated into the plat of Timbercrest Subdivision
     phase 1, filed at book 10 page 31 as instrument #302871 on November 16, 2005,
     and more particularly described as follows:
     Commencing at the southeast corner of said section 7;
     Thence along the south boundary of said section, N. 89° 47' 32" W., 703.15 feet
     to the southeast corner of said remainder parcel on the west right of way of
     Verita Road, and the point of beginning.
     Thence, along said west right of way, N. 50° 06' 49" E., 97.51 feet to a point
     of curvature on the boundary of lot 1, block 2 of said Timbercrest Subdivision;
     Thence, departing said west right of way, and along the lot boundaries of
     Timbercrest Subdivision, 42.80 feet along a non-tangent curve to the right
     having a radius of 30.00 feet a delta angle of 81° 43' 16", and a long chord of
     39.26 feet; bearing N. 88° 49' 56" W., to a point;
     Thence N. 48° 14' 04" W., 77.98 feet to a point;
     Thence N. 43° 52' 21" E., 97.35 feet to a point on the west boundary of lot 2,
     block 2;
     Thence N. 35° 22' 54" W., 90.99 feet to a point on the west boundary of lot 3,
     block 2;
     Thence N. 3° 55' 57" W., 156.35 feet to a point on the west boundary of lot 5,
     block 2;
     Thence departing said lot boundaries, N. 89° 47' 31" W., 308.07 feet to a
     point;
     Thence S. 0° 14' 53" W., 415.54 feet to a point on the south boundary of said
     section 7;
     Thence, along said south boundary, S. 89° 47' 32" E., 328.41 feet to the point
     of beginning.
     Bearings based on state plane grid.
     Parcel 2:
     A parcel of land situated in the southeast 1/4 of the southeast 1/4 , section
     7, township 18 north, range 3 east, Boise Meridian, city of McCall, Valley
     County, Idaho. Said parcel was surveyed in alignment with the deed description
     offered in instrument #289097 filed on November 2, 2004, being the remainder of
     that parcel less those areas incorporated into the plat of Timbercrest
     Subdivision phase 1, filed at book 10 page 31 as instrument #302871 on November
     16, 2005, and more particularly described as follows:
     Commencing at the southeast corner of said section 7;
     Thence along the south boundary of said section, N. 89° 47' 32" W., 703.15 feet
     to a point on the west right of way of Verita Road;
     Thence, along said west right of way, N. 50° 06' 49" E., 97.51 feet to a point
     of curvature on the boundary of lot 1, block 2 of said Timbercrest Subdivision;
     Thence, departing said west right of way, and along the lot boundaries of
     Timbercrest Subdivision, 42.80 feet along a non-tangent curve to the right,
     having a radius of 30.00 feet, a delta angle of 81° 43' 16", and a long chord  1-
909  of 39.26 feet bearing N. 88° 49' 56" W., to a point;                           24-
     Thence N. 48° 14' 04" W., 77.98 feet to a point;                               2013
     Thence N. 43° 52' 21" E., 97.35 feet to a point on the west boundary of lot 2,
     block 2;
     Thence N. 35° 22' 54" W., 90.99 feet to a point on the west boundary of lot 3,
     block 2;
     Thence N. 3° 55' 57" W., 156.35 feet to a point on the west boundary of lot 5,
     block 2, and the point of beginning.
     Thence, departing said lot boundaries, N. 89° 47' 31" W., 308.07 feet to a
     point;
     Thence S. 0° 14' 53" W., 415.54 feet to a point on the south boundary of said
     section 7;
     Thence, along said south boundary, N. 89° 47' 32" W., 290.59 feet to the east
     1/16 corner of said section 7;
     Thence, along the 1/16 line of said section, N. 0° 16' 26" E., 584.38 feet to
     the southwest corner of lot 9, block 1, Timbercrest Subdivision;
     Thence, along the lot boundaries of Timbercrest Subdivision, S. 89° 34' 04" E.,
     157.03 feet to the southeast corner of said lot 9:
     Thence along the right of way of Timbercrest Loop, 13.86 feet along a non-
     tangent curve to the left, having a radius of 50.00 feet, a delta angle of 15°
     52' 59", and a long chord of 13.82 feet bearing S. 26° 26' 57" E., to a point;
     Thence 23.99 feet along a curve to the right having a radius of 20.00 feet, a
     delta angle of 68° 42' 51", and a long chord of 22.57 feet bearing S. 0° 12'
     59" W., to a point;
     Thence crossing Timbercrest Loop, S. 55° 25' 00" E., 60.00 feet to a point;
     Thence 8.07 feet along a non-tangent curve to the right having a radius of
     120.00 feet, a delta angle of 3° 51' 19", and a long chord of 8.07 feet bearing
     N. 36° 06' 19" E., to a point;
     Thence N. 38° 26' 40" E., 63.25 feet to the southwest corner of lot 9, block 2;
     Thence S. 60° 02' 05" E., 111.01 feet to the southeast corner of lot 9, block
     2;
     Thence S. 23° 03' 52" W., 82.65 feet to the southwest corner of lot 7, block 2;
     Thence S. 89° 47' 31" E., 275.63 feet to the southeast corner of lot 7, block
     2;
     Thence S. 3° 55' 57" E., 24.45 feet to the point of beginning.
     Bearings based on state plane grid.
     Parcel # RP18N03E079225
     Inst # 287388
     Parcel 1
     A tract of land in the southeast quarter of the southeast quarter of section 7,
     township 18 north, range 3 east, Boise Meridian, Valley County, Idaho, more
     particularly described as follows:
     Commencing at the southeast corner of said quarter section;
     Thence west along the south boundary line thereof a distance of 616 feet to the
     real point of beginning;
     Thence north 416 feet;
     Thence west 416 feet,
     Thence south 416 feet,
     Thence east 416 feet to the real point of beginning.
     Together with that: certain "existing road access easement" as shown on that
     certain record of survey as filed for record in the office of the recorder,
     Valley County, Idaho, as instrument no. 182127.
     Save and except parcel 2
     A parcel of land situated in the SE 1/4 of the SE 1/4 of section 7. T. 18 N.
     R.3 E. B.M., city of McCall, Valley County, Idaho, more particularly described
     as follows:
     Commencing at a brass cap marking the south east corner of section 7, T. 18 N.,
     R. 3 E., B.M., city of McCall, Valley County, Idaho;
     Thence, N. 89° 47' 44" W., 415.60 feet along the south boundary of said section
     7 to a 1/2 inch rebar, the real point of beginning:
     Thence continuing N. 89° 47' 44" W., 289.06 feet along said south boundary to a
     1/2 inch rebar,
     Thence, N. 50° 22' 25" E., 108.33 feet along the west boundary of a county road
     to a 1/2 inch rebar,
     Thence, 137.60 feet along curve to the left whose radius is 145.00 feet, and
     delta angle is 54° 22' 25" along the west boundary of said county road to a 1/
     2 inch rebar.
     Thence, N. 04° 00' 00" W., 220.00 feet along the west boundary of said county
     road to a 1/2 inch rebar.
     Thence, 390.71 feet along a curve to the right whose radius is 355.00 feet, and
     delta angle is 63° 03' 33" along the west boundary of said county road to a 1/
     2 inch rebar.
     Thence, S. 00° 13' 05" W., 72.95 feet to a 5/8 inch rebar on the easterly
     boundary of said county road.
     Thence, 286.83 feet along a non-tangent curve to the left whose long chord
     bears S. 23° 51' 13" W., 275.66 feet whose radius is 295.00 feet, and delta
     angle is 55° 42' 29" along said easterly boundary to a 5/8 inch rebar.
     Thence, S. 04° 00' 00" E., 220.00 feet along said easterly right-of-way to a 5/
     8 inch rebar.
     Thence, 132.03 feet along a curve to the right, whose radius is 205.00 feet,
     and delta angle is 36° 54' 06" along said easterly boundary to a 1/2 inch
     rebar.
     Thence, S. 89° 47' 44" E., 126.23 feet to a 1/2 inch rebar,
     Thence, S. 00° 13' 05" W., 70.00 feet to the point of beginning, containing
     1.351 acres.
     Bearings are based on the record of survey inst. no. 182127.
     Parcel# RP18N03E079506
     Inst # 289348
     A parcel of land situated in the SE 1/4 of the SE 1/4 of section 7, T. 18 N.,
     R. 3 E., B.M., Valley County, Idaho, more particularly described as follows:
     Commencing at a brass cap marking the section corner common to sections 7, 8,
     17 and 18, T. 18 N., R. 3 E., B.M., Valley County, Idaho;
     Thence, N. 89° 47' 44" W., 416.00 feet along the southerly boundary of said
     section 7 to a 1/2 inch rebar;
     Thence, N. 0° 13' 04" E., 70.00 feet along a line parallel to the easterly
     boundary of said section 7 to a 1/2 inch rebar, the real point of beginning:
     Thence, continuing N. 0° 13' 04" E., 597.68 feet to the easterly boundary of a
     60 foot road.
     Thence, 286.82 feet along a non-tangent curve to the left whose long chord
     bears S. 23° 51' 12" W., 276.66 feet and radius is 295.00 feet and delta angle
     is 55° 42' 25" along said road boundary,
     Thence, S. 4° 00' 00" E., 220.00 feet along said road boundary,
     Thence, 132.03 feet along a curve to the right whose radius is 205.00 feet and
     delta angle is 36° 54' 01" along said road boundary to a 1/2 inch rebar,
     Thence, S. 89° 47' 114" E., 126.23 feet along a line parallel to and 70.00 feet
     northerly of the south boundary of said section 7, to the point of beginning,
     containing 1.280 acres, more or less.
     Bearings based on state plane grid azimuth.
     Verita Rd
     A parcel of land situated in the SE 1/4 of the SE 1/4 of section 7, T. 18 N. R.
     3E. B.M., city of McCall, Valley County, Idaho, more particularly described as
     follows:
     Commencing at a brass cap marking the south east corner of section 7, T. 18 N.,
     R. 3 E., B.M., city of McCall, Valley County, Idaho;
     Thence, N. 89° 47' 44" W., 415.60 feet along the south boundary of said section
     7 to a 1/2 inch rebar. The real point of beginning:
     Thence continuing N. 89° 47' 44" W., 289.06 feet along said south boundary to a
     1/2 inch rebar,
     Thence, N. 50° 22' 25" E., 108.33 feet along the west boundary of a county road
     to a 1/2 inch rebar,
     Thence, 137.60 feet along curve to the left whose radius is 145.00 feet, and
     delta angle is 54° 22' 25" along the west boundary of said county road to a 1/
     2 inch rebar.
     Thence, N. 04° 00' 00" W., 220.00 feet along the west boundary of said county
     road to a 1/2 inch rebar.
     Thence, 390.71 feet along a curve to the right whose radius is 355.00 feet, and
     delta angle is 63° 03' 33" along the west boundary of said county road to a 1/
     2 inch rebar.
     Thence, S. 00° 13' 05" W., 72.95 feet to a 5/8 inch rebar on the easterly
     boundary of said county road.
     Thence, 286.83 feet along a non-tangent curve to the left whose long chord
     bears S. 23° 51' 13" W., 275.66 feet whose radius is 295.00 feet, and delta
     angle is 55° 42' 29" along said easterly boundary to a 5/8 inch rebar.
     Thence, S. 04° 00' 00" E., 220.00 feet along said easterly right-of-way to a 5/
     8 inch rebar.
     Thence, 132.03 feet along a curve to the right, whose radius is 205.00 feet,
     and delta angle is 36° 54' 06" along said easterly boundary to a 1/2 inch
     rebar.
     Thence, S. 89° 47' 44" E., 126.23 feet to a 1/2 inch rebar,
     Thence, S. 00° 13' 05" W., 70.00 feet to the point of beginning, containing
     1.351 acres.
     Parcels of land situated in the northeast 1/4 of Section 12, Township 18 North,
     Range 2 East; and Government Lot 1 and the northeast 1/4 of the northwest 1/
     4 of Section 7, Township 18 North, Range 3 East, Boise Meridian, Valley County,
     Idaho, more particularly described as follows:
     Commencing at a brass cap marking the corner common to Sections 1 and 12,
     Township 18 North, Range 2 East, and Sections 6 and 7, Township 18 North, Range
     3 East, Boise Meridian, Valley County, Idaho, the real point of beginning:
     Thence, S. 89°22'48" E., a distance of 2,553.99 feet along the north boundary
     of said Section 7,
     Thence, S. 24°20'42" W., a distance of 49.64 feet along the west boundary of
     Paul Bunyan Road,
     Thence, S. 61°46'42" W., a distance of 563.12 feet along the boundary of
     Whitetail P.U.D., Phase 1, as shown on the official plat thereof on file in the
     office of the Recorder of Valley County, Idaho, in Book 10, Page 16 of Plats,
     Thence, along a curve to the left an arc distance of 172.36 feet, whose chord
     bears S. 40°46'01" W., a distance of 168.52 feet, whose radius is 235.00 feet
     and delta angle is 42°01'21", along said P.U.D. boundary,
     Thence, S. 19°45'21" W., a distance of 431.91 feet along said P.U.D. boundary,
     Thence, along a curve to the left an arc distance of 144.60 feet, whose chord
     bears S. 02°07'42" W., a distance of 142.33 feet, whose radius is 235.00 feet
     and delta angle is 35°15'19", along said P.U.D. boundary,
     Thence, N. 89°26'55" W., a distance of 296.26 feet along said P.U.D. boundary,
     Thence, S. 00°21'27" W., a distance of 324.87 feet along said P.U.D. boundary,
     Thence, N. 89°30'44" W., a distance of 1,476.74 feet along said P.U.D.
     boundary,
     Thence, N. 00°04'14" W., a distance of 215.38 feet along said P.U.D. boundary,
     Thence, S. 89°41'04" W., a distance of 602.93 feet along said P.U.D. boundary,
     Thence, N. 00°08'24" W., a distance of 205.89 feet along said P.U.D. boundary,
     Thence, N. 14°34'58" E., a distance of 934.72 feet along said P.U.D. boundary  1-
910  to the north boundary of said Section 12,                                       24-
     Thence, N. 89°37'36" E., a distance of 367.44 feet to the Point of Beginning,  2013
     containing 69.887 acres, more or less.
     Also, commencing at a brass cap marking the corner common to Sections 1 and 12,
     Township 18 North, Range 2 East, and Sections 6 and 7, Township 18 North, Range
     3 East, Boise Meridian, Valley County, Idaho; thence, S. 89°22'48" E., a
     distance of 2,149.85 feet along the north boundary of said Section 7; thence,
     S. 00°20'52" W., a distance of 336.44 feet to the real point of beginning:
     Thence, N. 61°43'47" E., a distance of 410.74 feet along the boundary of
     Whitetail P.U.D., Phase 1, as shown on the official plat thereof on file in the
     office of the Recorder of Valley County, Idaho, in Book 10, Page 16 of Plats,
     Thence, along a curve to the right an arc distance of 35.18 feet, whose chord
     bears S. 67°48'47" E., a distance of 30.82 feet, whose radius is 20.00 feet and
     delta angle is 100°47'51", along said P.U.D. boundary,
     Thence, S. 17°24'18" E., a distance of 88.06 feet along said P.U.D. boundary,
     Thence, along a curve to the right an arc distance of 23.69 feet, whose chord
     bears S. 03°49'47" E., a distance of 23.47 feet, whose radius is 50.00 feet and
     delta angle is 27°08'52", along said P.U.D. boundary,
     Thence, S. 09°44'42" W., a distance of 210.29 feet along said P.U.D. boundary,
     Thence, leaving said P.U.D. boundary along a curve to the right an arc distance
     of 36.91 feet, whose chord bears S. 31°38'42" W., a distance of 36.02 feet,
     whose radius is 48.28 feet and delta angle is 43°48'00", along the north west
     boundary of Stone Lane,
     Thence, S. 53°32'42" W., a distance of 276.19 feet along said Stone Lane
     boundary,
     Thence, leaving said Stone Lane boundary, N. 58°57'13" W., a distance of 134.21
     feet,
     Thence, S. 51°46'42" W., a distance of 35.99 feet,
     Thence, N. 00°20'52" E., a distance of 279.62 feet along the boundary of said
     P.U.D., to the Point of Beginning, containing 3.299 acres, more or less.
     Bearings are based on State Plane Grid.
     Parcel 1:
     A parcel of land situated in the NE 1/4 SE 1/4 and government lot 6 of section
     17, township 18 north, range 3 east, Boise Meridian, city of McCall, Valley
     County, Idaho, more particularly described as follows:
     Commencing at a brass cap marking the 1/4 corner common to section 16 and 17,
     township 18 north, range 3 east, Boise Meridian, city of McCall, Valley County,
     Idaho;
     Thence, S. 00° 33' 24" W. 285.69 feet along the line common to said section 16
     and 17 to a 1/2" x 24" rebar, the real point of beginning;
     Thence, continuing S. 00° 33' 24" W. 710.86 feet along said common line to a 1/
     2" x 24" rebar;
     Thence, N. 89° 48' 45" W. 1809.21 feet to a 1/2" x 24" rebar;
     Thence S. 67° 17' 41" W. 405.95 feet to a 1/2" x 24" rebar;
     Thence continuing S. 67° 17' 41" W. 46.85 feet to the high water mark of the
     north fork of the Payette River;
     Thence northwesterly along said high water mark N. 72° 24' 41" W. 187.38 feet;
     N. 57° 28' 25" W. 95.62 feet;
     N. 44° 31' 49" W. 60.65 feet;
     N. 19° 14' 01" W. 73.85 feet;
     N. 12° 58' 14" E. 72.76 feet;
     N. 32° 26' 37" E. 78.28 feet;
     N. 28° 36' 10" E. 120.91 feet;
     Thence N. 69° 00' 40" E. 37.00 feet to a 1/2" x 24" rebar;
     Thence continuing N. 69° 00' 40" E. 349.18 feet to a 1/2" x 24" rebar;
     Thence N. 63° 36' 33" E. 631.38 feet to a 1/2" x 24" rebar;
     Thence S. 89° 52' 18" E., 1517.59 feet to the point of beginning.
     (Aka tax #43)
     Parcel 2:
     A parcel of land situated in the E 1/2 of the SE 1/4 and government lot 6 of
     section 17, township 18 north, range 3 east, Boise Meridian, city of McCall,
     Valley County, Idaho, more particularly described as follows:                   1-
911  Commencing at a brass cap marking the 1/4 corner common to sections 16 and 17,  24-
     township 18 north, range 3 east, Boise Meridian, city of McCall, Valley County, 2013
     Idaho;
     Thence S. 00° 33' 24" W. 996.55 feet along the line common to said section 16
     and 17 to a 1/2" x 24" rebar the real point of beginning;
     Thence continuing S. 00° 33' 24" W. 328.79 feet to a brass cap marking the S.
     1/16 corner common to said sections 16 and 17;
     Thence N. 89° 48' 45" W. 236.00 feet along the southerly boundary of the NE 1/
     4 SE 1/4 of said section 17 to a 1/2" x 24" rebar:
     Thence S. 00° 11' 15" W. 376.83 feet to a 1/2" x 24" rebar;
     Thence N. 89° 48' 45" W. 127.64 feet to a 1/2" x 24" rebar;
     Thence N. 27° 05' 45" W. 424.00 feet to a 1/2" x 24" rebar on said southerly
     boundary;
     Thence N. 89° 48' 45" W. 780.27 feet to a 1/2" x 24" rebar marking the SE 1/16
     corner of said section 17;
     Thence continuing N. 89° 48' 45" W. 135.00 feet to a 1/2" x 24" rebar;
     Thence continuing N. 89° 48' 45" W. 24.97 feet to the high water mark of the
     north fork of the Payette River;
     Thence, northwesterly along said high water mark; N. 57° 57' 46" W. 37.85 feet;
     N. 56° 22' 46" W. 126.24 feet;
     N. 70° 45' 33" W. 41.56 feet;
     N. 70° 56' 09" W. 47.13 feet;
     N. 76° 08' 41" W. 70.65 feet;
     N. 83° 21' 38" W. 56.73 feet;
     N. 75° 02' 28" W. 134.83 feet;
     S. 68° 52' 22" W. 54.91 feet;
     S. 82° 06' 00" W. 105.02 feet;
     N. 82° 47' 21" W. 94.79 feet;
     Thence N. 67° 17' 41" E. 46.85 feet to a 1/2" x 24" rebar;
     Thence, continuing N. 67° 17' 41" E. 405.95 feet to a 1/2" x 24" rebar;
     Thence S. 89° 48' 45" E. 1809.21 feet to the point of beginning.
     (Aka tax #44)
     A parcel of land situate in the NW1/4 NE1/4 of Section 21, Township 18 North,
     Range 3 East, Boise Meridian, Valley County, Idaho, more particularly described
     as follows:
     Commencing at the 1/4 corner common to Sections 16 and 21, Township 18 North,
     Range 3 East, Boise Meridian, Valley County, Idaho;
     Thence, S. 89° 26' 28" E. 640.67 feet along the northerly boundary of said     2-
955  Section 21 to the easterly right of way of state highway 55, the real point of  23-
     beginning;                                                                      2017
     Thence, continuing S. 89° 26' 28" E., 208.50 feet along said northerly
     boundary;
     Thence, S. 16° 45' 59" E., 208.50 feet;
     Thence, N. 89° 26' 28" W., 208.50 feet to said easterly right of way;
     Thence, N. 16° 45' 59" W., 208.50 feet along said easterly right of way to the
     point of beginning.
     #1: PARCEL A-1
     A parcel of land being the westerly 195.00 feet of Parcel "A" as shown on
     Record of Survey Instrument No. 320944, Records of Valley County, Idaho,
     situated in the NE1/4 of the NW1/4 of Section 21, Township 18 North, Range 3
     East, Boise Meridian, City of McCall, Valley County, Idaho, more particularly
     described as follows:
     COMMENCING at the North 1/4 corner of said Section 21; thence, along the north
     boundary line of said Parcel "A" and the north line of said NW1/4,
     A) N.89°38'55"W., 1073.34 feet to the POINT OF BEGINNING; thence along a line
     parallel with and 495.00 feet easterly of the centerline of McCall Airport
     Runway 16/34,
     1) S.01°05'03" E., 660.06 feet to the southerly line of said Parcel "A";
     thence,
     2) S.89°38'55"W., 195.02 feet; thence, along a line parallel with and 300.00
     feet easterly of the centerline of said runway,
     3) N.01°05'03"W., 660.06 feet to the northerly line of said NW1/4; thence,
     along said line,
     4) N.89°38'55"E., 195.02 feet to the POINT OF BEGINNING.
     ABOVE-DESCRIBED PARCEL CONTAINING 2.955 Acres, more or less.
     SUBJECT TO all Covenants, Rights, Rights-of-Way, Easements of Record and all
     other encumbrances.
     #2: PARCEL B-1
     A parcel of land being the westerly 195.00 feet of Parcel "B" as shown on
     Record of Survey Instrument No. 320944, Records of Valley County, Idaho,
     situated in the NE1/4 of the NW1/4 of Section 21, Township 18 North, Range 3
     East, Boise Meridian, City of McCall, Valley County, Idaho, more particularly
     described as follows:
     COMMENCING at the North 1/4 corner of said Section 21; thence, along the east
     line of said NW1/4,
     A) S.00°32'07"W., 660.08 feet to the northeast corner of Parcel "B" as shown on
     said Record of Survey; thence,
     B) S.89°38'55"W., 1054.69 feet to the POINT OF BEGINNING; thence, along a line
     parallel with and 495.00 feet easterly of the centerline of McCall Airport
     Runway 16/34,
     1) S.01°05'03"E., 702.76 feet; thence,
     2) S.89°38'55"W., 195.02 feet; thence, along a line parallel with and 300.00
     feet easterly of the centerline of said runway,
     3) N.01°05'03"W., 702.76 feet to the north line of said Parcel "B", thence,
     along said line,
     4) N.89°38'55"E., 195.02 feet to the POINT OF BEGINNING.
     ABOVE-DESCRIBED PARCEL CONTAINING 3.146 Acres, more or less.
     SUBJECT TO all Covenants, Rights, Rights-of-Way, Easements of Record and all
     other encumbrances.                                                             4-
966  #3: PARCEL D-1                                                                  26-
     A parcel of land being the westerly 195.00 feet of Parcel "D" as shown on       2018
     Record of Survey Instrument No. 320944, Records of Valley County, Idaho,
     situated in the NE1/4 of the NW1/4 of Section 21, Township 18 North, Range 3
     East, Boise Meridian, City of McCall, Valley County, Idaho, more particularly
     described as follows:
     COMMENCING at the North 1/4 corner of said Section 21; thence, along the east
     line of said NW1/4,
     A) S.00°32'07"W., 1362.87 feet to the northeast corner of Parcel "C" as shown
     on said Record of Survey; thence,
     B) S.89°38'55"W., 1034.82 feet to the POINT OF BEGINNING; thence, along a line
     parallel with and 495.00 feet easterly of the centerline of McCall Airport
     Runway 16/34,
     1) S.01°05'03"E., 1295.23 feet to the south boundary of Parcel "D" as shown on
     said Record of Survey; thence, along said south line,
     2) S.89°57'50"W., 195.04 feet to a line parallel with and 300.00 feet easterly
     of the centerline of said runway; thence, along said parallel line,
     3) N.01°05'03"W., 1293.91 feet to the north line of said Parcel "D", thence,
     along said line,
     4) N.89°38'55"E., 195.02 feet to the POINT OF BEGINNING.
     ABOVE-DESCRIBED PARCEL CONTAINING 5.795 Acres, more or less.
     SUBJECT TO all Covenants, Rights, Rights-of-Way, Easements of Record and all
     other encumbrances.
     #4: PARCEL 1
     A parcel of land situated in the NE1/4 of the SW1/4 of Section 21, Township 18
     North, Range 3 East, Boise Meridian, City of McCall, Valley County, Idaho, more
     particularly described as follows:
     COMMENCING at the southeast corner of Parcel "D" and the Center 1/4 corner of
     said Section 21 as shown on Record of Survey Instrument No. 320944, Records of
     Valley County, Idaho; thence, along the north line of said SW1/4,
     A) N.89°57'50"W., 998.13 feet to the POINT OF BEGINNING; thence, along a line
     parallel with and 495.00 feet easterly of the centerline of McCall Airport
     Runway 16/34,
     1) S.01°05'03"E., 1087.86 feet to a line 70 feet south of the easterly
     prolongation of the centerline of McCall Airport Taxiway A-5; thence, along
     said line,
     2) S.88°59'36"W., 135.44 feet to a line as shown on Record of Survey Instrument
     No. 202221, Records of Valley County, Idaho; thence, along said line,
     3) N.01°10'38"W., 826.77 feet; thence, continuing along said line,
     4) N.00°59'19"W., 263.58 feet to the south line of said Parcel "D" and the
     north line of said SW1/4; thence, along said line,
     5) S.89°57'50"E., 136.37 feet to the POINT OF BEGINNING.
     ABOVE-DESCRIBED PARCEL CONTAINING 3.406 Acres, more or less.
     SUBJECT TO all Covenants, Rights, Rights-of-Way, Easements of Record and all
     other encumbrances.
     1917 Pilgrim Cove Road:
     A parcel of land situate in the NW ¼ of Section 3, T. 18 N., R.3 E.B.M., Valley
     County, Idaho, more particularly described as follows:
     Commencing at a 1" pipe marking the Northeast corner of Lot 6, D&S Subdivision
     as shown on that particular Record of Survey on file in Book 5, on Page 247 of
     Records of Survey, and the official plat thereof on file in the office of the
     Recorder of Valley County, Idaho, in Book 5 on Page 32 of Plats, the REAL POINT
     OF BEGINNING:
     Thence S. 89° 55' 00" E., 225.00 feet to a ½" rebar marking the Southeast     12-
1008 corner of Lot 5, C-Way Subdivision as shown on the official plat thereof on     2-
     file in the office of the Recorder of Valley County, Idaho, in Book 6 on Page   2021
     23 of Plats;
     Thence S. 00 02' 00" E. 90.00 feet to a ½" rebar;
     Thence N. 89 55' 00" W., 225.00 feet to a ½" rebar on the East boundary of Lot
     6, said D&S Subdivision;
     Thence N. 00 02' 00" W., 90.00 feet to the Point of Beginning.
     1919 Pilgrim Cove Road:
     LOT 6, D & S SUBDIVISION, VALLEY COUNTY IDAHO, AS SHOWN ON THE PLAT RECORDED
     JULY 14, 1975 AS INSTRUMENT NO. 85288.
      
APPENDIX B
VACATIONS
Ord. No. Description Date
Ord. Description                                                                      Date
No.
385  (Rep. by Ord. 388, 7-20-79)
     Myrtle Street in Geelan Addition to the City, according to the official plat
     thereof on file and of record in the office of the Recorder of Valley County,
     Idaho, and that portion of Thula Street lying between Lot 1, Block 2, and Lot 1  7-
388  of Block 3 of Geelan Addition, shall be and the same are hereby vacated.         20-
     That title to said Myrtle Street above vacated shall revert to the owner of the  79
     adjacent real estate on the South side of such vacated street.
     That said Thula Street above vacated and described shall revert to the owners of
     the adjacent real estate one-half on each side thereof.
     A portion of Fourth and Lake Streets rights of way, McCall 1st Addition, being
     more particularly described as follows:
     Beginning at the most Northerly corner of Block 1, McCall 1st Addition,
     according to the official plat thereof on file in the Valley County Recorder's
     office, Cascade, Idaho; thence South 28°52' East along the Northeasterly
     boundary line of said Block 1, 181.80 feet to the most Northerly corner of Lot
     12, said Block 1; thence North 19°19' East 107.34 feet to a point on the
     Westerly boundary line of Block 2, said McCall 1st Addition; thence North 28°52'
     West along said Westerly boundary line 163.57 feet to the most Westerly corner
     of said Block 2; thence North 27°18' East along said Westerly boundary line,
     28.90 feet to a point; thence along a curve to the right with a radius of 410.00
     feet, a central angle of 33°50' and whose long chord bears South 44°13' West
     238.60 feet to a point on the Northwesterly boundary line of said Block 1;
     thence North 61°08' East along said Northwesterly boundary line 124.28 feet to
     the point of beginning;
     Said tract of land contains 15,298 square feet more or less, subject to
     easements of record or in use.
466  That the portions of said streets above vacated in this Ordinance shall revert   8-1-
     to the owner or owners of Lots 7, 8, 9, 10 and 11, Block 1, and Lots 1, 2 and 3, 83
     Block 2, all in McCall 1st Addition.
     A portion of the alley in Block 2, McCall 1st Addition, being more particularly
     described as follows:
     Beginning at the Northeast corner of Lot 7, Block 2, McCall 1st Addition,
     according to the official plat thereof on file in the Valley County Recorder's
     office, Cascade, Idaho; thence South 8°00' West along the Easterly boundary line
     of Lots 1 through 7, inclusive, said Block 2, 182.84 feet to a point on the
     Northwesterly right-of-way line of the Union Pacific Railroad; thence North
     27°20' East along said right-of-way line, 48.33 feet to a point on the Westerly
     boundary line of Lot 12, said Block 2; thence North 8°00' East along the
     Westerly boundary line of Lots 8 through 12, inclusive, said Block 2, 137.23
     feet to the Northeast corner of said Lot 8, Block 2; thence North 82°00' West
     16.00 feet to the point of beginning.
     Said tract of land contains 2,561 square feet more or less, subject to easements
     of record or in use.
     That portion of said alley above vacated shall revert to the owner or owners of
     Lots 2 through 7, inclusive of Block 2 of the McCall 1st Addition.
     A parcel of land located in the NW1/4 of Section 8, T.18N., R.3E., B.M., Valley
     County, City of McCall, Idaho, more particularly described as:
     COMMENCING at the N1/16 corner common to Sections 7 and 8, T.18N., R.3E., BM;
     thence, along the west line of said Section 8,
     A)   S.0°14'17"W., 387.17 feet to a point; thence, departing said section line,
     B)   S.89°59'53"E., 528.06 feet to a point; thence,
     C)   S.31°33'24"E., 23.56 feet to a point; thence,
     D)   S.19°51'50"E., 93.34 feet to the POINT OF BEGINNING; thence,
     1.)   62.07 feet along a non-tangent curve to the left having a radius of 60.00-
764  feet, a delta angle of 59°16'31", and a chord bearing and distance of            3-
     N.15°20'44"E., 59.34 feet; thence,                                               002
     2.)   N.70°08'20"E., 5.77 feet to a point; thence,
     3.)   S.19°51'40"E., 151.37 feet to a point; thence,
     4.)   S.11°25'18"E., 420.92 feet to a point on the northerly Right-of-Way line
     for State Highway No. 55; thence, along said Right-of-Way,
     5.)   N.73°30'52"W., 45.27 feet to a point; thence, departing said Right-of-Way,
     6.)   N.11°25'14"W., 396.92 feet to a point; thence,
     7.)   N.19°51'40"W., 99.80 feet to the POINT OF BEGINNING.
     CONTAINING 0.49 acres more or less.
     Carmen Drive Vacation Lot 99A
     A parcel of land situate in the S1/2 of the SW1/4 of Section 8, T.18 N., R.3E.,
     B.M., being a portion of Carmen Drive of Rio Vista Subdivision No. 5, as shown
     on the official plat thereof on file in Book 7, Page 29 of Plats, in the office
     of the Recorder of Valley County, Idaho, more particularly described as follows:
     Commencing at a 1/2 inch rebar marking the north east corner common to Lots 99
     and 100, Rio Vista Subdivision No. 5, as shown on the official plat thereof on
     file in Book 7, Page 29 of Plats, in the office of the Recorder of Valley
     County, Idaho, the REAL POINT OF BEGINNING:
     Thence, N. 46°30'02" E., 1.34 feet to a 1/2 inch rebar,
     Thence, N. 31°35'53" W., 97.48 feet to a 1/2 inch rebar marking the north west
     corner of Lot 99,
     Thence, S. 30°49'40" E., 97.77 feet to the Point of Beginning, containing 0.001
     acre, more or less.
     Bearings based on the plat of Rio Vista Subdivision No. 5.
     Carmen Drive Vacation Lot 100A
     A parcel of land situate in the S1/2 of the SW1/4 of Section 8, T.18N., R.3E.,
     B.M., being a portion of Carmen Drive of Rio Vista Subdivision No. 5, as shown
     on the official plat thereof on file in Book 7, Page 29 of Plats, in the office
     of the Recorder of Valley County, Idaho, more particularly described as follows:
     Commencing at a 1/2 inch rebar marking the north east corner common to Lots 100
     and 101, Rio Vista Subdivision No. 5, as shown on the official plat thereof on
     file in Book 7, Page 29 of
     Plats, in the office of the Recorder of Valley County, Idaho, the REAL POINT OF
     BEGINNING:
     Thence, N. 38°01'02" E., 21.43 feet to a 1/2 inch rebar,                        6-
777  Thence, 70.03 feet along a non-tangent curve to the right, whose long chord      12-
     bears N. 46°12'56" W., 69.19 feet, whose radius is 130.38 feet, and delta angle 2003
     is 30°46'33" to a 1/2 inch rebar,
     Thence, N. 31°35'53" W., 23.62 feet to a 1/2 inch rebar,
     Thence, S. 46°30'02" W., 1.34 feet to a 1/2 inch rebar marking the north west
     corner of said Lot 100,
     Thence, S. 30°49'40" E., 97.77 feet to the Point of Beginning, containing 0.014
     acre, more or less.
     Bearings based on the plat of Rio Vista Subdivision No. 5.
     Carmen Drive Vacation Lot 101A
     A parcel of land situate in the S1/2 of the SW1/4 of Section 8, T.18N., R.3E.,
     B.M. being a portion of Carmen Drive of Rio Vista Subdivision No. 5, as shown on
     the official plat thereof on file in Book 7, Page 29 of Plats, in the office of
     the Recorder of Valley County, Idaho, more particularly described as follows:
     Commencing at a 1/2 inch rebar marking the north east corner common to Lots 100
     and 101, Rio Vista Subdivision No. 5, as shown on the official plat thereof on
     file in Book 7, Page 29 of Plats, in the office of the Recorder of Valley
     County, Idaho, the REAL POINT OF BEGINNING:
     Thence, N. 38°01'02" E., 21.43 feet to a 1/2 inch rebar,
     Thence, 70.15 feet along a non-tangent curve to the left, whose long chord bears
     S. 77°01'00" E., 69.30 feet, whose radius is 130.38 feet, and delta angle is
     30°49'35" to a 1/2 inch rebar,
     Thence, S. 30°49'40" E., 36.66 feet to a 5/8 inch rebar on the north east
     boundary of said Lot 101,
     Thence N. 73°08'16" W., 103.99 feet to the Point of Beginning, containing 0.040
     acre, more or less.
     Bearings based on the plat of Rio Vista Subdivision No. 5.
     A parcel of land proposed as part of an agreement for vacation of a portion of
     Dawson Avenue, being a part of Dawson Avenue, falling between Blocks 19 and 26,
     McCall First Addition, Book 1, Page 58 of Plats, situated in Government Lot 2,
     Section 9, Township 18 North, Range 3 East, Boise Meridian, City of McCall,
     Valley County, Idaho, and more particularly described as follows:
     Commencing at the northeast corner of said Government Lot 2, thence S. 81° 52'
     57" W., 10.60 feet to the northeast corner of said Block 26, also the northeast
     corner of Tax #24, falling on the west Right of Way of Davis Avenue and the
     north line of said McCall First Addition; thence continuing along said north     1-
778  line, also the north line of said Block 26, S. 89° 55' 35" W., 57.13 feet to the22-
     northwest corner of Block 26, also the northwest corner of said Tax #24, falling 2004
     the east Right of Way of Dawson Avenue, the point of beginning;
     Thence, continuing along the north line of the McCall First Addition, S. 89° 55'
     35" W., 14.44 feet to an angle point in said north line; thence, continuing, N.
     87° 53' 57" W., 41.66 feet to a point; thence departing said north line, South,
     61.58 feet to a point; thence N. 89° 55' 35" E., 47.32 feet to a point on the
     east Right of Way of Dawson Avenue, also the southwest corner of said Tax #24;
     thence along said east Right of Way, N. 8° 17' 53" E., 60.65 feet to the
     northwest corner of Tax #24, the point of beginning.
     Containing 0.0720 acres.
     That the following described unnamed and unimproved city alley which dissects
     1207 & 1209 Roosevelt Ave. and 1210 Louisa Ave. in the City of McCall, Valley    7-
990  County, Idaho, to-wit:                                                           23-
     See Exhibit A attached to the ordinance codified herein and incorporated herein  2020
     by this reference be and the same is hereby VACATED.
     
 
