CITY CODE
of
MELBA, IDAHO
2008
Code current through:
Ord. 288, passed November 18, 2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
This code of the City of Melba, as supplemented, contains ordinances up to and
including ordinance 288, passed November 18, 2024. Ordinances of the City
adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the
extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the City
office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has
been amended, superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not affect the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 225
AN ORDINANCE FOR REVISING, CODIFYING, AND COMPILING THE GENERAL ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF MELBA, IDAHO.
IT IS HEREBY ORDAINED BY THE MAYOR AND COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF MELBA, that:
   Section 1. From and after the date of passage of this ordinance the
municipal code of the city of Melba, prepared by Sterling Codifiers, Inc., and
hereby approved and accepted shall be the official code of all ordinances of a
general and permanent character of the city. Pursuant to Idaho Code 50-903
empowering any city to revise, codify, and compile its ordinances.
   Section 2. There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification,
the loose leaf type of binding together with continuous supplemental service
whereby each newly adopted ordinance of a general nature, amending, altering,
adding to, or deleting provisions of the municipal code is identified by the
proper catch line, and is to be inserted in the proper place in each of the
official copies.
   Section 3. That such ordinances as so compiled shall be cited as the "Melba
City Code".
   Section 4. At least one (1) official copy of said official municipal code of
the city of Melba shall at all times be on file and available for inspection in
the office of the clerk.
   This ordinance passed by roll call vote of the city council this 11th day of
August, 2008, and approved by the mayor on this 11th day of August, 2008.
    /s/
   Martin Luttrell, Mayor
Attest:
/s/
Noni Stapleton, City Clerk
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
Melba City Code   1
Saving Clause   2
Definitions; Interpretation   3
General Penalty   4
Official And Corporate Provisions   5
Mayor And City Council   6
City Officers And Personnel   7
Elections   8
Public Hearings Procedure   9
Planning And Zoning Fees   10
Area Of City Impact   11
CHAPTER 1
MELBA CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the city council, this city code is hereby declared to be
and shall hereafter constitute the official city code of Melba. This city code
of ordinances shall be known and cited as the MELBA CITY CODE and is hereby
published by authority of the city council and shall be supplemented to
incorporate the most recent legislation of the city as provided in section
1-1-3  of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this city code by title in any legal documents. (2008 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
The city code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in all administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of the city of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2008 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending the city code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this city code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this city code. (2008 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this city code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Said code books,
while in actual possession of officials and other interested persons, shall be
and remain the property of the city and shall be returned to the office of the
city clerk-treasurer when directed so to do by order of the city council. (2008
Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the city passed prior to the adoption of this city
code are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this city code or are
by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation
ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations; franchise
ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
city; and all special ordinances. (2008 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this city code or by virtue of the
preceding section, excepting as the city code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case, this city code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (2008 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance, whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not,
as to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act
done, any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued
or claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect
any such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   Extend To All Repeals: This section shall extend to all repeals, either
by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making
any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Currently Pending Actions: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the city herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the city under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this city code. (2008 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this city code, or any codes or portions of codes adopted herein by
reference, is for any reason held to be unconstitutional or invalid or
ineffective by any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not
affect the validity or effectiveness of the remaining portions of this code, or
any codes or portions of codes adopted herein by reference. The city council
hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection,
subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the
fact that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs,
sentences, clauses or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or
ineffective. (2008 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS; INTERPRETATION
SECTION:
1-3-1: General Rules Of Interpretation
1-3-2: General Definitions
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: GENERAL RULES OF INTERPRETATION:
   A.   Liberal Construction: All general provisions, terms, phrases and
expressions contained in this code shall be liberally construed in order that
the true intent and meaning of the mayor and city council may be fully carried
out.
   B.   Minimum Requirements: In the interpretation and application of any
provision of this code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted
for the promotion of the public health, safety and general welfare.
   C.   Computation Of Time: Whenever a notice is required to be given or an
act to be done in a certain length of time before any proceeding shall be had,
the day on which such notice is given or such act is done shall not be counted
in computing the time, but the day on which such proceeding is to be held shall
be counted.
   D.   Delegation Of Authority: Whenever a provision appears requiring the
head of a department or some other city officer to do some act or perform some
duty, it is to be construed to authorize the head of the department or other
officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the
required act or perform the duty unless the terms of the provision or section
specify otherwise.
   E.   Gender: A word importing the masculine gender only shall extend and be
applied to females and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well as to
males.
   F.   Joint Authority: All words giving a joint authority to three (3) or
more persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a
majority of such persons or officers.
   G.   May; Shall: The word "may" is permissive; the word "shall" is
mandatory.
   H.   Nontechnical And Technical Words: Words and phrases shall be construed
according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words
and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
   I.   Number: A word importing the singular number only may extend and be
applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing.
   J.   Officers And Employees Generally: Whenever any officer or employee is
referred to by title only, such reference shall be construed as if followed by
the words "of the city of Melba".
   K.   Tense: Words used in the past or present tense include the future as
well as the past and present.
   L.   Ordinance: The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the city
has been changed in the content of this city code to "title", "chapter",
"section" and/or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and
clarification purposes only. Such change to the city's ordinances is not meant
to amend passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (2008 Code)
1-3-2: GENERAL DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them unless the context makes such meanings
repugnant thereto:
   AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
   CITY: The city of Melba, county of Canyon, state of Idaho.
   CODE: The city code of the city of Melba.
   COUNCIL: Unless otherwise indicated, the city council of the city of Melba.
   COUNTY: The county of Canyon, state of Idaho.
   FISCAL YEAR: The fiscal year of the city shall commence on October 1 of each
year 1 .
   INFRACTION: A civil public offense, not constituting a crime, punishable by
a penalty not exceeding one hundred dollars ($100.00) and for which no
incarceration may be imposed 2 .
   LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
   MISDEMEANOR: Any offense not defined as a "felony" or "infraction" under
state law 3 .
   NUISANCE: Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or
any act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the city, or any activity which, by its perpetuation, can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the community.
   OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
   OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of
any act required by the provisions of this code.
   OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or
profession.
   OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
   PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, limited
liability partnership, trust, association, limited liability company,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods,
chattels, effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by
which any pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created,
acknowledged, transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and
every right or interest therein.
   RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to
relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the
consumer.
   RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
   STATE: The state of Idaho.
   STREET: Shall include highways or roads, alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards,
public ways, public squares, public places and sidewalks.
   TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with
others.
   WHOLESALER AND WHOLESALE DEALER: Unless otherwise specifically defined,
shall be understood to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or
things to persons who purchase for the purpose of resale.
   WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person, or in case he is unable to write, by his proper
mark. (2008 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 50-1001.
2 2. IC §§ 18-111, 18-113A.
3 3. IC §§ 18-111, 18-113.
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when
any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted. (2008
Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY 1 :
   A.   Misdemeanor: Unless specifically provided elsewhere, any person
convicted of a violation of any section or provision of this code deemed a
misdemeanor may be fined in a sum not to exceed one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) for any offense and may be incarcerated for a period of not more
than six (6) months. Either or both such fine and imprisonment may be imposed;
and in addition thereto, any person so convicted shall pay such costs as the
court may assess. (Ord. 55, 11-10-1977; amd. 2008 Code)
   B.   Infraction: When the offense is designated as an infraction by any
section or provision of this code or by state law, it is punishable only by a
penalty not exceeding one hundred dollars ($100.00), and no incarceration may
be imposed.
   C.   Federally Mandated Programs: When the city is participating in a
federally mandated program, wherein penalties or enforcement remedies are
required by the terms of participation in the program, the city may enforce
such requirements by ordinance, to include a criminal or civil monetary penalty
not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), or imprisonment for criminal
offenses not to exceed six (6) months or to include both a fine and
imprisonment for criminal offenses. (2008 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 50-302.
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Application Of Penalty Provisions:
      1.   The penalty provided in this chapter shall be applicable to every
section of this code the same as though it were a part of each and every
separate section. Any person convicted of a violation of any section of this
code where any duty is prescribed or obligation imposed or where any action
which is of a continuing nature is forbidden or is declared to be unlawful
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor unless otherwise provided. A separate
offense shall be deemed committed upon each day such duty or obligation remains
unperformed or such act continues unless otherwise specifically provided in
this code. (Ord. 55, 11-10-1977; amd. 2008 Code)
      2.   Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act
constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this code, and there shall
be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of
this chapter shall apply.
   B.   One Recovery For Same Offense: In all cases where the same offense is
made punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of this code,
the prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed, but not more than one
recovery shall be had against the same person for the same offense; provided,
that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be considered a recovery
or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced. (2008 Code)
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty unless the intention of
the city council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or employee is
specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the duty. (2008
Code)
CHAPTER 5
OFFICIAL AND CORPORATE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
1-5-1: Corporate Seal
1-5-2: Official Newspaper
1-5-1: CORPORATE SEAL:
   A.   Description: The following shall be deemed the design of the official
corporate seal of the city: The corporate seal of the city shall be circular in
form with inner and outer circles. The outer circle shall be one and one-eighth
inches (11/8") in diameter. Between the two (2) circles, it shall bear the
words "City of Melba, Idaho Seal".
   B.   Official Seal: The seal described in subsection A of this section is
hereby adopted as the corporate seal of the city.
   C.   Custodian: The city clerk-treasurer shall be the custodian of the
corporate seal of the city and shall affix said seal's imprint upon all
official documents, records, licenses, warrants, and/or checks. (Ord. 50, 8-28-
1967)
1-5-2: OFFICIAL NEWSPAPER:
The Idaho Press-Tribune printed and published in the city of Nampa, county of
Canyon, state of Idaho, and/or the Kuna-Melba News printed and published in the
city of Kuna, county of Ada, state of Idaho, is hereby designated the official
newspaper(s) of the city, and such ordinances, notices and publications as
required by law to be given publication in a newspaper shall be published in
said Idaho Press-Tribune and/or Kuna-Melba News. (Ord. 112, 12-11-1984)
CHAPTER 6
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-6-1: City Council Composition; Election; Terms
1-6-2: Mayor
1-6-3: President Of Council
1-6-4: Duties Of Council
1-6-5: Meetings
1-6-6: Care Of Funds And Records
1-6-7: Passage Of Ordinances; Preservation
1-6-8: Vacancies In Office
1-6-9: Salaries
1-6-1: CITY COUNCIL COMPOSITION; ELECTION; TERMS:
The legislative authority of the city shall be vested in a council consisting
of four (4) members, qualified as provided by law. The council members of the
city shall be elected in the municipal elections of the city for a term of four
(4) years at the municipal elections held on the first Tuesday of November
beginning in the year 1967. The staggered method presently used shall continue
to be followed. (Ord. 47, 8-28-1967)
1-6-2: MAYOR:
   A.   Election And Term: The mayor of the city shall be elected in the
municipal election of the city every four (4) years, which municipal election
is on the first Tuesday of November beginning in the year 1967.
   B.   Duties Generally: The mayor, the superintending and administrative
officer of the city, shall devote so much of his time to the duties of his
office as an efficient and faithful discharge thereof may require. He shall
preside at all meetings of the council and shall have a vote when the council
is equally divided, and may call special meetings of the council when
necessary. He shall appoint all officers and employees of the city, subject to
approval by the council, and have such other powers as provided by law. He
shall, from time to time, provide for the council such information and
recommend such measures as he may deem beneficial to the city. He shall examine
the grounds of all complaints against any officer of the city to determine
existence of a violation or neglect of duty and report to the council the
evidence thereof, if deemed sufficient for the removal of said officer. He
shall require that every officer, on the expiration of his term of office or
resignation or removal, deliver to his successor all assets belonging to such
office. He shall perform all other duties required and necessary for the
efficient operation of the business of the city, and all other duties imposed
by the laws of the state.
   C.   Powers:
      1.   Sign Documents: The mayor is authorized and empowered to sign, for
and on behalf of the city, all contracts, documents and papers to which the
city is party, and to require that the conditions in any instrument are
faithfully performed.
      2.   Borrow Money: The mayor may borrow money on the credit of the city
when so authorized by the council. (Ord. 48, 8-28-1967)
      3.   Police Power: The mayor shall have jurisdiction over all places
within five (5) miles of the corporate limits of the city for the enforcement
of any health or quarantine ordinance or regulation and shall have jurisdiction
in all matters, excepting taxation, within one mile of the corporate limits and
over such properties as may be owned by the city without the corporate limits.
      4.   Veto Power: The mayor shall have power to veto or sign any ordinance
passed by the city council; provided, that any ordinance vetoed by the mayor
may be passed over his veto by a vote of one-half (1/2) plus one of the members
of the full council, notwithstanding the veto, and should the mayor neglect or
refuse to sign any ordinance and return the same with his objections, in
writing, at the next regular meeting of the council, the same shall become a
law without his signature. (Ord. 48, 8-28-1967; amd. 2008 Code)
      5.   Accounts And Reports Of Officers: The mayor shall have the power,
when he deems it necessary, to require any officer of the city to exhibit his
accounts or other papers, or to make reports to the council in writing,
touching any subject or matter pertaining to his office. (Ord. 48, 8-28-1967)
      6.   Require Aid: The mayor is hereby authorized to call on any male or
female inhabitant in the city over twenty one (21) years of age to aid in
enforcing the laws. (Ord. 48, 8-28-1967; amd. 2008 Code)
      7.   Other Powers: The mayor shall have all other powers granted by the
laws of the state. (Ord. 48, 8-28-1967)
1-6-3: PRESIDENT OF COUNCIL:
At the first meeting of the council following a general city election, the
council shall, from its members, elect one council member to be styled
president of the council. The president of the council shall have all powers of
the mayor when serving in that office due to absence of the mayor or vacancy in
the office of mayor. (Ord. 47, 8-28-1967)
1-6-4: DUTIES OF COUNCIL:
The members of the city council, the legislative and policy making branch of
the government of the city, shall devote so much of their time to the duties of
their office as an efficient and faithful discharge thereof may require.
Council members shall attend all meetings of the council, unless lawfully
excused therefrom by the mayor or by a majority of the remaining members, and
perform all duties required of them by law, and may be assigned committees to
which they may severally be appointed by the mayor. (Ord. 47, 8-28-1967)
1-6-5: MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular Meetings: The council shall hold regular meetings each month.
Such meetings shall be held in the city hall and shall commence at seven
o'clock (7:00) P.M. on the second Monday of each month. If, in any month, the
regular meeting day shall be a holiday, the meeting may either be postponed for
one day (second Tuesday) or for one week (third Monday) and shall be held at
the regular hour. Any decision as to which of these options is chosen shall be
at the discretion of the mayor. (Ord. 192, 11-13-2001)
   B.   Special Meetings: The mayor or one-half (1/2) plus one of the
membership of the council may call special meetings. The object and disposition
of such meetings shall be entered into the minutes. (Ord. 192, 11-13-2001; amd.
2008 Code)
1-6-6: CARE OF FUNDS AND RECORDS:
   A.   Funds: The city council shall make provision for the care and
safekeeping of all public funds of the city and for the deposit of the same.
(Ord. 47, 8-28-1967)
   B.   Records: The city council shall make provisions for an adequate record
system, and by resolution establish a classification for retention of records
in accordance with the provisions of title 50, Idaho Code. (Ord. 228, 12-8-
2008)
1-6-7: PASSAGE OF ORDINANCES; PRESERVATION:
   A.   Procedure: All ordinances of the city shall be typewritten or printed
and presented to the council by a member at any regular or special meeting.
Every such ordinance shall be read at the meeting of the council on three (3)
different days. At each reading, the ordinance shall be open to discussion and
amendment or may be referred to a committee unless, by majority vote, other
disposition is made. All ordinances which have been amended shall, after the
second reading, be engrossed by the clerk- treasurer as amended. On final
passage, the yeas and nays shall be called and recorded, and a concurrence of a
majority of the full council shall be required for passage; provided, however,
that the vote of one-half (1/2) plus one member of the council may dispense
with the portion of this subsection requiring all ordinances to be read on
three (3) different days, and on the vote upon the motion to dispense with this
rule, the yeas and nays shall be called and recorded.
   B.   Signatures; Mayor Approval Or Veto: When any ordinance is passed, it
shall be signed by the clerk-treasurer, and the date of its passage by the
council shall be added thereto, and it shall, within three (3) days thereafter,
be presented to the mayor, or in case of his absence from the city, to the
president of the council for his approval. If he approves the same, he shall
affix his signature thereto.
   C.   Passage Over Veto: Should the mayor not approve the ordinance, he
shall, before the next regular meeting after such ordinance is presented to him
for his approval, return the ordinance to the council with his objections in
writing. When any ordinance is so returned by the mayor, it shall be
reconsidered by the council at the first regular meeting thereafter. If, on
such reconsideration, a majority of the members of the full council shall vote
in the affirmative, the ordinance shall become a law notwithstanding the
mayor's veto. The clerk-treasurer, in such cases, shall annex a certificate to
the ordinance stating the same was vetoed by the mayor, and that, on its
reconsideration, it received the required majority of votes.
   D.   Failure Of Mayor To Sign: Should the mayor refuse or neglect to sign
such ordinance and fail to return the same at the next regular meeting after
the same has been presented to him, it shall become the law without his
signature. The clerk-treasurer shall annex to such ordinance a certificate to
the effect that the mayor has failed to sign or veto the same, and it has
therefore become a law without his signature.
   E.   Preservation Of Ordinances: It shall be the duty of the city clerk-
treasurer to safely keep the original ordinances as engrossed, and after final
passage, he shall copy the same at length in a book to be known as the
"ordinance book of the city of Melba", which book is to be provided by the
council for that purpose and shall be kept as a permanent record of the city.
(Ord. 47, 8-28-1967)
1-6-8: VACANCIES IN OFFICE:
In the event an office of the council shall become vacant, through death,
removal of residence, or for any other cause, the mayor shall appoint, with the
approval of the council, a resident of the city to fill the unexpired portion
of the term until the next general election, at which time, the unexpired term
shall be filled by regular election. (Ord. 47, 8-28-1967)
1-6-9: SALARIES:
Commencing on January 1, 2020, the salaries of the mayor and of the members of
the Melba city council shall be as follows:
   A.   The mayor shall receive a monthly salary in the sum of five hundred
dollars ($500.00).
   B.   Each of the Council members of Melba shall receive a monthly salary in
the sum of one hundred-fifty dollars ($150.00). (Ord. 218, 8-13-2007; amd. Ord.
267, 8-12-2019)
CHAPTER 7
CITY OFFICERS AND PERSONNEL
SECTION:
1-7-1: Salaries
1-7-2: Appointive Officers
1-7-3: Official Bonds
1-7-4: City Clerk-Treasurer
1-7-5: City Attorney
1-7-1: SALARIES:
The salaries for elective offices and appointive offices of the city shall be
as fixed by the official action of the city council 1 . (2008 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  1-6-9 of this title for salaries of mayor and council members.
1-7-2: APPOINTIVE OFFICERS:
   A.   Appointments: The mayor shall appoint, subject to approval of the city
council, the city clerk-treasurer and the city attorney. The mayor may appoint,
subject to approval by the city council, such other officers as may be deemed
necessary for the efficient operation of the business of the city.
   B.   Terms Of Office: All appointments under this chapter shall be deemed to
be for an indeterminate period of time. Termination of any appointed official's
term of office may be effected by the mayor, at any time, subject to the
approval of the city council of the mayor's action, at the next regularly
scheduled city council meeting or at a special meeting called for that purpose.
(2008 Code)
1-7-3: OFFICIAL BONDS:
   A.   Certain officers shall give bonds in favor of the city with two (2) or
more sureties, or surety bonds may be furnished in lieu of personal bonds as
follows:
      City clerk-treasurer
   B.   Bonds so furnished in accordance with the provisions of this section
shall be furnished at the expense of the city. (2008 Code)
1-7-4: CITY CLERK-TREASURER:
   A.   Appointment: The city clerk-treasurer shall be appointed by the mayor
subject to the approval of the city council. He shall hold office for the
duration of his appointment unless sooner removed by the mayor with the
concurrence of the city council.
   B.   Duties: In all cases where the duty is not expressly charged to any
other department or office, the city clerk-treasurer shall have supervision,
control and responsibility of all of the records of the city and shall act to
promote, secure and preserve the financial and property interests of the city.
The clerk- treasurer shall safely keep in designated depositories all funds
belonging to the city and all other securities in safety deposit boxes of an
approved institution designated by the city council.
      1.   Records Kept: The city clerk-treasurer shall be responsible for the
recording, filing, indexing and safekeeping of all proceedings of the city
council and shall have published all proceedings, legal notices, ordinances and
resolutions that are required to be published by this code or by state statute.
      2.   Ordinances: The city clerk-treasurer shall record in full, uniformly
and permanently, all ordinances and he shall authenticate the same.
      3.   Election Records: The city clerk-treasurer shall keep and maintain
all election records and have custody of all property used in connection with
elections.
      4.   Notification Of Term Expirations: The city clerk-treasurer shall
notify the appointing authority of the impending expiration of the term of
office of a member of any board or commission at least thirty (30) days before
the expiration of the term.
      5.   Official Seal: The city clerk-treasurer shall be the custodian of
the official seal of the city.
      6.   Copies Of Records: The city clerk-treasurer shall furnish to any
member of the city council a certified copy of any record or document in his
custody and he may furnish such a copy to any other person upon payment of a
fee to be determined by the city council.
      7.   Licenses: In all cases where the duty is not expressly charged to
any other department or office, the city clerk-treasurer shall issue all
licenses in accordance with the provisions of this code. A record of all
licenses issued, including the name of the person to whom issued, the amount of
the license fee, and the purpose of the license shall be kept by the city
clerk-treasurer.
      8.   Bonds: The city clerk-treasurer shall keep a complete record of all
outstanding bonds of the city and report such record regularly to the city
council.
   C.   Warrants:
      1.   Payment:
         a.   Warrants shall be paid by the city clerk-treasurer from funds
available in the order in which the warrants are presented for payment. When a
warrant is presented for payment and no funds are available, the city clerk-
treasurer shall plainly mark the warrant "Not Paid for Want of Funds" and enter
the same in a book maintained for such purpose which shall be known as the
"warrant register". Such warrants shall bear interest at the rate of seven
percent (7%) per annum from the date of presentation until paid.
         b.   Warrants shall be called for payment in the order in which they
were presented whenever sufficient funds are available to the city clerk-
treasurer to make such payment.
      2.   Cancellation: The city clerk-treasurer shall cancel all warrants and
other evidence of debt against the city, whenever paid by him, by writing or
stamping across the face thereof the words "Paid By The City Clerk-Treasurer"
with the date of payment written or stamped thereon.
      3.   Signature: The city clerk-treasurer shall countersign all warrants
and keep a "warrant register and abstract of expenditures" showing the number
and amount of warrants issued and the person to whom issued, the date redeemed,
the interest paid and the several funds against which each of said warrants is
drawn.
   D.   Claims And Damages:
      1.   Claims: All claims against the city must be filed in writing with
the city clerk-treasurer. Claims must present a full and accurate account of
all items that the city is being asked to pay, indicating clearly the amount of
the claim and showing all credits that the city would be entitled to. All
claims must be approved by the city council before payment can be made.
      2.   Damages: All claims for damages against the city must be filed with
the city clerk-treasurer in accordance with the Idaho tort claims act, title 6,
chapter 9, Idaho Code.
   E.   Accounts And Finances:
      1.   Accounts: The city clerk-treasurer shall keep in proper books a full
and accurate account of all the monies received and disbursed by him in behalf
of the city, specifying the time of receipt and disbursement, from whom
received and to whom disbursed, and on what account received and disbursed, and
how paid.
      2.   Monies: The city clerk-treasurer shall receive and have custody of
all monies paid to the city and shall disburse monies upon the official warrant
of the city when so ordered by the city council.
      3.   Collections: The city clerk-treasurer shall demand and receive all
monies and fees owing to the city whenever any person is indebted to the city
in any manner, and the means of collection of such debt is not otherwise
provided for by law. When any claim shall not be collectible by other methods
he shall report the same to the city attorney for prosecution.
   F.   Reports:
      1.   Quarterly Report: The city clerk-treasurer shall make a detailed
report to the city council on a quarterly basis showing the business of the
clerk-treasurer's office during the preceding quarter, showing the balance on
hand to the credit of the different funds, the amounts received during the
quarter, and on what account, together with such other information as may be
required by the city council. Said report shall be due on January 1, April 1,
July 1 and October 1 of each year, unless the city council shall request of the
city clerk-treasurer detailed reports more often or on different months.
      2.   Published Quarterly Report: It shall be the duty of the city clerk-
treasurer to cause to be published quarterly during each fiscal year for at
least one insertion in the official newspaper of the city, a full statement of
each separate account, fund or appropriation for the year to date, and balances
of the debits and credits belonging thereto, indicating salaries, capital
outlay and a percentage comparison to the original appropriation. All published
financial statements shall include the following: "Citizens are invited to
inspect the detailed supporting records of the above financial statements."
Such statement shall be published within thirty (30) days from the end of each
quarter, except for the final quarter of the fiscal year, which shall be
published no later than thirty (30) days from the date of completion of the
annual audit. Notwithstanding the above, no one shall be precluded from making
this filing prior to the completion of an audit. Failure upon the part of the
clerk- treasurer of the city to comply with the requirements of this subsection
shall be deemed a misdemeanor. (2008 Code)
1-7-5: CITY ATTORNEY:
   A.   Appointment: The city attorney shall be appointed by the mayor subject
to the approval of the city council. He shall hold office for the duration of
his appointment unless sooner removed by the mayor with the concurrence of the
city council.
   B.   Duties:
      1.   Suits And Actions: The city attorney shall prosecute or defend any
and all suits or actions at law or equity to which the city may be a party, or
in which it may be interested, or which may be brought against, or by, any
officer of the city on behalf of the city, or in the capacity of such person as
an officer of the city.
      2.   Judgments: It shall be the duty of the city attorney to see to the
full enforcement of all judgments or decrees rendered or entered in favor of
the city, and of all similar interlocutory orders.
      3.   Advise: The city attorney shall be the legal advisor of the city,
and shall render advice on all legal questions affecting the city, whenever
requested to do so by any city official. Upon request by the mayor or by the
city council, he shall reduce any such opinion to writing.
      4.   Special Assessments: It shall be the duty of the city attorney to
see to the completion of all special assessment proceedings and condemnation
proceedings.
      5.   Ordinances And Documents: It shall be the duty of the city attorney
to draft or supervise the phraseology of any contract, lease or other documents
or instruments, to which the city may be a party; and upon request of the city
council, to draft ordinances covering any subjects within the power of the
city. (2008 Code)
CHAPTER 8
ELECTIONS
SECTION:
1-8-1: Hours Polls Open
1-8-2: Initiative And Referendum
1-8-1: HOURS POLLS OPEN:
Pursuant to the authority of Idaho Code section 50-453, it is hereby
established, for all general and special city elections, that the polls shall
be open at twelve o'clock (12:00) noon and remain open until all registered
electors of the precinct have voted, or until eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. of the
same day, whichever occurs first. (Ord. 174, 8-12-1997)
1-8-2: INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM:
   A.   Creation Of Right: The people of the city shall have the right to enact
ordinances through the initiative process and to repeal ordinances through the
referendum process, according to the procedures set forth in this section.
(Ord. 76, 10-3-1978)
   B.   Number Of Petitioners Required: To enact an ordinance by initiative or
to repeal an ordinance by referendum, there shall be attached or appended to
the petition the signatures of the legal voters of the city equal to at least
twenty percent (20%) of the total number of electors who cast votes at the last
general election in the city. (Ord. 76, 10-3-1978; amd. 2008 Code)
   C.   Time For Filing Petitions: Referendum petitions with the requisite
number of signatures shall be filed with the city clerk-treasurer not less than
sixty (60) days following the final adoption of the ordinance to be subject to
referendum. (Ord. 76, 10-3-1978)
   D.   Time For Election: A special election for initiative or referendum
shall be as provided in Idaho Code section 34-106. (Ord. 76, 10-3-1978; amd.
2008 Code)
   E.   Petition Requirements: Referendum and initiative petitions shall
conform with the requirements for signature, verification of valid petitions,
printing of petitions, and time limits, except as expressly modified to meet
the purposes of initiative and referendum to be as nearly as practicable as
provided in Idaho Code sections 34-1701 through 34-1705. (Ord. 76, 10-3-1978)
CHAPTER 9
PUBLIC HEARINGS PROCEDURE
SECTION:
1-9-1: Rules Of Procedure For Public Hearings
1-9-1: RULES OF PROCEDURE FOR PUBLIC HEARINGS:
The following rules are hereby established, shall be observed in the conduct of
any public hearing before the city council and shall be known as the CITY OF
MELBA RULES OF PROCEDURE FOR PUBLIC HEARINGS: (Ord. 100, 8-10-1982; amd. 2008
Code)
   A.   Sign Up Sheet: No person shall be permitted to testify or speak before
the city council at a public hearing, unless such person has signed his name
and written his residential address thereafter on sign up sheets to be provided
by the city. This rule shall not apply to staff or technical witnesses directed
by the mayor to give evidence or information to the city council.
   B.   Permission To Speak: No person shall be permitted to speak before the
city council at a public hearing until such person has been recognized by the
mayor.
   C.   Record Of Proceedings: All public hearing proceedings shall be recorded
electronically or stenographically, and all persons speaking at such public
hearings shall speak before a microphone in such a manner as will assure that
the recorded testimony or remarks will be accurate and trustworthy.
   D.   Time Limit For Testimony: At the commencement of the public hearing,
the city council shall establish a time limit to be observed by all speakers.
The time limit shall be established depending on the number of speakers who
sign up for each public hearing and shall apply only to the speaker's comments.
   E.   Speaker Interruptions Prohibited: The speaker shall not be interrupted
by members of the city council until his time limit has been expended or until
he has finished his statement.
   F.   Question And Answer Period: At the conclusion of a speaker's comments,
each city council person, when recognized by the mayor, shall be allowed to
question the speaker, and the speaker shall be limited to answers to the
questions asked. The question and answer period shall not be included in the
speaker's time limit, as established.
   G.   Oaths Required: When the public hearing is quasi-judicial in nature or
one after which the city council is required by law to make findings of fact,
each speaker must swear or affirm that his testimony will be true and correct.
   H.   Failure To Comply: Any person not conforming to any of the above rules
may be prohibited from speaking during the public hearing. Should any person
refuse to comply with such prohibition, he may be removed from the room by
order of the mayor.
   I.   Suspension Or Amendment Of Rules: The city council may suspend or amend
any one or more of these rules by vote of one-half (1/2) plus one of the full
city council.
   J.   Interpretation And Application Of Rules: The mayor shall have the
authority to interpret and apply the foregoing rules, subject to an appeal to
the city council, whose decision shall be determined by a majority vote of the
council members present. (Ord. 100, 8-10-1982)
CHAPTER 10
PLANNING AND ZONING FEES
SECTION:
1-10-1: Fees Established
1-10-2: Comprehensive Fees; Reimbursements
1-10-1: FEES ESTABLISHED:
The following fee schedule shall be charged by the city for planning and zoning
applications:
Annexation                      $400.00
Conditional use permit          150.00
Modifications                   25.00
Permit transfers and extensions 100.00
     Lot split             150.00
     Appeal request        100.00
Planned unit development
     Preliminary plan      300.00 + $20.00 for each acre over 3
     Final plan            50.00 per acre
Rezone                          400.00
Variance                        150.00
 
(Ord. 176, 4-14-1998; amd. 2008 Code)
1-10-2: COMPREHENSIVE FEES; REIMBURSEMENTS:
All fees include the cost of application, mailing, copies and publication.
Incidental engineering, attorney or any other technical assistance fees
incurred will be reimbursed by the developer/applicant. (Ord. 176, 4-14-1998)
CHAPTER 11
AREA OF CITY IMPACT
SECTION:
1-11-1: Short Title
1-11-2: Purpose
1-11-3: Annexations Within Area Of Impact
1-11-4: Adoption Of County Comprehensive Plan And Zoning Ordinance To Impact
Area
1-11-5: Adoption Of City Subdivision Ordinance To Impact Area; Exceptions
1-11-6: Availability Of Ordinances
1-11-7: Impact Area Map
1-11-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the MELBA AREA OF CITY IMPACT (PLANS AND
ORDINANCES) ORDINANCE. (Ord. 158, 2-14-1995)
1-11-2: PURPOSE:
   A.   The Idaho legislature duly enacted Idaho Code section 67-6526(a) which
provides that by separate ordinance the county of Canyon and city of Melba
shall provide for application of plans and ordinances for the area of city
impact; and
   B.   The city of Melba and the county of Canyon have adopted a map
identifying the city of Melba impact area within the unincorporated area of the
county by the adoption of ordinance 154 duly passed by the city on the October
11, 1994 1 , and by ordinance 94-004, duly passed by Canyon County on October
27, 1994; and
   C.   Idaho Code section 67-6526(a) requires that the city and the county
provide by ordinance for the application of plans and ordinances of the area of
city impact of the city within the unincorporated area of the county no later
than January 1, 1995; and
   D.   The city and the county shall enter into a joint exercise of power
agreement for the impact area of the city, which agreement shall provide for
and facilitate the legal duties of the parties and their responsibilities and
authority as required under the local planning act of 1975 2 , and including
any duties appertaining to the area of city impact subsequently required by the
Idaho legislature. (Ord. 158, 2-14-1995)
 
Notes
1 1. See section 1-11-7 of this chapter.
2 2. IC § 67-6501 et seq.
1-11-3: ANNEXATIONS WITHIN AREA OF IMPACT:
Effective January 1, 1995, annexation by the city shall be limited to lands
lying within the area of impact, unless the owner of the land requests the
tract of land be annexed by the city, and the land is contiguous to the
boundaries of the city. Upon annexation, the provisions of this chapter shall
no longer apply to the annexed area. (Ord. 158, 2-14-1995)
1-11-4: ADOPTION OF COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AND ZONING ORDINANCE TO IMPACT
AREA:
There is hereby adopted for purposes of complying with Idaho Code section 67-
6526(a) an ordinance providing for the application of the latest edition of the
Canyon County comprehensive plan, as duly enacted and adopted by the Canyon
County commissioners, and Canyon County zoning ordinance 93-002, to the area of
impact of the city within the unincorporated area of the county, until a new
comprehensive plan and/or zoning ordinance has been duly adopted in accordance
with the provisions of a "joint exercise of power agreement impact area city of
Melba/county of Canyon". Until the joint exercise of power agreement is adopted
and operational, the county shall direct copies of all applications coming
before it, pursuant to the local planning act of 1975 and Canyon County zoning
ordinance 93-002 concerning property located in the area of city impact, to the
city for its input on the application and shall give such input due
consideration; and after the adoption of the joint exercise of power agreement
and the same becomes operational, then the provisions of that agreement shall
govern this process. (Ord. 158, 2-14-1995)
1-11-5: ADOPTION OF CITY SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE TO IMPACT AREA; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Subdivision Ordinance: There is hereby adopted, for purposes of
complying with Idaho Code section 67-6526(a), this chapter, which provides for
the application of the city subdivision ordinance, except as provided in
subsection B of this section, as adopted by ordinance 151 of the city, to the
area of impact of the city within the unincorporated area of the county, until
a new subdivision ordinance has been duly adopted in accordance with the
provisions of a "joint exercise of power agreement impact area city of Melba/
county of Canyon". (Ord. 158, 2-14-1995)
   B.   Exceptions And Conflict Procedure: In the event of a conflict in the
application of the provisions of the county zoning ordinance and the provisions
of the city subdivision ordinance to the area of impact of the city, the
provisions of the city subdivision ordinance shall control, but shall not
control over the application of the county floodplain and/or addressing
ordinances. The city subdivision ordinance shall be subject to the applicable
Nampa highway district standards and regulations solely enforceable by said
highway district. It is further provided that only those portions of the
subdivision ordinance adopted which are not repugnant to federal or state law
shall be adopted by the city, and there shall be no approval and reviewing of
protective or restrictive covenants as part of the process described in this
chapter. (Ord. 158, 2-14-1995; amd. 2008 Code)
   C.   One Mile Approval By City: Within one mile of the city, the subdivision
ordinance shall prevail over the county subdivision ordinance as is provided
for in Idaho Code section 50-1306 in those circumstances where the one mile
limit exceeds the boundaries of the impact area, except in those instances
where there is an overlap with another city that is larger, in which event, the
jurisdiction of that larger city shall be assumed. (Ord. 158, 2-14-1995)
1-11-6: AVAILABILITY OF ORDINANCES:
True and correct copies of the ordinances herein referred to shall be on file
with the city clerk-treasurer, the county clerk, and the county planning and
zoning department and are available for public inspection and reference. (Ord.
158, 2-14-1995; amd. 2008 Code)
1-11-7: IMPACT AREA MAP:
   A.   Statute Requirement: The local planning act of 1975 1  requires that
each county and each city in the state shall identify by ordinance an area of
city impact within the unincorporated area of the county and shall, in
accordance with the notice and hearing procedures provided in Idaho Code
section 67-6509, adopt by ordinance a map identifying that area of city impact.
   B.   Official Impact Area Map: The city impact area map, dated October 11,
1994, is hereby adopted as the official map identifying the area of city impact
within the unincorporated area of Canyon County. A true and correct copy of
said map is attached to the ordinance codified herein as exhibit A and by this
reference incorporated herein, and which map shall be certified by the mayor
and city clerk-treasurer, and which map shall be adopted by appropriate
ordinance of the county, in accordance with the notice and hearing procedures
of Idaho Code section 67-6509. (Ord. 154, 10-11-1994)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 67-6501 et seq.
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Planning And Zoning Commission   1
CHAPTER 1
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-1-1: Commission Created
2-1-2: Composition; Appointment; Qualifications; Terms; Vacancies
2-1-3: Bylaws
2-1-4: Officers
2-1-5: Meetings
2-1-1: COMMISSION CREATED:
There shall be a planning and zoning commission (hereinafter referred to as
"the commission") for the city, which said commission shall be known and
designated as the planning and zoning commission. (Ord. 206, 10-11-2004)
2-1-2: COMPOSITION; APPOINTMENT; QUALIFICATIONS; TERMS; VACANCIES:
The commission shall consist of five (5) members, all of whom shall be
appointed by the mayor, and said appointments shall be confirmed by the
council. All applicants for the commission shall have resided either within the
Melba city limits or the area of impact for Melba for at least two (2) years
prior to their appointment to the commission, and all commissioners shall
maintain said residency after their appointment to, and during their service
on, the commission. At no time shall the commission contain more than two (2)
members nor less than one whose principal place of residence is located outside
of the city but within the area of impact. Commissioners are appointed for
three (3) year rotating terms. Each year, appointments shall be made to fill
the positions of retiring commissioners. When a vacancy occurs for any reason
other than the expired term of a commissioner, the mayor shall appoint a
replacement commissioner to fill the vacancy for the remainder of the unexpired
term. (Ord. 206, 10-11-2004)
2-1-3: BYLAWS:
The city council may, from time to time, adopt by resolution, bylaws governing
the operation of the commission. Any currently existing and previously approved
bylaws shall continue in full effect until such time as changed by resolution.
(Ord. 206, 10-11-2004)
2-1-4: OFFICERS:
   A.   Chair And Vice Chair: The commission shall elect its own chair and vice
chair and fill such other offices as it may determine it requires. Election of
officers shall take place in December each year. The new chair and vice chair
shall assume office at the first regular meeting in January and serve through
the last meeting in December. During the absence or disability of the chair,
the vice chair shall assume the duties of the chair.
   B.   Secretary: The chair shall appoint someone to serve as secretary who
shall keep an accurate record of all proceedings of the commission. (Ord. 206,
10-11-2004)
2-1-5: MEETINGS:
The commission shall hold at least nine (9) regular meetings during the year,
and such other meetings as may be determined by a majority of the members of
the commission, to be called and held at a time, place and manner as the
commission shall ordain in its minutes. The regular meetings shall be held on
the first Wednesday second Thursday of each month at seven o'clock (7:00) P.M.,
and unless otherwise decided and determined by its members, such meetings shall
be held at the city hall and shall at all times be open to the public. (Ord.
206, 10-11-2004; Ord. 265, 5-13-2019)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
Liquor Control   1
CHAPTER 1
LIQUOR CONTROL
SECTION:
3-1-1: Short Title
3-1-2: Purpose; Applicability Of Provisions
3-1-3: Definitions
3-1-4: City Power To Regulate
3-1-5: Beer And/Or Wine And/Or Liquor By The Drink Licenses Required
3-1-6: Applications For Licenses
3-1-7: License Fees
3-1-8: Denial, Restriction Or Revocation Of Licenses
3-1-9: Number Of Licenses
3-1-10: Nontransferability Of Licenses
3-1-11: Days And Hours Of Sales
3-1-12: Consumption On Licensed Premises Only
3-1-13: Exceptions To Regulations
3-1-14: Penalties
3-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the MELBA BEER, WINE, AND LIQUOR ORDINANCE.
(Ord. 250, 11-23-2015)
3-1-2: PURPOSE; APPLICABILITY OF PROVISIONS:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide the city council with the power to
regulate the sale of beer, wine, and liquor by the drink within the city, and
to establish procedures for renewal, suspension, revocation, restriction or
termination of beer, wine, and liquor by the drink licenses. (Ord. 250, 11-23-
2015)
3-1-3: DEFINITIONS:
The following words shall have the following specified meanings when used in
this chapter:
   BEER: As defined by the laws of the state of Idaho.
   CITY: The city of Melba.
   DISPENSE: The giving of a beverage to another person for any consideration.
   LICENSEE: Anyone licensed to sell either beer or wine or liquor by the drink
within the city. Those licensed to sell beer shall be known as "beer
licensees". Those licensed to sell wine shall be known as "wine licensees".
Those licensed to sell liquor by the drink shall be known as "liquor by the
drink licensees".
   LIQUOR: As defined by the laws of the state of Idaho.
   NUISANCE: Shall have the meaning ascribed to it in the Melba nuisance
ordinance, as amended from time to time 1 .
   PREMISES: The actual building in which beer or wine or liquor by the drink
is dispensed or sold and the legal subdivision or lot upon which said building
is located.
   RELIGIOUS SERVICE: A meeting of members of an organized religion who are
practicing a religion and not merely drinking wine as a beverage.
   WINE: As defined by the laws of the state of Idaho. (Ord. 250, 11-23-2015)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 4, chapter 1 of this code.
3-1-4: CITY POWER TO REGULATE:
The city shall have the full power, within limits prescribed by the legislature
of the state, to regulate the sale of liquor, beer and wine, and to take such
action with regard to the sale of liquor, beer and/or wine as it deems
necessary to protect the health, safety, morals and welfare of the citizens of
the city. (Ord. 250, 11-23-2015)
3-1-5: BEER AND/OR WINE AND/OR LIQUOR BY THE DRINK LICENSES REQUIRED:
   A.   Beer Sales: It shall be unlawful for any person except a beer licensee
to directly, indirectly or by agent sell or dispense beer within the city.
   B.   Wine Sales: It shall be unlawful for any person except a wine licensee
to directly, indirectly or by agent sell or dispense wine within the city.
   C.   Liquor By The Drink Sales: It shall be unlawful for any person except a
liquor by the drink licensee to directly, indirectly or by agent sell or
dispense liquor by the drink within the city. (Ord. 250, 11-23-2015)
3-1-6: APPLICATIONS FOR LICENSES:
Any person desiring to secure a license to engage in the sale of beer or wine
or liquor by the drink in the city shall first make application, in writing and
signed by the applicant, to the clerk-treasurer on a form prepared and
furnished by said clerk- treasurer, which application shall contain such
reasonable information, as determined and required by the mayor and council,
touching and concerning the applicant and the proposed location of his place of
business. (Ord. 250, 11-23-2015)
3-1-7: LICENSE FEES:
The fee for any license provided for in this section shall be established and
may be amended by resolution of the city council pursuant to the authority of
this section. Payment shall be made in advance of the commencement of the year
to which it applies; however, if a business commences during the year, it may
pay pro rata at the time of commencement for the unexpired portion of the year.
   A.   Beer License:
      1.   Off Premises Sales: All beer licensees shall be required to pay an
annual license fee for the sale of malted liquors in bottle or can only, not to
be consumed on the premises.
      2.   On Premises Sales: All beer licensees shall be required to pay an
annual license fee for the sale of beer to be consumed on the premises.
   B.   Wine License:
      1.   Off Premises Sales: All wine licensees shall be required to pay an
annual license fee for the sale of bottled wine only, not to be consumed on the
premises.
      2.   On Premises Sales: All wine licensees shall be required to pay an
annual license fee for the sale of wine to be consumed on the premises.
   C.   Liquor By The Drink License:
      1.   Off Premises Sales: The sale of liquor by the drink to be consumed
off premises is not allowed.
      2.   On Premises Sales: All liquor by the drink licensees shall be
required to pay an annual license fee for the sale of liquor by the drink to be
consumed on the premises. (Ord. 250, 11-23-2015)
3-1-8: DENIAL, RESTRICTION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSES:
   A.   City's Rights: The granting or renewal of a license shall in no sense
constitute a waiver of the city's right to revoke, restrict or deny a license
for any of the grounds stated within this chapter whereby a license may be
revoked, restricted or denied. No action of the city, short of an express,
written waiver, shall be taken as a waiver of the city's right to rely upon any
basis to revoke, restrict or deny a license.
   B.   Grounds For Denial, Restriction Or Revocation: At all times before and
after the issuance of a license, the mayor and city council have the right to
deny, restrict or revoke a beer, wine, or liquor by the drink license for any
of the following reasons:
      1.   Within the past three (3) years, the applicant or licensee has
violated a federal, state, county or city beer, wine, or liquor law, regulation
or ordinance.
      2.   The city finds the applicant's or licensee's premises constitutes a
nuisance.
      3.   The city finds the applicant's or licensee's past, continued or
proposed operation of the premises is harmful to the health, peace, welfare,
morals or safety of the citizens of the city, or any of them.
      4.   The City finds that circumstances beyond the applicant's or
licensee's control have rendered the premises harmful to the health, peace,
welfare, morals or safety of the citizens of the City, or any of them.
      5.   The applicant or licensee has provided any government entity with
false information in connection with obtaining or maintaining his beer or wine
or liquor by the drink license.
      6.   The applicant or licensee is not over twenty one (21) years of age.
      7.   The applicant or licensee is not the bona fide owner of such
business.
      8.   The applicant or licensee has been convicted of a felony within five
(5) years preceding.
      9.   The on site manager of the premises at which beer or wine or liquor
by the drink is sold is found unfit to act in such capacity by the City
Council.
      10.   Permitting beer or wine or liquor by the drink sold to be consumed
on the premises of the establishment selling such beer or wine or liquor by the
drink to be consumed outside of the building from which the sale originated.
      11.   Permitting anyone under the age of twenty one (21) years of age to
purchase beer or wine or liquor by the drink.
   C.   Government Evidence: In making a decision whether to grant, revoke,
deny or restrict a license, the City may receive written or oral information
from the County Sheriff or any government entity, and consider recommendations
from such government entity as to whether a license shall be issued, denied,
revoked or restricted. Such evidence shall be admissible at any hearing upon
such matter, and shall not be subject to objection as hearsay. The
recommendations of such government entities shall not be binding upon the City.
   D.   Hearings: If it comes to the attention of the City Council that there
exists, or may exist, reasons to revoke, restrict or deny the issuance of a
beer or wine or liquor by the drink license, the applicant or licensee shall be
notified in writing that such action is proposed. Any action proposed or taken
by the City shall not require the appointment of an independent Hearing
Officer. If the applicant or licensee protests the propriety of such adverse
action, he shall be entitled to a hearing. The timing of such hearing shall be
at the discretion of the City Council, but the applicant or licensee shall have
no less than ten (10) days from the date notice is sent to him in the mail to
prepare for such hearing. The hearing shall be presided over by the Mayor, or
President of the City Council in his absence, or any person designated by the
Mayor to preside over the hearing. The decision of the City Council at the
hearing shall be effective immediately.
   E.   Postaction Hearing In Emergencies: If the City Council determines an
emergency situation exists which necessitates a rapid response, it may meet and
take action restricting or denying a license, and providing the adversely
affected licensee with a hearing on such matter at the earliest convenient
opportunity. The action taken by the City shall not require the appointment of
an independent Hearing Officer.
   F.   Automatic Revocation: Revocation of a person's Federal, State or County
beer, wine, or liquor by the drink license shall constitute automatic
revocation of any City beer, wine, or liquor by the drink license held by such
person. (Ord. 250, 11-23-2015)
3-1-9: NUMBER OF LICENSES:
   A.   On Premises Consumption: The City shall issue, during the course of any
given year, no more than six (6) beer and/or wine licenses for beer and/or wine
to be consumed on the premises.
   B.   Off Premises Consumption: The City shall issue, during the course of
any given year, no more than six (6) beer and/or wine licenses for beer and/or
wine in cans or bottles, not to be consumed on the premises.
   C.   Liquor By The Drink Licenses: The City shall issue, during the course
of any given year, no more liquor by the drink licenses than as are available
to the City based on population or administration under the laws of the State
of Idaho. (Ord. 250, 11-23-2015; amd. Ord. 262, 9-10-2018; Ord. 280, 2-14-2022)
3-1-10: NONTRANSFERABILITY OF LICENSES:
Any beer or wine or liquor by the drink license granted shall be
nontransferable, and shall not entitle the holder to any vested rights in
connection with the license granted. (Ord. 250, 11-23-2015)
3-1-11: DAYS AND HOURS OF SALES:
   A.   On Premises Consumption: No beer or wine or liquor by the drink, except
wine used in conjunction with a regularly held religious service, shall be sold
or dispensed or given away upon any licensed premises during the following
hours:
      1.   On Sunday except between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. until
one o'clock (1:00) A.M. the following day; and
      2.   On any other day between one o'clock (1:00) A.M. until seven o'clock
(7:00) A.M.
      3.   On Memorial Day, Thanksgiving, and Christmas from one o'clock (1:00)
A.M. to seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. the following day.
   B.   Off Premises Consumption: Packaged beer and wine for off premises
consumption is permitted to be sold upon any licensed premises between the
hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and one o'clock (1:00) A.M. the following
day, seven (7) days a week. (Ord. 250, 11-23-2015)
3-1-12: CONSUMPTION ON LICENSED PREMISES ONLY:
It shall be a violation of this chapter to purchase wine by the drink or beer
by the drink or liquor by the drink and remove such from the premises in which
it was purchased. (Ord. 250, 11-23-2015)
3-1-13: EXCEPTIONS TO REGULATIONS:
Nothing contained in this chapter shall prohibit the state liquor dispensary
from acting pursuant to the Idaho liquor act 1 . (Ord. 250, 11-23-2015)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 23-101 et seq.
3-1-14: PENALTIES:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Court costs and attorney fees under the laws of the state
may also be imposed. (Ord. 250, 11-23-2015)
TITLE 4
HEALTH AND SANITATION
Nuisances   1
Rubbish, Grass And Weeds   2
CHAPTER 1
NUISANCES
SECTION:
4-1-1: Short Title
4-1-2: Definitions
4-1-3: Nuisances Prohibited; City Jurisdiction
4-1-4: Drinking Alcohol In Public
4-1-5: Declaration Of Nuisance; Authority To Abate
4-1-6: Summary Abatement
4-1-7: Notice To Abate
4-1-8: Failure To Abate; Penalties
4-1-9: Abatement By City; Costs
4-1-10: Enforcement
4-1-11: Interference With Enforcement Officials
4-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the MELBA NUISANCE ORDINANCE. (Ord. 122, 8-26-
1987)
4-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
   JUNK: All discarded articles or manufactured articles no longer used for the
purpose for which they were manufactured, including, but not limited to, old or
rusting, dismantled or nonoperating motor vehicles 1 , metal, chain, rope,
cordage, bags, paper, rubber, glass or plastic.
   NUISANCE:
   A.   Anything defined as such by the Idaho Code, as its sections and
subsections may be amended from time to time.
   B.   Junk, trash or secondhand articles which are visible from the real
property of the city, from the streets or sidewalks within the city, or visible
from the property of anyone who does not own the junk, trash or secondhand
articles.
   C.   Any condition or use of a premises or property which:
      1.   Creates a fire hazard, including, but not limited to, the presence
of weeds, tall grass or trash 2 .
      2.   Is offensive to the senses or is deemed an eyesore.
      3.   Is injurious to health.
         a.   The mayor and city council may consider whether state or federal
health laws or regulations have been violated when making this determination.
         b.   Repeated acts of violence or excessive noise occurring on or
about a private residence or place of business in the course of one calendar
year, whether reported or unreported to city or county officials, shall
constitute a nuisance as follows:
            (1)   Private Residence: If more than one incident of violence or
excessive noise is caused by either an owner or occupant of the residence, such
shall constitute a nuisance.
            (2)   Business: If more than one act of violence is directed toward
a patron or client of the business establishment, and if physical harm comes to
a client or patron of the business establishment, such shall constitute a
nuisance.
      4.   Violates state or federal safety laws or regulations.
      5.   Violates federal or state criminal laws, as such may be amended from
time to time, including, but not limited to, laws dealing with illegal drugs,
controlled substances or prostitution.
      6.   Is otherwise injurious to the health, safety and welfare of the
inhabitants of the city.
   PERSON: Shall include any human, and any firm, partnership, association,
institution, company, corporation or organization of any kind.
   SECONDHAND ARTICLES: Includes anything which is discarded or is no longer
being used, but which still possesses utility in its present state for the
purposes for which it was originally intended or manufactured.
   TRASH: Junk having no market value, unused or discarded parts of dead
animals or vegetation (including, but not limited to, any dead plant life such
as tree branches, cut grass, wood scraps and any other valueless refuse). (Ord.
122, 8-26-1987)
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 6, chapter 2 of this code.
2 2. See also chapter 2 of this title.
4-1-3: NUISANCES PROHIBITED; CITY JURISDICTION:
It shall be unlawful for any person to permit a nuisance to exist, on or about
any real property within the city and extending three (3) miles beyond the city
limits, in which he has an interest by virtue of his ownership, rental, lease
or occupation of such real property. (Ord. 122, 8-26-1987)
4-1-4: DRINKING ALCOHOL IN PUBLIC:
   A.   Purpose: By this section, the city interprets this chapter and declares
specific conduct to constitute a nuisance under this chapter. This section and
the declaration of nuisance is specifically made to interpret this chapter, and
is passed in response to an emergency situation which has arisen recently
within the city. In the future, such conduct as is described herein shall be
prosecuted under this chapter.
   B.   Statute Authority; Nuisance Declared; Application Of Provisions: Under
the powers and emergency powers of the city pursuant to Idaho Code sections 50-
334 and 50-302, and under this chapter, particularly at section
4-1-2, definition of "nuisance", subsection C6, and sections
4-1-3,
4-1-5 and
4-1-6 of this chapter, the city:
      1.   Declares drinking beer, wine, or other alcoholic beverages or
intoxicating liquors to be a nuisance when same is done on a public street,
inside or on an automobile, or outside a bar or business establishment in an
area beyond which the bar or business establishment has been specifically
designated for such drinking. The city council specifically finds such conduct
is injurious to the health, safety and welfare of the inhabitants of the city
and therefore constitutes a nuisance under section
4-1-2, definition of "nuisance", subsection C6, of this chapter.
      2.   Interprets this chapter by holding that it may be violated by
persons other than landowners; the individual creating the nuisance may
likewise be prosecuted, whether lawfully or unlawfully upon land at the time
the nuisance is created. (Ord. 122A, 10-1-1987)
4-1-5: DECLARATION OF NUISANCE; AUTHORITY TO ABATE:
The city council may call a meeting at any time to declare whether any
condition existing within the city and extending three (3) miles beyond the
city limits constitutes a "nuisance", as defined in section
4-1-2 of this chapter. If a majority of the city council is present at the
meeting, and if a majority of those present determines that a nuisance exists,
the city council may take any legal steps to remove and abate such nuisance and
to prevent the occurrence or reoccurrence of a nuisance. (Ord. 122, 8-26-1987)
4-1-6: SUMMARY ABATEMENT:
If the city council finds a nuisance exists and further finds that such
nuisance imminently endangers the health, safety or welfare of its citizens, it
shall immediately take such action as is necessary to protect the health,
safety or welfare of its citizens. The expense of taking such action shall be
borne by the person or persons creating, causing, committing or maintaining the
nuisance. (Ord. 122, 8-26-1987)
4-1-7: NOTICE TO ABATE:
Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter shall be served
by the city by written notice stating the nature of the violation and providing
a specified maximum period of time, not to exceed ten (10) days, for the
satisfactory correction thereof. (Ord. 122, 8-26-1987)
4-1-8: FAILURE TO ABATE; PENALTIES:
Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit provided for
in section
4-1-7 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, on conviction
thereof, shall be subject to a penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, or the performance of community service work for the city,
or a combination of fine and imprisonment or fine and community service for
each violation. Each day in which any such violation shall continue shall be
deemed a separate offense. In addition, any person who creates a nuisance,
causes a nuisance, commits an act which constitutes a nuisance or maintains a
nuisance shall bear the cost of preventing, removing or abating such nuisance,
including attorney fees, if any. (Ord. 122, 8-26-1987; amd. 2008 Code)
4-1-9: ABATEMENT BY CITY; COSTS:
   A.   Generally: The mayor and city council may cause the abatement of the
nuisance according to Idaho Code section 50-334, as amended from time to time.
The expense of the abatement shall be assessed as a special assessment against
the real property involved and shall be due and payable to the city clerk-
treasurer and, if not paid within thirty (30) days after mailing of
notification of assessment, shall be declared delinquent and be certified to
the county tax collector by the city clerk- treasurer, not later than August 1,
and shall be by said tax collector placed upon the tax roll and collected in
the same manner and subject to the same penalties as other city taxes.
   B.   Abandoned Motor Vehicles: Abandoned motor vehicles which constitute a
nuisance may be disposed of in any manner authorized by Idaho law 1 . (Ord.
122, 8-26-1987)
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 6, chapter 2 of this code.
4-1-10: ENFORCEMENT:
This chapter may be enforced by the county sheriff's office or by legal action
taken on behalf of the city. For any such legal action, if the city prevails,
court costs and attorney fees shall be borne by the person creating, causing,
committing or maintaining the nuisance. (Ord. 122, 8-26-1987; amd. 2008 Code)
4-1-11: INTERFERENCE WITH ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS:
No person shall interfere with an authorized officer in his enforcement of this
chapter. A violation of this section shall be deemed a misdemeanor and
punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for any one offense, or by the performance of thirty (30)
days of community service for the city, or a combination of fine and
imprisonment, or fine and community service. (Ord. 122, 8-26-1987; amd. 2008
Code)
CHAPTER 2
RUBBISH, GRASS AND WEEDS
SECTION:
4-2-1: Definitions
4-2-2: Removal Of Rubbish From Public Ways
4-2-3: Duty Of Owner And Tenant To Cut And Remove
4-2-4: Cutting And Removal By City; Costs To Owner
4-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words shall have the meanings ascribed
to them in this section:
   RUBBISH: Ashes, broken crockery, broken bottles, broken bricks, tin vessels,
trimmings from lawns and flower gardens, including shrubbery, boxes, paper
sacks, straw, sawdust, packing materials, shavings and discarded household
materials.
   WEEDS: All grasses, noxious weeds (as defined in Idaho Code section 22-2402)
or other weeds over ten inches (10") tall, and all other rank uncultivated
vegetation, other than trees, bushes and cultivated plants, flowers and
agricultural products. (2008 Code)
4-2-2: REMOVAL OF RUBBISH FROM PUBLIC WAYS:
Every owner, tenant and occupant of private property within the city, abutting
or adjoining any sidewalk or alley, shall be required to remove all rubbish
from all such sidewalks and alleys. (Ord. 99, 7-6-1982)
4-2-3: DUTY OF OWNER AND TENANT TO CUT AND REMOVE:
Every owner, tenant and occupant of private property within the city shall cut
and remove the weeds, grass and rubbish from such private property, including
the parking within the curb abutting such property, by and not later than June
1 each year and to cut and remove the same as often thereafter as may be
necessary to prevent growth and seeding until October 1 of each year. (Ord. 99,
7-6-1982)
4-2-4: CUTTING AND REMOVAL BY CITY; COSTS TO OWNER:
In event of the failure to comply with the requirements set forth in this
chapter, the city may remove or cause to be cut and removed the same, and the
cost of such removal and cutting is to be assessed against the abutting or
adjoining property to any sidewalk or alley from which rubbish is removed by
the city or its agents, and against private property from which weeds, grass
and rubbish are cut or removed by the city. Said assessment shall be collected
as provided by the laws of the state. (Ord. 99, 7-6-1982)
TITLE 5
PUBLIC SAFETY
Animal Control   1
Fireworks   2
Fire Prevention And Protection   3
CHAPTER 1
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
5-1-1: Certain Animals Prohibited And Restricted
5-1-2: Poultry, Backyard Chickens, And Requirements
5-1-3: Livestock And Poultry At Large
5-1-1: CERTAIN ANIMALS PROHIBITED AND RESTRICTED 1 :
   A.   Compliance With Provisions: It shall be unlawful for any person to
raise or maintain cattle, horses, sheep, hogs, pigs, including pot bellied
pigs, goats, rabbits, or chickens on any property that is either wholly or
partially inside the city limits, except as provided in this chapter.
   B.   Pigs And Goats Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to raise
or maintain pigs, including pot bellied pigs, hogs, or goats on any property
that is either wholly or partially inside the city limits. (Ord. 244, 1-13-
2014)
   C.   Cattle, Horses, Sheep And Rabbits:
      1.   Minimum Lot Size: It shall be lawful to raise or maintain cattle,
horses, sheep or rabbits on lots larger than one acre in size when said lot is
either wholly or partially within the city limits.
      2.   Number Of Animals:
         a.   The number of individual livestock animals allowed under
subsection C1 of this section shall be limited to the following, excluding
animals under six (6) months in age:
            Cattle and horses: One per ten thousand (10,000) square feet of
raising area.
            All other permitted livestock: One per five thousand (5,000) square
feet of raising area.
         b.   "Raising area", for the purposes of the raising or maintaining of
livestock, shall be defined as the fenced area, exclusive of barns, pens or
other structures, on which livestock freely graze or otherwise have access.
      3.   Fence Requirements: All lots on which livestock is raised or
maintained must be adequately fenced to protect the public. All fencing erected
pursuant to this subsection C3 must comply with the provisions of title 9,
chapter 2 of this code.
      4.   Condition Of Premises: All property used to raise or maintain
livestock must be in proper condition to do so.
      5.   Compliance With City Zoning Regulations And County And State Law:
All property used to raise or maintain livestock must meet the requirements of
title 10 of this code, as well as other provisions of city, county and state
law. (Ord. 202, 7-14-2003)
   D.   Violation; Penalty: Any violation of any portion of this chapter shall
be a misdemeanor and may be punishable according to Idaho Code. (Ord. 244, 1-
13-2014)
 
Notes
  1. See also sections
1 10-3A-2 and
  10-3C-2 of this code.
5-1-2: POULTRY, BACKYARD CHICKENS, AND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Requirements: It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or cause to
be kept any ducks, geese, turkeys or other poultry, except chickens, on any
property that is either wholly or partially inside the city limits.
   B.   Purpose: It shall be the purpose of this section to establish
requirements to allow for the keeping of chickens on any property that is
either wholly or partially inside the city limits.
   C.   Section Definitions:
   CHICKENS: Hen chickens only.
   COMMERCIAL USE: Selling chickens or eggs.
   RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY: Single-family dwelling as defined in section
10-2-1 of this code.
   D.   Requirements For Keeping Chickens Within City Limits:
      1.   Number Of Chickens: Up to three (3) hens may be permitted on any
detached single-family lot within city limits. Roosters are prohibited within
city limits.
      2.   Distance Requirements: All chicken enclosures and feed must be
secured to prevent problems with mice and other pests and must be at least ten
feet (10') from any fence line, and be located in the backyard. No enclosures
may be located in the front or side yard of a residential property. Minimum lot
size for the keeping of chickens is five thousand (5,000) square feet.
Additionally, the coop may not be attached to a shared fence.
      3.   Exception To Distance Requirement: Chicken enclosures may be located
not closer than two feet (2') from a rear fence adjoining an alley.
      4.   Certain Dwellings And Facilities Prohibited: It is unlawful to keep
chickens on or in two-family dwellings (duplex), multi-family dwellings, or
commercial facilities.
      5.   Commercial Sale Prohibited: Residential property is not allowed to
be used for commercial sale of eggs or chickens.
      6.   Nuisance Control: It is unlawful and may be declared a nuisance for
any person keeping or maintaining chickens in accordance with this chapter to
allow the chickens to create a disturbance to the residents in the particular
locality by creating any noise, odor, or damage to neighboring property, and
the keeping and maintaining of chickens must not interfere with the peaceful
and quiet enjoyment of such property by nearby owners or residents.
      7.   Property Owner Duty To Comply With Private Conditions Or Covenants:
The property owner is responsible to determine whether other private
conditions, restrictive covenants, or private agreements prohibit keeping
chickens or provide stricter requirements on a particular property.
      8.   Enforcement: Any individual violating any provision of this section
may be in violation of title 4, chapter 1, "Nuisances", of this code and
enforcement actions may be taken in accordance with the city nuisance
provisions. (Ord. 244, 1-13-2014)
5-1-3: LIVESTOCK AND POULTRY AT LARGE:
It shall be unlawful for any owner or custodian of any livestock or poultry,
whether permitted or prohibited within city limits, to allow such animal to be,
or remain, at large within the city. In addition to other fines and penalties
as set forth in this chapter, the city may also impose a charge for the costs
of impounding and care of such animal(s) at large. (Ord. 244, 1-13-2014)
CHAPTER 2
FIREWORKS
SECTION:
5-2-1: Nonaerial Common Fireworks Allowed
5-2-2: Public Discharge Or Display
5-2-3: Licensed Dealers
5-2-4: Violations; Penalty
5-2-1: NONAERIAL COMMON FIREWORKS ALLOWED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person, partnership or firm to have in
possession, for sale or distribution within the city limits, any fireworks not
designated nonaerial common fireworks in Idaho Code section 39-2602.
   B.   Fireworks other than nonaerial common fireworks shall not be discharged
within the city limits by any person or firm at any time. Provisions of
subsection
5-2-2A of this chapter shall not be construed to conflict with this subsection.
(Ord. 71, 6-16-1977; amd. 2008 Code)
5-2-2: PUBLIC DISCHARGE OR DISPLAY:
   A.   The city council may, in its discretion, grant or permit the display
and discharge of fireworks at civic pageants or civic gatherings under the
joint supervision of the city council and the county sheriff's department.
(Ord. 71, 6-16-1977; amd. 2008 Code)
   B.   Fireworks shall not be discharged on city property or Melba School
District property within the city limits by any person or firm, at any time,
unless permission is granted by the city council. (Ord. 140, 6-8-1993)
5-2-3: LICENSED DEALERS:
   A.   City License Required: Nonaerial common fireworks may be offered for
sale, sold, or distributed only by those firms or individuals licensed for such
sale by the city council. (Ord. 71, 6-16-1977; amd. 2008 Code)
   B.   County License Required: Licenses for such sale shall not be issued
until appropriate county licenses have been obtained and displayed to the city
clerk-treasurer.
   C.   Issuance Of City License; Fee: Licenses for such sale shall be obtained
from the city clerk-treasurer, and the licensing fee shall not exceed that
charged by the county for like licenses. (Ord. 71, 6-16-1977)
5-2-4: VIOLATIONS; PENALTY:
   A.   Violation of any section of this chapter shall be deemed a misdemeanor,
punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 71, 6-16-1977; amd. 2008 Code)
   B.   Violation of terms and conditions of a license for sale, distribution
or display shall be deemed a violation of this chapter. (Ord. 71, 6-16-1977)
CHAPTER 3
FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION 1
SECTION:
5-3-1: Open Burning
5-3-2: Aboveground Gasoline Tanks
5-3-3: Dispensing Flammable Liquids From Coin Operated Devices
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  9-1-2 of this code for adoption of fire code.
5-3-1: OPEN BURNING:
   A.   Restrictions: It shall be unlawful for any person to burn, incinerate,
bury, dump, collect, remove or in any other manner dispose of rubbish or
garbage inside the city limits. Nothing herein contained shall be construed to
prohibit the use of outdoor fireplaces, barbecue pits or grills, the burning of
tree trimmings or fires for recreational purposes. It shall also be unlawful
for any person to burn trade waste of any kind, specifically debris leftover or
found at construction sites which is piled together and burned in a bonfire
like fashion.
   B.   County Clean Air Warning: When the county issues a clean air warning,
no fireplaces which burn wood, wood stoves, or any wood burning shall be
permitted within the city limits while the county warning is in effect, unless
the fireplace or wood burning stove is the only source of heat in the residence
or business.
   C.   Penalty: Any person violating any of the provisions of this section
shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2008 Code)
5-3-2: ABOVEGROUND GASOLINE TANKS:
   A.   Prohibited: It shall be unlawful to erect or maintain tanks for the
purpose of storing gasoline aboveground or to store gasoline aboveground in
tanks within the city.
   B.   Exceptions: This section shall not apply to persons, firms or
corporations whose business consists of the sale of gasoline. (Ord. 39, 8-4-
1964)
   C.   Penalty: Any person violating any of the provisions of this section
shall be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 39, 8-4-1964; amd. 2008 Code)
5-3-3: DISPENSING FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS FROM COIN OPERATED DEVICES:
The installation and use of coin operated dispensing devices for flammable
liquids being dispensed from automotive service stations within the city is
hereby prohibited. Any person who violates any of the provisions of this
section shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and each day that such device
may be used shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 45, 7-5-1966)
TITLE 6
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
State Laws; General Traffic Provisions   1
Abandoned, Wrecked Vehicles   2
CHAPTER 1
STATE LAWS; GENERAL TRAFFIC PROVISIONS
SECTION:
6-1-1: State Motor Vehicle Laws Adopted
6-1-2: Speed Limit
6-1-1: STATE MOTOR VEHICLE LAWS ADOPTED:
There is hereby adopted for the purpose of establishing rules and regulations
for the use of all streets and public thoroughfares of the city, that certain
code, identified as the latest edition of the Idaho motor vehicle laws, more
particularly title 49, Idaho Code, published by the department of law
enforcement, and as the same may hereafter be revised by the Idaho legislature,
or amended by the city council, and the same is hereby adopted and incorporated
as an ordinance of the city as fully as though set forth at length herein.
Three (3) copies of the said Idaho motor vehicle laws, together with any
revisions or amendments, duly certified by the clerk-treasurer, shall be kept
on file in the clerk-treasurer's office for use and examination of and by the
public. (Ord. 109, 9-10-1984)
6-1-2: SPEED LIMIT:
No person shall drive a vehicle on the streets of the city at a speed in excess
of twenty (20) miles an hour. (Ord. 32, 11-10-1977)
CHAPTER 2
ABANDONED, WRECKED VEHICLES
SECTION:
6-2-1: Definition
6-2-2: Impoundment Of Vehicles
6-2-1: DEFINITION:
The term "abandoned" or "unidentifiable" vehicle shall mean any vehicle which
is parked upon any street of the city for a period of more than twenty four
(24) hours within the business district of the city, and the said owner of said
vehicle cannot be located or the owner of said vehicle refuses to remove such
vehicle from the street upon notice, oral or in writing, given by the county
sheriff's department. (Ord. 40, 4-6-1965; amd. 2008 Code)
6-2-2: IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES 1 :
The county sheriff's department shall have the authority to take into custody,
and to impound, any stolen, abandoned, unidentified or wrecked vehicle at such
place as may be designated by the county sheriff's department. (Ord. 40, 4-6-
1965; amd. 2008 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection
  4-1-9B of this code.
TITLE 7
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
Streets, Sidewalks And Public Ways   1
Sidewalk Construction And Repair   2
Special Events   3
Park Regulations   4
Towing Of Unauthorized Vehicles   5
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Irrigation, Other Waters Upon Public Ways
7-1-1: IRRIGATION, OTHER WATERS UPON PUBLIC WAYS:
   A.   Prohibited Acts And Conditions:
      1.   Any person, company or corporation who runs or causes to run
irrigation water or irrigation wastewater across or upon the public highways,
roads or streets by reason of failure to construct and maintain a good and
sufficient ditch or ditches to carry the same shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
and of committing and maintaining a nuisance.
      2.   Any person, company or corporation who dams up a ditch or ditches
carrying irrigation water or irrigation wastewater or constructs or causes to
be constructed or maintains or causes to be maintained a bridge or bridges
across such ditch or ditches and thereby causes such water to run across or
upon the public highways, roads, or streets shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
and of committing and maintaining a nuisance.
      3.   Any person, company, or corporation who suffers or allows water used
by them for the purpose of irrigation or any other purpose to flow into or upon
the public highways, roads, or streets shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and of
committing and maintaining a nuisance.
   B.   Evidence: Proof of water running from any lot or piece of land and into
or upon the public highways, roads, or streets shall be competent evidence that
the occupant thereof has caused the same to flow therefrom into and upon said
public highway, road or street. (Ord. 24, 1953)
   C.   Penalty: Any person, company or corporation adjudged guilty of a
misdemeanor or of committing or maintaining a nuisance, as proscribed in this
section, shall be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 24, 1953; amd. 2008 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR
SECTION:
7-2-1: Authority To Require Construction Or Repair; Notice To Owner; Contract
For Work
7-2-2: Bond Required
7-2-3: Supervision
7-2-4: Bills For Costs; Unpaid Costs Assessed
7-2-5: Payment Of Costs
7-2-1: AUTHORITY TO REQUIRE CONSTRUCTION OR REPAIR; NOTICE TO OWNER; CONTRACT
FOR WORK:
The city council may, by an order entered upon its minutes, at any regular or
special meeting called for that purpose, order the repair, construction or
grading of sidewalks within the corporate limits of the city, and direct the
city clerk-treasurer to notify the owner, agent, or attorney of all lots or
parts of lots affected by such improvements, to the extent that their
respective pieces of property are assessed with the costs of such improvements.
Such notice shall be given in writing, and if the repairing, construction or
grading, as the case may be, of such sidewalks is not begun within twenty (20)
days from the date of such notice and completed within such time as the city
council shall fix, or if not begun at the time fixed, then it shall be the duty
of the city council to let the improvements, grading, or construction, as the
case may be, to the lowest responsible bidder, who shall give a bond, to be
approved by the city council, in the amount of twenty five percent (25%) of the
bid, to run in the name of the city, for the completion of the work within the
time and manner provided for the contract for such work or improvements. (Ord.
36, 8-7-1962)
7-2-2: BOND REQUIRED:
No person shall construct any cement sidewalk in the city until he shall have
filed a sufficient bond in the office of the city clerk-treasurer, in the
amount determined by the mayor and city council, binding himself to do the work
in accordance with city specifications and, in the event of his failure so to
do, will be bound to remove the defective work and to replace it with a new
walk at his own expense. (Ord. 36, 8-7-1962; amd. 2008 Code)
7-2-3: SUPERVISION:
All improvements, construction and grading of streets and sidewalks as
specified in section
7-2-1 of this chapter shall be made and performed under the guidance and
supervision of the city engineer, by whom all such contract work shall be
approved before being accepted and paid for as hereinafter provided. (Ord. 36,
8-7-1962; amd. 2008 Code)
7-2-4: BILLS FOR COSTS; UNPAID COSTS ASSESSED:
Immediately after completion of all contracts as herein provided, it shall be
the duty of the city clerk-treasurer to make out a bill of account, in the name
of the city against the owner of the said property, with the improvements,
construction or grading so made and performed, and present it to said owner,
his agent or attorney for payment. Said account shall include the cost of
advertising as well as the improvements made, done or constructed and be sworn
to by the city clerk-treasurer. If not paid on demand or within two (2) days
thereafter it shall be assessed as a tax against the property and collected as
other taxes as provided by law. (Ord. 36, 8-7-1962)
7-2-5: PAYMENT OF COSTS:
When the taxes are paid, they shall, together with penalty, cost of
advertising, and accrued interest, be paid to the city clerk- treasurer, who
shall keep account of all monies secured and paid out, as provided, from the
general fund. (Ord. 36, 8-7-1962)
CHAPTER 3
SPECIAL EVENTS
SECTION:
7-3-1: Recitals
7-3-2: Definitions
7-3-3: Permit Required
7-3-4: Exceptions
7-3-5: Special Event Permit Application
7-3-6: Requirements
7-3-7: Fee
7-3-8: Denial And Appeal Procedure
7-3-9: Violation And Penalties
7-3-1: RECITALS:
   A.   The city council of the city of Melba recognizes that members of the
community may desire to hold special events that may impact or make use of
public property, including the highways of the city system; and
   B.   The city council desires to provide for the orderly use of public
property, while also protecting the safety and general welfare of its citizens;
and
   C.   The city has jurisdiction over the permitting of special events under
its authority to license and regulate such events for the purpose of
maintaining the peace under Idaho Code section 50-308; and
   D.   The city has authority and supervision over the use and control of its
streets and public places under Idaho Code sections 50-313 and 50-314. (Ord.
227, 12-8-2008)
7-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
   APPLICANT: A person, association, corporation, organization, or other entity
applying for a special event permit.
   SPECIAL EVENT: An event such as a concert, parade, circus, fair, festival,
block party, community event, fundraising event, and/or private party,
including:
   A.   Any organized formation, parade, procession, or assembly and which may
include animals and/or vehicles and will assemble on, use, and/or travel on any
street and does not comply with usual traffic regulations or controls; and/or
   B.   Any organized assembly at any public park or other public property
which gathers for a common purpose under the direction and control of a person
or organization; and/or
   C.   Any organized activity conducted by a person or organization for a
common or collective use, purpose, or benefit that involves the use of or has
an impact on public property or facilities and the provision of city public
services, particularly public safety, in response thereto.
   SPECIAL EVENT PERMIT: The permit required by this chapter for any special
event and which is issued by the city of Melba (also referred to as "permit").
   SPECIAL EVENT PERMIT APPLICATION FORM: An application form for a special
event permit. The form will be available from the city clerk.
   VENUE: The area or location for which a special event permit has been
issued. (Ord. 227, 12-8-2008)
7-3-3: PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct or hold a special event
upon or using any portion of public property, including streets and rights of
way of the city, without first having applied to and obtained from the city a
special event permit.
   B.   A special event permit is not transferable.
   C.   Any change in the route and/or time of the special event as stated in
the application will invalidate the permit unless twenty four (24) hours'
written notice has been provided to the city clerk and the change has been
approved in writing by the city. Such change, if approved, must be attached as
an amendment to the original permit. (Ord. 227, 12-8-2008)
7-3-4: EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   A special event permit is not required for the following:
      1.   Funeral processions by a licensed mortuary; and/or
      2.   Activities conducted by a governmental agency acting within the
scope of its authority; and/or
      3.   Lawful picketing on sidewalks. (Ord. 227, 12-8-2008)
7-3-5: SPECIAL EVENT PERMIT APPLICATION:
   A.   Application for a special event permit shall be made upon a special
event permit application form. The application form shall be approved and
adopted by resolution of the city council and will be available from the city
clerk. Completed application forms shall be filed with the city clerk.
   B.   The applicant shall provide information on the application regarding
the applicant's contact information, date and time of the special event,
location of the special event, purpose of the special event, and other
information as deemed necessary by the city council.
   C.   The city council may approve, conditionally approve, or deny the
application. The council, at its discretion, may elect to hold a public hearing
on the application.
   D.   The city will provide the applicant with a written decision specifying
the reasons for approval or denial, any further actions required of the
applicant, and the appeal process. (Ord. 227, 12-8-2008)
7-3-6: REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Applicant shall have and carry liability insurance naming the city as
an additional insured for liability arising from or by reason of the special
event in an amount not less than the liability insurance coverage then carried
by the city and shall provide a certificate of insurance to the city clerk at
least seven (7) days prior to the special event.
   B.   Applicant will be responsible for coordinating the special event with
the Canyon County sheriff's office, Melba quick response unit, Melba rural fire
protection district, and the city public works director.
   C.   Applicant will maintain the permit on the site at all times during the
special event.
   D.   All special traffic signage reasonably required by reason of the
special event shall be under the direction and control of the city, and the
applicant shall be notified of expenses associated with traffic signage prior
to the event, and all expense associated therewith shall be paid by the
applicant as a condition of the issuance of the permit in addition to the
permit fee.
   E.   The city may impose any other reasonable conditions upon the issuance
of a permit in order to assure traffic safety and protection of persons and
property. (Ord. 227, 12-8-2008)
7-3-7: FEE:
   A.   The city council shall adopt a special event permit fee in the amount
set by resolution of the city council. (Ord. 227, 12-8-2008)
7-3-8: DENIAL AND APPEAL PROCEDURE:
   A.   The city council may, at its discretion, deny the application or place
restrictions on the time, place, or manner if it deems that the special event
will:
      1.   Be hazardous or disturbing to existing or future neighboring uses;
or
      2.   Create excessive additional requirements at public cost for public
facilities and services, including emergency services; or
      3.   Be detrimental to the economic welfare of the community; or
      4.   Involve uses, activities, processes, materials, equipment and
conditions of operation that will be detrimental to persons, property or the
general welfare by reason of excessive production of traffic, noise, smoke,
fumes, glare or odors.
   B.   The applicant shall have twenty (20) days from the date of receipt of
the notice of the decision of the council within which to appeal said decision
to the city council. (Ord. 227, 12-8-2008)
7-3-9: VIOLATION AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Violation of the provisions of this chapter and/or failure to comply
with the requirements of the permit shall be deemed a misdemeanor and shall be
punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 227, 12-8-2008)
CHAPTER 4
PARK REGULATIONS
SECTION:
7-4-1: Purpose And Authority
7-4-2: Hours
7-4-3: Possession Or Consumption Of Alcoholic Beverages
7-4-4: Animals In The City Park
7-4-5: Vehicles In The City Park
7-4-6: Violation And Penalties
7-4-1: PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY:
   A.   The city council of the city of Melba recognizes the city park is for
the use and enjoyment of all citizens of Melba; and
   B.   The city council desires to provide for the orderly use of public
property, while also protecting health, safety and general welfare of all its
citizens; and
   C.   The city has authority and supervision over the use and control of the
city park under Idaho Code sections 50-313 and 50-314. (Ord. 241, 12-10-2012)
7-4-2: HOURS:
   A.   No person shall use, enter, or occupy the premises of the city park for
any purpose after dusk or before dawn of any day. "Dusk" shall be defined as
thirty (30) minutes after sunset and "dawn" shall be defined as thirty (30)
minutes before sunrise.
   B.   There shall be no parking of any type of motor vehicle or trailer in a
city park after dusk or before dawn of any day. "Dusk" and "dawn" shall have
the same meaning as in the preceding subsection. Violating vehicles may be
towed at owner's expense. Persons using, entering, or occupying the premises of
the city park pursuant to special event permits that extend past dusk or begin
before dawn are exempt from this regulation.
   C.   Law enforcement, other safety personnel, city officials and city
employees, when acting in an official capacity are exempt from this regulation.
(Ord. 241, 12-10-2012; amd. Ord. 282, 10-10-2022)
7-4-3: POSSESSION OR CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES:
It shall be unlawful for any person, association, corporation or other entity
to sell, distribute, possess or consume any type of alcoholic beverage within
the premises of the city park. (Ord. 241, 12-10-2012)
7-4-4: ANIMALS IN THE CITY PARK:
   A.   Dogs running at large in the city park is prohibited. All dogs shall be
on a leash and under the control of their owner. There are no "off leash" areas
designated within the Melba City Park.
   B.   No person owning, harboring, controlling or keeping any dog shall
permit the dog to deposit fecal material on any property unless the material is
immediately removed and disposed of in the proper container.
   C.   Horses and/or other livestock are not permitted in Melba City Park.
(Ord. 241, 12-10-2012)
7-4-5: VEHICLES IN THE CITY PARK:
   A.   Automobiles, motorcycles and ATVs are not allowed on the grass areas of
the park and are to use only the designated roadways and parking lots within
the city park.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or park on the grass
within Melba City Park without securing a "special event" permit from the city
clerk's office. (Ord. 241, 12-10-2012)
7-4-6: VIOLATION AND PENALTIES:
Violation of the provisions of this chapter and/or failure to comply with the
regulations herein shall be deemed a misdemeanor and shall be punished as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 241, 12-10-2012)
CHAPTER 5
TOWING OF UNAUTHORIZED VEHICLES
SECTION:
7-5-1: Towing Authorized
7-5-2: Notice of Tow
7-5-3: Release Of Vehicles
7-5-4: Hearing
7-5-5: Disposal Of Unclaimed Vehicles
7-5-1: TOWING AUTHORIZED:
   A.   Towing Authorized; Contract for Towing: The City may contract with a
towing company (hereinafter referred to as "towing company") for the purpose of
towing vehicles or trailers pursuant to this chapter and City Code.
      1.   Upon contracting with a towing company, the City may post signs on
City property identifying the tow company the City has contracted with for the
purpose of towing vehicles or trailers parked in violation of City code.
      B.   Authority of Towing Company: The towing company shall only be
authorized to tow a vehicle or trailer pursuant to this chapter upon request of
an authorized City official, which may include the mayor, city clerk, code
enforcement officer, police officer, or county sheriff deputy. The vehicle or
trailer may be towed to a place of safety as designated by the City, or may
alternatively be towed to a place of storage under the control of the tow
company.
   C.   Parking Citation Not Required: A parking citation is not required to be
issued in order for the City to tow, or have towed, a vehicle or trailer
pursuant to this article.
   D.   Lien Against Towed Vehicle: Upon performing an authorized tow, a tow
company may obtain a possessory lien on the vehicle or trailer in accordance
with state law related to possessory liens. (Ord. 282, 10-10-2022)
7-5-2: NOTICE OF TOW:
   A.   Notice Required: Upon performing a tow, the towing company shall send
notice to the registered owner of the towed vehicle or trailer at the address
on file with the Department of Transportation. Notice shall be sent by
certified mail within forty-eight hours, excluding weekends and holidays.
   B.   Content: The notice shall include the following:
      1.   Inform the owner that the vehicle or trailer has been towed pursuant
to the applicable City Code and this chapter.
      2.   Identify the vehicle or trailer by make, model year, model,
identification number, license plate number, mileage, and state of
registration.
      3.   The name and telephone number of the towing company that performed
the tow;
      4.   The date and time of the tow;
      5.   Identify where the vehicle or trailer was removed from and where it
is currently located;
      6.   Describe the requirements for retrieving the vehicle or trailer from
impound (if impounded).
      7.   State that the vehicle or trailer can be sold for tow and storage
charges, and unpaid parking fines, if not claimed within thirty (30) days from
the date of mailing of the notice.
      8.   Describe the procedure for obtaining a hearing. (Ord. 282, 10-10-
2022)
7-5-3: RELEASE OF VEHICLE:
   A.   Payment of Towing and Storage Fee: Prior to the release of the vehicle
or trailer, the owner shall also be responsible for the towing fee and
associated storage costs incurred by the towing company. The towing fee and
storage costs shall be paid directly to the towing company.
   B.   Proof of Ownership: The owner must also present proof of ownership of
the vehicle or trailer, by way of photo identification consistent with the name
on the vehicle or trailer registration, prior to the release of the vehicle or
trailer to the owner. (Ord. 282, 10-10-2022)
7-5-4: HEARING:
   A.   Request for Hearing: An owner who disputes the appropriateness of the
towing and impoundment of the vehicle or trailer may request a hearing with the
Hearing Officer. The hearing request must include a petition containing the
following information:
      1.   License plate number, make, model, and year of vehicle or trailer;
      2.   Date of tow;
      3.   Name of tow company that performed tow;
      4.   Owner's name, address, and phone number; and
      5.   Summary of why the owner alleges the towing or impoundment was
unlawful.
   B.   Time Limit for Filing: The request for hearing must be filed in writing
with the City Clerk within ten (10) days of the mailing of the notice of tow.
   C.   Scheduled Hearing: A hearing will be scheduled with the Hearing Officer
within forty-eight (48) hours of receipt of the request for hearing, excluding
weekends and holidays. An owner shall have a maximum of thirty (30) minutes to
present argument in support of their petition at the scheduled hearing.
   D.   Authority of Hearing Officer: The Hearing Officer shall only determine
whether there is probable cause that the towing and impoundment was proper and
whether there is probable cause that associated towing and storage fees were
proper. The Hearing Officer shall not have the authority to determine the
appropriateness of the parking infractions, or other law violations, which
resulted in the towing of the vehicle.
   E.   Findings of Hearing Officer:. If the Hearing Officer finds that the
impoundment and associated fees were appropriate and the fines and towing and
storage fees have not been paid, the findings of the Hearing Officer shall
include a notice to the towing company that the fines and fees must be paid
before the release of the vehicle to the owner. If the Hearing Officer finds
that the impoundment and associated fees were not appropriate, the findings
shall include a notice setting forth an appropriate remedy, up to and including
release of the vehicle to the owner.
   F.   Hearing Fees: The City may charge a fee to an owner that petitions for
a hearing pursuant to this section for the costs incurred by the City in
receiving, processing, considering, and deciding petitions challenging a tow or
impoundment of a vehicle under this section. These costs will include costs for
employee time and attorney fees incurred by the City, as well as any other
costs actually incurred by the City related to receiving, processing,
considering, and deciding the petition.
   G.   Hearing Officer Designated: Unless another official, board, or
committee is designated by the City Council, the Mayor shall serve as the
Hearing Officer pursuant to this Chapter. The Hearing Officer shall not be the
same person who directed the towing or storage of the vehicle. (Ord. 282, 10-
10-2022)
7-5-5: DISPOSAL OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLES:
If the owner of the vehicle fails to pay the tow and storage fees and recover
their vehicle, the tow company may proceed to dispose of the property in
accordance with state law, which may include selling the vehicle. (Ord. 282,
10-10-2022)
TITLE 8
UTILITIES
Water Service Regulations   1
Sewer Service Regulations   2
Sewer Service Charges   2A
Cross Connection Control   3
Solid Waste Collection And Disposal   4
CHAPTER 1
WATER SERVICE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-1-1: Definitions
8-1-2: Application Of Provisions
8-1-3: Public Works Superintendent
8-1-4: Connection To And Use Of City System
8-1-5: Multiple Users On Single Service Line
8-1-6: Connections Outside City Limits
8-1-7: Construction Methods And Materials
8-1-8: Hydrants
8-1-9: Fees, Rates And Charges Established
8-1-10: Water System Fund
8-1-11: Delinquent Accounts; Responsibility For Service
8-1-12: Private Fire Service Connection
8-1-13: Extensions Of Water And Sewer Mains
8-1-14: Private Water Supplies
8-1-15: Waste Of Water
8-1-16: Interruption, Discontinuance Of Service
8-1-17: Powers And Authority Of Authorized Representatives
8-1-18: Damage To System
8-1-19: Violation; Penalties
8-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meanings of terms used
in this chapter shall be as follows:
   CITY: The city of Melba, Canyon County, Idaho, or its authorized or
designated agent, representative or deputy thereto.
   CITY WATER SERVICE LINE: That portion of an individual water service line
that runs from its connection with the public water main to and including the
corporation stop, valve box, and meter yoke installed in the service line. It
will usually be installed within the limits of the public right of way or
utility easement and, after installation, it is to be owned and maintained by
the city.
   MASTER WATER PLAN: Any document which the city has accepted or may accept by
official action of the city council which describes or otherwise indicates an
overall view of proposed future water needs, minimum water main sizing, and/or
minimum water main spacing.
   MUNICIPAL WATER SYSTEM: Includes all components and facilities of the public
water system that are owned, operated and maintained by the city for domestic
and other uses.
   OWNER: The property owner, or his duly authorized representative such as
tenant, developer, lease holder, etc., that is served by the municipal water
system.
   PRIVATE FIRE SERVICE CONNECTION: A separate and independent connection from
the municipal water main that connects directly to a sprinkler system or fire
control device that has been, or is to be, installed in any building for the
purpose of fire control within the specific building, and said connection is to
be for no other purpose.
   PRIVATE WATER SERVICE LINE: The portion of the water service line that runs
from a point five feet (5') outside the limits of the building being served to
the point of connection with the city water service line.
   PRIVATE WATER SYSTEM: Any water system for domestic use that is not owned,
operated and maintained by the city.
   PROPERTY: All property, whether privately or publicly owned, within the
service limits of the municipal water system for public street or highway
rights of way.
   WATER MAIN: Any pipe owned by the city for the purpose of transportation
and/or distribution of water to serve more than one water service line or user.
(Ord. 89, 12-16-1980)
8-1-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all property within the corporate
limits of the city and any special users outside of the corporate limits of the
city, including all property owned or occupied by the United States of America,
the state of Idaho, and Canyon County. (Ord. 89, 12-16-1980)
8-1-3: PUBLIC WORKS SUPERINTENDENT:
   A.   Office Created; Appointment; Compensation: The office of public works
superintendent of the city is hereby created. An officer, to be known as public
works superintendent, shall be appointed at the time and in the manner, and
shall be subject to the same rules, as other appointive officers. The public
works superintendent shall receive as compensation for his services such salary
as the mayor and council shall fix.
   B.   Duties: The public works superintendent shall perform such services as
the mayor, or an appropriate committee of the council, shall prescribe, and in
the absence of special rules, he shall do or cause to be done all things
necessary in and about the city waterworks; he shall have charge of and be
responsible for, and shall keep a complete record of the pumping station,
together with all machinery, tools and other property incident thereto and
appurtenant to the waterworks. He shall have charge of and keep a complete
record of all water mains and pipes belonging to the city waterworks, all water
meters and the readings thereof from month to month, and shall file with the
clerk-treasurer a copy of all meter readings on the last day of each month. He
shall make monthly statements to the mayor and council of the proceedings of
his office, with such recommendations as he may deem of benefit to the city
waterworks. (Ord. 89, 12-16-1980)
8-1-4: CONNECTION TO AND USE OF CITY SYSTEM:
   A.   Connection Permit Requirements: No unauthorized person shall uncover,
make any connection to a city water main or service line or appurtenance
thereof without first obtaining a written permit from the city. To obtain a
permit, the owner or his agent shall make application on a special form
furnished by the city. The permit application shall be supplemented by any
plans, specifications, or other information considered pertinent in the
judgment of the city. The permit is not to be issued until all appropriate fees
have been paid in full.
   B.   Use Permit And Installation Requirements:
      1.   Permit Required: The owner shall request permission from the city to
install the city water service line, including tap to the city water main,
corporation stop valve, service line, valve, meter box, meter yoke and other
appurtenances under private contract.
      2.   Specifications: Such installation shall be in conformance with the
city specifications and codes. The city shall have the authority to require the
developer responsible for major line extensions to supply the city with a
statement from a licensed engineer certifying that the materials and
construction were installed and tested in conformance with city specifications.
      3.   Liability For Damages: When installation of a water service line and
appurtenances causes damage to any property, public or private, other than the
owner's property, the owner shall be responsible for all repair costs including
repair to streets, sidewalks, curbs, gutters, sewer lines, irrigation
facilities, storm drains, lawns, fences, gas lines, other water mains,
telephone lines and electrical lines.
      4.   Rejections Or Disapprovals: The city may reject any materials or
workmanship for cause, and upon such order, the rejected materials shall be
removed and replaced with approved material.
      5.   Performance Guarantee: Following the final inspection and acceptance
by the city, the entire extension of the municipal water system, including the
city water service lines, shall become the property of the city. The contractor
shall guarantee all materials and workmanship for a one year period and shall
make any repairs, adjustments or replacements due to faulty materials or
workmanship without any cost to the city. (Ord. 89, 12-16-1980)
8-1-5: MULTIPLE USERS ON SINGLE SERVICE LINE:
Multiple users on one service line shall connect to the water system within
ninety (90) days of the effective date hereof. After the expiration of the
ninety (90) day grace period, multiple users on a single service line must
connect to the system and pay the hookup fees to the city. Until individual
hookups are completed, the total water usage, as determined by the meter
supplying the multiple homes, will be divided by the number of homes to
establish the monthly usage service for each home. When the usage is
established, the standard usage fees shall be applied to each home. (Ord. 89,
12-16-1980)
8-1-6: CONNECTIONS OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS 1 :
In order to obtain municipal water and sewer system service to parcels which
are either partially or entirely outside of the corporate city limits, there
shall be compliance with the following provisions:
   A.   There shall be an application form which shall provide that the
applicant will agree to the terms and conditions required by this section as a
consideration for obtaining such service. The city council shall establish an
application fee, which fee shall be based upon various classes of applications
as recommended by the public works superintendent given the amount of staff
review required for processing the application. The application form shall
specify the legal description of the parcels for which service is being
applied, the name and address of the legal owners of the parcels, and purpose
of the requested service.
   B.   A completed application must be filed with the public works
superintendent.
   C.   Following the filing of a completed application form and the payment of
the application fee, the public works superintendent shall then review the
circumstances presented by the application in accordance with the terms and
conditions and regulations of this section as are relevant to the application
and which shall also include a review of the effect the granting of the
application will have on the ability of the municipal water and sewer system to
provide an acceptable level of service to developed parcels with existing
service within the city limits which shall not be compromised.
   D.   The public works superintendent shall then review the findings and
recommendations with the applicant for comment.
   E.   The public works superintendent shall then submit the application and a
report of recommendation(s) to the city council regarding the application.
   F.   The city council, in the exercise of its discretion, may either grant
or deny the application after review of the application and the report of
recommendation(s) of the public works superintendent.
   G.   In the event the council grants the application, it shall include as a
condition that the legal owner(s) of the parcels shall enter into an "agreement
for hookup to the city of Melba's water and sewer system outside the city
limits" (hereinafter in this section referred to as the "agreement"), which
agreement form shall provide that the legal owner(s) of the parcel(s) agrees
that the provisions of the city's ordinances, regulations, and policies, and
inspection fees, which appertain to the regulation, control and use of its
domestic water system, including hookup and service fees, as applied terms of
the agreement and which form shall also provide that the owner(s) of the parcel
(s) agrees to the annexation into the city of the parcels serviced; and the
council may also impose such other conditions of granting the application as
are reasonable to assure the protection of the level of service to developed
parcels within the city limits and to assure that the proprietary funds of the
city domestic water and sewer services are not used for the extension and/or
enlargement of the system which conditions shall also be included in the
agreement.
   H.   The water and sewer user of the parcels serviced pursuant to a granted
application under this section shall be considered a user and subject to the
terms and conditions of the agreement so long as the property being served
remains outside of the corporate limits of the city. (Ord. 211, 8-14-2006)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection
  8-1-9D of this chapter.
8-1-7: CONSTRUCTION METHODS AND MATERIALS:
The materials and methods used for construction of city water service lines,
private water service lines, water mains or water system appurtenances shall
conform to the requirements of all codes and specifications as may be adopted
by the city. (Ord. 89, 12-16-1980)
8-1-8: HYDRANTS:
It shall be unlawful for any person, except one duly authorized by the city, to
open, close, operate, turn on, turn off, interfere with, attach any pipe or
hose to or connect anything with any fire hydrant or auxiliary valve belonging
to the city. Further, it shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct the
access to any fire hydrant by placing around or thereon any stone, brick,
lumber, dirt, or other material, or to wilfully or carelessly injure the same.
(Ord. 89, 12-16-1980)
8-1-9: FEES, RATES AND CHARGES ESTABLISHED:
   A.   Hookup Fees: In addition to any inspection fees and/or charges for
installation of a city water service line, the owner and/or developer shall be
required to pay a hookup fee. The amount of the hookup fee shall be in
accordance with the rate schedule adopted by resolution of the city council.
(Ord. 217, 7-9-2007)
   B.   User Charges: The water user charge is established to cover operation
and maintenance costs of the system, and to provide a fund to pay for capital
improvement costs, additions, participation in oversized extensions to the
system, or redemption of bonds that have been used to finance domestic water
service and facilities for the city. For new connections, the water user charge
is to begin when the meter has been installed. All owners who derive benefit
from the city's municipal water system shall, in return for said benefit, pay
user charges. The water rates shall be as established by resolution of the city
council. (Ord. 209, 9-12-2005)
   C.   Inspection Fees: The city shall have the authority to assess the owner
an inspection fee to cover the city's cost of providing inspection of
facilities installed by the owner or his agent.
   D.   Special Fees For Service Outside City 1 : The hookup fee for a similar
service connection outside the city limits shall be twice the hookup fee for a
similar service inside the city limits. The city shall also have the authority
to increase the inspection fees and other fees for service outside the city to
a rate higher than charged for a similar service inside the city limits.
   E.   Meter Tests: Where the accuracy of record of a water meter is
questioned, the consumer shall deposit with the city the sum of twenty five
dollars ($25.00), whereupon the city shall have the meter in question removed
and tested and a report thereon duly made. Both parties to the test must accept
the findings so made. If the test discloses an error against the consumer of
more than two percent (2%) of the meter's registry, the excess of the
consumption on the three (3) previous months shall be credited to the
consumer's account and the deposit herein mentioned returned. If no such error
is found, the deposit shall be turned into the water fund to pay the cost of
the test.
   F.   Deposits:
      1.   The city reserves the right to require a deposit for the following
reasons:
         a.   The applicant has outstanding a prior service account with the
city which accrued within the past four (4) years and at the time of
application for service remains unpaid and not in dispute.
         b.   Within the past four (4) years the applicant's service from any
utility has been terminated by the utility without request by the applicant for
one of the following reasons: nonpayment of an account not in dispute; fraud or
misrepresentation; failure to reimburse the company for damages due to
negligent or intentional acts of the customer.
         c.   The customer fails to pay his account on or before the date such
payment is delinquent.
      2.   The city shall then, if it so desires, collect a deposit equal to an
estimated billing for two (2) peak billing periods of the delinquent customer
at the then current rates. This may be collected in one or two (2) installments
to be determined by the city. This deposit will then be held for a period of
twelve (12) months when a review of the account will be made. If the account is
determined to be in good standing, the deposit will then be refunded. (Ord. 89,
12-16-1980; amd. 2008 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  8-1-6 of this chapter.
8-1-10: WATER SYSTEM FUND:
All fees and charges received and collected under the authority of this chapter
shall be deposited and credited to a fund to be designated as the water system
fund. The accounts of said fund shall show all receipts and expenditures for
the maintenance, operation, upkeep and repair of the domestic water system and
any payments into a sinking fund established for the purpose of paying
principal of and interest on the water indebtedness of the city which shall,
from time to time, be outstanding. As provided by law, when budgeted and
appropriated, the funds and credits to the account of the water system fund
shall be available for the payment of the requirements for the maintenance,
operation, repairs and upkeep of the domestic water system of the city, and to
the extent legally available, for payment into a sinking fund established for
the payment of the principal of and interest on any water bond indebtedness of
the city which shall, from time to time, be outstanding. (Ord. 89, 12-16-1980)
8-1-11: DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS; RESPONSIBILITY FOR SERVICE:
   A.   Delinquent Accounts: All water and sewer bills 1  shall become due and
payable by the tenth day of the month following water meter readings. If bills
are not paid before the thirtieth day following the due date, they shall become
delinquent and a past due notice sent. If the bill is not paid in full within
ten (10) days after this notification, the water shall be shut off without
further notice. Service shall not be reinstated until the past due balance is
paid in full. Charges for shut off and turn on of customer accounts shall be in
accordance with the rate schedule adopted by resolution of the city council.
Delinquent accounts shall be processed in accordance with the billing policy
adopted by resolution of the city council. (Ord. 164, 1-9-1996)
   B.   Responsibility For Service: All water and sewer rates shall be charged
against the premises for which the service is installed. Provided, however, the
city shall not initially deny or discontinue water service to any water
consumer because of any delinquent water or sewer bill on that premises that is
attributable to the prior water use of another water consumer. Property owners
of record shall be billed direct and held responsible for the payment of water
and sewer bills. Delinquent accounts shall become a lien upon the real property
involved. (Ord. 89, 12-16-1980; amd. Ord. 116, 8-6-1985; 2008 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 2, article A of this title for sewer user charges.
8-1-12: PRIVATE FIRE SERVICE CONNECTION:
The installation of a private fire service connection shall comply in all
respects to the requirements for a city water service line, and the owner or
his agent will be required to pay for all costs for connection and extension of
the facility from the municipal water main. (Ord. 89, 12-16-1980)
8-1-13: EXTENSIONS OF WATER AND SEWER MAINS:
   A.   Water Mains Generally: All proposed extensions of the municipal water
system to serve undeveloped areas within the existing corporate limits, newly
annexed areas or areas outside the corporate limits shall comply with existing
policies, specifications, master plans, or requirements established by the
city. The plans for all extensions to the municipal water system shall be
prepared under the direction of and signed by a registered professional
engineer as per the licensing requirements of Idaho Code, and three (3) copies
of the said plans shall be filed with the city. In approving a plan for
extension to the municipal water system, the city reserves the right to
stipulate other requirements such as a special permit fee, rights of way
limits, sequence of construction, time limits for having existing service
disrupted, the filing of a performance bond and other similar measures as may
be required to protect the public. No work shall commence on any such extension
of the municipal water system until the extension project has been approved by
the city and a written permit has been issued. A permit shall not be issued
until all applicable fees have been paid.
   B.   Water And Sewer Mains Outside City Limits 1 : All extensions of water
and sewer service outside the city limits shall be approved by the city council
on a case by case basis. Said extensions of service shall be granted only when
in the best interest of the city. The extension of services is a privilege and
not a right and is intended for those areas likely to be annexed to the city in
the near future. In determining whether to allow an extension of water and
sewer service, the following criteria shall be considered:
      1.   The extension of either water or sewer service only shall not be
permitted except by approval of the council.
      2.   The city may, at its option, require prepayment of water and/or
sewer hookup fees.
      3.   Whether the extension of water or sewer services would create an
adverse impact upon existing facilities or create economic burdens for future
operation and maintenance.
      4.   Water line extensions shall be made at no cost to the city. Lines
shall be adequately sized for future growth, and no credit will be allowed for
additional costs associated with oversized lines required by the city either
within the proposed development or in the extension of city lines.
      5.   Sewer line extensions shall be made at no cost to the city. Credits
which may be applied towards the payment of sewer connection fees shall be
allowed for gravity sewer extensions and oversized facilities where the
oversize is requested by the city, however, they shall not exceed the total
cost of hookup fees for the development (excess credits will not be allowed).
      6.   Whether the city water and sewer system has adequate capacity to
serve existing development, the proposed development for which the extension is
requested and all probable development within the city and between the city and
the proposed development.
      7.   The proposed development must consent, in a form acceptable to the
city and binding on the development, to annexation by the city at the city's
option and convenience. (Ord. 89, 12-16-1980)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  8-2-17 of this title.
8-1-14: PRIVATE WATER SUPPLIES 1 :
All materials and workmanship used in the installation of private water service
lines shall conform to city specifications and codes. The furnishing of all
labor and materials shall be the sole responsibility of the owner. (Ord. 89,
12-16-1980)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 3 of this title for cross connection control.
8-1-15: WASTE OF WATER:
It shall be unlawful for any water user to waste water or allow it to be wasted
by imperfect water stops, valves or leaky pipes that are not under the
jurisdiction of the city, or to permit the malicious or wilful consumption of
water having no beneficial use. The city, based on meter readings, will make a
determination of where water has been wasted and shall notify the user of that
determination. It shall then be the user's responsibility to make the necessary
repairs, or to institute actions that will correct the situation within sixty
(60) days of the city's notification to the user. All costs incurred, including
the cost of wasted water and any repairs, shall be the responsibility of the
user. (Ord. 89, 12-16-1980)
8-1-16: INTERRUPTION, DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE:
The city reserves the right at any time without notice to shut off the water
supply for repairs, extensions, nonpayment of rentals, or any other reason, and
the city shall not be responsible for any damage such as bursting of boilers
supplied by direct pressure, the breaking of any pipes or fixtures, or any
other damage resulting from the shutting off of the water. (Ord. 89, 12-16-
1980)
8-1-17: POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVES:
The city, through its authorized representative bearing proper credentials and
identification, shall be permitted, at proper and reasonable hours of the day,
to enter all properties, premises or buildings to which water is furnished from
the municipal water system for testing or for any other purpose necessary for
the proper administration of the water system in accordance with provisions of
this chapter. Also, the city, through its authorized representative bearing
proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to enter all private
properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement for the
purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, repair, and
maintenance of any portion of the municipal water system lying within said
easements. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement shall be
done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved. (Ord. 89, 12-16-1980)
8-1-18: DAMAGE TO SYSTEM:
No unauthorized person shall maliciously, wilfully, or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, pipeline, fire
hydrant, fitting connection appurtenance, or equipment which is a part of the
municipal water system. (Ord. 89, 12-16-1980)
8-1-19: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
   A.   Notice Of Violation: Any person found to be violating any provisions of
this chapter shall be served by the city with a written notice stating the
nature of the violation and providing a maximum of ninety (90) days for the
satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time
stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations. (Ord. 89, 12-16-1980)
   B.   Penalties: Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time
limit provided for in subsection A of this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code for each violation. Each day in which any such violation
shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense. (Ord. 89, 12-16-1980; amd.
2008 Code)
   C.   Liability For Damages And Costs: Any person violating any of the
provisions of this chapter shall become liable to the city for any expense,
loss, or damage occasioned the city by reason of such violation. (Ord. 89, 12-
16-1980)
CHAPTER 2
SEWER SERVICE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-2-1: Short Title
8-2-2: Purpose
8-2-3: Definitions
8-2-4: Public Works Superintendent
8-2-5: Rules And Regulations Adopted; Compliance Required
8-2-6: Permits, Deposits, Fees And Connection Charges
8-2-7: Use Of Public Sewers Required
8-2-8: Private Sewage Disposal Systems
8-2-9: Building Sewers, Lateral Sewers And Connections
8-2-10: Public Sewer Construction
8-2-11: Discharges Into Public System
8-2-12: Interceptors
8-2-13: Preliminary Treatment
8-2-14: Control Manhole
8-2-15: Measurements, Tests And Analyses
8-2-16: Special Agreements
8-2-17: Sewers Outside City Limits
8-2-18: Sewer Service To Prime Agricultural Land
8-2-19: Inspections
8-2-20: Damage To Public System
8-2-21: Suspension Or Modification Of Provisions
8-2-22: Enforcement; Violations; Penalties
8-2-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter may be cited as the CITY OF MELBA SEWER REGULATIONS ORDINANCE.
(Ord. 63, 5-6-1975)
8-2-2: PURPOSE:
This chapter is intended to provide rules and regulations for the use and
construction of sanitary sewer facilities hereafter installed, altered or
repaired within the city. This chapter shall not apply retroactively, and in
the event of an alteration or repair hereafter made, it shall apply only to the
new materials and methods used therein. (Ord. 63, 5-6-1975)
8-2-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section. Additional terms shall have the
meanings indicated in chapter 1 of the last edition of the western plumbing
officials uniform plumbing code adopted by the Western Plumbing Officials
Association.
   APPLICANT: The person making application for a permit for a sewer or
plumbing installation and shall be the owner of premises to be served by the
sewer for which a permit is requested or his authorized agent.
   BUILDING: Any structure used for human habitation or a place of business or
recreation or for other purposes containing sanitary facilities.
   BUILDING SEWER: That portion of any sewer beginning at the plumbing or
drainage outlet of any building or industrial facility and running to the
property line or to a private sewage disposal system.
   CITY: The city of Melba.
   CLERK-TREASURER: The city clerk-treasurer of the city.
   CONTRACTOR: A person, firm, corporation, partnership, or association duly
licensed by the state of Idaho to perform the type of work to be done under the
permit.
   COUNCIL: The city council of the city.
   COUNTY: The county of Canyon, Idaho.
   ENGINEER: The engineer appointed by and acting for the council and shall be
a registered civil engineer.
   GARBAGE: Solid wastes from the preparation, cooking and dispensing of food
and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   LATERAL SEWER: The portion of a sewer lying within a public street
connecting a building sewer to the main sewer.
   MAIN SEWER: A public sewer designed to accommodate more than one lateral
sewer.
   OUTSIDE SEWER: A sanitary sewer beyond the limits of the city not subject to
the control or jurisdiction of the city.
   PERMIT: Any written authorization required pursuant to this chapter or any
other regulation of the city for the installation of any sewage works.
   PERSON: Any person, firm, company, partnership, association and private or
public corporations, the United States of America, governmental agencies and
mandataries thereof.
   PLUMBING SYSTEM: All plumbing fixtures and traps for soil, waste, special
waste and vent pipes, and all sanitary sewer pipes within a building and
extending to the building sewer connection three feet (3') outside the building
wall.
   PRIVATE SEWER: An independent sewage disposal system not connected with a
public sewer and which accommodates one or more buildings or industries.
   PUBLIC SEWER: A sewer lying within a street and which is controlled by or
under the jurisdiction of the city.
   PUBLIC WORKS SUPERINTENDENT: The person in charge of the sewer system,
appointed by the council.
   SANITARY SEWER: A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface and
ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE: A combination of water carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions and industrial establishments.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT: Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
   SEWAGE WORKS: All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing
of sewage.
   SEWER: A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SIDE SEWER: The sewer line beginning at the foundation wall of any building
and terminating at the main sewer and includes the building sewer and lateral
sewer together.
   STORM SEWER OR STORM DRAIN: A sewer which carries storm and surface or
ground waters and drainage, but excludes sewage and polluted wastes.
   STREET: Any public highway, road, street, avenue, alley, way, public place,
public easement or right of way. (Ord. 63, 5-6-1975)
8-2-4: PUBLIC WORKS SUPERINTENDENT:
The council shall employ some fit and qualified person or persons to perform
the duties of inspecting the installation, connection, maintenance and use of
all side sewers, public sewers, private sewers and facilities in connection
therewith in the city, to be known as the public works superintendent. The
person so employed shall receive as compensation for his services for making
inspections required to be made by the ordinances, orders and regulations from
time to time enacted and ordered by the council, a sum to be fixed by the
council. He shall serve at the pleasure of the council and may be another
official of the city. (Ord. 63, 5-6-1975)
8-2-5: RULES AND REGULATIONS ADOPTED; COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
   A.   The rules and regulations of this chapter respecting sewer construction
and disposal of sewage and drainage of buildings and connection to the sewage
works of the city are hereby adopted, and all work in respect thereto shall be
performed as herein required and not otherwise.
   B.   Following the effective date hereof, it shall be unlawful for any
person to connect to, construct, install or provide, maintain or use any means
of sewage disposal from any building in the city other than by connection to a
public sewer, except in the manner as in this chapter provided. (Ord. 63, 5-6-
1975)
8-2-6: PERMITS, DEPOSITS, FEES AND CONNECTION CHARGES 1 :
No public sewer, side sewer, building sewer or other sewerage facility shall be
installed, altered or repaired within the city until a permit for the work has
been obtained from the city and all fees paid in accordance with the
requirements of this section.
   A.   Permit Requirements Generally:
      1.   Permit Required: No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any
connection with or opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or
appurtenances or perform any work on any lateral or building sewer without
first obtaining a written permit from the city.
      2.   Application For Permit: Any person legally entitled to apply for and
receive a permit shall make such application on forms provided by the city for
that purpose. Said person shall give a description of the character of the work
proposed to be done and the location, ownership, occupancy and use of the
premises in connection therewith. The superintendent may require plans,
specifications or drawings and such other information as he may deem necessary.
      3.   Issuance Of Permit: If the superintendent determines that the plans,
specifications, drawings, descriptions or information furnished by the
applicant are in compliance with the ordinances, rules, and regulations of the
city, he shall issue the permit applied for upon payment of the required fees
as hereinafter fixed.
      4.   Bond Required: Prior to the issuance of a permit for public sewer
construction, the applicant shall furnish to the city a faithful performance
bond or cash in the amount of the total estimated cost of the work; said bond
to be secured by a surety or sureties satisfactory to the city. The cash
deposit or faithful performance bond shall be conditioned upon the performance
of the terms and conditions of the permit and shall guarantee the correction of
faulty workmanship and the replacement of defective materials for a period of
two (2) years after the date of acceptance of the work.
      5.   Compliance With Permit: After approval of the application, evidenced
by the issuance of a permit, no change shall be made in the location of the
sewer, the grade, materials, or other details from those described in the
permit or as shown on the plans and specifications for which the permit was
issued except with written permission from the city, the superintendent or
other authorized representatives.
      6.   Agreement: The applicant's signature on an application for any
permit shall constitute an agreement to comply with all of the provisions,
terms and requirements of this chapter and other ordinances, rules and
regulations of the city, and with the plans and specifications he has filed
with his application, if any, together with such corrections or modifications
as may be made or permitted by the city, if any. Such agreement shall be
binding upon the applicant and may be altered only by the city upon the written
request for the alteration from the applicant.
   B.   Street Excavation Permit: A separate permit must be secured from the
county or any other person having jurisdiction thereover by owners or
contractors intending to excavate in a public street for the purpose of
installing sewers or making sewer connections. (Ord. 63, 5-6-1975)
   C.   Deposits:
      1.   Construction Of Sewer Mains And Laterals: A deposit of four percent
(4%) of the estimated construction cost shall be deposited with the city for
reviewing plans and specifications, issuing a permit and inspecting the
construction of sewer mains and laterals. Said deposit shall be made prior to
the issuance of a permit. The actual cost thereof shall be deducted from the
deposit, and the difference, if any, shall be refunded to the depositor. If the
actual cost exceeds the amount deposited, the depositor shall forthwith pay the
amount of said excess upon receipt of a statement therefor. (Ord. 63, 5-6-1975;
amd. 2008 Code)
      2.   Lateral Sewer Repair: The owner or occupant of any premises
requiring repair or maintenance work on a lateral sewer shall notify the city
or be notified by the city of the need for such work. Such owner or occupant
shall deposit with the city, prior to commencement of work by the city, an
amount equal to the cost of such work as estimated by the Superintendent. The
cost of the work shall be deducted from the deposit, and the difference, if
any, shall be refunded to the depositor. If the cost of the work exceeds the
amount deposited, the owner or occupant shall forthwith pay the amount of said
excess upon receipt of a statement therefor.
      3.   Annexations 2 : The owner or owners of lands within areas proposed
to be annexed to the City and proposed to be connected to the sewage works
shall deposit with the Superintendent a sum to be fixed by the Superintendent,
prior to commencement of proceedings by the Council on the proposed annexation.
The amount to be fixed by the Superintendent shall be in a sum estimated to
equal the engineering, legal and publication costs and all other charges which
may be incurred by the City in preparing and examining maps, legal
descriptions, and other documents in relation thereto, and other expenses
regularly incurred in connection therewith. Should the amount of the deposit
exceed the costs incurred by the City, the excess shall be refunded to the
owner or owners following the conclusion of the final hearing on the proposed
annexation. Should the amount of the deposit be insufficient to pay such costs
incurred by the City, the owner or owners shall advance such additional sums as
shall be necessary to pay said costs prior to the final hearing on the proposed
annexation. (Ord. 63, 5-6-1975)
   D.   Connection Charges: In addition to any other charges established by the
ordinances, rules and regulations of the City, prior to connection to the
sanitary sewage system of the City, the owner shall be required to pay a
service connection fee. The amount of the service connection fee shall be in
accordance with the rate schedule adopted by resolution of the City Council. A
copy of current sewer service connection fees for various connections will be
on file in the Office of the Public Works Superintendent. (Ord. 216, 7-9-2007)
   E.   Disposition Of Funds: All fees collected on behalf of the City shall be
deposited with the proper authority provided by the City to receive such funds.
   F.   Time Limit On Permits: If work under a permit is not commenced within
six (6) months from the date of issuance or if, after partial completion, the
work is discontinued for a period of one year, the permit shall thereupon
become void, and no further work shall be done until a new permit shall have
been secured. A new fee shall be paid upon the issuance of said new permit.
   G.   Liability Of Owner; Nonliability Of City:
      1.   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection
of any sewer or other work for which a permit has been issued shall be borne by
the owner. The owner shall indemnify the City from any loss or damage that may
directly or indirectly be occasioned by the work.
      2.   The City and its officers, agents and employees shall not be
answerable for any liability or injury or death to any person or damage to any
property arising during or growing out of the performance of any work by any
such applicant. The applicant shall be answerable for, and shall save the City
and its officers, agents and employees harmless from any liability imposed by
law upon the City or its officers, agents or employees, including all costs,
expenses, fees and interest incurred in defending same or in seeking to enforce
this provision. The applicant shall be solely liable for any defects in the
performance of his work or any failure which may develop therein. (Ord. 63, 5-
6-1975; amd. 2008 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also article A of this chapter for service charges.
2 1. See also section
  1-10-1  of this Code.
8-2-7: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED:
   A.   Discharge Of Human And Animal Wastes: It shall be unlawful for any
person to place, deposit, or permit to be deposited upon public or private
property within the City, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the City,
any human or animal excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
   B.   Discharges Into Natural Outlets: It shall be unlawful to discharge into
any stream or watercourse any sewage, industrial wastes, or other polluted
waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with
provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Private Systems: Except as herein provided, it shall be unlawful to
construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, seepage
pit or other facility intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   D.   Occupancy Restricted: No building, industrial facility or other
structure shall be occupied until the owner of the premises has complied with
all rules and regulations of the City. (Ord. 63, 5-6-1975)
   E.   Connection To Sewer System Required:
      1.   The owner of any building occupied by humans situated within the
City and abutting on any street in which there is now located or may in the
future be located a public sewer of the City is hereby required at his expense
to connect said building directly with the proper public sewer in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter within ninety (90) days after date of
official notice to do so; provided, that said public sewer is within three
hundred feet (300') of the nearest point of the property boundary. Once public
sewer connection has been established to a property, any additional buildings
occupied by humans on the same property by the same owner shall also connect to
public sewer regardless of distance to the sewer connection.
      2.   Commercial, industrial and public buildings or institutions shall be
required to connect to the City sewer system upon notice as herein provided.
For public buildings with limited or seasonal use up to a maximum of three (3)
months a year, the requirement for connection to City sewer will be determined
by City Council on a case by case basis dependent on traffic, usage of the
facility and nitrate levels in the water.
      3.   The further maintenance or use of cesspools or other local means of
sewage disposal constitutes a public nuisance. All buildings inhabited or used
by human beings which the property boundary is within three hundred feet (300')
of the sewerage system of the City or any extension hereafter made thereto, and
in which any sewage is produced shall be connected with the sewerage system of
the City within ninety (90) days from completion thereof. (Ord. 257, 6-5-2018;
amd. Ord. 271, 3-2-2020)
8-2-8: PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS:
   A.   Private Systems Permitted: Where a public sewer is not available under
the provisions of subsection
8-2-7E of this chapter, the building sewer shall be connected to a private
sewage disposal system complying with the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Permit Requirements:
      1.   Permit Required: Before commencement of construction of a private
sewage disposal system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by
the Superintendent.
      2.   Application For Permit: The application for such permit shall be
made on a form furnished by the City which the applicant shall supplement by
any plans, specifications and other information as are deemed necessary by the
Superintendent.
      3.   Fees: A permit and inspection fee shall be paid to the City at the
time application is filed in accordance with the provisions of section
8-2-6 of this chapter.
      4.   Conditions Of Permit Issuance: A permit for a private sewage
disposal system shall not become effective until the installation is completed
to the satisfaction of the Superintendent. He shall be allowed to inspect the
work at any stage of construction, and in any event, the applicant for the
permit shall notify the Superintendent when the work is ready for final
inspection and before any underground portions are covered. The inspection
shall be made within forty eight (48) hours, Sundays and holidays excluded, of
the receipt of the notice by the Superintendent. (Ord. 63, 5-6-1975)
   C.   Construction Specifications:
      1.   The type, capacities, locations and layout of a private sewage
disposal system shall comply with all recommendations of the State Department
of Health and Welfare. (Ord. 63, 5-6-1975; amd. 2008 Code)
      2.   No permit shall be issued for any private sewage disposal system
employing subsurface soil absorption facilities where the area of the lot is
less than ten thousand (10,000) square feet.
      3.   No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge into any
public sewer or any stream or watercourse. (Ord. 63, 5-6-1975)
   D.   Availability Of Public Sewer; Connection Required: At such time as a
public sewer becomes available to a property served by a private sewage
disposal system as provided in subsection
8-2-7E of this chapter unless otherwise exempted by City Council, a direct
connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance with the ordinances,
rules and regulations of the City, and any septic tanks, cesspools, and similar
private sewage disposal facilities shall be abandoned, cleaned of sludge and
filled with clean, bank run gravel or dirt. (Ord. 257, 6-5-2018)
   E.    Responsibility For Private System: The owner shall operate and
maintain the private sewage disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all
times, at no expense to the City.
   F.   Additional Requirements: No statement contained in this section shall
be construed to interfere with any additional requirements that may be imposed
by any law, ordinance, rule or regulation. (Ord. 63, 5-6-1975)
8-2-9: BUILDING SEWERS, LATERAL SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Permit To Connect: In accordance with section
8-2-6 of this chapter, no person shall construct a building sewer, lateral
sewer or make a connection with any public sewer without first obtaining a
written permit from the city and paying all fees and connection charges as
required in said section
8-2-6.
   B.   Separate Side Sewers Required: No two (2) adjacent buildings fronting
on the same street shall be permitted to join in the use of the same side
sewer. Every building or industrial facility must be separately connected with
a public sewer if such public sewer exists in the street upon which the
property abuts or in an easement which will serve said property. However, one
or more buildings located on property belonging to the same owner may be served
with the same side sewer during the period of said ownership. Upon the
subsequent subdivision and sale of a portion of said lot, the portion not
directly connected with such public sewer shall be separately connected with a
public sewer, and it shall be unlawful for the owner thereof to continue to use
or maintain such indirect connection.
   C.   Use Of Old Building Sewers: Old building sewers may be used in
connection with new buildings only when they are found, upon examination and
test by the superintendent, to meet all requirements of the city.
   D.   Construction Requirements And Specifications:
      1.   County And City Regulations Apply; Conflicts: Construction of
building sewers and lateral sewers shall be in accordance with the requirements
of the county and the requirements of the city. In case of conflict, the more
stringent shall apply.
      2.   Minimum Size And Slope: The minimum size of a building sewer shall
be four inches (4") in diameter. The minimum slope of a building sewer shall be
one and one-fourth feet (11/4') per one hundred feet (100') (1.25 percent
slope). Not more than one hundred eighty (180) fixture units shall be connected
to a four inch (4") diameter building or side sewer.
      3.   Cleanouts: Cleanouts in building sewers shall be provided in
accordance with the rules, regulations and ordinances of the city. All
cleanouts shall be maintained watertight.
      4.   Sewer Lifts: In all buildings in which any building sewer is too low
to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such
building sewer shall be lifted by artificial means, approved by the
superintendent, and discharged to the public sewer at the expense of the owner.
   E.    Connections To System: The connection of the building sewer into the
public sewer shall be made in strict accordance with standard city
specifications, at the applicant's expense, and in the presence of the
superintendent and under his supervision and direction. Any damage to the
public sewer shall be repaired to the satisfaction of the superintendent, with
the cost to the applicant.
   F.   Excavations:
      1.   Safety Devices: All excavations for a side sewer installation shall
be adequately guarded with barricades or lights so as to protect the public
from hazard.
      2.   Restoration Of Excavated Area: Streets, sidewalks, parkways and
other property disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored in a
manner satisfactory to the city and the county or any other person having
jurisdiction thereover.
   G.   Maintenance: Building sewers shall be maintained by the owner of the
property served thereby.
   H.   Testing: All building sewers and lateral sewers shall be tested in
accordance with standard city specifications. (Ord. 63, 5-6-1975)
8-2-10: PUBLIC SEWER CONSTRUCTION 1 :
   A.   Permit Required: In accordance with section
 8-2-6 of this chapter, no person shall construct, reconstruct, extend or
connect to any public sewer without first obtaining a written permit from the
city and paying all fees and connection charges and furnishing bonds as
required therein. The provision of this section requiring permits shall not be
construed to apply to contractors constructing sewers and appurtenances under
contracts awarded and entered into by the city.
   B.   Application For Permit: The application for a permit for public sewer
construction shall be accompanied by complete plans, profiles and
specifications, complying with all applicable ordinances, rules and regulations
of the city, prepared by a registered civil engineer showing all details of the
proposed work based on an accurate survey of the ground. The application,
together with the plans, profiles and specifications shall be examined by the
city engineer who shall, within ten (10) days, approve them as filed or require
them to be modified as he deems necessary for proper installation. After
examination by the city engineer, the application, plans, profiles and
specifications shall be submitted to the council at its next regular meeting
for its consideration. When the council is satisfied that the proposed work is
proper and the plans, profiles and specifications are sufficient and correct,
it shall order the issuance of a permit predicated upon the payment of all
connection charges and fees, and furnishing bonds as required by the city. The
permit shall prescribe such terms and conditions as the council finds necessary
in the public interest.
   C.   Subdivisions: The requirements of subsections A and B of this section
shall be fully complied with before any final subdivision map shall be approved
by the council. The final subdivision map shall provide for the dedication for
public use of streets, easements or rights of way in which public sewer lines
are to be constructed. If a final subdivision map of a tract is recorded and
the work of constructing sewers to serve the tract is not completed within the
time limit allowed in the permit, the council may extend the time limit or may
complete the work and take appropriate steps to enforce the provisions of the
bond furnished by the subdivider.
   D.   Easements Or Rights Of Way: In the event that an easement is required
for the extension of the public sewer or the making of connections, the
applicant shall procure and have accepted by the council a proper easement or
grant of right of way sufficient in law to allow the laying and maintenance of
such extension or connection.
   E.   Licensed Contractors: Only properly licensed contractors shall be
authorized to perform the work of public sewer construction within the city.
All terms and conditions of the permit issued by the city to the applicant
shall be binding on the contractor. The requirements of this subsection shall
apply to side sewers installed concurrently with public sewer construction.
   F.   Grade Stakes: Grade and line stakes shall be set by a registered civil
engineer prior to the start of work on any public sewer construction. The
contractor shall be responsible for accurately transferring grades to grade
bars and sewer invert.
   G.   Compliance With Regulations: Any person constructing a sewer within a
street shall comply with all state, county or city laws, ordinances, rules and
regulations pertaining to the cutting of pavement, opening, barricading,
lighting and protecting of trenches, backfilling and repaving thereof and shall
obtain all permits and pay all fees required by the department having
jurisdiction prior to the issuance of a permit by the city.
   H.   Design And Construction Standards:
      1.   Minimum standards for the design and construction of sewers within
the city shall be in accordance with the specifications for sewer construction
heretofore or hereafter adopted by city, copies of which are on file in the
office of the city clerk- treasurer. The city engineer may permit modifications
or may require higher standards where unusual conditions are encountered.
      2.   No less than two (2) sets of as built drawings showing the actual
location of all mains, structures, wyes and laterals shall be filed with the
city before final acceptance of the work.
   I.   Excavations:
      1.   Safety Devices: The applicant shall maintain such barriers, lights
and signs as are necessary to give warning to the public at all times that a
sewer is under construction and of each dangerous condition to be encountered
as a result thereof. He shall also likewise protect the public in the use of
the sidewalk against any such conditions in connection with the construction of
the sewer.
      2.   Restoration Of Excavated Area: Streets, sidewalks, parkways and
other property disturbed in the course of the work shall be reinstalled in a
manner satisfactory to the city and the county or any other person having
jurisdiction thereover.
   J.   Completion Of Sewer Required: Before any acceptance of any sewer line
by the city and prior to the admission of any sewage into the system, the sewer
line shall be tested and shall be completed in full compliance with all
requirements of the specifications for sewer construction and to the
satisfaction of the city engineer.
   K.   Reimbursement Agreements: The extension of a public sewer in the manner
provided herein to serve any parcel or parcels of land shall be done by and at
the expense of the owner or owners thereof, but the city reserves the right to
perform the work and bill said owner or owners for the cost thereof, to perform
the work itself or to perform the work pursuant to special assessment
proceedings. Such owner or owners and the city may enter into a reimbursement
agreement whereby such owner or owners may recover up to, but not in excess of,
the portion of the cost of the extension of the public sewer main which would
have been payable by the owners of other parcels of land which can be served by
said main sewer if such other owners had joined in the extension thereof. Such
reimbursement shall be from funds collected by the city, within five (5) years
from the date of issuance of a permit for such extension, from others who
connect to the main sewer extension so installed and paid for by such owner or
owners. No interest shall be paid on any amount reimbursable under such
reimbursement agreement. Such sums as are actually received by the city as
charges pursuant to subsection
8-2-6D of this chapter shall be paid by the city to the owner or owners
originally installing the main sewer extension, but the city shall in no way be
obligated to be sure that the owner or owners making such extension receive the
total amount reimbursable under such reimbursement agreement. Where more than
one owner contributes toward the cost of the main extension, such sums shall be
refunded to such owners pro rata according to the amount which they severally
contributed toward the cost of the extension. Any such agreement shall be made
and entered into prior to the issuing of a permit for the work. (Ord. 63, 5-6-
1975)
 
Notes
  1. See section
1 8-2-17 of this chapter and subsection
  8-1-13B of this title for sewer extensions outside city.
8-2-11: DISCHARGES INTO PUBLIC SYSTEM:
   A.   Storm And Surface Water Drainage:
      1.   No leaders from roofs and no surface drainage for rainwater shall be
connected to any sanitary sewer. No surface or storm water, seepage, cooling
water or unpolluted industrial process waters shall be permitted to enter any
sanitary sewer by any device or method whatsoever.
      2.   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged
into such sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm
sewers, or into a natural outlet approved by the engineer. Industrial cooling
water or unpolluted process waters may be discharged, upon approval of the
engineer, into a storm sewer or natural outlet.
   B.   Prohibited Discharges: Except as hereinafter provided, no person shall
discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following described waters or
wastes into any public sewer:
      1.   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than one hundred
fifty degrees Fahrenheit (150°F).
      2.   Any water or waste which may contain more than one hundred (100)
parts per million, by weight, of fat, oil or grease.
      3.   Any gasoline, benzine, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas.
      4.   Any garbage that has not been shredded to such a degree that all
particles will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing
in public sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1/2") in any
dimension.
      5.   Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, paunch manure, or any other solid or viscous
substance capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other
interference with the proper operation of the sewage works.
      6.   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or higher than 9.0
or having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment and personnel of the sewage works.
      7.   Any waters or wastes containing a toxic or poisonous substance in
sufficient quantity to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process,
constitute a hazard to humans or animals, or create any hazard in the receiving
waters of the sewage treatment plant.
      8.   Any waters or wastes containing suspended solids of such character
and quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to handle such
materials at the sewage treatment plant.
      9.   Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance capable of creating a
public nuisance.
      10.   Any septic tank sludge.
   C.   Swimming Pool Waters: It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge
the contents of a swimming pool into a sanitary sewer except in the manner
specified herein. The size of pipe carrying discharge water shall not be larger
than two inches (2") and shall not be under a head to exceed twenty feet (20').
If the water is discharged by pumping, the rate of flow shall not exceed one
hundred (100) gallons per minute. Each swimming pool discharging into a
sanitary sewer shall be equipped with an approved separator to preclude any
possibility of a backflow of sewage into the swimming pool or piping system 1 .
(Ord. 63, 5-6-1975)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 3 of this title for cross connection control.
8-2-12: INTERCEPTORS:
   A.   Interceptors Required: Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be
provided when, in the opinion of the engineer, they are necessary for the
proper handling of liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any
flammable wastes, sand, and other harmful ingredients; except, that such
interceptors shall not be required for buildings used for residential purposes.
   B.   Design And Location: All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity
approved by the engineer and shall be so located as to be readily and easily
accessible for cleaning and inspection.
   C.   Maintenance Required: All grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be
maintained by the owner, at his expense, in continuously efficient operation at
all times. (Ord. 63, 5-6-1975)
8-2-13: PRELIMINARY TREATMENT:
   A.   Preliminary Treatment Required: The admission into the public sewers of
any waters or wastes having: 1) a five (5) day biochemical oxygen demand
greater than three hundred parts per million (300 ppm) by weight; or 2)
containing more than three hundred fifty parts per million (350 ppm) by weight
of suspended solids; or 3) containing any quantity of substance having the
characteristics described in subsection
8-2-11B of this chapter; or 4) having an average daily flow greater than two
percent (2%) of the average daily sewage flow of the city, shall be subject to
the review and approval of the engineer. Where necessary, in the opinion of the
engineer, the owner shall provide, at his expense, such preliminary treatment
as may be necessary to: 1) reduce the biochemical oxygen demand to three
hundred parts per million (300 ppm) and the suspended solids to three hundred
fifty parts per million (350 ppm) by weight; or 2) reduce objectionable
characteristics or constituents to within the maximum limits provided for in
subsection
8-2-11B of this chapter; or 3) control the quantities and rates of discharge of
such waters or wastes. (Ord. 63, 5-6-1975)
   B.   Specifications: Plans, specifications and any other pertinent
information relating to proposed preliminary treatment facilities shall be
submitted for the approval of the engineer and the state department of health
and welfare. No construction of such facilities shall be commenced until said
approvals are obtained in writing. (Ord. 63, 5-6-1975; amd. 2008 Code)
   C.   Maintenance Of Facilities Required: Where preliminary treatment
facilities are provided for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained
continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the owner at his
expense. (Ord. 63, 5-6-1975)
8-2-14: CONTROL MANHOLE:
When required by the engineer, the owner of any property served by the side
sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control manhole in
the side sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of wastes.
Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located, and shall
be constructed in accordance with plans approved by engineer. The manhole shall
be installed by the owner at his expense and shall be maintained by him so as
to be safe and accessible at all times. (Ord. 63, 5-6-1975)
8-2-15: MEASUREMENTS, TESTS AND ANALYSES:
All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters and
wastes to which reference is made in subsection
8-2-11B and section
8-2-13 of this chapter shall be determined in accordance with standard methods
and shall be determined at the control manhole provided for in section
8-2-14 of this chapter, or upon suitable samples taken at said control manhole.
In the event that no special manhole has been required, the control manhole
shall be considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to
the point at which the side sewer is connected. (Ord. 63, 5-6-1975)
8-2-16: SPECIAL AGREEMENTS:
No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed as preventing any
special agreement or arrangement between the city and any industrial concern
whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by
the city for treatment, subject to payment therefor by the industrial concern
and subject to such terms and conditions as might be required by the city.
(Ord. 63, 5-6-1975)
8-2-17: SEWERS OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS 1 :
   A.   Permission shall not be granted to connect any parcel of land outside
the city to any public sewer in or under the jurisdiction of the city unless a
special permit therefor is obtained. The applicant shall first enter into a
contract in writing whereby he shall bind himself, his heirs, successors and
assigns to abide by all ordinances, rules and regulations in regard to the
manner in which such sewer shall be used, the manner of connecting therewith,
and the plumbing and drainage in connection therewith, and also to pay all
charges and fees required for securing the permit, including connection charges
and a monthly sewer service fee for the privilege of using such sewer. The
granting of such permission for an outside sewer in any event shall be optional
with the council.
   B.   Where special conditions exist relating to an outside sewer, they shall
be the subject of a special contract between the applicant and the city. (Ord.
63, 5-6-1975)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection
   8-1-13B of this title.
8-2-18: SEWER SERVICE TO PRIME AGRICULTURAL LAND:
It shall be prohibited for the city to provide municipal sewer services to any
structure constructed after the effective date hereof which is constructed on
prime farmland as identified by the United States department of agriculture,
NRCS, if such structure would result in the land losing its prime farmland
designation. This restriction shall not apply to those lands located within the
city limits or to land adjacent to existing developed land which is being
developed in accordance with any applicable city approved comprehensive plan.
(Ord. 211, 8-14-2006)
8-2-19: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Inspections Required: All sewer construction work, building sewers,
plumbing and drainage systems shall be inspected by an inspector acting for the
city to ensure compliance with all requirements of the city. No sewer shall be
covered at any point until it has been inspected and passed for acceptance. No
sewer shall be connected to the city public sewer until the work covered by the
permit has been completed, inspected and approved by the superintendent. If the
test proves satisfactory and the sewer had been cleaned of all debris
accumulated from construction operations, the superintendent shall issue a
certificate of satisfactory completion.
   B.   Notice Of Inspection: It shall be the duty of the person doing the work
authorized by permit to notify the office of the superintendent in writing that
said work is ready for inspection. Such notification shall be given not less
than twenty four (24) hours before the work is to be inspected. It shall be the
duty of the person doing the work to make sure that the work will stand the
tests required by the city before giving the above notification.
   C.   Condemned Work: When any work has been inspected and the work condemned
and no certification of satisfactory completion given, a written notice to that
effect shall be given instructing the owner of the premises, or the agent of
such owner, to repair the sewer or other work authorized by the permit in
accordance with the ordinances, rules and regulations of the city. (Ord. 63, 5-
6-1975)
8-2-20: DAMAGE TO PUBLIC SYSTEM:
No unauthorized person shall maliciously, wilfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is a part of the city sewage works. Any person violating this
provision shall be subject to the penalties provided by law. (Ord. 63, 5-6-
1975)
8-2-21: SUSPENSION OR MODIFICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Application For Suspension Or Modification: When any person, by reason
of special circumstances, is of the opinion that any provision of this chapter
is unjust or inequitable as applied to his premises, he may make written
application to the council stating the special circumstances, citing the
provision complained of, and requesting suspension or modification of that
provision as applied to his premises. If such application is approved, the
council may, by resolution, suspend or modify the provision complained of, as
applied to such premises, to be effective as of the date of the application and
continuing for such period as it finds necessary.
   B.   Relief On Motion By Council: The council may, on its own motion, find
that, by reason of special circumstances, any provision of this chapter should
be suspended or modified as applied to a particular premises and may, by
resolution, order such suspension or modification for such premises during the
period of such special circumstances, or any part thereof. (Ord. 63, 5-6-1975)
8-2-22: ENFORCEMENT; VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   Powers And Authority Of Enforcement Officials: The officers,
superintendents and any duly authorized employees of the city shall carry
evidence establishing their positions as authorized representatives of the city
and, upon exhibiting the proper credentials and identification, shall be
permitted to enter in and upon any and all buildings, industrial facilities and
properties for the purposes of inspection, reinspection, observation,
measurement, sampling, testing or otherwise performing such duties as may be
necessary in the enforcement of the provisions of the ordinances, rules and
regulations of the city.
   B.   Notice Of Violation; Duty To Correct: Any person found to be violating
any provision of this chapter or any other ordinance, rule or regulation of the
city, except section
8-2-19 of this chapter, shall be served by the superintendent or other
authorized person with written notice stating the nature of the violation and
providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. Said
time limit shall be not less than two (2) nor more than seven (7) working days.
The offender shall, within the period of time stated in such notice,
permanently cease all violations. All persons shall be held strictly
responsible for any and all acts of agents or employees done under the
provisions of this chapter or any other ordinance, rule or regulation of the
city. Upon being notified by the superintendent of any defect arising in any
sewer or of any violation of this chapter, the person or persons having charge
of said work shall immediately correct the same.
   C.   Public Nuisance: Continued habitation of any building or continued
operation of any industrial facility in violation of the provisions of this
chapter or any other ordinance, rule or regulation of the city is hereby
declared to be a public nuisance. The city may cause proceedings to be brought
for the abatement of the occupancy of the building or industrial facility
during the period of such violation.
   D.   Discontinuance Of Service; Nuisance Provisions:
      1.   Authority To Disconnect; Costs: As an alternative method of
enforcing the provisions of this chapter or any other ordinance, rule or
regulation of the city, the superintendent shall have the power to disconnect
the user or subdivision sewer system from the sewer mains of the city. Upon
disconnection, the superintendent shall estimate the cost of disconnection from
and reconnection to the system, and such user shall deposit the cost, as
estimated, of disconnection and reconnection before such user is reconnected to
the system. The superintendent shall refund any part of the deposit remaining
after payment of all costs of disconnection and reconnection.
      2.   Nuisance Declared; Abatement: During the period of such
disconnection, habitation of such premises by human beings shall constitute a
public nuisance, whereupon the city shall cause proceedings to be brought for
the abatement of the occupancy of said premises by human beings during the
period of such disconnection. In such event, and as a condition of
reconnection, there is to be paid to the city a reasonable attorney fee and
cost of suit arising in said action. (Ord. 63, 5-6-1975)
   E.   Penalties: Violation of any provision of this chapter constitutes a
misdemeanor punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each and every connection or occupancy in violation of any
provision hereof shall be deemed a separate violation, and each and every day
or part of a day a violation continues shall be deemed a separate offense
hereunder and punishable as such. (Ord. 63, 5-6-1975; amd. 2008 Code)
   F.   Liability For Violations: Any person violating any of the provisions of
the ordinances, rules or regulations of the city shall become liable to the
city for any expense, loss or damage occasioned by the city by reason of such
violation. (Ord. 63, 5-6-1975)
ARTICLE A. SEWER SERVICE CHARGES
SECTION:
8-2A-1: Short Title
8-2A-2: Definitions
8-2A-3: Charges Established
8-2A-4: Relief Under Special Circumstances
8-2A-5: Annual Review Of Charges
8-2A-6: Bills For Service; Failure To Pay
8-2A-7: Collection With Water Charges; Delinquent Payments
8-2A-8: No Water Or Sewer Service Deemed A Nuisance
8-2A-9: Disposition Of Revenues
8-2A-10: Effective Date Of Charges
8-2A-1: SHORT TITLE:
This article may be cited as CITY OF MELBA SEWER SERVICES CHARGES ORDINANCE.
(Ord. 66, 9-2-1975)
8-2A-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context otherwise indicates, terms used in this article have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section. For the purpose of this article,
additional terms shall have the meanings indicated in chapter 1 of the latest
edition, and any revisions thereof, of the western plumbing officials uniform
plumbing code adopted by the Western Plumbing Officials Association.
   CITY: The city of Melba.
   COUNCIL: The city council of the city.
   COUNTY: The county of Canyon, Idaho.
   RESIDENTIAL UNIT EQUIVALENTS: A parcel of land which is designed, intended
or used for commercial, public or industrial purposes (including motels and
hotels) shall be deemed to have the following number of residential unit
equivalents: Each five (5) number of plumbing fixtures, or a portion of such
number, installed in a parcel of land shall be deemed to be one residential
unit equivalent. As used herein, "plumbing fixture" shall be deemed to mean and
include a toilet, a urinal, a shower, a tub, a sink, a basin, a lavatory, an
automatic washing machine, and any other water or sewage receptor or facility
which is connected, directly or indirectly, to a sanitary sewer line or system
and from which water or sewage can be or is drained, directly or indirectly,
into a sanitary sewer line or system.
   RESIDENTIAL UNITS: The quantity for normal domestic sewage shall be deemed
to be an average of approximately four hundred (400) gallons per day. The
following residential establishments shall be deemed to have the following
number of residential units:
   A.   Single residential dwelling, designed for occupancy by one family only,
which is not occupied by more than one family: One residential unit.
   B.   Duplex, triplex, apartment house, or other multi-residential
establishment, designed for occupancy for living purposes by more than one
family which is divided into separate housekeeping units, each of which is
designed for occupancy by one family: Each housekeeping unit shall be deemed to
be a separate residential unit.
   C.   Auto court, trailer court, trailer park and other like establishment,
divided into separate living units, auto spaces and trailer spaces, with or
without housekeeping facilities: Each room or suite of rooms, or each auto or
trailer space, which is designed to be occupied for living purposes by persons
living separately from others shall be deemed to be a separate residential
unit.
   D.   Lodging house, rooming house, dormitory, rest home, or other
establishment, other than those hereinabove specified in subsections A, B and C
of this definition, which is occupied, or designed, intended or arranged for
occupancy, for residential purposes, by one or more persons to whom rooms are
rented or otherwise made available for sleeping purposes, without separate
housekeeping facilities for each room or suite of rooms: Each six (6) beds, or
part of six (6), shall be deemed to be a separate residential unit (for which
purpose a double bed shall be deemed to be 2 beds). If separate housekeeping
facilities are accorded any room or suite of rooms, each such room or suite of
rooms shall be deemed a separate residential unit.
   E.   Septic tank wastes shall be received at donated locations at the
treatment site. Each four hundred (400) gallons or portion thereof shall be
deemed to be a residential unit.
   SEWER SERVICE CHARGES: Fees, tolls, rates, rentals or other charges for
services and facilities furnished by the city in connection with its sanitation
or sewerage system. (Ord. 66, 9-2-1975)
8-2A-3: CHARGES ESTABLISHED:
   A.   Generally: Sewer service charges are hereby imposed for each connection
to the city sanitary sewage system based upon quantity flow of sewage into the
system which shall provide revenue sufficient to pay the operation and
maintenance and repay bonded indebtedness and provide for the reserve fund for
said system, all as set forth by resolution of the city council. (Ord. 66, 9-2-
1975; amd. 2008 Code)
   B.   Users With Other Than Normal Domestic Sewage: For any industrial or
other nondomestic connection with respect to which the quantity of the sewage
is greater, or the character of the sewage requires plant treatment and/or
operations greater than that for normal domestic sewage, the sewer service
charges provided in subsection A of this section, and as based upon the
recommendation of the city engineer, shall be adjusted upward on an equitable
basis, as determined by the council by resolution from time to time and set
forth in a schedule of charges. For the purpose of this subsection, the
quantity for normal domestic sewage shall be deemed to be an average of
approximately four hundred (400) gallons per day. (Ord. 66, 9-2-1975)
8-2A-4: RELIEF UNDER SPECIAL CIRCUMSTANCES:
   A.   Application For Relief: The owner or occupant of any premises who, by
reason of special circumstances, finds that the charges, either as set forth in
subsection
8-2A-3A of this article or as determined pursuant to subsection
8-2A-3B of this article, are unjust or inequitable as applied to his premises,
may make written application to the council, stating the circumstances and
requesting a different basis of charges for sewer services to his premises. If
such application is approved, the council may, by resolution, fix and establish
fair and equitable rates for such premises to be effective as of the date of
such application and continuing during the period of such special
circumstances.
   B.   Relief On Motion By Council: The council may, on its own motion, find
that by reason of special circumstances said charges are unjust and inequitable
as applied to particular premises and may by resolution fix and establish fair
and equitable sewer service charges for such premises during the period of such
special circumstances, or any part thereof. (Ord. 66, 9-2-1975)
8-2A-5: ANNUAL REVIEW OF CHARGES:
The city council shall annually, after the effective date hereof, review user
charges and revise the same to reflect the actual treatment works operation and
maintenance cost and requirements for the reserve fund and for bond redemption.
(Ord. 66, 9-2-1975)
8-2A-6: BILLS FOR SERVICE; FAILURE TO PAY:
   A.   Billing Period:
      1.   The regular billing period for sewer service charges will be for
each calendar month.
      2.   Opening and closing bills for less than the normal billing period
shall be for not less than one month.
   B.   Unpaid Bills; Collection By Suit: The city may collect unpaid sewer
service charges by suit, in which event, the city shall have judgment for the
cost of suit and reasonable attorney fees.
   C.   Remedies Cumulative: The remedies herein provided for collecting and
enforcing rates are cumulative and may be pursued alternatively or may be used
consecutively when the council so determines. If any remedy is invalid, all
valid remedies shall remain effectual. (Ord. 66, 9-2-1975; amd. 2008 Code)
8-2A-7: COLLECTION WITH WATER CHARGES; DELINQUENT PAYMENTS:
   A.   Collection With Water Charges: The sewer service charges shall be
collected with the rates and charges for the services, facilities and water of
the city waterworks and system rendered by it, and all rates shall be itemized,
billed upon the same bill, and collected as one item, together with and not
separately from the water charges 1 .
   B.   Discontinuance Of Water Service For Nonpayment: Upon delinquency, the
water service shall be discontinued until full payment of the dual charges and
penalties thereon and the charges for reinstating service.
   C.   Discontinuance Of Sewer Service For Nonpayment: As an alternative
method of collecting such charges, the city may disconnect any premises from
the sewer system if the user fails to pay the service charges for his premises
after they shall have become delinquent. The public works superintendent shall
estimate the cost of disconnection of such premises from the enterprise and the
cost of reconnecting it thereto, and such user shall deposit the cost, as
estimated, of disconnection and reconnection before such premises is
reconnected to the sewer system. In the event such arrearages are paid and
premises is reconnected to the sewer system, the person in charge shall refund
any part of the deposit remaining after payment of all costs of disconnection
and reconnection. (Ord. 66, 9-2-1975)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  8-1-1 1 of this title.
8-2A-8: NO WATER OR SEWER SERVICE DEEMED A NUISANCE:
During the period of nonconnection or disconnection, habitation of such
premises by human beings shall constitute a public nuisance, whereupon the
council shall cause proceedings to be brought for the abatement of the
occupancy of said premises by the human beings. In such event, and as a
condition of connection or reconnection, there shall be paid to the city
reasonable attorney fees and costs of suit arising in said action. (Ord. 66, 9-
2-1975)
8-2A-9: DISPOSITION OF REVENUES:
The user charge system of the city shall generate sufficient revenue at all
times to offset the cost of all treatment works operation and maintenance of
the city as well as funds for bond redemption and reserve funds as required by
law. (Ord. 66, 9-2-1975)
8-2A-10: EFFECTIVE DATE OF CHARGES:
The rates and charges provided herein shall be and become effective upon the
effective date of this article. (Ord. 66, 9-2-1975)
CHAPTER 3
CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL
SECTION:
8-3-1: Definitions
8-3-2: Cross Connections Restricted
8-3-3: Backflow Prevention Device Requirements
8-3-4: Reinjection Prohibited
8-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
   BACKFLOW: The flow other than the intended direction of flow of any foreign
liquids, gases, or substances into the distribution system of a public water
supply.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE: A device to counteract back pressure or prevent
back siphonage.
   CROSS CONNECTION: Any physical arrangement whereby a public water supply is
connected, directly or indirectly, with any other water supply system, sewer,
drain, conduit, pool, storage reservoir, plumbing fixture, or other device
which contains or may contain contaminated water, sewage, or other waste or
liquids of unknown or unsafe quality which may be capable of imparting
contamination to the public water supply as a result of backflow.
   SUPERINTENDENT: The superintendent of the public works department of the
city. (Ord. 85, 5-6-1980)
8-3-2: CROSS CONNECTIONS RESTRICTED:
Except as provided in this chapter, all cross connections, whether or not they
are controlled by automatic devices such as check valves or by hand operated
mechanisms such as gate valves or stopcocks, are prohibited. Cross connection
shall include, but is not limited to:
   A.   Water to water and water to air heat exchangers;
   B.   Bypass arrangements, jumper connections, removable sections, swivel or
changeover devices;
   C.   Any other connection where the public water system is connected,
directly or indirectly, to any other system which may be capable of imparting
contamination to the public water system; or
   D.   As provided in any state regulations relating to public water systems.
(2008 Code)
8-3-3: BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   A backflow prevention device is required to be installed when the city
determines that such a device is necessary due to the nature and the extent of
the activity on the premises to prevent cross connection, or when required by
state regulations relating to public water systems.
   B.   All backflow prevention devices shall be of a type approved by Idaho
department of environmental quality and by the city.
   C.   Each backflow prevention device shall be tested by a certified tester
approved by the city upon installation or repairs and after being moved and
shall be inspected annually, or more often when successive inspections indicate
failure, to ensure that it functions properly.
   D.   The assembly owner shall provide to the city a copy of the test
results. The city may offer testing services for backflow prevention devices
and charge a fee therefor, such fee to be established by resolution of the city
council.
   E.   A permit shall be obtained prior to the installation of a backflow
prevention assembly. The permit fee shall be established by resolution of the
city council. (2008 Code)
8-3-4: REINJECTION PROHIBITED:
Any reinjection of water by individual, commercial or industrial users to the
public water system is prohibited. (2008 Code)
CHAPTER 4
SOLID WASTE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
SECTION:
8-4-1:   Statute Authority
8-4-2:   Purpose And Intent
8-4-3:   Findings
8-4-4:   Definitions
8-4-5:   Contract For Collection And Disposal
8-4-6:   Compulsory Use
8-4-7:   Container And Collection Requirements
8-4-8:   Fees
8-4-9:   Prohibited Wastes
8-4-10:   Theft Of Collection Services
8-4-11:   Exemptions
8-4-12:   Violation; Penalty
8-4-1: STATUTE AUTHORITY:
This chapter is made pursuant to the authority granted the city by article XII,
section 2 of the Idaho constitution, Idaho Code section 50-344 and Idaho Code
title 31, chapter 44. (Ord. 213, 1-8-2007)
8-4-2: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
For the benefit of the public health, safety and welfare, and pursuant to the
statutory authority set forth in section
8-4-1 of this chapter, the city adopts this chapter for the purpose of
establishing a system for the regular collection, hauling and removal of solid
waste within the city. (Ord. 213, 1-8-2007)
8-4-3: FINDINGS:
Pursuant to the provisions of Idaho Code section 50-344, the city is authorized
to maintain and operate a solid waste collection system within the city. For
purposes of solid waste collection, the council makes the following written
findings in support of its conclusion that it is necessary for the public
safety and for the protection of public health and welfare and property that
the city adopts this chapter:
   A.   Such action is necessary for the city to improve and develop a reliable
program for the collection, disposal, and management of solid waste within the
city; and
   B.   Such action is necessary to provide for safe and sanitary accumulation,
collection, transportation, storage and disposal of solid waste; and
   C.   Such action is necessary to prevent uncontrolled dumping of solid waste
on public and private property; and
   D.   Such action is necessary to prevent the unlawful storage, deposit or
disposal on private property of wastes that are hazardous to the health or
safety of the public, create offensive odors, create a condition violative of
any statute, administrative rule, ordinance, order or resolution, or any
provision thereof, or create a fire hazard. (Ord. 213, 1-8-2007; amd. Ord. 288,
11-18-2024)
8-4-4: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
following meanings:
   CITY: Means and refers to the city of Melba, Idaho.
   CITY FEE SCHEDULE: Means the fee schedule as approved from time-to-time by
resolution of the city council for the fees for the services provided by the
contractor to the owners, and/or occupiers of premises pursuant to this
chapter.
   COLLECTION SERVICE OR SERVICES: Means collection by the contractor of
contractor-provided standard containers, in accordance with the city fee
schedule.
   CONTRACTOR: Means and refers to the person who has been granted a license,
franchise or contract from or with the city for the collection, hauling and
removal of solid waste.
   FRANCHISE AGREEMENT: Means and refers to a franchise agreement entered into
by and between the city and the contractor pursuant to the authority, terms,
and conditions of this chapter and I.C. § 50-344.
   LARGE ITEM: Means any solid waste (as defined herein) that does not readily
or properly fit within a standard container. Large item pickup shall only occur
in accordance with section 8-4-7(G) below, and on terms and conditions as may
be identified by city and contractor from time-to-time. Large items shall be
commercially reasonable in size and weight. Items that are excessive in size or
weight shall be subject to additional charges and/or may be rejected by
contractor in its sole discretion.
   PERSON: Means and refers to any person, firm, partnership, association,
institution, limited liability company, corporation, trust and/or any other
legal entity, whether for profit or nonprofit, public or private, and in the
plural as well as the singular.
   PREMISES: Means any parcel of real property within the city where solid
waste is created, accumulated, stored or otherwise exists.
   SOLID WASTE: Means and refers to all materials discarded for disposal,
putrescible and nonputrescible, solid and semisolid waste material including
rubbish, demolition and construction waste, and industrial waste.
   RECYCLABLE SOLID WASTE: Means and refers to those solid waste materials
identified in a written notice by contractor to the city and premises owners
and occupiers as eligible to be placed in a wheeled cart designated for
recycling collection by contractor.
   WHEELED CART: Means a wheeled receptable, ninety-five (95) gallons in volume
designed for the collection of solid waste by means of a vehicle equipped with
a hydraulic lift. A wheeled cart is a specific type of standard container.
(Ord. 213, 1-8-2007; amd. Ord. 288, 11-18-2024)
8-4-5: CONTRACT FOR COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL:
The mayor and council may contract with, franchise, or employ a person for the
collection, transportation and disposal of solid waste in and for the City. If
the mayor and council utilize a contract for services, a franchise agreement
shall set forth the specific terms of the contractor’s service. (Ord. 213, 1-8-
2007; amd. Ord. 288, 11-18-2024)
8-4-6: COMPULSORY USE:
   A.   In order to maintain the public health, safety and aesthetics of the
City, all persons owning or occupying a premises where solid waste is created
or accumulated are required to pay for, and shall be provided with, solid waste
collection services to be provided solely by the City's contractor in
accordance with the provisions with this chapter.
   B.   No person shall be permitted to refuse to accept the solid waste
collection service provided for in this chapter. The temporary failure of any
person to receive such service due to circumstances beyond the control of the
City shall not exempt such person from payment of charges provided by this
chapter.
   C.   Nothing herein shall be deemed as prohibiting any person from hauling
solid waste or recyclable waste materials which were created or accumulated on
a premises owned or occupied by such person; provided, that such hauling shall
not relieve such person from the obligation to pay the solid waste collection
service fees as provided in the city fee schedule. (Ord. 213, 1-8-2007; amd.
Ord. 288, 11-18-2024)
8-4-7: CONTAINER AND COLLECTION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Container Required: Solid waste collection service is provided to all
premises in the City by a contractor in order to allow owners and occupants of
any premises in the City to comply with solid waste disposal requirements. It
shall be the duty of any owner or occupant of any premises where solid waste is
created or accumulated to, at all times, keep or cause to be kept a wheeled
cart or other standard container and, except as otherwise provided, to deposit
or cause to be deposited all solid wastes therein. (Ord. 213, 1-8-2007)
   B.   Standards For Residential premises: All residential premises are
required to have a minimum of one wheeled cart provided by contractor that is
included in the base price of their service, unless an alternate standard
container is requested from and provided by contractor and utilized as
described herein. Extra wheeled carts or alternate standard containers may be
obtained from the contractor for an additional fee as set forth in the city fee
scheduled. All solid waste must be deposited in the contractor-supplied
standard containers for collection except as otherwise approved by the
contractor. It shall be unlawful for any person to (i) leave solid waste at the
curb for collection in any receptable other than a contractor-owned or supplied
standard container, or (ii) load a standard container beyond its maximum
volume, or in a manner that is unstable or likely to cause damage, spill, or
impact public health or safety. Wheeled cart lids shall be completely closed
when left for collection and open freely when emptied. It shall be the duty of
every owner or occupant of a premises to maintain the supplied standard
containers in a secure condition so as to avoid offensive odors, health
hazards, and the scattering or spilling of solid waste.
      1.   Multi-Occupant Residential Premises: There may be location where a
single premises is separated into units that are occupied by distinct tenants,
such as duplexes and apartment complexes. For multi-occupant residential
premises of four (4) units or less, each unit must have a wheeled cart paid for
by the unit occupant; alternatively, the owner of the premises may substitute
the required wheeled carts with an alternate standard container offered by
contractor of sufficient capacity for communal use by all occupied units at the
premises. For multi-occupant residential premises of five (5) or more units,
the owner of the premises shall be required to substitute the required wheeled
carts with one or more alternate standard containers offered by contractor of
sufficient capacity for communal use by all occupied units at the premises.
When such alternate standard containers are used, the owner of the premises
shall be required to establish and pay solid waste collection service with
contractor.
   C.   Location: All standard containers must be stored on the premises they
are associated with. On scheduled collection dates, wheeled carts must be moved
by the premises occupant to the curbside on the roadway that is approved by
contractor for collection, and returned to the premises by the premises
occupant promptly after collection. Should an occupant at a premises fail to
move their wheeled cart to the curbside for collection on scheduled date,
contractor shall not be obligated to collect the solid waste from such
containers. Other standard containers must be kept on the premises in a
location accessible by contractor and their equipment for collection, and
should not be moved curbside for collection, therefore, premises that do not
have an appropriate location for the contractor to access and empty larger
standard containers may be required to utilize multple wheeled carts that can
be placed curbside for collection. Alley service will not be provided unless
approved by contractor.
   D.   Notice of Non-Collection: When the contractor encounters solid waste
that has not been placed in a contractor-supplied wheeled cart or other
standard container, or has otherwise been left for collection in violation of
the requirements of this section, the contractor shall not collect such solid
waste and leave a written notice affixed to the uncollected solid waste
providing a brief description of the reason for non-collection. If solid waste
has been left in compliance with the requirements of this section in the
immediate vicinity of the aforementioned other solid waste, the contractor
shall still collect the solid waste that has been left in compliance with the
requirements of this section.
   E.   Schedule: Subject to the approval of the City Council, the contractor
shall have the right to set its own pick-up schedules for its services.
contractor shall make the schedule available to City to enable City to notify
residents of the schedule. In the event contractor changes it schedule for
services, it shall notify the City of the changes and provide an updated
schedule to the City and the City residents before such schedule becomes
effective.
   F.   Standard Container Pickup: Delivery and pickup of standard containers
other than wheeled carts is subject to schedules approved by contractor and
arranged by a premises owner in accordance with the city fee schedule.
   G.   Large Items: The contractor is authorized to approve and provide
collection services for large items for a fee as set forth on the city fee
schedule. The location and time to collect large items shall be on a case-by-
case basis as directed and approved by contractor and arranged by the premises
owner. When approved by contractor, large items must be placed curb side. (Ord.
259, 10-8-2018; amd. Ord. 288, 11-18-2024)
8-4-8: FEES:
   A.   Fees Set By Resolution: Fees for solid waste collection service shall
be set by resolution of the City Council and published with the city fee
scheduled.
   B.   Bills For Service; Delinquencies: Solid waste collection service fees
shall be billed by the City to the owner or occupant of the premises where
solid waste is created or accumulated and shall be paid to the City in the same
manner as fees for sewer and water services are billed and collected, and fees
that become delinquent shall be treated in the same manner and shall be subject
to the same penalties and procedures as are provided for delinquent water and
sewer bills. The utility billing office is authorized to discontinue service to
any premises if the entire water, sewer and garbage bill is not paid. The City
may direct that collection service not be provided to any premises where the
rules and regulations of this chapter are not complied with.
   C.   Solid Waste Collection Fund; Payment Of Contractor: The proceeds from
the collection of fees for solid waste collection services as herein provided
shall be placed in a special fund to be known as the "Solid Waste Collection
Fund". The contractor shall be paid monthly out of such fund all proceeds from
the collection of fees for solid waste collection services less:
      1.   Any collection costs incurred by the City (such as attorney fees and
court costs) prorated and properly attributable to the collection of fees for
solid waste collection services; and
      2.   A billing fee as shall be established from time to time by agreement
with the contractor adopted by resolution of the City Council. (Ord. 213, 1-8-
2007; amd. Ord. 288, 11-18-2024)
8-4-9: PROHIBITED WASTES:
   A.   The solid waste collection service described in this chapter is
intended for the collection of normal commercial, industrial, residential and
multi-family premises solid waste. It is in violation of this chapter for any
person to deposit or relinquish for collection or disposal any solid waste that
has the following general characteristics:
      1.   Extreme temperatures; or
      2.   Harmful vapors; or
      3.   The presence of corrosive, flammable, explosive or toxic chemicals;
or
      4.   Any materials with physical or other properties which render
collection operations hazardous; or
      5.   Any materials which create a risk to the environment or public
health and safety.
   B.   Additional prohibited wastes include:
      1.   Liquid waste, both bulk and contained;
      2.   Tires;
      3.   Any material regulated by the State or by the United States
Environmental Protection Agency as hazardous waste;
      4.   Any equipment or machines containing refrigerants;
      5.   Infectious wastes generated from business sources such as hospitals,
clinics, medical, surgical, dental, nursing homes, veterinarian offices, and
laboratories, unless such wastes are sterilized, packaged, or otherwise
processed so that they may be collected without hazard to collection personnel
and the general public; and
      6.   Dead animal remains. (Ord. 213, 1-8-2007; amd. Ord. 288, 11-18-2024)
8-4-10: THEFT OF COLLECTION SERVICES:
   A.   It is a violation of this chapter for any person, except for the owner
or occupant of a premises, to place or deposit any materials in or around a
solid waste receptacle provided for the use at a premises.
   B.   It is further a violation of this chapter for any person to place solid
waste at a premises within the City limits that is not generated at such
premises. (Ord. 213, 1-8-2007; amd. Ord. 288, 11-18-2024)
8-4-11: EXEMPTIONS:
Any person subject to the requirements of this chapter who will show cause for
good and cogent reason(s) why he should be exempt from compliance with one or
more of the provisions of this chapter, including payment of fees or any ruling
made hereunder, may petition the City Council for consideration of an exemption
or relief from such provisions or rulings. In the event such a petition is
filed, the City shall give the contractor adequate time to investigate and
respond to the claim for relief. The exemption shall be considered and decided
as a business item at a regular City Council meeting, after which the City
Council will issue a written decision on the petition. The petitioner and
contractor will be afforded an opportunity to present evidence and arguments to
the City Council prior to entry of a decision by the City Council. (Ord. 213,
1-8-2007; amd. Ord. 288, 11-18-2024)
8-4-12: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
The violation of any of the provisions of this chapter or the rules and
regulations adopted hereunder shall be an infraction punishable as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 213, 1-8-2007; amd. Ord. 288, 11-18-2024)
TITLE 9
BUILDING REGULATIONS
Building Codes   1
General Building Regulations   2
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODES
SECTION:
9-1-1: International Codes
9-1-2: Fire Code
9-1-1: INTERNATIONAL CODES:
   A.   Codes Adopted:
      1.   The approved editions of the following nationally recognized codes,
as adopted by the State of Idaho or the Idaho Building Code Board, are adopted
as official codes of the City, together with any amendments or revisions set
forth in Idaho Code section 39-4109, except as provided in subsection B of this
section:
         a.   International Building Code 2015 edition, including all rules
promulgated by the International Code Council to provide equivalency with the
provisions of the Americans With Disabilities Act accessibility guidelines and
the Federal Fair Housing Act accessibility guidelines. Also to include appendix
E: Supplementary Accessibility Requirements and appendix J Grading.
         b.   International Residential Code, for One and Two Family Dwellings
2012 edition, including appendix G: Swimming Pools, Spas, and Hot Tubs,
appendix H Patio Covers, appendix J: Existing Buildings and Structures, and
appendix M: Home Day Care - R-3 Occupancy.
         c.   International Energy Conservation Code 2012 edition with State
2012 amendments for residential portion.
         d.   International Mechanical Code 2012 edition.
         e.   International Fuel Gas Code 2012 edition.
         f.   International Existing Building Code 2015 edition.
         g.   The most current Idaho Manufactured Home Installation Standard
published by the State of Idaho, Division of Building Safety, manufactured
housing section.
      2.   Additionally, including all appendices published by the
International Code Council, being particularly the 2015 edition thereof and the
whole thereof.
      3.   The adopted versions of the foregoing codes shall be deemed
suspended by successive versions of such codes as they are adopted or approved
by the Idaho Building Code Board effective on the date any such codes are made
effective by the Idaho Building Code Board.
      4.   One copy of each of the codes adopted in subsection A1 of this
section is on file in the Office of the City Clerk-Treasurer for public use and
inspection.
   B.   Exemptions: Agricultural buildings are exempt from the Building Codes
adopted herein but shall remain subject to placement requirements established
by zoning regulations. (Ord. 258, 7-9-2018)
9-1-2: FIRE CODE:
The 1988 edition of the Uniform Fire Code, printed and published under the
authority of the International Conference of Building Officials and Western
Fire Chiefs, for the purpose of regulating and governing conditions hazardous
to life and property from fire, is hereby adopted, together with all future
amendments thereto, as the Fire Code of the City. Three (3) copies of the 1988
edition of the Uniform Fire Code, and any future amendments thereto, shall be
on file at all times in the Office of the City Clerk-Treasurer and shall be
made a part of this section as if set out at length herein. (Ord. 131, 10-9-
1990)
CHAPTER 2
GENERAL BUILDING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-2-1: Building Permits And Fees
9-2-2: Fences
9-2-1: BUILDING PERMITS AND FEES:
   A.   Permits Required: It is unlawful for any person to erect, construct,
enlarge, alter, repair, improve, remove, convert, demolish or install any
building, structure, fence or manufactured/mobile home without first obtaining
from the Building Department a building permit, which said permit is the
authority to commence construction or installation. The Building Department
shall be strictly bound by the provisions of the International Building Code
and State laws pertaining to buildings. (Ord. 147, 1-19-1994; amd. 2008 Code)
   B.   Permit Fees: Any person seeking a building permit must pay a building
permit fee to the City. The building permit fee schedule is on file with the
City as exhibit A and made a part hereof. (Ord. 147, 1-19-1994; amd. Ord. 258,
7-9-2018)
9-2-2: FENCES:
   A.   Materials Of Construction: Any fence must be built from construction
materials normally used in the construction of fences. The use of pallets to
construct a fence is specifically prohibited. The City reserves the right to
deny a building permit for a fence if it is not made from materials normally
and commonly used for the construction of a fence. (Ord. 147, 1-19-1994)
   B.   Height: No fence may exceed the requirements as provided in subsections
10-6-4C and 10-6-6B3 of this Code. (Ord. 147, 1-19-1994; amd. 2008 Code)
   C.   Electric Fences: Any person desiring to construct an electric fence
within the City must, before constructing such fence, have the prior approval
of the City Council, and such has the authority to deny any person the right to
construct such fence, or may designate the type and manner of construction.
Anyone constructing an electric fence within the City without first receiving a
permit therefor from the City Council shall be liable for a fine, and the court
levying such fine may order the immediate removal of such fence. (Ord. 35, 11-
10-1977)
TITLE 10
ZONING REGULATIONS
General Zoning Provisions; Enforcement   1
Definitions   2
Residential Zones   3
R-1 Single-Family Residential Zone   3A
R-2 Combined Residential Zone   3B
R-3 Mobile Home Residential Zone   3C
R-4 Multiple-Family Residential Zone   3D
Mixed Use Zones   3.5
BR-1 Business/Residential Zone   3.5A
Commercial And Industrial Zones   4
C-1 Commercial Zone   4A
C-2 Service Commercial Zone   4B
M-1 Light Industrial Zone   4C
Planned Unit Developments   5
Supplementary Regulations   6
Manufactured Housing   7
Amendment Procedure   8
Conditional Use Permit Procedure   9
Variance Procedure   10
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL ZONING PROVISIONS; ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
10-1-1: Short Title
10-1-2: Purpose; Districts Established
10-1-3: Official Zoning Map; Comprehensive Plan Observed
10-1-4: Compliance With Provisions
10-1-5: Application And Interpretation
10-1-6: Lot Location And Access Requirements
10-1-7: Enforcement Official
10-1-8: Violation; Penalties
10-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This title shall be known as the ZONING ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF MELBA. (Ord.
86, 8-19-1980)
10-1-2: PURPOSE; DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED:
For the purpose of promoting pride of ownership, health, safety, morals and
general welfare within its area of jurisdiction, the city is hereby divided
into the following use districts:
R-1 Single-family residential
R-2 Combined residential
R-3 Mobile home residential
R-4 Multiple-family residential
BR-1 Business/residential
C-1 Commercial
C-2 Service commercial
M-1 Light industrial
(Ord. 86, 8-19-1980; amd. 2008 Code; Ord. 246, 10-13-2014)
10-1-3: OFFICIAL ZONING MAP; COMPREHENSIVE PLAN OBSERVED:
   A.   Map Established: The boundaries of the use districts shall be
established and clearly indicated upon the zoning map adopted as part of this
title.
   B.   Amendments To Map: All amendments of the official zoning map shall
follow the procedure set forth in chapter 8 of this title.
   C.   Compliance With Comprehensive Plan: Areas are to be classified
according to the established use districts, and such zoning shall give due
consideration as to conformity with an adopted comprehensive plan and its
stated goals and objectives where these exist. (Ord. 86, 8-19-1980)
10-1-4: COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS:
   A.   Land or premises shall be used, unless otherwise provided in this
title, only in conformity with the regulations herein set forth for the use
districts in which such land or premises is located.
   B.   No building or structure shall be erected or structurally altered or
used, unless otherwise provided in this title, except in conformity with the
regulations herein set forth for the use districts in which such building or
structure is located. (Ord. 86, 8-19-1980)
10-1-5: APPLICATION AND INTERPRETATION:
   A.   Severability: If any provisions of this title or the application
thereof to any persons or circumstances are held invalid, the remainder of the
title or the application of provisions to other persons or circumstances shall
not be affected thereby.
   B.   Conflicting Provisions: It is not intended by this title to impair or
interfere with other regulations of state or local law, or with private
restrictions on the use of land, improvements, and structures. Where this title
imposes greater restrictions than that imposed by other law or private
restrictions, this title shall prevail. (Ord. 86, 8-19-1980)
10-1-6: LOT LOCATION AND ACCESS REQUIREMENTS:
For the purpose of ensuring orderly development and to provide adequate access
for firefighting equipment and other services to all buildings, no residence or
commercial building shall be erected or moved onto any lot, tract or parcel of
land in any use district adopted under the provisions of this title unless said
lot, tract or parcel of land has fifty feet (50') of frontage on a public right
of way and has reasonably efficient access thereto for vehicular traffic and
has been legally subdivided and surveyed; and provided further, that a building
permit may be issued for construction of a residence on a private easement
where, in the opinion of the planning and zoning commission, the following
conditions have been reasonably met:
   A.   Minimum easement width of twenty feet (20') of usable road sufficient
for two-way traffic.
   B.   Maximum easement length of two hundred feet (200').
   C.   Minimum turnaround radius of forty feet (40').
   D.   Maximum grade of ten percent (10%).
   E.   The easement must serve land which otherwise would have no access to a
public road. (Ord. 86, 8-19-1980)
10-1-7: ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL:
An official shall be appointed by the mayor and city council, and such official
shall be responsible for the enforcement of the provisions of this title. (Ord.
86, 8-19-1980)
10-1-8: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this title
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be deemed guilty of a
separate offense for each and every day or portion thereof during which any
violation of any of the provisions of this title is committed, continued or
permitted. Upon conviction of any violation of any of the provisions of this
title, such persons shall be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 86, 8-19-1980; amd. 2008 Code)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
10-2-1: Definitions
10-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this title, certain terms are defined as set forth in this
section. All words in the present tense include the future tense; the plural
includes the singular, and all words in the singular include the plural unless
the natural construction of the sentence indicates otherwise. The word "shall"
is mandatory.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING: A building which is subordinate to and incidental to the
principal building on the same lot, but does not include any building
containing a "dwelling unit" as defined in this section.
   ACCESSORY USE: A use incidental and subordinate to the principal use of the
premises.
   AGRICULTURE: Tilling of soil, horticulture, raising crops, raising
livestock, dairying, including all uses customarily accessory and incidental
thereto; but excluding slaughterhouses and commercial feedlots.
   AIRPORT: Any area of land or water which is used or intended for use by
aircraft and including the necessary appurtenant structures or facilities
located thereon.
   ANIMAL HOSPITAL: Any building or portion thereof designed or used for the
care or treatment of cats, dogs or other animals.
   APARTMENT: A room or suite of rooms in a multiple-family structure which is
arranged, designed or used as a single housekeeping unit and has complete
kitchen and sanitary facilities permanently installed.
   AUTOMOBILE SALES LOT: Premises on which new or used passenger automobiles,
trailers, mobile homes or trucks in operating condition are displayed in the
open for sale or trade.
   AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION: Premises used primarily for the retail sale and
delivery to the vehicle of motor vehicle fuel and of lubricating oils, tires
and incidental vehicular accessories, and providing vehicular lubrication and
related services, including minor vehicle repairs.
   AUTOMOBILE WRECKING YARD: Any use of premises, excluding fully enclosed
buildings, on which two (2) or more vehicles not in operating condition are
standing more than thirty (30) days, or on which used motor vehicles, or parts
thereof, are dismantled or stored.
   BLOCK: The space along one side of a street between the two (2) nearest
intersecting streets, or between an intersecting street and a right of way,
waterway or other similar barrier, whichever is lesser.
   BOARDING HOUSE: A building, other than a hotel or restaurant, where meals
are provided for compensation to three (3) or more persons, but not more than
twelve (12) persons who are not members of the householder's family.
   BUILDING: Any structure with substantial walls and roof securely affixed to
the land and entirely separated on all sides from any other structure by space
or by walls in which there are no communicating doors, windows or openings,
which is designed or intended for the shelter, enclosure, or protection of
persons, animals, chattels or property of any kind.
   BUILDING, DETACHED: A building surrounded by open space on the same lot.
   BUILDING, GOVERNMENT: Any building owned or used by the federal, state,
county or city government, or any political subdivision, agency or
instrumentality thereof.
   BUILDING, NONCONFORMING: A building, structure, or portion thereof which
does not conform to the regulations of this title applicable to the zone or
district in which such building is situated, but which existed prior to the
effective date hereof.
   BUSINESS OR COMMERCE: The purchase, sale, exchange or other transaction
involving the handling or disposition of any article, substance or commodity
for profit or livelihood, or the ownership or management of office buildings,
offices, recreation or amusement enterprises, or the maintenance and use of
offices for professions and trades rendering services.
   CITY: The city of Melba.
   CITY CLERK-TREASURER: The city clerk-treasurer of Melba.
   COMMISSION: The planning and zoning commission of the city 1 .
   COMPREHENSIVE GENERAL PLAN: The comprehensive general plan for the city
officially adopted by the council as such.
   CONDITIONAL USE: A use or occupancy of a structure, or use of land,
permitted only upon issuance of a conditional use permit and subject to the
limitations and conditions specified therein.
   COUNCIL: The city council of the city.
   DRIVE-IN ESTABLISHMENT: An establishment, other than an automobile service
station, which is designed to accommodate the motor vehicles of patrons in such
a manner as to permit the occupants of such vehicles, while remaining therein,
to make purchases or receive services.
   DWELLING: A building, or portion thereof, containing one or more dwelling
units. The term "dwelling" does not include any trailer, motel, hotel,
guesthouse or boarding house as defined herein.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY: A multiple-family building, or portion thereof,
containing three (3) or more dwelling units.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A building designed for use and occupancy by no
more than one family.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY: A detached building designed for and occupied
exclusively by two (2) families living independently of each other.
   DWELLING UNIT: One or more rooms designed for or used as a residence for not
more than one family, including all necessary household employees of such
family, and constituting a separate and independent housekeeping unit, with a
single kitchen permanently installed. The term does not imply or include such
types of occupancy as a lodging or boarding house, club, sorority, fraternity,
or hotel.
   FLOOR AREA, GROSS: The sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several
floors including the exterior walls of a building or portion thereof.
   FLOOR AREA, NET: That portion of the gross floor area of the building
occupied by the listed use or uses and shall include hallways, storage and
packaging space, dressing or rest rooms and laboratory or work rooms; provided,
however, that floor space within the building reserved for parking or loading
of vehicles, and basement space used only for building maintenance and
utilities shall be excluded.
   HEIGHT, BUILDING: The vertical distance from the grade to the highest point
of the coping of a flat roof or to the deck line of a mansard roof or the
average height of the gable of a pitch or hip roof.
   HOME OCCUPATION: Any gainful occupation engaged in by an occupant of a
dwelling unit including handicrafts, dressmaking, millinery, laundering,
preserving, office of a clergyman, teaching of music, dancing and other
occupancies which meet all of the following conditions:
   A.   The use is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling
for dwelling purposes.
   B.   The use is conducted entirely within a dwelling and is carried on by
the inhabitants thereof.
   C.   No article shall be sold or offered for sale on the premises, except
such as is produced by the occupants on the premises, and no mechanical or
electrical equipment shall be installed or maintained other than such is
customarily incidental to domestic use.
   D.   The use does not change the character of the dwelling or adversely
affect the uses permitted in the residential district.
   E.   The use creates no additional traffic and requires no additional
parking space.
   F.   No persons are employed other than those necessary for domestic
purposes.
   G.   Not more than one-fourth (1/4) of the gross area of one floor of said
dwelling is used for such use.
   H.   The entrance to the space devoted to such use is from within the
building, and no internal or external alterations or construction features not
customary in dwellings are involved.
   JUNKYARD: An outdoor space where junk, waste, discarded or salvaged
materials are stored or handled, including automobile wrecking yards, and yards
for used building materials, and places or yards for storage of salvaged
building and structural steel materials and equipment; excluding yards or
establishments for the sale, purchase or storage of used cars or machinery in
operable condition, and the processing of used cars or machinery in operable
condition, and the processing of used, discarded or salvaged materials as part
of a permitted manufacturing operation on the same premises.
   KENNEL, COMMERCIAL: Any lot or premises or portion thereof, on which three
(3) or more dogs, cats and other household domestic animals of at least three
(3) months of age are maintained, harbored, possessed, boarded, bred or cared
for in return for compensation or kept for sale.
   LOADING AND UNLOADING SPACES, OFF STREET: An open off street area of land
other than a street or public way, the principal use of which is for the
standing, loading and unloading of motor vehicles, tractors and trailers to
avoid undue interference with public streets and alleys.
   LOT: A unit of land described by metes and bounds or a part of a recorded
subdivision so recorded for transfer of ownership.
   LOT, CORNER: A lot which is bounded on two (2) or more sides by street
lines; where the angle of intersection does not exceed one hundred thirty five
degrees (135°).
   LOT COVERAGE: The area of a lot occupied by the principal building or
buildings and accessory buildings.
   LOT LINE: The boundary property line encompassing a lot. The front lot line
is the boundary line which abuts a public street. For a corner lot, the owner
may select either street line as the front lot line. The rear lot line is the
lot line most nearly parallel to and most remote from the front property line.
All other lot lines are side lot lines. An interior lot line is a side line in
common with another lot.
   LOT WIDTH: The horizontal distance between the side lot lines measured at
right angles to the depth at a point midway between the front and rear lot
lines.
   MAINTENANCE: The upkeep of property or machinery.
   MOBILE HOME: A detached single-family dwelling unit with all the following
characteristics:
   A.   Designed for a long term occupancy and containing sleeping
accommodations, a flush toilet, a tub or shower bath and kitchen facilities
with plumbing and electrical connections for attachments to outside systems.
   B.   Designed to be transported after fabrication on its own wheels, or on
flatbed or other trailer, or detachable wheels.
   C.   Arriving at the site where it is to be occupied as a dwelling complete,
including major appliances and furniture, and ready for occupancy except for
minor and incidental unpacking and assembly operations, location of foundation
supports, connection to facilities and the like.
   MOBILE HOME PARK: Any area, tract, plot, or site of land whereupon two (2)
or more mobile homes are placed, located and maintained for dwelling purposes
on a permanent or semipermanent basis and for which a fee, rental or contract
for payment for such use is collected by or collectable to the person holding
the land.
   MOTEL: A building or group of buildings on the same premises, whether
detached or in connected rows, containing sleeping or dwelling units
independently accessible from the outside, with garage space or parking space
located on the premises and designed for or occupied by travelers. The term
includes, but is not limited to, any buildings, or building groups designated
as auto courts, motor lodges, tourist courts or by any other title or sign
intended to identify them as providing lodging to motorists.
   NONCONFORMING USE: Any use lawfully occupying a building, structure or land
at the effective date hereof, or of subsequent amendments hereto, which does
not conform to the regulations for the district in which it is located.
   NURSERY SCHOOL: An institution providing care, with or without instruction,
for more than five (5) children of preschool age.
   NURSING HOME, CONVALESCENT HOME: A building housing any facility, however
named, whether operated for profit or not, the purpose of which is to provide
skilled nursing care and related medical services for two (2) or more
individuals suffering from illness, disease, injury, deformity or requiring
care because of old age.
   PARKING LOT: An open, graded and surfaced area, other than a street or
public way, to be used for the storage, for limited periods of time, of
operable passenger automobiles and commercial vehicles, and available to the
public, whether for compensation, free or as an accommodation to clients or
customers.
   PARKING SPACE: Usable space within a public or private parking area or
building, not less than one hundred eighty (180) square feet (9 feet by 20
feet), exclusive of access drives, aisles or ramps for the storage of one
passenger automobile or commercial vehicle.
   REST HOME, ELDERLY HOUSING: The same as a nursing home; except, that medical
care is not administered therein.
   RESTAURANT: Any land, building or part thereof, other than a boarding house,
where meals are provided for compensation, including, among others, such uses
as cafe, cafeteria, coffee shop, lunchroom, tearoom and dining room.
   SETBACK AREA: The space on a lot required to be left open and unoccupied by
buildings or structures, either by the front, side or rear yard requirements of
this title, or by delineation on a recorded subdivision map.
   SIGN: Any structure or natural object, such as a tree, rock, bush and the
ground itself, or part thereof or device attached thereto or painted or
represented thereon, which shall be used to attract attention to any object,
product, place, activity, person, institution, organization or business, or
which shall display or include any letter, word, model, banner, flag, pennant,
insignia, device or representation used as, or which is in the nature of, an
announcement, direction or advertisement. For the purpose of this definition,
the word "sign" does not include the flag of any political unit, or any
political, educational, charitable, philanthropic, civic, professional,
religious, or like campaign, drive, movement or event.
   STORY: That portion of a building included between the upper surface of any
floor and the upper surface of the floor next above; except, that the topmost
story shall be that portion of a building included between the upper surface of
the topmost floor and the ceiling or roof above. If the finished floor level
directly above a basement or cellar is more than six feet (6') above grade,
such basement or cellar shall be considered a story.
   STREET: A public right of way which provides vehicular and pedestrian access
to adjacent properties, acceptance or grant of which has been officially
approved by the council. The term "street" includes also the terms "highway",
"thoroughfare", "parkway", "throughway", "road", "avenue", "boulevard", "lane",
"place" and other such terms.
   STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected, except fences not exceeding
three feet (3') in height, which requires permanent location on the ground or
is attached to something having location on the ground.
   TAVERN OR LOUNGE: A building where alcoholic beverages are sold for
consumption on the premises, not including restaurants where the principal
business is serving food.
   TRAVEL TRAILER: A vehicular portable structure designed as a temporary
dwelling for travel, recreational and vacation uses, which:
   A.   Is not more than eight feet (8') in body width; and
   B.   Is of any weight, provided its body length does not exceed twenty nine
feet (29'); or
   C.   Is of any length, provided its gross weight, factory equipped for the
road, does not exceed forty five thousand (45,000) pounds.
   TRAVEL TRAILER PARK: Any area, tract, plot, or site of land, whereupon two
(2) or more travel trailers are placed, located and maintained for dwelling
purposes on a semipermanent basis and for which a fee or rental for such use is
collected by or collectible to the person holding the land.
   YARD: An open space on the same lot with a principal building or group of
buildings, which is unoccupied and unobstructed from its lowest level upward,
except as otherwise permitted in this title, and which extends along a lot line
and at right angles thereto to a depth or width specified in the yard
regulations for the district in which the lot is located.
   YARD, FRONT: The yard extending across the full width of the lot adjacent to
the front street line.
   YARD, REAR: The yard extending across the full width of the lot and lying
between the rear line of the lot and the rear line of the building and
extending for the full width of the lot.
   YARD, SIDE: The yard lying between the nearest wall of the principal
building, accessory building and side lot line, and extending from the front
yard or the front lot line to the rear yard.
   ZONING MAP: The map incorporated into this title designating the use
district zones. (Ord. 86, 8-19-1980; amd. 2008 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 2, chapter 1 of this code.
CHAPTER 3
RESIDENTIAL ZONES
ARTICLE A. R-1 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL ZONE
SECTION:
10-3A-1: Purpose
10-3A-2: Uses Allowed
10-3A-3: Conditional Uses Permitted
10-3A-4: Building Height
10-3A-5: Yards
10-3A-6: Lot Area And Width
10-3A-7: Accessory Uses
10-3A-8: Off Street Parking
10-3A-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the R-1 single-family residential zone is to preserve
residential neighborhoods, to prevent overcrowding of the land and to encourage
the development of low density areas which are best suited to residential
purposes. (Ord. 201, 6-9-2003)
10-3A-2: USES ALLOWED:
The following uses are allowed in the R-1 zone:
Accessory uses as regulated in section
10-3A-7 of this article.
Agriculture or horticulture, including the raising of animals, except hogs,
pigs, including pot bellied pigs, goats and poultry 1 ; provided, that such
pursuits as agriculture, horticulture and the raising of animals are not raised
or maintained for commercial purposes; ("commercial purposes", as used in this
paragraph, means the sale or exchange of animals or commodities for profit of
any kind); and further provided, that no horse, cow or unusual farm animal
shall be maintained on any parcel or lot which contains less than one acre 2 ;
and provided, that buildings and enclosures housing such animals shall be not
less than thirty feet (30') from all property lines and at least fifty feet
(50') from all residential structures and that all requirements of the
appropriate health agencies are met; and further provided, that areas for the
raising of animals are adequately fenced, other than with barbed wire 3 , to
keep such animals within such areas.
Churches.
"Home occupations" as defined in section
10-2-1 of this title.
Schools.
Single-family dwelling.
Temporary buildings as uses necessary for construction for a period not to
exceed one year. (Ord. 201, 6-9-2003; amd. 2008 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 5, chapter 1 of this code.
2 2. See also title 5, chapter 1 of this code.
  1. See subsection
3 5-1-1C3 and section
  9-2-2 of this code for fence regulations.
10-3A-3: CONDITIONAL USES PERMITTED:
The planning and zoning commission may, after proper notice and public hearing
as prescribed in chapter 9 of this title, permit the following uses where such
uses are deemed essential or desirable to the public convenience or welfare.
The commission shall have the authority to impose such conditions and
safeguards as it deems necessary to protect the best interests of the
surrounding property or neighborhood from damage, hazard, nuisance or other
detriment.
Buildings to house governmental or public utility functions.
Nonprofit community clubhouse.
Planned unit development.
Rest and convalescent home. (Ord. 86, 8-19-1980)
10-3A-4: BUILDING HEIGHT:
Any building or structure or portion thereof hereafter erected shall not exceed
two and one-half (21/2) stories or twenty five feet (25') in height. (Ord. 86,
8-19-1980)
10-3A-5: YARDS:
   A.   Front Yard: No building or structure shall be erected nearer than
eighteen feet (18') from the right of way line of the street. (Ord. 86, 8-19-
1980)
   B.   Side Yard: No building shall be erected closer than five feet (5') to
any side property line; except corner lots shall conform to Idaho Code section
49-221. (Ord. 86, 8-19-1980; amd. 2008 Code)
   C.   Rear Yard: There shall be a rear yard having a depth of not less than
five feet (5') from a street, alley, or dedicated easement and fifteen feet
(15') when no such access is available. (Ord. 86, 8-19-1980)
10-3A-6: LOT AREA AND WIDTH:
   A.   The minimum lot area for each residential structure shall be five
thousand (5,000) square feet and a lot width at the established building line
of not less than fifty feet (50').
   B.   Not more than forty percent (40%) of the lot area may be covered by
buildings or structures. (Ord. 86, 8-19-1980)
10-3A-7: ACCESSORY USES:
Accessory uses are permitted if constructed either at the same time or
subsequent to the main building. Such uses shall be limited to one story in
height and shall not encroach upon the front or side yards. (Ord. 86, 8-19-
1980)
10-3A-8: OFF STREET PARKING:
For off street parking requirements in the R-1 zone, refer to section
10-6-6 of this title. (Ord. 86, 8-19-1980; amd. 2008 Code)
ARTICLE B. R-2 COMBINED RESIDENTIAL ZONE
SECTION:
10-3B-1: Purpose
10-3B-2: Uses Allowed
10-3B-3: Conditional Uses Permitted
10-3B-4: Building Height
10-3B-5: Yards
10-3B-6: Lot Area
10-3B-7: Accessory Uses
10-3B-8: Off Street Parking
10-3B-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the R-2 combined residential zone is to provide medium density
residential development, well designed and properly located in the community
pattern adjacent to shopping, recreation, cultural and other community
facilities. (Ord. 86, 8-19-1980)
10-3B-2: USES ALLOWED:
The following uses are allowed in the R-2 zone:
Those uses allowed in the R-1 zone as regulated therein (section
10-3A-2 of this title).
Two-family and multiple-family dwellings limited to not more than four (4)
dwelling units. (Ord. 86, 8-19-1980; amd. 2008 Code)
10-3B-3: CONDITIONAL USES PERMITTED:
The planning and zoning commission may, after proper notice and public hearing
as prescribed in chapter 9 of this title, permit the following uses where such
uses are deemed essential or desirable to the public convenience or welfare.
The commission shall have the authority to impose such conditions and
safeguards as it deems necessary to protect the best interests of the
surrounding property or neighborhood from damage, hazard, nuisance or other
detriment.
Those uses requiring conditional use permits and as regulated in the R-1 zone.
Boarding and rooming house.
Convalescent home; nursing home.
Homes for ambulatory aged; rest home; elderly housing.
Hospital.
Multiple-family dwellings limited to not more than eight (8) dwelling units.
(Ord. 86, 8-19-1980)
10-3B-4: BUILDING HEIGHT:
Any building or structure or portion thereof hereafter erected shall not exceed
two and one-half (21/2) stories or twenty five feet (25') in height. (Ord. 86,
8-19-1980)
10-3B-5: YARDS:
   A.   Front Yard: No building or structure shall be erected nearer than
eighteen feet (18') from the right of way line of the street. (Ord. 86, 8-19-
1980)
   B.   Side Yard: No building shall be erected closer than five feet (5') to
any side property line; except corner lots shall conform to Idaho Code section
49-221. (Ord. 86, 8-19-1980; amd. 2008 Code)
   C.   Rear Yard: There shall be a rear yard having a depth of not less than
five feet (5') from a street, alley or dedicated easement and fifteen feet
(15') when no such access is available. (Ord. 86, 8-19-1980)
10-3B-6: LOT AREA:
   A.   The minimum lot area for single-family and two-family dwellings is
eight thousand five hundred (8,500) square feet.
   B.   The minimum lot area for each dwelling unit above that required for
two-family dwellings shall be one thousand (1,000) square feet of land area for
each additional dwelling unit.
   C.   Not more than thirty five percent (35%) of the lot area may be covered
by buildings or structures. (Ord. 86, 8-19-1980)
10-3B-7: ACCESSORY USES:
Accessory uses are permitted if constructed either at the same time or
subsequent to the main building. Such uses shall be limited to one story in
height and shall not encroach upon the front or side yards. (Ord. 86, 8-19-
1980)
10-3B-8: OFF STREET PARKING:
For off street parking requirements in the R-2 zone, refer to section
10-6-6 of this title. (Ord. 86, 8-19-1980; amd. 2008 Code)
ARTICLE C. R-3 MOBILE HOME RESIDENTIAL ZONE
SECTION:
10-3C-1: Purpose
10-3C-2: Uses Allowed
10-3C-3: Conditional Uses Permitted
10-3C-4: Building Height
10-3C-5: Yards
10-3C-6: Lot Area
10-3C-7: Accessory Uses
10-3C-8: Off Street Parking
10-3C-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the R-3 mobile home residential zone is to provide medium
density residential development area for mobile homes properly located in the
community pattern compatible for mobile home uses and in harmony with the
community facilities. (Ord. 86, 8-19-1980; amd. 2008 Code)
10-3C-2: USES ALLOWED:
The following uses are allowed in the R-3 zone:
Accessory uses as regulated in section
10-3C-7 of this article.
Agriculture or horticulture, including the raising of animals, except hogs,
pigs, including pot bellied pigs, goats and poultry 1 ; provided, that such
pursuits as agriculture, horticulture and the raising of animals are not raised
or maintained for commercial purposes ("commercial purposes", as used in this
paragraph, means the sale or exchange of animals or commodities for profit of
any kind); and further provided, that no horse, cow or usual farm animal shall
be maintained on any parcel or lot which contains less than one acre 2 ; and
provided, that buildings and enclosures housing such animals shall be not less
than thirty feet (30') from all property lines and at least fifty feet (50')
from all residential structures and that all requirements of the county and
state health departments are met; and further provided, that areas for the
raising of animals are adequately fenced, other than with barbed wire 3 , to
keep such animals within such areas.
Churches.
"Home occupations", as defined in section
10-2-1 of this title.
Mobile home subdivisions as regulated by this article and all applicable city
ordinances.
Mobile homes on individual lots.
Schools. (Ord. 86, 8-19-1980; amd. 2008 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 5, chapter 1 of this code.
2 2. See also title 5, chapter 1 of this code.
  1. See subsection
3 5-1-1C3 and section
  9-2-2 of this code for fence regulations.
10-3C-3: CONDITIONAL USES PERMITTED:
The planning and zoning commission may, after proper notice and public hearing
as prescribed in chapter 9 of this title, permit the following uses where such
uses are deemed essential or desirable to the public convenience or welfare.
The commission shall have the authority to impose such conditions and
safeguards as it deems necessary to protect the best interests of the
surrounding property or neighborhood from damage, hazard, nuisance, or other
detriment.
Those uses requiring conditional use permits in the R-1 and R-2 zones and as
regulated therein.
Mobile home park, subject to the development requirements and procedures for
planned unit developments, chapter 5 of this title. (Ord. 86, 8-19-1980; amd.
2008 Code)
10-3C-4: BUILDING HEIGHT:
Any building or structure or portion thereof hereafter erected shall not exceed
two and one-half (21/2) stories or twenty five feet (25') in height. (Ord. 86,
8-19-1980)
10-3C-5: YARDS:
   A.   Front Yard: No building or structure shall be erected nearer than
eighteen feet (18') from the right of way line of the street. (Ord. 86, 8-19-
1980)
   B.   Side Yard: No building shall be erected closer than five feet (5') to
any side property line; except corner lots shall conform to Idaho Code section
49-221. (Ord. 86, 8-19-1980; amd. 2008 Code)
   C.   Rear Yard: There shall be a rear yard having a depth of not less than
five feet (5') from a street, alley or dedicated easement and fifteen feet
(15') when no such access is available. (Ord. 86, 8-19-1980)
10-3C-6: LOT AREA:
   A.   The minimum lot area for single-family and two-family dwellings is
seven thousand (7,000) square feet; except corner lots shall contain at least
eight thousand (8,000) square feet.
   B.   The minimum lot area for each dwelling unit above that required for
two-family dwellings shall be one thousand (1,000) square feet of land area for
each additional unit. (Ord. 86, 8-19-1980)
10-3C-7: ACCESSORY USES:
Accessory uses are permitted if constructed either at the same time or
subsequent to the main building. Such uses shall be limited to one story in
height and shall not encroach upon the front or side yards. (Ord. 86, 8-19-
1980)
10-3C-8: OFF STREET PARKING:
For off street parking requirements in the R-3 zone, refer to section
10-6-6 of this title. (Ord. 86, 8-19-1980; amd. 2008 Code)
ARTICLE D. R-4 MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL ZONE
SECTION:
10-3D-1: Purpose
10-3D-2: Uses Allowed
10-3D-3: Conditional Uses Permitted
10-3D-4: Building Height
10-3D-5: Yards
10-3D-6: Lot Area
10-3D-7: Accessory Uses
10-3D-8: Off Street Parking
10-3D-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the R-4 multiple-family residential zone is to provide for
medium to high density residential development. This type of zoning pattern is
to create transition areas and buffer zones between commercial areas and low
density residential development. It is also intended to permit high density
residential adjacent to more intensive community use areas. (Ord. 86, 8-19-
1980)
10-3D-2: USES ALLOWED:
The following uses are allowed in the R-4 zone:
Those uses allowed in the R-1, R-2 and R-3 zones.
Accessory uses as regulated in section
10-3D-7 of this article.
Boarding and rooming house.
Club and lodge of a service and fraternal character when not operated for
profit.
Convalescent home; nursing home.
Home for ambulatory aged; rest home; elderly housing.
Hospital.
Multiple-family dwellings.
Nursery school. (Ord. 86, 8-19-1980; amd. 2008 Code)
10-3D-3: CONDITIONAL USES PERMITTED:
The planning and zoning commission may, after proper notice and public hearing
as prescribed in chapter 9 of this title, permit the following uses where such
uses are deemed essential or desirable to the public convenience or welfare.
The commission shall have the authority to impose such conditions and
safeguards as it deems necessary to protect the best interests of the
surrounding property or neighborhood from damage, hazard, nuisance or other
detriment.
Those uses requiring conditional use permits and as regulated in the R-1, R-
2 and R-3 districts.
Office of a medical, professional or administrative character. (Ord. 86, 8-19-
1980; amd. 2008 Code)
10-3D-4: BUILDING HEIGHT:
Any building or structure or portion thereof hereafter erected shall not exceed
two and one-half (21/2) stories or twenty five feet (25') in height, unless a
greater height is approved by a variance to the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 86, 8-19-1980; amd. 2008 Code)
10-3D-5: YARDS:
   A.   Front Yard: No building or structure shall be erected nearer than
eighteen feet (18') from the right of way line of the street. (Ord. 86, 8-19-
1980)
   B.   Side Yard: No building shall be erected closer than five feet (5') to
any side property line, except corner lots shall conform to Idaho Code section
49-221. (Ord. 86, 8-19-1980; amd. 2008 Code)
   C.   Rear Yard: There shall be a rear yard having a depth of not less than
ten feet (10') from an alley or other dedicated easement and fifteen feet (15')
when no such access is available. (Ord. 86, 8-19-1980)
10-3D-6: LOT AREA:
   A.   The minimum lot area for single-family and two-family dwellings is
seven thousand (7,000) square feet, except corner lots shall contain at least
eight thousand (8,000) square feet. (Ord. 86, 8-19-1980)
   B.   For each dwelling with over two (2) family units, the required lot area
shall be one thousand (1,000) square feet for each unit over two (2). (Ord. 86,
8-19-1980; amd. 2008 Code)
   C.   Not more than forty five percent (45%) of the lot area may be covered
by building or structures. (Ord. 86, 8-19-1980)
10-3D-7: ACCESSORY USES:
Accessory uses are permitted if constructed either at the same time or
subsequent to the main building. Such uses shall be limited to two (2) stories
in height and shall not encroach upon the front or side yards. (Ord. 86, 8-19-
1980)
10-3D-8: OFF STREET PARKING:
For off street parking requirements in the R-4 zone, refer to section
10-6-6 of this title. (Ord. 86, 8-19-1980; amd. 2008 Code)
CHAPTER 3.5
MIXED USE ZONES
ARTICLE A. BR-1 BUSINESS/RESIDENTIAL ZONE
SECTION:
10-3.5A-1: Purpose
10-3.5A-2: Uses Allowed
10-3.5A-3: Conditional Uses Permitted
10-3.5A-4: Building Height
10-3.5A-5: Setback Requirements For Commercial
10-3.5A-6: Setback Requirements For Residential
10-3.5A-7: Commercial Lot Area
10-3.5A-8: Residential Lot Area And Width
10-3.5A-9: Accessory Uses
10-3.5A-10: Off Street Parking And Loading
10-3.5A-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the BR-1 mixed land use zone is to encourage and promote the
balanced mix of residential and commercial uses within the downtown commercial
district. To allow for the flexibility of restoring, adding on, and/or
replacing of existing residential dwellings and to preserve the vitality of the
downtown commercial area. (See zoning map for business/residential zone
boundaries.) (Ord. 246, 10-13-2014)
10-3.5A-2: USES ALLOWED:
The uses allowed in the BR-1 zone are those uses prescribed within the C-
1 commercial, R-1 single-family residential, and R-2 combined residential
zones. (Ord. 246, 10-13-2014)
10-3.5A-3: CONDITIONAL USES PERMITTED:
The planning and zoning commission may, after proper notice and public hearing
as prescribed in chapter 9 of this title, permit those uses that are regulated
in the C-1 commercial and R-1 and R-2 residential zones and are deemed
essential or desirable to the public convenience or welfare. The commission
shall have the authority to impose such conditions and safeguards as it deems
necessary to protect the best interest of the surrounding property or
neighborhood from damage, hazard, nuisance, or other detriment. (Ord. 246, 10-
13-2014)
10-3.5A-4: BUILDING HEIGHT:
Any building or structure or portion thereof hereafter erected shall not exceed
two and one-half (21/2) stories or twenty five feet (25') in height, unless a
greater height is approved by a variance to the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 246, 10-13-2014)
10-3.5A-5: SETBACK REQUIREMENTS FOR COMMERCIAL:
All buildings and structures should be situated in such a manner as to not
obstruct vehicular vision or prohibit emergency access. (Ord. 246, 10-13-2014)
10-3.5A-6: SETBACK REQUIREMENTS FOR RESIDENTIAL:
   A.   Front Yard: No building or structure shall be erected nearer than
eighteen feet (18') from the right of way line of the street.
   B.   Side Yard: No building shall be erected closer than five feet (5') to
any side property line; except corner lots shall conform to Idaho Code section
49-221.
   C.   Rear Yard: There shall be rear yard having a depth of not less than
five feet (5') from a street, alley, or dedicated easement and fifteen feet
(15') when no such access is available. (Ord. 246, 10-13-2014)
10-3.5A-7: COMMERCIAL LOT AREA:
There shall be no minimum lot sizes for commercial use. (Ord. 246, 10-13-2014)
10-3.5A-8: RESIDENTIAL LOT AREA AND WIDTH:
   A.   The minimum lot area for each residential structure shall be five
thousand (5,000) square feet and a lot width at the established building line
of not less than fifty feet (50') for each of the residential classifications.
   B.   Not more than forty percent (40%) of the lot area may be covered by
buildings or structures. (Ord. 246, 10-13-2014)
10-3.5A-9: ACCESSORY USES:
Accessory uses are permitted if constructed either at the same time or
subsequent to the main building. Such uses shall be limited to one story in
height and shall not encroach upon required setback areas. (Ord. 246, 10-13-
2014)
10-3.5A-10: OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING:
For off street parking and loading requirements refer to section
10-6-6 of this title. (Ord. 246, 10-13-2014)
CHAPTER 4
COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL ZONES
ARTICLE A. C-1 COMMERCIAL ZONE
SECTION:
10-4A-1: Purpose
10-4A-2: Uses Allowed
10-4A-3: Conditional Uses Permitted
10-4A-4: Building Height
10-4A-5: Setback Requirements
10-4A-6: Lot Area
10-4A-7: Accessory Uses
10-4A-8: Off Street Parking And Loading
10-4A-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the C-1 commercial zone is to provide local commercial service
needs and to restrict incompatible uses which may be better located in
community or highway oriented shopping areas due to size of the shopping
center, location within the community, residential neighborhood areas being
served and other factors. (Ord. 86, 8-19-1980)
10-4A-2: USES ALLOWED:
The following uses are allowed in the C-1 zone:
Accessory uses to uses allowed.
Automobile service station.
Boarding and rooming houses.
Clinics.
Commercial and private off street parking lots for passenger automobiles.
Government or public utility facilities of a nonindustrial character.
Mortuaries.
Motel.
Nursery school; school for students of art, dancing, dramatics, music, business
or secretarial work.
Radio, television and FM broadcasting stations, including aerials when made an
integral part of a principal building.
Retail stores and retail or personal service.
Theater, indoor. (Ord. 86, 8-19-1980; amd. 2008 Code)
10-4A-3: CONDITIONAL USES PERMITTED:
The planning and zoning commission may, after proper notice and public hearing
as prescribed in chapter 9 of this title, permit the following uses where such
uses are deemed essential or desirable to the public convenience or welfare.
The commission shall have the authority to impose such conditions and
safeguards as it deems necessary to protect the best interest of the
surrounding property or neighborhood from damage, hazard, nuisance, or other
detriment.
Auction establishment.
Automobile sales lot, surfaced.
Bowling alley, dance hall, or similar commercial establishments for public
gatherings or recreational use.
Church.
Club or lodge.
Drive-in theater.
Hospital.
Multiple-family dwelling.
School.
Travel trailer park. (Ord. 86, 8-19-1980)
10-4A-4: BUILDING HEIGHT:
Any building or structure or portion thereof hereafter erected shall not exceed
two and one-half (21/2) stories or twenty five feet (25') in height, unless a
greater height is approved by a variance to the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 86, 8-19-1980; amd. 2008 Code)
10-4A-5: SETBACK REQUIREMENTS:
All buildings and structures should be situated in such a manner as to not
obstruct vehicular vision or prohibit emergency access. (Ord. 86, 8-19-1980)
10-4A-6: LOT AREA:
There shall be no minimum lot sizes; except, that residential uses shall have
the same area requirements as set forth in the R-3 zone (section
10-3C-6 of this title). (Ord. 86, 8-19-1980)
10-4A-7: ACCESSORY USES:
Accessory uses are permitted if constructed either at the same time or
subsequent to the main building. Such uses shall be limited to two (2) stories
in height and shall not encroach upon required setback areas. (Ord. 86, 8-19-
1980)
10-4A-8: OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING:
For off street parking and loading requirements in the C-1 zone, refer to
section
10-6-6 of this title. (Ord. 86, 8-19-1980; amd. 2008 Code)
ARTICLE B. C-2 SERVICE COMMERCIAL ZONE
SECTION:
10-4B-1: Purpose
10-4B-2: Uses Allowed
10-4B-3: Conditional Uses Permitted
10-4B-4: Building Height
10-4B-5: Setback Requirements
10-4B-6: Lot Area
10-4B-7: Accessory Uses
10-4B-8: Off Street Parking And Loading
10-4B-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the C-2 service commercial zone is to provide areas where
activities of a service nature which are more intensive in character than in
other commercial zones and which may be semi-industrial in character may be
carried out. (Ord. 86, 8-19-1980)
10-4B-2: USES ALLOWED:
The following uses are allowed in the C-2 zone:
Those uses allowed in C-1 zones, other than residential uses, and as regulated
therein.
Auction establishment.
Automobile and truck repair shop.
Bottling and distribution plant.
Contractor's shop within a building and including outside incidental storage
adequately screened by view obscuring fences from surrounding properties.
Sale of hay, grain, seed and related supplies.
Sale of heavy building materials and machinery.
Sale of salvage goods within an enclosed building.
Sheet metal, roofing or sign painting shop.
Storage warehouse.
Trade or industrial school.
Transit or trucking terminal. (Ord. 86, 8-19-1980; amd. 2008 Code)
10-4B-3: CONDITIONAL USES PERMITTED:
The planning and zoning commission may, after proper notice and public hearing
as prescribed in chapter 9 of this title, permit the following uses where such
uses are deemed essential or desirable to the public convenience or welfare.
The commission shall have the authority to impose such conditions and
safeguards as it deems necessary to protect the best interest of the
surrounding property or neighborhood from damage, hazard, nuisance, or other
detriment.
Those uses requiring conditional use permits as regulated in the C-1 zone,
other than residential uses. (Ord. 86, 8-19-1980; amd. 2008 Code)
10-4B-4: BUILDING HEIGHT:
Any building or structure or portion thereof hereafter erected shall not exceed
two and one-half (21/2) stories or twenty five feet (25') in height, unless
approved by a variance to the provisions of this section. (Ord. 86, 8-19-1980;
amd. 2008 Code)
10-4B-5: SETBACK REQUIREMENTS:
All buildings and structures shall be situated in such a manner as to not
obstruct vehicular vision or prohibit emergency access. (Ord. 86, 8-19-1980)
10-4B-6: LOT AREA:
There shall be no minimum lot sizes; except, that residential uses shall have
the same area requirements as set forth in the R-3 zone. (Ord. 86, 8-19-1980)
10-4B-7: ACCESSORY USES:
Accessory uses are permitted if constructed either at the same time or
subsequent to the main building. Such uses shall be limited to two (2) stories
in height and shall not encroach upon required setback areas. (Ord. 86, 8-19-
1980)
10-4B-8: OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING:
For off street parking and loading requirements in the C-2 zone, refer to
section
10-6-6 of this title. (Ord. 86, 8-19-1980; amd. 2008 Code)
ARTICLE C. M-1 LIGHT INDUSTRIAL ZONE
SECTION:
10-4C-1: Purpose
10-4C-2: Uses Allowed
10-4C-3: Conditional Uses Permitted
10-4C-4: Building Height
10-4C-5: Setback Requirements
10-4C-6: Lot Area
10-4C-7: Off Street Parking And Loading
10-4C-1: PURPOSE:
The M-1 district is established to provide for and encourage the grouping
together of light industrial uses capable of being operated under such
standards as to location and appearance of buildings and the treatment of the
land about them, that they will be unobtrusive and not detrimental to
surrounding commercial or residential uses. (Ord. 86, 8-19-1980)
10-4C-2: USES ALLOWED:
The following uses are allowed in the M-1 zone:
Those uses allowed and conditional uses permitted in the C-1 and C-2 zones
except multiple-family dwellings, schools, churches, and hospitals.
Contracting equipment, maintenance or operating materials and equipment of a
similar nature including lumber, coal, sand and gravel yards.
Food processing.
Laundry and dry cleaning of an industrial character.
Manufacturing, assembling, fabricating, processing, packing, repairing, or
storage uses which have not been declared a nuisance by statute, resolution, or
any court of competent jurisdiction, and provided these uses shall not cause:
   A.   Unreasonable dust, smoke, gas, fumes, noise, vibration, or odor beyond
the boundaries of the site on which such use is conducted.
   B.   Hazard of fire, explosion, or other physical damage to any adjacent
building or plant growth.
Wholesaling, warehousing, storage, and distribution.
Accessory uses to the above uses. (Ord. 86, 8-19-1980; amd. 2008 Code)
10-4C-3: CONDITIONAL USES PERMITTED:
The planning and zoning commission may, after proper notice and public hearing
as prescribed in chapter 9 of this title, permit the following uses where such
uses are deemed essential or desirable to the public convenience or welfare.
The commission shall have the authority to impose such conditions and
safeguards as it deems necessary to protect the best interest of the
surrounding property or neighborhood from damage, hazard, nuisance, or other
detriment.
Boarding commercial kennel - enclosed structures only.
Broadcasting tower for radio or television.
Grain elevator and bulk storage such as for potatoes, hay, and other similar
uses.
Planned unit development.
Sewerage treatment plant and similar facilities.
Storage, for wholesale or for distribution in bulk. (Ord. 86, 8-19-1980)
10-4C-4: BUILDING HEIGHT:
Any building or structure or portion thereof hereafter erected shall not exceed
two and one-half (21/2) stories or twenty five feet (25'), unless permitted to
exceed this height by a variance to the provisions of this section. (Ord. 86,
8-19-1980; amd. 2008 Code)
10-4C-5: SETBACK REQUIREMENTS:
All buildings and structures shall be situated in such a manner as to not
obstruct vehicular vision or prohibit emergency access. (Ord. 86, 8-19-1980)
10-4C-6: LOT AREA:
There shall be no minimum lot size. (Ord. 86, 8-19-1980)
10-4C-7: OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING:
Refer to section
10-6-6 of this title. (Ord. 86, 8-19-1980)
CHAPTER 5
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS
SECTION:
10-5-1: Purpose
10-5-2: Policy
10-5-3: Compliance With Objectives
10-5-4: Other Uses Permitted
10-5-5: Exceptions To Lot Area Requirements
10-5-6: Use-In-Common Areas
10-5-7: Minimum Area
10-5-8: Ownership
10-5-9: Contained Development
10-5-10: Community Facilities
10-5-11: Commercial Uses In Residential Developments
10-5-12: Preliminary Plan
10-5-13: Final Plan
10-5-14: Number Assigned To Development
10-5-15: Map
10-5-16: Building Permits And Plot Plans
10-5-17: Modifications
10-5-18: Survey
10-5-19: Time Requirements
10-5-1: PURPOSE:
It shall be the purpose of this chapter to encourage the unified and planned
development of a site in individual or corporate ownership at the time of
development by the use of planned unit developments. Such developments may be
permitted without customary division into individual lots, or without specific
compliance to the district regulations as applicable to individual lots,
subject to the regulations as hereinafter provided. Planned unit developments,
as defined, are of such substantially different character from other
conditional use permits that specific and additional standards and exceptions
are hereby set out to govern the action of the commission. (Ord. 86, 8-19-1980)
10-5-2: POLICY:
In the spirit of the purpose of this chapter, much greater latitude is
permitted in the regulations given than in conventional and traditional
regulations for development. In consideration of the latitude given and the
absence of many of the conventional restrictions, the planning and zoning
commission and city council shall have wide discretionary powers in judging and
approving or disapproving the imaginative concepts and innovations which may be
incorporated into the plans presented, provided the planned unit development
shall conform to the general purposes and objectives of the comprehensive plan.
(Ord. 86, 8-19-1980)
10-5-3: COMPLIANCE WITH OBJECTIVES:
In addition to compliance with the objectives of this chapter and the
comprehensive plan, any applicant for planned unit development approval shall
have the burden of demonstrating that a development will achieve public benefit
as a result of any deviation from underlying zoning regulations, through
creation of open space or public facilities, conservation, provisions of
services or needed facilities or otherwise. (Ord. 86, 8-19-1980)
10-5-4: OTHER USES PERMITTED:
In the case of residential, commercial or industrial planned developments, the
commission may authorize that there be in part of the area of such development,
and for the duration of such development, specified uses not permitted by the
use regulation of the district in which the development is located, provided
the commission shall find:
   A.   That the uses permitted by such exception are necessary or desirable
and are appropriate with respect to the primary purpose of the development as
specified in the order granting the development;
   B.   That the uses permitted by such exception are not of such a nature or
so located as to exercise a detrimental influence on the surrounding
neighborhood; and
   C.   That not more than twenty percent (20%) of the ground shall be devoted
to the uses permitted by the exception. (Ord. 86, 8-19-1980)
10-5-5: EXCEPTIONS TO LOT AREA REQUIREMENTS:
The commission may approve exceptions to the applicable area regulations of
this chapter within the boundaries of such planned unit development, provided
the commission shall find:
   A.   That such exception shall be solely for the purpose of promoting an
integrated site plan no less beneficial to the residents or occupants of such
development, as well as of neighboring properties, than would be obtained under
the bulk regulations of this chapter for buildings developed on separate zoning
plots.
   B.   That the overall floor area ratio of the development shall not exceed
that prescribed for the district in which it is located. (Ord. 86, 8-19-1980)
   C.   That the minimum lot area per dwelling unit requirements shall be
adhered to in any such development containing residential uses, and that
immediately adjacent thereto (including the land area upon which it is
erected), the minimum amount of land area required for such building under the
lot area per dwelling unit shall be as provided in section
10-5-7 of this chapter. (Ord. 86, 8-19-1980; amd. 2008 Code)
   D.   That spacing between principal buildings shall be at least equivalent
to such spacing as would be required between buildings similarly developed
under the provisions of this title on separate zoning lots, due consideration
being given to the openness normally afforded by intervening streets and
alleys.
   E.   That along the periphery of such planned developments, yards shall be
provided as required by the regulations of the district in which said
development is located. (Ord. 86, 8-19-1980)
10-5-6: USE-IN-COMMON AREAS:
Planned unit developments shall provide open area for use-in- common of
residents and/or occupants of such development. Such area shall include:
   A.   Peripheral buffer strips not less than twenty five feet (25') in width,
containing trees and other horticultural plantings, which strip and plantings
shall be required unless reduced and waived.
   B.   Area between buildings and outside of platted lots.
   C.   Area left in a natural condition. This may include the peripheral
buffer strip.
   D.   Area of not less than twenty percent (20%) of the net area of the
development for usable open space. "Net area" means gross area less area
devoted to public use or quasi-public use whether or not available to the
public. (Ord. 86, 8-19-1980)
10-5-7: MINIMUM AREA:
A planned unit development for the following principal uses shall contain an
area of not less than:
   A.   For residential use, except for mobile home developments, three (3)
acres or one city block.
   B.   For mobile home park developments, five (5) acres.
   C.   For residential use with subordinate commercial use, ten (10) acres.
   D.   For commercial use, ten (10) acres.
   E.   For industrial use, ten (10) acres. (Ord. 86, 8-19-1980)
10-5-8: OWNERSHIP:
A planned unit development shall be in one ownership or under a unit control
during the planning and developmental stage, to ensure that the development can
be accomplished as planned. The individual signing the application is deemed to
be the agent with sufficient power and authority to contract and negotiate with
the commission and the city regarding said application. (Ord. 86, 8-19-1980)
10-5-9: CONTAINED DEVELOPMENT:
A planned unit development shall be essentially independent and contained. It
shall be physically disassociated from surrounding properties, particularly
those with different uses. For example, terrain, orientation, streets and
highways, woods or rivers may create such separation. If containment is
impossible, either the development should be disapproved or approval should be
conditioned on the density, design and degree of development ensuring
achievement of the objectives of this chapter in the manner in which the site
is used. (Ord. 86, 8-19-1980)
10-5-10: COMMUNITY FACILITIES:
Planned unit developments shall include site availability for needed community
facilities not otherwise provided for. For example, provision may be required
for sites for schools, public safety use, utilities, churches, parks and
recreation areas. (Ord. 86, 8-19-1980)
10-5-11: COMMERCIAL USES IN RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENTS:
In a residential planned unit development, no commercial use shall be permitted
when less than one hundred (100) dwelling units are planned. When permissible:
   A.   No permits for such use shall be issued until occupancy permission has
been granted for at least fifty (50) dwelling units.
   B.   Such use shall be distinctly subordinate to the residential use and
shall be oriented to the providing of goods and services to the residents of
the planned unit development itself, and not to the general community.
   C.   Identification signs may be visible from outside the building housing
such use, but no commercial messages shall be permitted. (Ord. 86, 8-19-1980)
10-5-12: PRELIMINARY PLAN:
   A.   Contents: The engineers, architects and other professionals on a
planned unit development may consult informally with the planning director,
city engineer or other appropriate local officials as ideas develop. At such
time as the applicant wishes to file the preliminary plan on a formal basis,
the formal preliminary plan shall contain the following: An application form
provided by the city, filled in, and signed by the developer of the proposed
project and by the property owner if other than the developer, requesting:
      1.   Name and address of developer, land surveyor, engineer, architect,
planner, and other professionals involved.
      2.   Legal description of development area.
      3.   Total area in square feet and in acres.
      4.   Approximate percentage of area intended for use-in-common.
      5.   All structures, and improvements outside the development area within
one hundred fifty feet (150') of the boundaries of the development area.
      6.   Existing streets bounding and/or within the development area.
      7.   Tentative street pattern and pedestrian walkway pattern separate
from streets within the development area, showing intended street width.
      8.   Tentative location of building lots and/or building areas, and major
areas intended for use-in-common.
   B.   Engineering And Building Department Approval Required: The developer
shall obtain approval from the engineering and building departments in the
matter of drawings for utilities, street improvements and building construction
in planned unit developments. Final drawings of plats in planned unit
developments shall be handled in the same manner by the engineering department
as for plats not in planned unit developments. (Ord. 86, 8-19-1980)
   C.   Initial Filing Fee: The fee for filing a preliminary plan for a planned
unit development shall be as provided in section
1-10-1 of this code. The plan shall be filed with the planning director or city
clerk-treasurer. (Ord. 86, 8-19-1980; amd. 2008 Code)
   D.   Checking Preliminary Plan: The preliminary plan shall be checked by the
planning director for compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
   E.   Planning And Zoning Commission Review: The preliminary plan, upon being
found in compliance, shall be transmitted to the planning and zoning commission
for review and acceptance. (Ord. 86, 8-19-1980)
   F.   Public Hearing:
      1.   A date for hearing shall be set at such time as sufficient
information has been submitted for a meaningful public hearing. Additional
prints shall be supplied as required.
      2.   Notice of hearing shall be given in the manner prescribed by section
10-9-4 of this title. (Ord. 86, 8-19-1980; amd. 2008 Code)
3. If the preliminary plan includes a plat, the procedure and requirements for
proposed plats given in the subdivision ordinance 1  shall be followed for
hearing on the proposed plat. If hearing on the plan and on the plat are held
at the same time, there need be no duplication of hearing notice.
      4.   Following conclusion of the hearing, the planning and zoning
commission shall transmit the results of the hearing, together with its
recommendations, to the city council.
      5.   All costs incurred by the city for reviewing and processing an
application shall be the responsibility of the applicant; for example, attorney
fees, engineering fees, etc.
   G.   Appeal Procedure; Approval: An appeal from the decision of the
commission may be taken to the city council in accordance with the procedure
set out in section
10-9-9 of this title. Upon approval of the preliminary plan, the applicant may
proceed toward final plan approval. (Ord. 86, 8-19-1980)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection
  1-11-5 A of this code.
10-5-13: FINAL PLAN:
   A.   Filing: A planned unit development may be finalized as a whole or in
successive divisions. The whole plan or the first division shall be filed
within eighteen (18) months of the date of tentative approval following
conclusion of the hearing on the preliminary plan. Successive divisions shall
follow at intervals of not more than eighteen (18) months. Extension of time
may be granted by the planning and zoning commission upon a showing of good
cause for the need for such extension.
   B.   Contents: The final plan for planned unit development shall consist of
the following for each division:
      1.   An application form provided by the city, filled in, signed by the
developer of the project and by the property owner if other than the developer,
together with any attachments required.
      2.   Drawings all of the same width and length with a width of not less
than twenty four (24) nor more than thirty inches (30") and a length of not
more than forty two inches (42"), segregated into drawing classifications as
follows:
         a.   General: Composite plan showing all of the following on the same
sheet to a scale of one to fifty (50) unless directed otherwise by the planning
director, with additional sheets if required to cover the area: contours at
five foot (5') intervals, both existing, shown by a dashed line, and final,
shown by a solid line; street layout and identification; size and shape of all
lots if platted or of building sites if not platted; use-in- common areas with
any specific recreation areas indicated; where perimeter fencing, plans and
typical side views of entrance treatment and entrance signs. Where more than
one sheet is required, the first sheet shall include a small scale drawing of
the whole division showing the area covered by each sheet.
         b.   Landscaping: Landscaping plans showing locations and kinds of
plantings. (Ord. 86, 8-19-1980)
         c.   Buildings: Buildings and related improvements to a scale of not
less than one-eighth inch to one foot (1/8" = 1'), including the following:
(Ord. 86, 8-19-1980; amd. 2008 Code)
            (1)   Typical plot plan for each type of building, except buildings
in recreational areas, including location of building entrance, driveway,
parking, fencing, and sight screening. Floor plans of residences are not
required.
            (2)   Typical elevations (side views) of each type of building,
except in recreational areas.
            (3)   Recreational area site plans, floor plans of buildings,
typical elevations of buildings, recreational equipment installation and other
considered pertinent.
            (4)   Information on any buildings not classifiable as above.
         d.   Special: Features unique to a particular planned unit
development. (Ord. 86, 8-19-1980)
   C.   Final Filing Fee: The fee for filing a final plan for a planned unit
development shall be as provided in section
1-10-1 of this code. The plan shall be filed with the planning and zoning
commission. (Ord. 86, 8-19-1980; amd. 2008 Code)
   D.   Approval Of Final Plan: The items required by subsection B of this
section shall be approved by the planning and zoning commission if found
acceptable, indicated by signature of the planning and zoning commission
chairman in a space provided in the application form. If not acceptable, the
item shall be returned for addition or change. If the applicant declines to
make such change or addition, the planning and zoning commission shall transmit
the plan to the city council with or without approval and, in either case, with
appropriate recommendations. The city council may approve, modify or reject
such recommendations. Approval shall be by resolution which shall recite fully
all conditions imposed, including performance bonds, or equivalent.
   E.   Adoption Of Planned Unit Development: Upon certification to the council
by the planning and zoning commission that the final plan for a given division
of a planned unit development has been completed, the planned unit development
final plan shall be adopted incorporating all documents, covenants, agreements,
notes, maps, and drawings which have been required by this chapter to specify
the exact type of use and degree of development and operation thereof. (Ord.
86, 8-19-1980)
10-5-14: NUMBER ASSIGNED TO DEVELOPMENT:
Each overall planned development shall be assigned a number starting with
number 1 for the first preliminary plan filed, with the designator "PD-1". In
finalizing, each division shall be assigned a number starting with number 1
following the initial number, and repeating for each separate overall project.
(Example: The first final division filed of the first preliminary plan filed is
"PD-1".) All records pertaining to a given planned unit development shall be
identified by such designator and retained in a file. (Ord. 86, 8-19-1980)
10-5-15: MAP:
The outline of the area of each completed planned unit development shall be
shown on a map, identified by the number assigned to such planned unit
development. Such map shall be in such form and scale as may be found
expeditious for the purpose and shall be known as "planned unit map of Melba".
(Ord. 86, 8-19-1980)
10-5-16: BUILDING PERMITS AND PLOT PLANS:
After adoption of the planned unit development final plan referred to in
subsection
10-5-13E of this chapter and recording of any final plat drawing involved,
building permits may be issued. The plot plan for each building or for each
contiguous group of buildings shall be based on the plot plan drawings required
under subsection
10-5-13B of this chapter, the approval of which, as part of the final plan,
shall not preclude minor adjustments being permitted by the building department
which do not violate the building spacing and/or setback requirements which
have been approved. (Ord. 86, 8-19-1980)
10-5-17: MODIFICATIONS:
   A.   Major Modifications: Major modifications of an approved planned unit
development shall require an application and shall be processed in the same
manner as an original application. The filing fee shall be as provided in
section
1-10-1 of this code. (Ord. 86, 8-19-1980; amd. 2008 Code)
   B.   Determining Major, Minor Modification: A "major modification" means any
proposed change in the basic use of an approved planned unit development, or
any proposed change in the plans and specifications which will modify basic
land use, density, or public utility location, whereby the character of the
approved development will be modified or changed in any material respect or to
any substantial degree. A "minor modification" means any proposed change in an
approved planned unit development which does not involve a substantial
alteration of the character of the approved development. The determination of
whether a proposed change is a "major" or "minor" modification shall be made by
the planning director in accordance with the foregoing principles. (Ord. 86, 8-
19-1980)
10-5-18: SURVEY:
   A.   Real Estate: All real property that is sold or purchased in the city
must submit a survey.
   B.   Construction: All new construction must have a valid survey before
construction can begin. (Ord. 86, 8-19-1980)
10-5-19: TIME REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   All applications, permits and approvals by the planning and zoning
commission or city council will expire one year from the day of issuance,
unless otherwise stated.
   B.   Extensions of time must be applied for thirty (30) days before the
expiration of one year.
   C.   No permits or approvals will be transferred from one party to another
without city council or planning and zoning commission approval. (Ord. 86, 8-
19-1980)
   D.   A fee, as provided in section
1-10-1 of this code, for transfers and extensions will be charged in addition
to any expenses incurred by the city in processing such transfers or
extensions.
   E.   Any prior liens or debts incurred by an applicant must be paid in full
before a final approval or transfer is given by the planning and zoning
commission. Denial of a planned unit development or approval of a planned unit
development with conditions unacceptable to the landowner may be subject to the
regulatory taking analysis provided for by Idaho Code section 67-8003
consistent with the requirements established thereby. (Ord. 86, 8-19-1980; amd.
2008 Code)
CHAPTER 6
SUPPLEMENTARY REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-6-1: Intent
10-6-2: Interpretation Of District Boundaries
10-6-3: Lots Of Record
10-6-4: Exceptions To Yard And Setback Requirements
10-6-5: Nonconforming Buildings, Uses And Land
10-6-6: Off Street Parking And Loading Requirements
10-6-7:    Recreational Vehicles, Motor Vehicles, Trailers, And Garages
Restricted
10-6-8:    Violation; Penalty
10-6-1: INTENT:
The provisions of this chapter shall be subject to the general regulations of
this title and to the special provisions and exceptions in this chapter so as
to secure the intent of this title. In all cases of administration and
enforcement of this title for which no other specific provision is made in this
chapter and other provisions herein, the planning and zoning commission shall
provide for the same by order, resolution or the adoption of a rule, regulation
or bylaw, which provision shall be in accord with and consistent with the
objectives and standards of this title. Uses not specified within use districts
are prohibited unless determined by the planning and zoning commission or its
authorized representative to be similar in nature to those specified. (Ord. 86,
8-19-1980)
10-6-2: INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES:
Whenever any uncertainty exists as to the boundary of any district shown on any
zoning map, the following rules shall apply:
   A.   Where any such boundary line is indicated as following a street, alley
or public way, it shall be construed as following the centerline thereof.
   B.   Where a boundary line is indicated as approximately following a lot
line, such lot line shall be construed to be such boundary line.
   C.   Where a boundary line divides a lot or crosses unsubdivided property,
the location of such boundary shall be indicated upon the zoning map. (Ord. 86,
8-19-1980)
10-6-3: LOTS OF RECORD:
Any single lot or parcel of land, which was of record and a legal lot at the
effective date hereof, but does not meet the requirements of the district in
which it is located for minimum lot width and area, may be utilized if all
other requirements of this title are met. (Ord. 86, 8-19-1980)
10-6-4: EXCEPTIONS TO YARD AND SETBACK REQUIREMENTS:
Certain structures within and projections into required yard areas are
permitted, as herein specified, and shall not be considered to be obstructions
or included in the calculation of coverage unless otherwise specified:
   A.   Cornices, canopies, eaves or other projections which do not increase
the volume of space enclosed by the building; provided, however, that none of
these shall project into any required yard more than two feet (2').
   B.   Exterior stairs of open design; provided, that no such stairs shall
project into a required front or side yard.
   C.   Fences, walls, and hedges are permitted in any required yard or along
the edge of any yard to a height of six feet (6') 1 ; provided, that no fence,
wall, or hedge along the sides or front edge of any front yard shall be over
three feet (3') in height. On a corner lot in any residential district, nothing
shall be erected, placed, planted, or allowed to grow in any such manner as to
materially impede vision between a height of three feet (3') and ten feet (10')
above the centerline grades of intersecting streets bounded by the property
lines of such corner lots on a line joining points along said property lines
for thirty feet (30'). (Ord. 86, 8-19-1980)
 
Notes
  1. See also subsection
1  10-6-6B3 of this chapter and subsection
  9-2-2B of this code.
10-6-5: NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS, USES AND LAND:
   A.   Determination Of Nonconformity; Continuance: Any use lawfully occupying
a building or land at the effective date hereof, or of subsequent amendments
hereto, which does not conform to the regulations for the district in which it
is located shall be deemed to be a nonconforming use and may be continued.
Maintenance and minor repairs necessary to keep a nonconforming use in sound
condition during such continuance shall be permitted.
   B.   Enlargement Or Extension:
      1.   A nonconforming building may be enlarged or extended only if
thereafter the entire building is devoted to a conforming use.
      2.   No building partially occupied by a nonconforming use shall be
altered in such a way to permit the enlargement or expansion of the space
occupied by the nonconforming use. (Ord. 86, 8-19-1980)
      3.   No nonconforming use may be enlarged or extended in such a way as to
occupy any required open space, or any land beyond the boundaries of the lot on
which it existed at the effective date hereof, nor may any such nonconforming
use displace any conforming use in the same building or on the same parcel.
   C.   Damaged Buildings: Any nonconforming building destroyed by fire or
other calamity to an extent of fifty percent (50%) or more of the appraised
value may not be restored unless such restoration shall make the building a
conforming use; provided, however, that nothing in this title shall be
construed to prevent the restoration and the resumption of the former lawful
use of any building that is damaged or partially destroyed by fire, or other
calamity, to the extent of less than fifty percent (50%) of said building's
appraised value; provided, that such restoration is started within one calendar
year and diligently prosecuted to completion. (Ord. 86, 8-19-1980; amd. 2008
Code)
   D.   Discontinuance Of Use: Whenever a nonconforming use of land or building
has been discontinued for a period of one year, or whenever there is evidence
of a clear intent to abandon a nonconforming use, such use shall not thereafter
be reestablished, and the use of the premises thereafter shall be in conformity
with the regulations of the use district. (Ord. 86, 8-19-1980)
10-6-6: OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   General Off Street Parking And Loading Requirements:
      1.   Increase In Use: When the intensity of use of any building,
structure or premises is increased through the addition of dwelling units,
gross floor area, seating capacity or other units of measurement specified as
requiring parking or loading facilities, parking and loading facilities as
required herein shall be provided for such increase in intensity of use.
      2.   Change Of Use: Whenever the existing use of a building or structure
shall hereafter be changed to a new use, parking or loading facilities shall be
provided as required for such new use.
      3.   Access Specifications In Commercial And Industrial Zones: Access to
parking as required herein for commercial and industrial uses shall be not less
than twelve feet (12') wide and not more than forty feet (40') wide at the curb
line.
      4.   Existing Uses: No lawfully existing building shall be deemed to be a
nonconforming building solely because of the lack of any such required spaces;
provided, that space being used for off street parking or loading in connection
with any such building at the effective date hereof shall not be further
reduced in area or capacity.
      5.   Computation Of Spaces: When the calculation of the required number
of spaces called for herein results in a fractional number, fractions equal to
or greater than one-half (1/2) shall be adjusted to the next higher whole
number of spaces.
   B.   Additional Off Street Parking Requirements:
      1.   Joint Use Of Facilities: Except as required for dwellings and
motels, off street parking facilities for several buildings, structures or uses
or for mixed uses may be provided collectively; provided, that the total number
of spaces so located together shall not be less than the sum of the separate
requirements for each of the buildings or uses.
      2.   Surface Requirements: All open off street parking areas, except for
single dwelling spaces, shall be hard surfaced, including access driveways.
      3.   Lighting; Screening: Lighting used to illuminate off street parking
areas shall be directed away from residential properties, and such parking
areas shall be effectively screened on any side adjoining property in a
residential zone by a wall, fence, or hedge to a height of six feet (6') 1
except for the front yard setback area of the adjoining residential property,
in which case, the maximum height shall be three feet (3').
      4.   Location: Required parking spaces for dwellings shall be upon the
same premises as the dwelling, and no parking space shall be located in any
required front or side yard.
   C.   Schedule Of Required Parking And Loading: Parking spaces, as
hereinafter set forth, shall be provided for all uses allowed and conditional
uses permitted in any zone; provided, that a greater number of spaces may be
required in any case where a conditional use permit is involved: (Ord. 86, 8-
19-1980)
Type Of Use Number Of Parking Or Loading Spaces
Type Of Use                             Number Of Parking Or Loading Spaces
Bowling alley                           2 parking spaces for each alley
Business offices, not otherwise         1 parking space for each 250 square
specified                               feet of net floor area
Church, auditorium, theater, or sports  1 parking space for each 5 seats in the
arena                                   principal assembly room or area
                                        A reserve space at the entrance
Drive-in theater                        containing 1 parking space for each 10
                                        vehicles accommodated within
Each dwelling unit                      1 parking space, as defined herein,
                                        sufficient for a garage or carport
                                        11/2 parking spaces, as defined herein,
                                        sufficient for a garage or carport;
                                        provided, however, that for each
                                        dwelling unit in a multiple-family
Each dwelling unit in a multiple-       dwelling of 5 units or more, 11/
family dwelling of 4 units or less      2 parking spaces, as defined herein,
                                        sufficient for a garage or carport
                                        shall be provided for each of the first
                                        4 units, and 11/2 spaces shall be
                                        provided for each additional unit
                                        thereafter
Each guest bedroom in a hotel, motel,   1 parking space, plus 1 parking space
club, lodging house, fraternity or      for each 3 beds in a dormitory in the
sorority house                          list
Each 4 beds in a convalescent, nursing  1 parking space, plus 1 parking space
or rest home, sanitarium or home for    for each doctor assigned full time to
the care of children or the aged        the staff, plus 2 parking spaces for
                                        each 3 other employees
Floor space used by the public or by    A number of parking spaces equal to 20
members in a social hall, dance hall,   percent of the capacity in persons. For
nightclub, pool hall, restaurant, or    the purposes of this entry, "capacity
other similar enterprise or             in persons" shall mean the gross floor
establishment                           area divided by 15 square feet
                                        1 parking space for each 1,000 square
Hospital                                feet of net floor area, plus 1 parking
                                        space for each 4 regular employees
                                        1 parking space for each employee,
Manufacturing establishments            based on the greatest number of
                                        employees at any one time
Medical or dental office or clinic      1 parking space for each 250 square
                                        feet of net floor area
Mortuary                                12 parking spaces
Retail sales establishments handling
only durable goods or bulky merchandise 1 parking space for each 600 square
such as machinery, furniture or         feet of net floor area in excess of
vehicles, personal service and repair   2,000 square feet
shops, wholesale stores
                                        1 parking space for each 300 square
Retail stores, banks and shops other    feet of net floor area; and for drive-
than as specified above                 in banks, 3 additional parking spaces
                                        for each teller window
For every building hereafter erected containing more than 15,000 square feet in
area and which is designed to be occupied by any use requiring regular receipt
or dispatch of merchandise by truck, there shall be provided and maintained,
with adequate design to provide safe and efficient means of access and
maneuvering, 1 loading space not less than 30 feet in length and 10 feet in
width, exclusive of access platforms and maneuvering areas.
 
(Ord. 86, 8-19-1980; amd. 2008 Code)
   D.   Uses Not Specifically Mentioned: Parking space requirements for a use
not specifically mentioned shall be the same as for a use specified which has
similar traffic generating characteristics. (Ord. 86, 8-19-1980)
 
Notes
  1. See also subsection
1 10-6-4C of this chapter and subsection
  9-2-2B of this code.
10-6-7: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES, MOTOR VEHICLES, TRAILERS, AND GARAGES
RESTRICTED:
   A.   Definitions: For purposes of this Section,
 
                      A vehicular type unit primarily designed as temporary
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: living quarters for recreational, camping, or travel use,
                      which either has its own motive power or is mounted on or
                      drawn by another vehicle.
MOTOR VEHICLE:        A device with motive power in, upon, or by which any
                      person or property may be transported upon a highway.
                      A vehicle without motive power designed for carrying
TRAILER:              persons or property and for being drawn by a motor
                      vehicle.
                      A shelter, designed to store vehicles, equipment, and
GARAGE:               other items of personal property, whether on a temporary
                      or extended basis, including, but not limited to,
                      carports, garages, and storage sheds.
 
   B.   Restriction on Recreational Vehicles: A Recreational Vehicle shall not
be used for residential purposes more than fourteen (14) days in any calendar
year, except in a recreational vehicle park and must be parked on private
property outside of any public right-of-way. Under no circumstances shall
Recreational Vehicles to be connected to city services (i.e., water and sewer).
Electrical connections of Recreational Vehicles must comply with all applicable
codes.
   C.   Emergency Use of Recreational Vehicles: Temporary use of Recreational
Vehicles for residential purposes for an additional period of time may be
permitted on a case-by-case basis as approved by the City Council. An emergency
includes but is not limited to, fire, flood, earthquake, or similar act of
nature which reasonably requires the use of temporary shelters. City Council
approval of temporary use shall have a period not to exceed sixty (60) days.
   D.   Restriction on Motor Vehicles, Trailers, and Garages: Motor Vehicles,
Trailers, and Garages shall not be used for residential purposes. (Ord. 264, 7-
15-2019)
10-6-8: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any of the provisions of this
chapter or fails to comply with any of the terms and conditions of this chapter
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and deemed guilty of a separate misdemeanor
for each and every day of the continuance of such violation, such persons shall
be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of Melba City Code. (Ord. 264, 7-15-2019)
CHAPTER 7
MANUFACTURED HOUSING
SECTION:
10-7-1: Definitions
10-7-2: Manufactured Home On Individual Lot
10-7-3: Accessory Structures
10-7-4: Application For Placement Of Manufactured Home
10-7-5: Ownership Of Lot
10-7-6: Subdivision Restrictions
10-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section:
   MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure, constructed after June 15, 1976, in
accordance with the HUD manufactured home construction and safety standards,
and is transportable in one or more sections, which, in the traveling mode, is
eight (8) body feet or more in width or is forty (40) body feet or more in
length, or when erected on site, is three hundred twenty (320) or more square
feet, and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a
dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required
utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and electrical
systems contained thereon; except, that such term shall include any structure
which meets all the requirements of this definition except the size
requirements and with respect to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a
certification required by the secretary of housing and urban development and
complies with the standards established under 42 USC section 5401 et seq.
   MANUFACTURED HOUSING: Single-family dwellings within the R-1 types of zoning
districts of this title, provided such structures meet the development
standards of manufactured homes on individual lots set forth in section
10-7-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 97, 4-6-1982; amd. 2008 Code)
10-7-2: MANUFACTURED HOME ON INDIVIDUAL LOT:
Development standards for a manufactured home on an individual lot are as
follows:
   A.   Shall be multi-sectional and shall be at least twenty feet (20') wide,
with a minimum floor area of four hundred (400) square feet per section.
   B.   Shall have a nonmetallic, wood shake or asphalt shingle roof with a
minimum slope of sixteen percent (16%) (2:12) and a minimum six inch (6")
eaves, or gutter and eaves attached to the entire perimeter of the roof.
   C.   Shall have horizontal aluminum, simulated wood or wood siding. (Ord.
97, 4-6-1982)
   D.   Shall have a foundation fascia that is similar in appearance and
durability to masonry foundation of site built dwellings, as approved by the
building official, which surrounds the entire perimeter of the structure and
completely encloses the space between the siding and the finished grade. (Ord.
97, 4-6-1982; amd. 2008 Code)
   E.   Shall be permanently affixed, with the running gear and towing hitch
removed, and set upon a foundation base having an anchoring system that is
totally concealed under the structure.
   F.   Shall obtain a building permit from the city building department to
ensure that the manufactured home is assembled on site and in compliance with
other building standards of the city.
   G.   Shall comply with all other applicable requirements of the zoning
district in which the manufactured home is located (such as lot size and
setback requirements). (Ord. 97, 4-6-1982)
10-7-3: ACCESSORY STRUCTURES:
Development standards for an accessory structure to a manufactured home on an
individual lot are as follows:
   A.   Attached accessory structure, as permitted in the zoning district for
which the manufactured home is to be located, shall be similar in material and
integrated into the design of the structure. (Ord. 97, 4-6-1982)
   B.   Accessory structures must meet international building code standards or
HUD standards. (Ord. 97, 4-6-1982; amd. 2008 Code)
10-7-4: APPLICATION FOR PLACEMENT OF MANUFACTURED HOME:
   A.   Application for approval of manufactured housing on individual lots
shall be submitted to the building official on a standard prescribed form. In
addition to such information as is generally required for zoning permits and is
necessary for administrative purposes, such applications shall also include all
information necessary to determine the manufactured home's conformity with
section
10-7-2 of this chapter, including: exterior dimensions, roofing pitch, roofing
material, size of overhangs, exterior siding, foundation fascia and any other
applicable information. (Ord. 97, 4-6-1982; amd. 2008 Code)
   B.   Applicant shall sign the application and provide any additional
information necessary to verify such structure does meet the standards of
section
10-7-2 of this chapter prior to moving the structure to the building site. The
city building department, following issuance of a building permit and upon
inspection of the site for the attachment of the structure to a foundation
base, shall verify in writing that all standards of section
10-7-2 of this chapter have been met, as certified in the signed application
form. (Ord. 97, 4-6-1982)
10-7-5: OWNERSHIP OF LOT:
Manufactured home owners or purchasers shall own or be purchasing the land upon
which their home is to be placed. Said owner or purchaser shall record with the
county recorder a nonrevocable option declaring the manufactured home as real
property. These requirements shall not apply within the R-3 mobile home
residential zone or within any duly approved mobile home park. Exception may
also be granted as a part of a planned unit development approval. (Ord. 97, 4-
6-1982; amd. 2008 Code)
10-7-6: SUBDIVISION RESTRICTIONS:
Nothing in this chapter shall permit manufactured homes in subdivisions where
they are prohibited by restrictive covenants. (Ord. 97, 4-6-1982)
CHAPTER 8
AMENDMENT PROCEDURE
SECTION:
10-8-1: Initiation Of Amendment
10-8-2: Application For Amendment; Fee
10-8-3: Planning And Zoning Commission Procedure
10-8-4: City Council Procedure
10-8-1: INITIATION OF AMENDMENT:
   A.   This title may be amended whenever the council deems that amendment is
required for public convenience or necessity, or for general welfare. Any
amendment shall be enacted pursuant to this chapter, and for purposes of this
chapter, includes any measure to change district boundaries; to establish or
disestablish districts; to change district regulations; or to add, repeal or
amend any other provisions of this chapter or the whole of this title.
   B.   An amendment to the text of this title or to the official zoning map
may be initiated by the council or the commission or by an application of one
or more of the owners of property affected by the proposed amendment. (Ord. 86,
8-19-1980)
10-8-2: APPLICATION FOR AMENDMENT; FEE:
   A.   Applications shall be filed with the commission on forms prescribed by
the commission, accompanied by such data and information necessary to assure
the fullest presentation of facts.
   B.   No application for the same general purpose concerning the same
property which has been denied shall be received or processed within twelve
(12) months of such denial except by unanimous action of the commission. (Ord.
86, 8-19-1980)
   C.   A filing fee as provided in section
1-10-1 of this code shall be paid at the time of the filing of an application,
but no fee will be required in the case of proceedings instituted by either the
council or the commission. (Ord. 86, 8-19-1980; amd. 2008 Code)
10-8-3: PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION PROCEDURE:
   A.   Notice And Public Hearing:
      1.   The commission, prior to recommending an amendment, supplement, or
repeal of this title, shall conduct at least one public hearing in which
interested persons shall have the opportunity to be heard. At least fifteen
(15) days prior to the hearing, notice of the time and place and summary of the
proposed amendment to be discussed shall be published in the official newspaper
or a newspaper of general circulation in the area. The commission shall also
make available a notice to other papers and radio and television stations
serving the jurisdiction for use as a public service announcement. Following
the commission hearing, if the commission makes a material change in this
title, other than changes for which notice was published for the present
hearing, further notice and hearings shall be published and provided before the
commission forwards its recommendations to the council. A record of the
hearings, findings made, and actions taken shall be maintained. (Ord. 86, 8-19-
1980)
      2.   If the request is in accordance with the adopted comprehensive plan,
the commission may recommend and the council may adopt or reject the amendment
under the same notice and hearing procedures as set forth for the commission;
provided, that in the case of a zoning district boundary change, additional
notice shall be provided by mail to property owners and residents within the
land being considered, three hundred feet (300') beyond the external boundaries
of the land being considered, and any additional area that may be impacted by
the proposed change as determined by the commission. Notice shall also be
posted on the premises not less than one week prior to the hearing. (Ord. 86,
8-19-1980; amd. 2008 Code)
      3.   When notice is required to be given to two hundred (200) or more
property owners or residents, an alternative form of procedure of official
notice of the public hearing for both the planning and zoning commission and
city council shall be that the public hearing notice shall be published in the
official newspaper or newspaper of general circulation in the area two (2)
consecutive times.
   B.   Action By Commission:
      1.   The commission shall cause to be made by any of its own members or
by any member of its staff, such investigation of facts bearing upon such
amendment, supplement, repeal or matter for hearing as, in the opinion of the
commission, will serve to provide the necessary information to enable the
commission to act.
      2.   Not later than ten (10) days after the conclusion of the hearing,
the commission shall file with the city council a written report stating the
action taken by the commission and its recommendations. (Ord. 86, 8-19-1980)
10-8-4: CITY COUNCIL PROCEDURE:
   A.   Notice And Public Hearing: At its next regular meeting after the
commission has filed its report to the city council, or at such time to which
the matter may be continued, the council shall set the matter for public
hearing, and the council, prior to adoption of an amendment, supplement, or
repeal of this title, shall hold at least one public hearing using the same
notice and hearing procedures as the commission.
   B.   Action By Council:
      1.   If the council approves the proposed amendment, it shall thereafter
be made a part of this title by appropriate amendment of the official zoning
map and text.
      2.   The council may accept the recommendation of the commission unless
rejected by a vote of one-half (1/2) plus one of its members. (Ord. 86, 8-19-
1980)
CHAPTER 9
CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT PROCEDURE
SECTION:
10-9-1: Scope
10-9-2: General Requirements
10-9-3: Application For Permit; Fee
10-9-4: Public Hearing And Notice
10-9-5: Investigations And Studies
10-9-6: Approval Or Denial Of Permit; Contents
10-9-7: Conditions Of Permit
10-9-8: Nontransferability Of Permit
10-9-9: Appeals
10-9-1: SCOPE:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to conditional use permits. (Ord.
86, 8-19-1980)
10-9-2: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
Every use which requires the granting of a conditional use permit is declared
to possess characteristics such as to require review and appraisal by the
commission to determine whether or not the use would cause any damage, hazard,
nuisance or other detriment to persons or property in the vicinity. The
commission may require higher standards of site development than listed
specifically in this title in order to correlate the proposed use to other
property and uses. The commission may revoke or modify its approval of a
conditional use permit in accordance with the procedures set forth in this
chapter under specific conditions and when it is not in conflict with the
comprehensive plan. Denial of a conditional use permit or approval of a
conditional use permit with conditions unacceptable to the landowner may be
subject to the regulatory taking analysis provided for by Idaho Code section
67-8003 consistent with the requirements established thereby. (Ord. 86, 8-19-
1980; amd. 2008 Code)
10-9-3: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT; FEE:
Applications for conditional use permits shall be filed with the commission on
forms prescribed by the commission and accompanied by such data and information
necessary to assure the fullest presentation. A filing fee as provided in
section
1-10-1 of this code shall be submitted at the time of filing a conditional use
permit application. (Ord. 86, 8-19-1980; amd. 2008 Code)
10-9-4: PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE:
The commission shall conduct at least one public hearing on each conditional
use permit application in which interested persons shall have an opportunity to
be heard. At least fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing, notice of the time
and place and a summary of the proposal shall be published in the official
newspaper or paper of general circulation within the area. Notice shall also be
posted on the premises not less than one week prior to the hearing. Notice
shall also be provided to property owners and residents within the land being
considered, three hundred feet (300') beyond the external boundaries of the
land being considered and any additional area that may be substantially
impacted by the proposed conditional use as determined by the commission. When
notice is required to two hundred (200) or more property owners or residents,
an alternative form of procedure of official notice shall be that the public
hearing notice shall be published in the official newspaper or newspaper of
general circulation in the area two (2) consecutive times. (Ord. 86, 8-19-1980;
amd. 2008 Code)
10-9-5: INVESTIGATIONS AND STUDIES:
   A.   The commission shall cause to be made by any of its own members or by
any member of its staff, such investigation of facts bearing upon the
application as in the opinion of the commission will serve to provide the
necessary information to enable the commission to act.
   B.   Prior to granting a conditional use permit, studies may be required of
the social, economic, fiscal, and environmental effects of the proposed use.
(Ord. 86, 8-19-1980)
10-9-6: APPROVAL OR DENIAL OF PERMIT; CONTENTS:
Whenever the commission grants or denies a conditional use permit, it shall
specify:
   A.   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the application;
   B.   The reasons for approval or denial; and
   C.   The action, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain a permit.
(Ord. 86, 8-19-1980)
10-9-7: CONDITIONS OF PERMIT:
Upon the granting of the conditional use permit, conditions may be attached
including, but not limited to, those:
   A.   Minimizing adverse impact on other development.
   B.   Controlling the sequence and timing of development.
   C.   Controlling the duration of development.
   D.   Assuring that development is maintained properly.
   E.   Designating the exact location and nature of development.
   F.   Requiring more restrictive standards than those generally required in
an ordinance. (Ord. 86, 8-19-1980)
   G.   Requiring the provision for on site or off site public facilities or
services.
   H.   Requiring mitigation of effects of the proposed development upon
service delivery by any political subdivision, including school districts,
providing services within the planning jurisdiction. (2008 Code)
10-9-8: NONTRANSFERABILITY OF PERMIT:
Prior to granting a special use permit, studies may be required of the social,
economic, fiscal, and environmental effects of the proposed special use. A
special use permit shall not be considered as establishing a binding precedent
to grant other special use permits. A special use permit is not transferable
from one parcel of land to another. (Ord. 86, 8-19-1980; amd. 2008 Code)
10-9-9: APPEALS 1 :
   A.   Authority To Appeal; Time Limit: Any owner of property within a three
hundred foot (300') radius of the exterior boundaries of the subject property
may appeal the decision of the commission, provided written notice of such an
appeal is filed with the city within five (5) days after the decision of the
commission.
   B.   Hearing; Decisions: In reviewing an appeal pertaining to the
conditional use permit, the council shall hold a public hearing using the
public hearing notice and procedures prescribed for the commission, and may
approve, disapprove, or modify the action of the commission. (Ord. 86, 8-19-
1980)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  1-10-1 of this code for fee.
CHAPTER 10
VARIANCE PROCEDURE
SECTION:
10-10-1: Scope
10-10-2: Definition And Interpretation
10-10-3: Authority To Grant Variances
10-10-4: Application For Variance; Fee
10-10-5: Public Hearing
10-10-6: Standards For Granting Variance
10-10-7: Approval Or Denial Of Variance; Contents
10-10-8: Appeals
10-10-1: SCOPE:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply in considering variances. (Ord. 86,
8-19-1980)
10-10-2: DEFINITION AND INTERPRETATION:
A "variance" is a modification of the requirements of this title such as lot
size, lot coverage, width, depth, front yard, side yard, setback, parking
space, height of buildings, or other provisions affecting the size or shape of
a structure upon lots, or the placement of a structure upon lots, or the size
of lots. A variance shall not be considered a right or special privilege, but
may be granted to an applicant only upon a showing of undue hardship in a
majority of the reasonable uses because of characteristics of the same, and
that the variance is not in conflict with the public interest. (Ord. 86, 8-19-
1980; amd. 2008 Code)
10-10-3: AUTHORITY TO GRANT VARIANCES:
The commission shall consider variances to the terms of this title which will
not be contrary to the public interest where, owing to special conditions, a
literal enforcement of the provisions of this title will result in unnecessary
hardship. (Ord. 86, 8-19-1980)
10-10-4: APPLICATION FOR VARIANCE; FEE:
An application for a variance may be initiated by one or more property owners.
Such application shall be filed with the commission on forms prescribed by the
commission and accompanied by such data and information necessary to assure the
fullest presentation of facts. A filing fee as provided in section
1-10-1 of this code shall be paid at the time of the filing by an owner or
owner representative's application. (Ord. 86, 8-19-1980; amd. 2008 Code)
10-10-5: PUBLIC HEARING:
Prior to granting a variance, notice and an opportunity to be heard shall be
provided to property owners adjoining the parcel under consideration. One such
public hearing shall be conducted by the commission in accordance with the
procedures prescribed for conditional use permits 1 . (Ord. 86, 8-19-1980)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  10-9-4 of this title.
10-10-6: STANDARDS FOR GRANTING VARIANCE:
In acting upon such variance, the commission shall make a full investigation
and shall only grant a variance upon finding that the following are true:
   A.   That the granting of the variance will not be in conflict with the
spirit and intent of the comprehensive plan and will not effect a change in
zoning.
   B.   That there are exceptional or extraordinary circumstances or conditions
applicable to the property or class of use in the district so that a denial of
the relief sought will result in:
      1.   Undue loss in value of the property in a majority of the reasonable
uses.
      2.   Inability to preserve the property rights of the owner.
      3.   The prevention of reasonable enjoyment of any property right of the
owner.
   C.   The granting of such relief will not be materially detrimental to the
public health, safety or welfare, or injurious to the property or improvements
of other property or improvement. (Ord. 86, 8-19-1980)
10-10-7: APPROVAL OR DENIAL OF VARIANCE; CONTENTS:
   A.   Whenever the commission grants or denies a variance, it shall specify:
      1.   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the application;
      2.   The reasons for approval or denial; and
      3.   The action, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain a
variance permit. (Ord. 86, 8-19-1980)
   B.   Denial of a variance or approval of a variance with conditions
unacceptable to the landowner may be subject to the regulatory taking analysis
provided for by Idaho Code section 67-8003 consistent with the requirements
established thereby. (2008 Code)
10-10-8: APPEALS 1 :
   A.   Any applicant or owner of property within a three hundred foot (300')
radius of the exterior boundaries of the subject property may appeal the
decision of the commission, provided written notice of such an appeal is filed
with the city clerk-treasurer within five (5) days after the decision of the
commission.
   B.   In reviewing an appeal pertaining to a variance request, the council
shall hold a public hearing using the public hearing notice procedure
prescribed for the commission and may approve, disapprove or modify the action
of the commission. (Ord. 86, 8-19-1980)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  1-10-1 of this code for fee.
TITLE 11
SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE
General Provisions   1
Definitions   2
Land Division Applications And Procedures   3
Design Standards   4
Improvement Standards   5
Vacating Plats, Rights Of Way, Or Easements   6
Variances   7
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
11-1-1: Title And Short Title
11-1-2: Authority
11-1-3: Purpose Statement
11-1-4: Jurisdiction
11-1-5: Interpretation
11-1-6: Administration
11-1-7: Combining Of Permit Applications
11-1-8: Fees And Costs
11-1-1: TITLE AND SHORT TITLE:
This title shall be known as “Subdivision Ordinance of the City of Melba”, and
may be summarily referred as the “Subdivision Ordinance.” (Ord. 276, 10-11-
2021)
11-1-2: AUTHORITY:
The city has authority to enact the regulations herein pursuant to chapter 13,
title 50 Idaho code, chapter 65, title 67, Idaho code, and article 12, section
2 of the Idaho constitution. (Ord. 276, 10-11-2021)
11-1-3: PURPOSE STATEMENT:
The purpose of this title is to provide for the orderly division and
development of real property located within the limits of the city to promote
the public health, safety, and general welfare and provide harmonious
development of the community. (Ord. 276, 10-11-2021)
11-1-4: JURISDICTION:
The regulations herein shall apply to land divisions or consolidations within
the incorporated limits of the city, and may apply within the city's area of
impact pursuant to an area of city impact agreement with Canyon County, Idaho.
(Ord. 276, 10-11-2021)
11-1-5: INTERPRETATION:
These regulations shall supplement all city regulations and applicable state
statutes. If at variance with other laws, regulations, ordinances, or
resolutions, the more restrictive requirements shall apply. (Ord. 276, 10-11-
2021)
11-1-6: ADMINISTRATION:
All applications submitted to the city pursuant to this title, whether they are
submitted to the city clerk or the planning and zoning administrator, may be
directed to the city engineer, public works director, and any other necessary
or appropriate city departments for review or certification prior to
consideration by the planning and zoning commission or city council. (Ord. 276,
10-11-2021)
11-1-7: COMBINING OF PERMIT APPLICATIONS:
The city is hereby required to coordinate with other departments and agencies
concerning all permit applications which may be required in this title and
previously or subsequently adopted city ordinances. (Ord. 276, 10-11-2021)
11-1-8: FEES AND COSTS:
   A.   Application Fee: The city shall establish fees by resolution for
processing and considering any of the various applications set forth in this
title. The current fee schedule shall be on file with the city clerk and
available for review by applicants or the public upon request. The city will
not process an application until the appropriate fee has been submitted. Fees
for processed applications are non-refundable, even when the application is
ultimately denied or withdrawn by the applicant prior to receiving a decision.
   B.   Additional Costs: The complexity of issues presented by a particular
application may require additional legal, engineering, or other specialized
review of the application by the city, and thereby increase the city's costs
for processing the application. When such additional costs are incurred, they
shall be the obligation of the applicant, and may be paid in the form of
reimbursement to the city. Where the city anticipates such additional costs may
be incurred, the city may notify the applicant before incurring such costs.
   C.   Chip Sealing Capitalization Fee: A fee required to be paid by
applicants to cover the initial costs of chip sealing asphalt surfaced roads
and/or streets dedicated to the city which fee shall be established by the
public works director at the time of the application for final plat approval
using the then current chip sealing cost to chip seal the asphalt surfaced and
dedicated roads and streets within the final plat. (Ord. 276, 10-11-2021)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
11-2-1: Interpretation Of Terms Or Words
11-2-2: Meaning Of Terms Or Words/Definitions
11-2-1: INTERPRETATION OF TERMS OR WORDS:
Terms or words used herein shall be interpreted as follows:
   A.   The present tense includes the past or future tense, the singular
includes the plural and the plural includes the singular;
   B.   The word "shall" is mandatory; "may" is permissive; and the word
"should" is preferred; and
   C.   The masculine shall include the feminine. (Ord. 276, 10-11-2021)
11-2-2: MEANING OF TERMS OR WORDS/DEFINITIONS:
The following terms or words for purposes of this title shall have the meanings
herein provided unless the context within which the word or term appears
clearly requires otherwise:
                          Is a division of a single tract or parcel into no
ADMINISTRATIVE LOT SPLIT: more than two (2) parcels for the purpose of
                          conveyance or development.
                          An applicant may be an individual, firm, corporation,
                          limited liability company, partnership, association,
                          syndicate, trust or other legal entity that executes
                          and submits an application and initiates proceedings
                          before the city in accordance with the provisions of
                          this title. The applicant must be the owner of the
                          property at issue in the application, or be
                          authorized in writing by the owner of the real
APPLICANT:                property at issue, in order to submit the
                          application. Upon request, the applicant must
                          demonstrate it has authority to submit an application
                          for the subject real property. The term applicant may
                          also include a subsequent owner of property if the
                          property subject to the application is transferred to
                          a new owner: (1) during the application process; (2)
                          before or while improvements are being constructed;
                          (3) or before a bond is posted in lieu of
                          improvements construction.
BLOCK:                    A group of lots, tracts or parcels within a well-
                          defined boundary, usually streets.
                          An imaginary line established by a zoning ordinance
BUILDING SETBACK LINE:    that requires all buildings to be set back a certain
                          distance from lot lines.
                          The process of applying upon asphalt surfaced road
                          and/or street an oil product to act as an adhesive
CHIP SEALING:             and clean crushed rock for the purpose of maintaining
                          the functional integrity of the asphalt surface of
                          the road and/or street.
                          The duly appointed city clerk who serves as a city
CITY CLERK:               officer as otherwise provided for in the Melba city
                          code.
                          The licensed engineer, or engineering company, duly
CITY ENGINEER:            appointed by the council that serves as city engineer
                          for the city of Melba.
COMMISSION:               The Melba planning and zoning commission, appointed
                          by the mayor and confirmed by the council.
                          A document adopted by the city that may be referred
                          to herein as a comp plan that identifies previous and
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN:       existing conditions, trends, and compatibility of
                          current and proposed land uses, as well as desirable
                          goals and objectives, or desirable future situations
                          for the city.
COUNCIL:                  The city council of the city of Melba.
COVENANT:                 A written promise or pledge.
CULVERT:                  A drain that channels water under a bridge, street,
                          road or driveway.
                          The setting apart of land, improvements, or interests
                          in land for use by the public by ordinance,
DEDICATION:               resolution or entry in the official minutes as by
                          recording of a plat. Dedicated property becomes
                          public upon acceptance by the city.
                          A grant of rights(s) by a property owner to specific
EASEMENT:                 persons, entities, or the public to use certain land
                          for specific purposes.
                          A map of all or part of a subdivision providing
                          substantial conformance to an approved preliminary
                          plat, prepared and stamped by a registered land
FINAL PLAT:               surveyor in accordance with the standards of this
                          title and chapter 13 of title 50, Idaho code, which
                          can be recorded after compliance with the provisions
                          of this title.
                          Means and refers-but is not necessarily limited to-
                          survey monuments, streets, alleys, curbs, gutters,
                          bicycle pathways, public utilities, driveways, storm
                          drainage, public water systems, sewer systems, fire
IMPROVEMENTS:             hydrants, water mains, wells, streets signs,
                          sidewalks, pedestrian pathways, street lighting,
                          irrigation systems, landscaping buffers, and
                          potential other fixtures that may be installed or
                          constructed upon real property.
ISPWC:                    The latest edition of the Idaho standards for public
                          works construction as adopted by the city.
                          A parcel, plot, tract or other land area of suitable
LOT:                      size as required in these regulations and by the
                          zoning ordinance of the city of Melba, and created by
                          subdivision for sale, transfer or lease.
                          An adjustment or change to the location of boundary
                          lines between no more than four (4) parcels of land.
                          An adjustment may involve removing the boundary lines
LOT LINE ADJUSTMENT:      between parcels and consolidating the parcels into
                          fewer parcels, or relocating the boundary lines but
                          maintaining the current number of parcels. A lot line
                          adjustment cannot increase the number of lots or
                          parcels.
MANUFACTURED HOME:        As defined in the Melba city code under the
                          manufactured housing regulations.
                          The division of a platted lot or a parcel of land
                          into four (4) or fewer contiguous lots that comply
                          with minimum standards of the zoning ordinance in all
MINOR SUBDIVISION:        respects, that have access onto an existing public
                          right of way or an approved shared driveway that
                          serves no more than two (2) of the four (4) proposed
                          lots and complies with applicable fire codes.
OFF-SITE:                 Not located on the property that is the subject of a
                          development application.
ON-SITE:                  Located on the land in question.
                          A common area platted as a separate lot, exclusive of
                          streets, commercial and residential buildings, and
OPEN SPACE:               shall be designated and intended as a usable and
                          convenient amenity for the residences of any proposed
                          development.
                          A lot or tract as recorded on any plat or record on
                          file in the office of the county recorder, or any un-
ORIGINAL PARCEL OF LAND:  platted contiguous parcel of land held in one
                          ownership and of record at the effective date of the
                          subdivision ordinance.
                          An amount of money or other negotiable security paid
                          by the applicant or his surety to the city which
PERFORMANCE BOND:         guarantees that the applicant will perform all action
                          required by the governing body regarding an approved
                          plat.
                          A process for legally dividing land set forth in
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT: chapter 5 of title 10, Melba city code that may be
                          available to an applicant in lieu of the applications
                          available in this title.
                          The drawing, map or plan of a subdivision, cemetery,
PLAT:                     townsite or other tract of land, or a re-platting of
                          such, including certifications, descriptions and
                          approvals.
                          A preliminary map, including supporting data,
                          indicating a proposed subdivision development,
PRELIMINARY PLAT:         prepared in accordance with the standards of this
                          title, title 10 of the Melba city code, and chapter
                          13 of title 50, Idaho Code.
                          A strip of land between a partial street and adjacent
RESERVE STRIP:            property, which is reserved or held in public
                          ownership for future street extension or widening.
                          A right of way which provides access to adjacent
                          properties, the dedication of which has been
                          officially accepted by the city. The term "street"
STREET:                   also includes the terms highway, thoroughfare,
                          parkway, road, avenue, boulevard, lane, place and
                          other such terms. Types of streets include the
                          following:
                          A minor street providing secondary access at the back
   Alley:              or side of a property otherwise abutting a street.
                          Minimum right of way width of twenty feet (20').
                          A street that is designed and intended to accommodate
   Arterial:           vehicle traffic between two (2) major population
                          bases.
                          A street designated for the purpose of carrying
   Collector Street:   traffic from minor streets to other collector streets
                          and/or arterial streets.
   Cul-De-Sac:         A street connected to another street at one end only
                          and provided with a turnaround space at its terminus.
   Frontage:           A minor street, parallel and adjacent to an arterial
                          street, to provide access to abutting properties.
   Loop:               A minor street with both terminal points on the same
                          street of origin.
   Minor Street:       A street which has the primary purpose of providing
                          access to abutting properties.
                          A dedicated right of way providing only a portion of
   Partial:            the required street width, usually along the edge of
                          a subdivision or tract of land.
                          The act of dividing a single tract or parcel of land
SUBDIVISION:              into two (2) or more lots, parcels, or sites for the
                          purpose of sale or development, whether immediate or
                          future.
SURVEYOR:                 Any person who is licensed in the state of Idaho as a
                          land surveyor to do professional land surveying.
                          Any of the following public works construction for
                          domestic water, irrigation water, sewage, gas,
UTILITIES:                electricity, television cable, storm water and
                          appurtenances and/or any similar facilities providing
                          service to, intended to be used by the public.
                          A permit for relief from the strict terms of the
                          relevant regulations of this title where such relief
                          will not be contrary to the public interest and where
                          the need for relief is due to peculiar conditions or
VARIANCE:                 characteristics of the property and not the result of
                          the actions of the applicant. A variance shall not be
                          considered a right or special privilege but may be
                          granted only upon a showing that a literal
                          enforcement of this title would result in undue
                          hardship. (Ord. 276, 10-11-2021)
 
CHAPTER 3
LAND DIVISION APPLICATIONS AND PROCEDURES
SECTION:
11-3-1: Application And Approval Required For Land Divisions
11-3-2: Pre-Application
11-3-3: Combined Preliminary Plat And Final Plat Application
11-3-4: Preliminary Plat Application And Approval Process For Subdivision
11-3-5: Final Plat Application And Approval Process For Subdivision
11-3-6: Administrative Lot Split Application
11-3-7: Lot Line Adjustment Application
11-3-1: APPLICATION AND APPROVAL REQUIRED FOR LAND DIVISIONS:
Any person desiring to divide an original lot, tract, or other parcel of land
must submit an application to the city clerk or planning and zoning
administrator as provided in this chapter for the division of property, or
alternatively as provided in chapter 5, title 10, Melba city code for planned
unit developments. No final plat, administrative lot split, lot line
adjustment, or any other document dividing or redesignating property boundaries
shall be filed with the Canyon County recorder unless an application is first
received and approved as provided herein or as provided in chapter 5, title 10,
Melba city code. No real property shall be transferred pursuant to a plat or
survey which has not first been approved by the city. (Ord. 276, 10-11-2021)
11-3-2: PRE-APPLICATION:
   A.   Pre-Application: An applicant may submit a pre-application and pay the
appropriate fee to the planning and zoning administrator which enables the city
engineer and other appropriate city staff to review and comment on a proposed
land division. The pre-application shall include the entire development scheme
of the proposed land division in schematic form and include the following:
      1.   The general layout and approximate dimensions of streets, blocks and
lots in sketch form;
      2.   The existing conditions and characteristics of the land on and
adjacent to the proposed subdivision site; and
      3.   The areas set aside for common area open space, schools, parks, and/
or other public facilities open space requirements established by ordinance
must be satisfied.
   B.   City Action: The planning and zoning administrator, or other assigned
city staff, shall notify the applicant within twenty-one (21) days from the
date of receiving an acceptable pre-application as to the general conformance
or nonconformance of the proposal with this title, and the planning and zoning
administrator shall provide the appropriate forms and checklists to aid an
applicant in pursuing the correct land division application based upon their
pre-application. Pre-applications are not submitted to the commission or
council for consideration, nor is an applicant entitled to receive comments or
consideration on their pre-application from the commission or council.
   C.   Discretionary Process: The pre-application process is not mandatory
before pursuing a land division application. The purpose of the pre-application
process is to afford applicants an opportunity to submit preliminary land
division concepts to city staff to receive comments regarding appropriateness
of their proposed land division before submitting other applications available
under this chapter. The city is not required to review or offer comment on
concept plans from prospective applicants who chose to forego the pre-
application process. (Ord. 276, 10-11-2021)
11-3-3: COMBINED PRELIMINARY PLAT AND FINAL PLAT APPLICATION:
   A.   Combining Preliminary Plat And Final Plats For Minor Subdivision: An
applicant may submit a single combined preliminary and final plat application
for a minor subdivision. Applicant shall use the city land division application
and pay the required fee for this application. However, such an application may
only be submitted if all of the following conditions exist:
      1.   The proposed subdivision does not exceed four (4) lots.
      2.   No new street dedication or street widening is involved with the
exception of additional right-of-way required for adjacent streets.
      3.   No major special development considerations are involved
(floodplain, hillside, etc.)
      4.   Information for both preliminary and final plat is complete.
      5.   The proposed subdivision is not in conflict with the comprehensive
plan or any provisions of the zoning regulations of the city.
   B.   Any preliminary plat and final plat submitted with a combined
application must include the content, and satisfy the requirements, set forth
in sections
11-3-4(B), (C) and
11-3-5(B) of this chapter.
   C.   Administrator Review:
      1.   Certification: Upon receipt of the combined preliminary plat and
final plat application, and all other required data as provided for herein, the
planning and zoning administrator shall certify the application (only when the
same is complete) as complete and shall affix the date of application
acceptance thereon.
      2.   Review By Other Agencies: The planning and zoning administrator may
during the review process refer the preliminary plat, final plat, and
application to as many agencies as deemed necessary.
   D.   Action By The Commission: Within twenty-eight (28) days of the
certification as complete by the planning and zoning administrator, the
commission shall receive the combined preliminary plat and final plat
application and set the same for a public hearing. This provision only requires
the hearing date to be selected and scheduled by the commission within this
time frame; therefore, the hearing may occur more than twenty-eight (28) days
after certification.
   E.   Public Hearing Procedure For Combined Preliminary Plat And Final Plat
Application: Prior to granting or denying a combined application, at least one
public hearing shall be held before the commission in which interested persons
shall have an opportunity to be heard. Written notice of the public hearing on
said application shall be mailed at least fifteen (15) days prior to the date
of the public hearing to the property owners of parcels located within three
hundred (300) feet of the exterior boundary of the parcel under consideration,
and at least fifteen (15) days prior to each hearing, notice of time and place
shall be published in the official newspaper or paper of general circulation
within the jurisdiction. The applicant is responsible for all notice and
publishing costs.
   F.   Recommendation: Following the public hearing the commission shall in
writing recommend the city council approve, conditionally approve, or
disapprove the combined preliminary plat and final plat application as
presented. The commission may delay their recommendation pending submission of
additional information or recommend approving, conditionally approving, or
disapproving the application as presented. All recommendations must identify
the following:
      1.   Ordinance and standards used in evaluating the application;
      2.   Reasons for the recommended approval or denial; and
      3.   Actions, if any, the applicant could take to obtain approval.
   G.   Notification To Applicant: Within fourteen (14) days after a final
written recommendation has been rendered by the commission, the city clerk
shall provide the applicant with written notice of the recommendation on
request.
   H.   Action By The Council: The recommendation of the commission shall be
forwarded to the next regularly scheduled city council meeting for review by
the council and potential action to approve, conditionally approve or
disapprove the application. However, the council may, after reviewing the
recommendation, choose to set the matter for an additional public hearing
before the council to receive and consider additional evidence or testimony
regarding the application. If the matter is set for the additional public
hearing before the council, notice of the hearing shall be provided in the same
manner as set forth in section
11-3-3(E) above. Following the council's review, and in some instances a public
hearing before the council, the council shall enter a written decision that
either approves, conditionally approves, or disapproves the application. The
city clerk shall mail written notice to the applicant of the council's decision
within fourteen (14) days of the decision being entered.
   I.   Review Of Decision Of Council: The applicant shall have twenty-eight
(28) days from the date of the mailing of the notice of the decision of the
council within which to seek review of the council's decision by a court of
competent jurisdiction.
   J.   Conditions Of Approval And Improvement Construction: If an applicant
receives conditional approval of the preliminary and final plats for a minor
subdivision, the conditions of approval must be met before the city engineer
signs the final plat and before the final plat can be recorded. The
installation and construction of the improvements required in chapter 5 of this
title is a standard condition of approval.
      1.   Failure by an applicant to satisfy all conditions of approval,
including the construction of all required improvements, and record a final
plat for a minor subdivision within one year after approval by the city council
shall cause all plats approved for the minor subdivision (preliminary and
final) to be null and void, and the plats shall expire, unless an extension of
time is applied for by the applicant and granted by the city. An extension may
only be provided upon a showing of good cause by the applicant for their delay
in satisfying all conditions of approval. An extension that is not requested
within one (1) year of plat approval shall be untimely and not be considered. A
single six (6) month extension may be granted by the planning and zoning
administrator. Any subsequent extension, or any request for more than a six (6)
month extension, must be submitted to and decided by the council. (Ord. 276,
10-11-2021)
11-3-4: PRELIMINARY PLAT APPLICATION AND APPROVAL PROCESS FOR SUBDIVISION:
   A.   Application: The applicant shall file with the planning and zoning
administrator a complete land division application form for preliminary plat,
as well as the plat draft, and pay the required application fee to the
administrator. The application shall include:
      1.   The names, addresses and telephone numbers of the applicant or
applicants and the engineer or surveyor, including a signed stamp, who prepared
the preliminary plat;
      2.   The name and address of all owners of property within a three
hundred (300)-foot radius of the subject property as shown on record in the
county assessor's office;
      3.   A statement as to whether or not a variance will be requested with
respect to any provision of this title describing the particular provision, the
variance requested, and the reasons therefor. If a variance will be required, a
separate variance application and fee shall be submitted; and
      4.   A statement of the intended use of the proposed subdivision.
   B.   Preliminary Plat: The applicant shall submit to the planning and zoning
administrator at least the following:
      1.   Six (6) copies of the preliminary plat of the proposed subdivision,
drawn in accordance with the requirements hereinafter stated. The plat shall
have dimensions of not less than twenty-four inches by thirty-six inches (24" x
36"), shall be drawn to a scale of not less than one inch to one hundred feet
(1" = 100'), shall show the drafting date and north arrow and be stamped by a
licensed Idaho professional land surveyor or engineer; and
      2.   Six (6) sets of preliminary engineering plans (not meant to be cross
sections or detailed designs) for streets, water, sewers, sidewalks, stormwater
retention and other required public improvements. The engineering plans shall
be stamped by a licensed Idaho professional engineer.
   C.   Requirements Of Preliminary Plats: The following shall be shown on the
preliminary plat or shall be submitted separately:
      1.   The name of the proposed subdivision;
      2.   The legal description of the subdivision (including written
checkable traverse and closure sheet);
      3.   A map of the entire area scheduled for development. The map shall
show the location of existing buildings, water bodies or courses and the
location of currently dedicated streets at the point where they adjoin and/or
are immediately adjacent;
      4.   A vicinity map showing the relationship of the proposed plat to the
surrounding area;
      5.   The land use and existing zoning of the proposed subdivision and the
adjacent land;
      6.   Streets, street names, rights of way and roadway widths, including
adjoining streets or roadways;
      7.   Lot lines and blocks showing the approximate dimensions and numbers
of each;
      8.   Contour lines, shown at two-foot (2') intervals, referenced to an
established benchmark including location and elevation;
      9.   The separate phases of the subdivision if the subdivision is
intended to be constructed in separate phases;
      10.   Any proposed or existing utilities; and
      11.   Any dedications to the public and/or easements, together with a
statement of location, dimensions and purpose of such.
   D.   Planning And Zoning Administrator Review:
      1.   Certification: Upon receipt of the preliminary plat, and all other
required data as provided for herein, the planning and zoning administrator
shall certify the application (only when the same is complete) as complete and
shall affix the date of application acceptance thereon.
      2.   Review By Other Agencies: The planning and zoning administrator may
during the review process refer the preliminary plat and application to as many
agencies as deemed necessary.
   E.   Action By The Commission: Within twenty-eight (28) days after the
preliminary plat is certified as complete by the planning and zoning
administrator, the commission shall receive the preliminary plat and set the
same for public hearing.
   F.   Public Hearing Procedure For Preliminary Plat: Prior to granting or
denying a preliminary plat application, at least one public hearing shall be
held before the commission in which interested persons shall have an
opportunity to be heard. Written notice of the public hearing on said
application shall be mailed at least fifteen (15) days prior to the date of the
public hearing to the property owners of parcels located within three hundred
(300) feet of the exterior boundary of the parcel under consideration, and at
least fifteen (15) days prior to each hearing, notice of time and place shall
be published in the official newspaper or paper of general circulation within
the jurisdiction. The applicant is responsible for all notice and publishing
costs.
   G.   Following the public hearing the commission shall in writing enter
findings of fact and conclusions of law and recommend the city council approve,
conditionally approve, or disapprove the preliminary plat application as
presented. The commission may delay their recommendation pending submission of
additional information or recommend approving, conditionally approving, or
disapproving the application as presented. All recommendations must identify
the following:
      1.   Ordinance and standards used in evaluating the application;
      2.   Reasons for approval or denial; and
      3.   Actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain approval.
   H.   Action By The Council: The recommendation of the commission shall be
forwarded to the next regularly scheduled city council meeting for review by
the council and potential action to approve, conditionally approve or
disapprove the application. However, the council may, after reviewing the
recommendation, choose to set the matter for an additional public hearing
before the council to receive and consider additional evidence or testimony
regarding the application. If the matter is set for the additional public
hearing before the council, notice of the hearing shall be provided in the same
manner as set forth in section
11-3-4(F) above. Following the council's review, and in some instances a public
hearing before the council, the council shall enter a written decision that
either approves, conditionally approves, or disapproves the application. The
city clerk shall mail written notice to the applicant of the council's decision
within fourteen (14) days of the decision being entered.
   I.   Review Of Decision Of Council: The applicant shall have twenty-eight
(28) days from the date of the mailing of the notice of the decision of the
council, if it is a final decision, within which to seek review of the
council's decision by a court of competent jurisdiction.
   J.   Failure by an applicant to file and obtain the certification of a final
plat application within one year after approval of the preliminary plat by the
city council shall cause all approvals of said preliminary plat to be null and
void, and the preliminary plat shall expire, unless an extension of time is
applied for by the applicant and granted by the city. An extension may only be
provided upon a showing of good cause by the applicant for their delay in
satisfying all conditions of approval. An extension that is not requested
within one (1) year of preliminary plat approval shall be untimely and not be
considered. A single six (6) month extension may be granted by the planning and
zoning administrator. Any subsequent extension, or any request for more than a
six (6) month extension, must be submitted to and decided by the council.
   K.   In the event that the subdivision is to be developed in separate
phases, successive final plat applications for each phase identified in a
preliminary plat may be submitted one year apart from one another. Where a
final plat for a particular phase is not submitted within one year of recording
the final plat for the prior phase, the remainder of the preliminary plat (e.g.
the portion of the plat for which final plats have not been submitted,
approved, and recorded) shall expire. Further, phased development shall only be
permitted where the phases are identified on the approved preliminary plat.
(Ord. 276, 10-11-2021)
11-3-5: FINAL PLAT APPLICATION AND APPROVAL PROCESS FOR SUBDIVISION:
   A.   Application: After the approval or conditional approval of the
preliminary plat, as well as the satisfaction and performance of any conditions
of approval identified in the approval of the preliminary plat, an applicant
may cause the total parcel, or any part thereof, to be surveyed and a final
plat prepared in accordance with the approved preliminary plat. For phased
developments, a final plat application shall identify the particular phase
being presented for final plat approval. To seek approval of a final plat,
applicant shall submit to the planning and zoning administrator the following:
      1.   A completed land division application for final plat and the
required application fee;
      2.   Proof of current ownership of the real property included in the
proposed final plat;
      3.   A statement by the applicant that all conditions of approval on the
preliminary plat have been met;
      4.   Three (3) copies of the final plat; and
      5.   Three (3) copies of the final engineering construction drawings for
streets, water, sewer, sidewalks, irrigation, storm water retention and other
public improvements for all improvements to be constructed in that phase of the
subdivision.
   B.   Content Of Final Plat: The final plat shall include and be in
compliance with all items required under title 50, chapter 13 of the Idaho
code. The final plat and final engineering construction drawings must also be
available to the city engineer in electronic format as reasonably required by
the city engineer.
      1.   The final plat shall include:
         a.   The name of the proposed subdivision and phase number;
         b.   The legal description of the subdivision (including written
checkable traverse and closure sheet);
         c.   A vicinity map showing the relationship of the proposed plat to
the surrounding area, particularly showing the relationship between the phase
subject to an application and other phases of the same subdivision;
         d.   The land use and existing zoning of the subdivision and the
adjacent land;
         e.   Streets, street names, rights of way and roadway widths,
including adjoining streets or roadways;
         f.   Lot lines and blocks showing the approximate dimensions and
numbers of each;
         g.   Contour lines, shown at two-foot (2') intervals, referenced to an
established benchmark including location and elevation;
         h.   The locations of utilities;
         i.   Any dedications to the public and/or easements, together with a
statement of location, dimensions and purpose of such;
         j.   Certification and approval signature blocks to be signed by the
mayor, city engineer, and officials from other relevant government districts
such as a highway district, Idaho transportation department, etc.; and
         k.   Such other information as the city engineer or city may deem
necessary.
      2.   The final plat shall conform to:
         a.   The approved preliminary plat and meeting all requirements or
conditions thereof;
          b.   All requirements and provisions of this title; and
         c.   Acceptable engineering practices and local standards.
   C.   Planning And Zoning Administrator Review:
      1.   Certification: Upon receipt of the final plat application, and all
other required data as provided for herein, the planning and zoning
administrator shall certify the application (only when the same is complete) as
complete and shall affix the date of application acceptance thereon.
      2.   Review By Other Agencies: The planning and zoning administrator may
during the review process refer the final plat and application to as many
agencies as deemed necessary.
   D.   Action By The Council: Within twenty-eight (28) days after the final
plat is certified as complete by the planning and zoning administrator, the
council shall receive the final plat and set it as a business item on the
council meeting agenda.
   E.   Council Procedure For Considering Final Plat: The council shall
consider the final plat as a business item during a council meeting and shall
approve the final flat if found to substantially conform to the previously
approved preliminary plat, and may also be approved with conditions. If the
council determines that final plat does not substantially conform to the
preliminary plat, the application may be denied. Additionally, if conditions of
approval in the preliminary plat have not been satisfied prior to the
submission of a final plat application, the council may deny the application,
or table the matter, until the required conditions are satisfied.
   F.   Decision: The council's decision on a final plat shall be in writing
and shall include findings of fact and conclusions of law and identify any
conditions for approval. When an application is denied, the council shall
identify the reasons in its decision for denying the application. Further, the
council's approval decision shall accept the improvements completed by the
applicant into the city system for perpetual maintenance upon certification by
the planning and zoning administrator or city engineer that said improvements
are complete and constructed pursuant to city improvements standards.
   G.   Notification To Applicant: Within fourteen (14) days after a decision
has been rendered by the council, the city clerk shall provide the applicant
with written notice of the action on the final plat. The final plat will not be
fully approved until all conditions have been satisfied and the appeal period
has expired.
   H.   Review Of Decision Of Council: The applicant shall have twenty-eight
(28) days from the date of the mailing of the notice of the decision of the
council within which to seek review of the council's decision by a court of
competent jurisdiction.
   I.   Conditional Approval Of Final Plat: Approval of all final subdivision
plats shall be conditioned on the accomplishment of one of the following, and
the city engineer shall not sign final plats until either of the following has
been completed:
      1.   The construction of improvements required by this title shall have
been completed by the applicant and approved and accepted by the city council.
Further, construction of improvements shall be entirely completed within one
(1) year of conditional approval of the final plat, or the conditional approval
shall expire unless an extension of time is applied for by the applicant and
granted by the city. An extension may only be provided upon a showing of good
cause by the applicant for their delay in satisfying all conditions of
approval. An extension that is not requested within one (1) year of conditional
final plat approval shall be untimely and not be considered. A single six (6)
month extension may be granted by the planning and zoning administrator. Any
subsequent extension, or any request for more than a six (6) month extension,
must be submitted to and decided by the council; or
      2.    Financial assurance, including a financial guarantee agreement as
outlined in this title and acceptable to the city, shall have been provided by
the applicant. In the event this financial assurance option is used, the
applicant shall still be required to endeavor to construct all required
improvements within one (1) year of conditional approval of the final plat
(including possible extensions for completing as set forth in section
11-3-5(I)(1) above). If the applicant timely completes construction of the
remaining improvements, it shall receive a return or release of the provided
financial assurance. However, if construction is not timely completed, the city
shall use the provided financial assurance to obtain construction services to
construct the remaining improvements required by the final plat, and the
applicant may only receive a refund of the portion of the financial assurance
that might remain after all costs incurred by the city related to construction
of the improvements (including city staff time) are paid.
   J.   Approval Period: Final plat shall be filed with the county recorder
within one (1) year after final written approval by the city and signature from
the city engineer; otherwise, such approval shall become null and void unless
prior to said expiration date an extension of time is applied for by the
applicant and granted by the city.
   K.   Method Of Recording: Upon final approval of the final plat by the
council, completion of all required improvements or the posting of surety bond
or other acceptable guarantee sufficient to pay the cost of improvements, the
applicant's payment of recording fees, and the inclusion of the following
signatures on the final plat, the applicant may submit the final plat to the
county recorder for recording:
      1.   Certification and signature of the mayor on the face of the final
plat verifying that the subdivision has been approved and any dedication
therein has been accepted.
      2.   Certification of the city clerk and the city engineer verifying that
the subdivision and constructed improvements meet the city requirements.
      3.   Certification of the sanitation restrictions on the face of the plat
per section 50-1326, Idaho code.
      4.   Any other certifications required by state code or the city. (Ord.
276, 10-11-2021)
11-3-6: ADMINISTRATIVE LOT SPLIT APPLICATION:
   A.   The purpose of this section is to permit for the division of land
separate from the platting process. However, the provisions of this section are
strictly interpretated, and are not available in lieu of platting when platting
is the appropriate process. Applications that are submitted that do not
strictly comply with the provisions herein shall be denied, and the applicant
directed to comply with the appropriate platting procedures set forth elsewhere
in this title.
   B.   Conditions For Submitting An Administrative Lot Split Application: An
applicant may make application for an administrative lot split if all of the
following exist:
      1.   The proposed administrative lot split cannot create more than two
(2) parcels.
      2.   The proposed split will result in parcels which comply with
applicable city zoning regulations for the zone in which the land is located,
such as minimum size, frontage, and set back requirements.
      3.   The parcel to be divided cannot previously have been divided through
the administrative lot split process. For example, if the parcel identified in
an application was previously part of a larger parcel, and had been
administratively divided from that larger parcel in the past, that parcel
cannot be further administratively divided. It must be divided through the
platting procedures set forth elsewhere in this title.
      4.   No major special development considerations are involved
(floodplain, hillside, etc.).
      5.   Each of the proposed parcels shall have sufficient street frontage
on a street which has been accepted for perpetual maintenance by either the
city of Melba and/or Nampa highway district no. 1 and/or Idaho transportation
department to comply with the zoning standards for the zone in which the parcel
is located.
      6.   Each of the proposed parcels must already be served by or
serviceable by the public utilities operated by the city of Melba without
extension of the existing system. This means that the system shall already be
immediately adjacent to each proposed parcel.
   C.   Application: An applicant seeking an administrative lot split shall
file with the planning and zoning administrator a complete land division
application for administrative lot split and application fee. The following
items shall be included with the application:
      1.   Six (6) copies of a record of survey which complies with the
provisions of chapter 19 of title 55, Idaho code which shall include the legal
descriptions for the current and proposed parcels, including required boundary
enclosures for each parcel. The survey shall also include approval language
with signature lines to be signed by the city engineer and planning and zoning
administrator as verification the record of survey has been reviewed and
approved by the city before recording;
      2.   Draft deeds for the proposed parcels;
      3.   A statement of the intended use of the subject parcels;
      4.   A map of the entire area scheduled for development;
      5.   A vicinity map showing the parcels and any existing improvements
with sufficient additional area to depict relationship of the subject parcels
to the surrounding area and showing streets, street names, rights-of-way, and
roadway widths and adjoining streets or roadways;
      6.   Lot lines showing the approximate dimensions of the existing parcel,
together with frontage on adjacent roads and location of utilities;
      7.   Existing structures shown with building setback lines from existing
and proposed lot lines shown on the record of survey, unless the structure(s)
are indicated to be removed;
      8.   The location(s) of any existing wells or sewer disposal systems
shall be shown on the record of survey;
      9.   A statement as to whether or not the parcel is served by a public
domestic water system and/or public sewage system and any proposed or existing
utilities;
      10.   A statement of the applicant as to whether or not a variance will
be requested with respect to any provision of this title, or the city's zoning
regulations, and identify the code provision(s) at issue and the variance that
may be needed; and
      11.   A signature block for the city engineer and planning and zoning
administrator to sign after they have certified the application as complete.
   D.   Planning And Zoning Administrator Review:
      1.   Upon receipt of an application for administrative lot split and all
other required information as provided for herein, the planning and zoning
administrator shall certify the application (only when the same is complete) as
complete shall affix the date of acceptance thereon.
      2.   Review By Other Agencies: During the review process, the planning
and zoning administrator may refer the administrative lot split to as many
agencies as deemed necessary.
   E.   Action By The Planning and Zoning Administrator: Within twenty-eight
(28) days after the certification is complete of the administrative lot split
the planning and zoning administrator may take the following action:
      1.   In the event the application complies with the requirements of this
section issue a certificate of acceptance and approval of administrative lot
split which shall contain the legal descriptions of the approved parcels.
      2.   The planning and zoning administrator may issue a preliminary
acceptance and approval that identifies conditions that must be satisfied to
obtain a certificate of acceptance and approval. Any applicant whose
application has received preliminary acceptance and approval must submit to the
planning and zoning administrator proof of compliance with conditions in order
to obtain a certification of acceptance and approval. Once an applicant has
provided such proof, and the proof being sufficient, the planning and zoning
administrator should issue the certificate of acceptance and approval. In the
event the conditions are not satisfied by the applicant within one (1) year of
receiving preliminary acceptance, the preliminary acceptance shall expire and
be null and void.
      3.   In the event the application does not comply with the requirements
of this section, and can't through conditions be brought into compliance, the
application should be denied.
      4.   A copy of the written decision of the planning and zoning
administrator under this section shall be mailed to the applicant by the city
clerk within fourteen (14) days of the decision being entered, with the
original retained in the official files of the city.
      5.   An applicant aggrieved by the decision of the planning and zoning
administrator may appeal that decision to the council by filing an appeal with
the city clerk. Appeals filed more than twenty-eight (28) days after the
mailing of a copy of the written decision shall be denied. The council shall
hear the appeal at a public hearing after having given fifteen (15) days prior
to the date of the public hearing to the property owners of parcels located
within three hundred (300) feet of the exterior boundary of the parcel under
consideration, and at least fifteen (15) days prior to each hearing, notice of
time and place shall be published in the official newspaper or paper of general
circulation within the jurisdiction. The applicant is responsible for all
notice and publishing costs. Following the hearing, the commission shall enter
a decision affirming the planning and zoning administrator's decision unless
the applicant demonstrates that the decision is inconsistent with applicable
city or state law.
      6.   An application requiring a variance may not obtain certificate of
acceptance and approval without obtaining separate approval of the variance
from the council. Namely, the applicant must apply for, and obtain, a variance
through the separate variance application process.
   F.   Rights Of Way And Easements: As a condition of application approval,
the city may require an applicant to convey, by deed, lands necessary for
expansion of the city's right of way. Likewise, the city may require the
applicant to execute an easement agreement with the city to grant certain
easement rights to portions of the land subject to the application.
      1.   Upon determination by the city that right of way or easement rights
are needed to approve an application, the applicant shall present the requested
deed or easement agreement, including survey and legal description, to the
planning and zoning administrator for review. Thereafter, the planning and
zoning administrator shall present the deed or easement agreement to the city
council for consideration.
      2.   The council shall consider the deed or easement agreement as a
business item on a council meeting agenda, and vote to either accept and
execute the deed or easement agreement, or may alternatively vote to reject the
deed or easement agreement.
      3.   If the council rejects the deed or easement agreement, such
rejection may provide grounds for the planning and zoning administrator to deny
the pending administrative lot split application.
      4.   In the event the deed or easement agreement is accepted by the
council, and the administrative lot split application is subsequently approved,
the planning and zoning administrator shall cause the executed deed or easement
agreement to be recorded by the county recorder against all affected legal
parcels after the applicant records the certificate of approval and approved
record of survey.
   G.   Recording Of Certificate Of Acceptance And Approval Of Administrative
Lot Split: After the certificate of acceptance and approval of administrative
lot split has been issued, the applicant shall record the same with the county
recorder's office, as well as the record of survey detailing the approved
administrative lot split, the legal descriptions, deeds for the new parcels,
deeds for any rights of way conveyed to the city, and any easement agreements
within thirty (30) days of approval or the approval will be considered void.
(Ord. 276, 10-11-2021)
11-3-7: LOT LINE ADJUSTMENT APPLICATION:
   A.   The purpose of this section is to permit for the adjustment of property
boundaries between contiguous parcels without the necessity of re-platting.
However, the provisions of this section are strictly interpretated, and are not
available in lieu of platting when platting is the appropriate process.
Applications that are submitted that do not strictly comply with the provisions
herein shall be denied, and the applicant directed to comply with the
appropriate platting procedures set forth elsewhere in this title.
   B.   Conditions For Submitting A Lot Line Adjustment Application: An
applicant may submit a land division application for a lot line adjustment if
all of the following exist:
      1.   The proposed lot line adjustment does not involve more than four (4)
parcels.
      2.   All parcels involved in the application are contiguous to one
another.
      3.   The lot line adjustment cannot result in more parcels than existed
prior to the application, but it may result in less parcels.
      4.   The proposed adjustments will result in parcels that comply with
applicable city zoning regulations for the zone in which the land is located,
such as minimum size, frontage, and set back requirements.
      5.   Where the subject parcels are substandard in size, or otherwise not
in compliance with the city zoning regulations (such as substandard parcels in
the original town site plat for the city of Melba), the adjustment shall not
result in increasing the degree of non-compliance (e.g. lessen frontage where
frontage is substandard, or decrease lot size when already substandard, etc.).
      6.   No major special development considerations are involved
(floodplain, hillside, etc.).
      7.   The lots that are subject to the application must be in common
ownership, or all owners must join the application as joint applicants.
      8.   Each of the proposed parcels (based upon where boundaries would be
located after adjustment) shall have sufficient street frontage on a street
which has been accepted for perpetual maintenance by either the city of Melba
and/or Nampa highway district no. 1 and/or Idaho transportation department to
comply with the zoning standards for the zone in which the parcel is located.
      9.   Each of the proposed parcels is already served by or serviceable by
the public utilities operated by the city of Melba without extension of the
existing system. This means that the system shall already be immediately
adjacent to each proposed parcel.
      10.   If a parcel is burdened by an easement, the applicant may be
required to separately petition to have the existing easement vacated if the
easement is no longer necessary or properly located following the boundary
adjustment.
   C.   Application: An applicant seeking a lot line adjustment shall file with
the planning and zoning administrator a complete land division application for
lot line adjustment and information as required in this section and pay the
required application fee. The following items shall be included with the
application:
      1.   Six (6) copies of a record of survey which comply with the
provisions of chapter 19 of title 55, Idaho code which shall include the legal
descriptions for the current and proposed parcels, including required boundary
enclosures for each parcel. The survey shall also include approval language
with signature lines to be signed by the city engineer and planning and zoning
administrator as verification the record of survey has been reviewed and
approved by the city before recording;
      2.   Draft deeds for the proposed parcels;
      3.   A statement of the intended use of the subject parcels;
      4.   A map of the entire area scheduled for development;
      5.   A vicinity map showing the parcels and any existing improvements
with sufficient additional area to depict relationship of the subject parcels
to the surrounding area and showing streets, street names, rights-of-way, and
roadway widths and adjoining streets or roadways;
      6.   Lot lines showing the approximate dimensions of the existing parcel,
together with frontage on adjacent roads and location of utilities;
      7.   Existing structures shown with building setback lines from existing
and proposed lot lines shown on the record of survey, unless the structure(s)
are indicated to be removed;
      8.   The location(s) of any existing wells or sewer disposal systems
shall be shown on the record of survey;
      9.   A statement as to whether or not the parcel is served by a public
domestic water system and/or public sewage system and any proposed or existing
utilities;
      10.   A statement of the applicant as to whether or not a variance will
be requested with respect to any provision of this title, or the city's zoning
regulations, and identify code provision at issue and the variance that may be
needed; and
      11.   A signature block for the city engineer and planning and zoning
administrator to sign after they have certified the application as complete.
   D.   Planning And Zoning Administrator Review:
      1.   Upon receipt of an application for lot line adjustment and all other
required information as provided for herein, the planning and zoning
administrator shall certify the application (only when the same is complete) as
complete and shall affix the date of acceptance thereon.
      2.   Review By Other Agencies: During the review process, the planning
and zoning administrator may refer the lot line adjustment application to as
many agencies as deemed necessary.
   E.   Action By The Planning And Zoning Administrator: Within twenty-eight
(28) days after the certification is complete of the lot line adjustment
application the planning and zoning administrator may take the following
action:
      1.   In the event the application complies with the requirements of this
section, issue a certificate of acceptance and approval of lot line adjustment
which shall contain the legal descriptions of the approved parcels.
      2.   The planning and zoning administrator may issue a preliminary
acceptance and approval that identifies conditions that must be satisfied to
obtain a certificate of acceptance and approval. Any applicant whose
application has received preliminary acceptance and approval must submit to the
planning and zoning administrator proof of compliance with conditions in order
to obtain a certificate of acceptance and approval. Once an applicant has
provided such proof, and the proof being sufficient, the planning and zoning
administrator should issue the certificate of acceptance and approval. In the
event the conditions are not satisfied by the applicant within one (1) year of
receiving preliminary acceptance, the preliminary acceptance shall expire and
be null and void.
      3.   In the event the application does not comply with the requirements
of this section and cannot through conditions be brought into compliance the
same should be denied.
      4.   A copy of the written decision of the planning and zoning
administrator under this section shall be mailed to the applicant by the city
clerk within fourteen (14) days of the decision being entered, with the
original retained in the official files of the city.
      5.   An applicant aggrieved by the decision of the planning and zoning
administrator may appeal that decision to the council by filing an appeal with
the city clerk. Appeals filed more than twenty-eight (28) days after the
mailing of a copy of the written decision shall be denied. The council shall
hear the appeal at a public hearing after having given fifteen (15) days prior
to the date of the public hearing to the property owners of parcels located
within three hundred (300) feet of the exterior boundary of the parcel under
consideration, and at least fifteen (15) days prior to each hearing, notice of
time and place shall be published in the official newspaper or paper of general
circulation within the jurisdiction. The applicant is responsible for all
notice and publishing costs. Following the hearing, the commission shall enter
a decision affirming the planning and zoning administrator's decision unless
the applicant demonstrates that the decision is inconsistent with applicable
city or state law.
      6.   An application requiring a variance may not obtain certificate of
acceptance and approval without obtaining separate approval of the variance
from the city council. Namely, the applicant must apply for, and obtain, a
variance through the separate variance application process.
   F.   Rights Of Way And Easements: As a condition of application approval,
the city may require an applicant to convey, by deed, lands necessary for
expansion of the city's right of way. Likewise, the city may require the
applicant to execute an easement agreement with the city to grant certain
easement rights to portions of the land subject to the application.
      1.   Upon determination that a right of way expansion or easement rights
are needed to approve an application, the applicant shall present the requested
deed or easement agreement to the planning and zoning administrator for review.
Thereafter, the planning and zoning administrator shall present the deed or
easement agreement to the city council for consideration.
      2.   The council shall consider the deed or easement agreement as a
business item on a council meeting agenda, and vote to either accept and
execute the deed or easement agreement, or may alternatively vote to reject the
deed or easement agreement.
      3.   If the council rejects the deed or easement agreement, such
rejection may provide grounds for the planning and zoning administrator to deny
the pending lot line adjustment application.
      4.   In the event the deed or easement agreement is accepted by the
council, and the lot line adjustment application is subsequently approved, the
planning and zoning administrator shall cause the executed deed or easement
agreement to be recorded by the county recorder against all affected legal
parcels after the applicant records the certificate of approval and approved
record of survey.
   G.   Recording Of Certificate Of Acceptance And Approval Of Lot Line
Adjustment: After the certificate of acceptance and approval of lot line
adjustment has been issued, the applicant shall record the same with the county
recorder's office, as well as the record of survey detailing the approved lot
line adjustment, the legal descriptions, deeds for the new parcels, deeds for
any rights of way conveyed to the city, and any easement agreements within
thirty (30) days of approval or the approval will be considered void. (Ord.
276, 10-11-2021)
CHAPTER 4
DESIGN STANDARDS
SECTION:
11-4-1: Minimum Design Standards Required And Providing For Mitigation Of
Effects of Subdivision Development
11-4-2: Dedication
11-4-3: Street Location
11-4-4: Specifications
11-4-5: Street Names
11-4-6: Intersections
11-4-7: Easements
11-4-8: Blocks
11-4-9: Lots
11-4-10: Common Open Space Requirements And Standards
11-4-11: Protective Covenants
11-4-12: Other Development Requirements
11-4-1: MINIMUM DESIGN STANDARDS REQUIRED AND PROVIDING FOR MITIGATION OF
EFFECTS OF SUBDIVISION DEVELOPMENT:
All applications submitted pursuant to the provisions of this title, and all
improvements and facilities, constructed or made in accordance with said
provisions shall provide for the mitigation of the effects of the land
development on the ability of political subdivisions within the planning
jurisdiction of the city, including school districts, to deliver services
without compromising the quality of the services delivered by them to current
residents of the planning jurisdiction or imposing substantial additional costs
upon current residents to accommodate the proposed development and shall comply
with the minimum standards set forth hereinafter in the chapter; provided,
however, that any higher standards adopted by any highway district, state
highway department, or applicable health agency shall prevail over those set
forth herein. (Ord. 276, 10-11-2021)
11-4-2: DEDICATION:
Within a proposed development, arterial and collector streets, as shown on the
comprehensive plan, shall be dedicated to the public in all cases; in general,
all other streets shall also be dedicated to the public use. Dedications shall
comply with applicable provisions of chapter 13, title 50 of the Idaho code.
(Ord. 276, 10-11-2021)
11-4-3: STREET LOCATION:
   A.   Street Location And Arrangement: When an official street plan or
comprehensive development plan has been adopted, subdivision streets shall
conform to such plans. The arrangement, character, extent, width, grade and
location of all streets shall be considered in their relation to existing and
planned streets, topographic conditions, public convenience and safety, and in
their appropriate relation to the proposed uses of the land served.
   B.   Minor Streets: Minor streets shall be so arranged as to discourage
their use by through traffic but should facilitate connectivity to adjoining
property.
   C.   Stub Streets: Where adjoining areas are not subdivided, the arrangement
of streets in the subdivision shall be such that said streets extend to the
boundary line of the tract to make provisions for the future extension of said
streets into adjacent areas.
   D.   Alleys: Alleys may be required in multiple dwelling or commercial
subdivisions unless other provisions are made for service access and off-street
loading and parking. Dead-end alleys shall be prohibited in all cases.
   E.   Frontage Roads: Where a subdivision abuts or contains an arterial
street, the city may require that there be frontage roads approximately
parallel to, and on each side of, such arterial street; or, such other
treatment as is necessary for the adequate protection of residential properties
and to separate through traffic from local traffic.
   F.   Cul-de-Sac Streets: Cul-de-sac streets shall not be more than six
hundred feet (600') in length measured along the street centerline from the
centerline of the intersecting street to the center of the cul-de-sac and shall
terminate with an adequate turnaround having a minimum outside roadway diameter
of at least ninety-six feet (96') curb face to curb face.
   G.   Loop Streets: Loop streets shall be limited to a maximum length of one
thousand feet (1,000') measured along the centerline of the street from the
centerline intersection to centerline intersection.
   H.   Partial Streets: Partial street dedications shall not be permitted
unless the street forms the boundary of the property being subdivided, the
adjacent property is not under common ownership, or the street is anticipated
to be a through street upon development of adjacent properties. All partial
street dedications shall require construction of partial street sections to the
centerline plus ten feet (10'), or when right-of-way cannot be dedicated on the
abutting property, no less than twenty-six feet (26') in width from centerline
to back of curb. When the property abutting the partial street develops, the
owner of that property shall be required to complete the construction of the
street section, including dedication of any additional right-of-way required by
the city.
   I.   Private Streets: Private streets and roads shall be prohibited. (Ord.
276, 10-11-2021)
11-4-4: SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   Design And Construction Conformance: The design and construction of all
streets and alleys shall conform to the adopted Melba comprehensive plan, the
requirements of the city transportation master plan (if adopted), "Manual on
Uniform Traffic Control Devices" (hereinafter referred to as MUTCD), ISPWC and
any adopted city standards.
   B.   Street Right-of-Way Widths: There shall be provided rights-of-way of
such width in no case to be less than those defined in the comprehensive plan
for the city; provided, however, that the width of said rights-of-way shall in
no case be less than the following:
      1.   Arterial route: One hundred feet (100');
      2.   Collector street: Sixty feet (60');
      3.   Minor street: Fifty feet (50');
      4.   In addition to any other standard or specification required by the
city for street rights-of-way, all streets which are developed along section
lines or quarter section lines, or any easements which are granted for future
development along those lines, the city may require that a minimum street
right-of-way width of eighty feet (80') be provided along section lines, and a
minimum right-of-way width of seventy feet (70') be provided along quarter
section lines.
   C.   Street Widths: The minimum street widths, measured from back of curb to
back of curb, shall be thirty-seven feet (37') on minor streets, forty-one feet
(41') on collector streets, and forty-seven feet (47') on arterial streets.
   D.   Street Grades: Street grades shall be such as to provide for the safe
movement of traffic in all weather and for adequate drainage of streets. Street
grades shall not exceed ten percent (10%) on either minor or collector streets
and six percent (6%) for arterial streets. Street grades, whenever feasible,
shall be not less than four-tenths percent (0.4%).
   E.   Curb Radii: The minimum curb radius shall be twenty feet (20') on minor
streets and thirty feet (30') on arterial and collector streets. The minimum
inside curb radius at cul-de-sacs shall be twenty-eight feet (28').
   F.   Street Alignment: Street alignment shall be as follows:
      1.   Horizontal Alignment: When street lines deflect from each other by
more than ten degrees (10º) in alignment, the center lines shall be connected
by a curve having a minimum radius three hundred feet (300') for arterial and
collector streets and one hundred fifty feet (150') for minor streets. Between
reverse curves on collector and arterial streets, there shall be a minimum
tangent distance of two hundred feet (200').
      2.   Vertical Alignment: Minimum stopping sight distances shall be two
hundred feet (200') for minor streets and designed in accordance with design
speed for collector and arterial streets. (Ord. 276, 10-11-2021)
11-4-5: STREET NAMES:
   A.   Street names shall not duplicate any existing street name within the
city except where a new street is a continuance of an existing street; street
names that are spelled differently but sound the same as existing streets shall
not be used; and
   B.   All new streets shall be named as follows:
Streets having predominantly north-south direction shall be named "Avenue" or
"Road", streets having a predominantly east-west direction shall be named
"Street" or "Way"; meandering streets shall be named "Drive", "Lane", "Path" or
"Trail"; cul-de-sacs shall be named "Circle", "Court", or "Place". (Ord. 276,
10-11-2021)
11-4-6: INTERSECTIONS:
Intersections shall conform to the following:
   A.   Angle Of Intersection: Streets shall intersect at ninety degrees (90º)
or as closely thereto as possible, and in no case shall streets intersect at
less than seventy degrees (70º).
   B.   Sight Triangles: Sight triangles shall be measured from the projected
intersection of the lip of gutter a distance of forty feet (40') along each
roadway edge, and connecting the two (2) points with a straight line. This
measuring approach defines the boundaries of a sight triangle at the
intersection of two (2) roads.
   C.   Number Of Streets: No more than two (2) streets shall cross at any one
intersection.
   D.   "T" Intersections: "T" intersections may be used wherever such design
will not restrict the free movement of traffic.
   E.   Center Line Offsets: Street center lines shall be offset by a distance
of at least one hundred twenty-five feet (125'). (Ord. 276, 10-11-2021)
11-4-7: EASEMENTS:
Unobstructed easements for public utilities, irrigation and drainage shall be
provided along front lot lines, rear lot lines and side lot lines; total
easement width shall not be less than ten feet (10') on the front and back and
five feet (5') on the side except for corner lots shall be ten feet (10').
(Ord. 276, 10-11-2021)
11-4-8: BLOCKS:
Every block shall be so designed as to provide two (2) tiers of lots, except
where lots back onto an arterial street, natural feature or subdivision
boundary; No blocks shall be longer than six hundred sixty feet (660') nor less
than two hundred fifty feet (250') from the center line of each. (Ord. 276, 10-
11-2021)
11-4-9: LOTS:
Lots shall conform to the following:
   A.   The lot width, depth and total area shall not be less than the
requirements of the city's zoning regulations.
   B.   For corner lots, a property return with a radius of not less than
twenty feet (20') shall be provided; however, a larger radius may be required
when, in the opinion of the city engineer, such is necessary to serve an
existing or future need.
   C.   Side lot lines shall be at approximate right angles or radial to the
street line unless a variation from the rule will provide a more desirable
street and lot plan.
   D.   Future Arrangements In Impact Area: In appropriate circumstances in the
city of Melba area of city impact, when parcels of land are subdivided into
large lots (such as when large lots are approved to accommodate septic tanks)
the parcels should be configured where feasible to allow for future division
into smaller parcels. (Ord. 276, 10-11-2021)
11-4-10: COMMON OPEN SPACE REQUIREMENTS AND STANDARDS:
Requirements For Residential Subdivisions:
   A.   The percentage of gross land area to be designated as common open space
shall be based upon the overall average residential lot size as follows:
 
Overall Average Lot Size (Square Feet) Percentage Of Gross Land To Be Reserved
                                       As Open Space
Below 6,000                         10.0
6,000 - 7,499                          8.0
7,500 - 8,999                          6.0
9,000 - 11,999                         5.0
12,000 and over                        4.0
 
   B.   Common open space areas, to be owned and maintained by a homeowners
association, are established for use by the subdivision's or development's
occupants and guests, but not for the general public living outside the
subdivision or development, unless the common open space has public easements
running through it that make it publicly dedicated or the land has been
dedicated for public purpose. (Ord. 276, 10-11-2021)
11-4-11: PROTECTIVE COVENANTS:
Protective covenants shall be prepared and recorded as part of a subdivision.
The city shall review and approve subdivision restrictive covenants prior to
recording. The determination of the city, upon reviewing and approving the
protective covenants, is to resolve any conflicts with existing subdivision and
zoning regulations. (Ord. 276, 10-11-2021)
11-4-12: OTHER DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS:
As a condition of approving any request for subdivision approval, the city
council may require an applicant to build or improve to city standards any or
all streets connecting the proposed subdivision to collector streets or any
streets outside of the subdivision which would have additional traffic flow
resulting from the proposed subdivision. The city may require an applicant to
provide off site sewage lines capable of handling the additional loading, may
require an applicant to loop water lines, and may require the applicant to set
aside property in the subdivision to accommodate storm drainage, future street
alignment, park areas, well development sites, or other areas which may be
needed for orderly and planned development. Provided that any such improvements
are reasonably related to the impact created by the new subdivision. (Ord. 276,
10-11-2021)
CHAPTER 5
IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS
SECTION:
11-5-1: Responsibility For Plans
11-5-2: Required Public Improvements
11-5-3: Warranty And Guarantee Of Completion Of Improvements
11-5-1: RESPONSIBILITY FOR PLANS:
It shall be the responsibility of the applicant of every proposed subdivision
to have prepared by a registered engineer a complete set of construction plans,
including profiles, cross section, specifications and other supporting data for
all required public streets, utilities and other facilities. All construction
plans shall be prepared in accordance with the public agencies' standards or
specifications and submitted to the city for approval at the same time as a
final plat application. At the completion of the project, the applicant shall
provide three (3) copies of record drawings in hard copy, one (1) electronic
copy in a format compatible with AutoCad and one (1) electronic copy in .pdf
format that accurately show measurements to all underground utilities and
appurtenances, including services, and the street grade elevations. (Ord. 276,
10-11-2021)
11-5-2: REQUIRED PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS:
Every applicant, except applicants for administrative lot split or lot line
adjustments, shall be required to install the following public and other
improvements in accordance with the conditions and specifications as follow:
   A.   Monuments: Survey monuments shall be set in accordance with sections
50-1303 and 54-1227, Idaho code. Also, all lot corners; block corners; street
center lines; center of cul-de-sacs; points of curvature; points of tangency;
and points of beginning shall be surveyed and established on the ground.
   B.   Streets And Alleys: All streets and alleys shall be constructed in
accordance with ISPWC and any standards adopted by the city.
   C.   Curbs And Gutters: Vertical curbs and gutters shall be constructed on
collector and arterial streets. Rolled or vertical curbs shall be required on
minor streets. All construction shall be in accordance with ISPWC and any
standards adopted by the city.
   D.   Bicycle Pathways: A paved bicycle pathway may be required in
subdivisions, as part of the public right-of-way or as a separate easement. If
the city requires a bike path, consideration should be given to locating
pathways to promote interconnectivity between neighboring subdivisions.
   E.   Installation Of Public Utilities: Underground utilities are required
subject to the council adopted policies and/or ordinances.   
   F.   Driveways: All driveway openings in curbs and approaches shall be in
accordance with ISPWC and any standards adopted by the city.
   G.   Storm Drainage: Shall be approved in accordance with policies adopted
and approved by the city, which shall include, but not be limited to, on-site
retainage and shall be subject to and comply with all Idaho department of
environmental quality, environmental protection agency, Idaho department of
water resources, and other state or federal agency standards related to the
management of storm water.
   H.   Public Water Supply And Sewer Systems:
      1.   All public water supply or sewer systems (serving two (2) or more
separate premises or households) shall be constructed in accordance with the
requirements of the city and any applicable adopted specifications. All new
public water supply or sewer systems shall be an extension of an existing
public system whenever possible.
      2.   No construction shall occur prior to approval by the department of
environmental quality or by a qualified licensed professional engineer (QLPE)
for the city as outlined in Idaho administrative code 58.01.08 and 58.01.16.
   I.   Fire Hydrants And Water Mains: Adequate fire protection shall be
required in accordance with the requirements of the city and approval of the
Melba rural fire department fire code official which will include the type,
location and frequency of all fire hydrants.
   J.   Street Name Signs And Other Traffic Signs: Street name signs and stop
signs shall be installed in the appropriate location at each street
intersection in accordance with local standards. Other traffic controls signs
may be required by the city.
   K.   Sidewalks And Pedestrian Walkways: Sidewalks of at least five (5) feet
in width are required on both sides of the street.
   L.   Buffer strips controlling access to arterial and collector streets
shall be required and located on a common lot to be owned and maintained by a
homeowner's association to be established by the applicant. If the applicant
fails to establish a homeowner's association, the maintenance of these common
lots shall remain the obligation of the applicant. The buffer strip shall be a
minimum of fifteen feet (15') in width, a privacy fence or berm and
landscaping. The fence shall be vinyl, chainlink with privacy slats or cedar.
If cedar is installed, it shall have steel posts and an oil stain which shall
be restained every five (5) years. The landscaping and fence or berm area shall
be maintained by the homeowners' association.
   M.   Street Lighting: An applicant shall install street lights subject to
requirements of the city and the public utility providing such lighting.
   N.   Irrigation: Pressure irrigation water shall be provided to each lot
separate from and not part of the city domestic water supply. Supply pressure
shall be between forty-five (45) and fifty-five (55) pounds per square inch at
a minimum design flow rate of nine (9) gallons per minute per each lot in the
entire development. Specific pressure irrigation development plans including
pump stations and design calculations shall be submitted for approval along
with the final plat the Idaho standards for public works construction. There
shall be no cross connections between irrigation and domestic waterlines. The
irrigation plans must also be reviewed by the city engineer. (Ord. 276, 10-11-
2021)
11-5-3: WARRANTY AND GUARANTEE OF COMPLETION OF IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Acceptance Into City System: No completed improvements will be accepted
into the city system for perpetual maintenance unless constructed according to
city standards, and until acceptance conditions have been met or a variance
granted thereto.
   B.   Warranty Agreement: The city requires a one-year warranty agreement
with responsible parties prior to acceptance of public improvements for public
maintenance. Therefore, all applicants shall enter a one-year warranty
agreement with the city prior to acceptance of improvements into the city
system, or the city shall not be required to accept said improvements. Further,
failure to enter this agreement may provide a basis for the city to deny a
final plat application.
   C.   Financial Guarantee Agreements: When construction of all required
improvements cannot be timely completed due to conditions beyond the
applicant's control, and in the sole discretion of the city, an applicant may
enter into a financial guarantee agreement with the city approved by the city
attorney. In the event the city and applicant cannot reach acceptable terms for
a financial guarantee agreement, this option shall not be available and the
applicant shall be required to construct the required improvements by the
required deadline. In conjunction with a signed agreement, the applicant is to
provide a financial guarantee of performance in one or a combination of the
following arrangements, subject to approval by the city:
      1.   Cash Deposit, Certified Check, Or Irrevocable Bank Letter Of Credit:
         a.   Treasurer, Escrow Agent Or Trust Company: A cash deposit,
certified check, or an irrevocable bank letter of credit or such other surety
acceptable by the council, shall be deposited with an escrow agent of trust
company.
         b.   Dollar Value: The dollar value of the cash deposit, certified
check, or irrevocable bank letter of credit shall be equal to one hundred fifty
percent (150%) of the estimated cost of construction for specific public
improvements, as estimated by the city engineer and approved by the council.
         c.   Escrow Time: The escrow time for the cash deposit, certified
check, or irrevocable bank letter of credit shall be for a period to be
specified by the council; and
         d.   Progressive Payment: In the case of cash deposits and certified
checks, an agreement between the council and applicant may provide for
progressive payment out of the cash deposit or reduction of the certified
check, or irrevocable bank letter of credit, to the extent of the cost of the
completed portion of the public improvements, in accordance with a previously
entered into agreement.
      2.   Surety Bond: Of note, surety bonds are a less desirable financial
assurance than those identified above, and financial guarantee agreements where
applicant desires to provide a surety bond are unlikely to be approved by the
city in most instances. However, if the city agrees to the surety bond as
financial assurance, the following conditions apply:
         a.   Accrual: The bond shall accrue to the city covering construction,
operation and maintenance of the specific public improvement;
         b.   Amount: The bond shall be in an amount equal to one hundred fifty
percent (150%) of the total estimated cost for completing construction of the
specific public improvement, as estimated by the city engineer and approved by
the council and after the acceptance of the completed improvements by the city,
the agreement shall extend for one (1) year and be in an amount equal to fifty
percent (50%) of the construction costs.
         c.   Term Length: The term length in which the bond is in force shall
be for a period to be specified by the council for the specific public
improvement.
         d.   Bonding For Surety Company: The bond shall be with a surety
company authorized to do business in the state, acceptable to the council.
         e.   The escrow agreement shall be drawn and furnished by the council.
   D.   Preconstruction Meeting And Inspection By City Engineer: Prior to any
construction of any improvements, there shall be a pre-construction meeting
among the applicant, the city engineer and the public works director at which
meeting the plans and construction timetable shall be reviewed and an
inspection agreement between the applicant and the city will be established to
provide for the schedule of inspection to assure conformity to the submitted
plans. The inspection agreement shall be entered into before there is an
approval of the final plat and construction plans and specifications for public
improvements. (Ord. 276, 10-11-2021)
CHAPTER 6
VACATING PLATS, RIGHTS OF WAY, OR EASEMENTS
SECTION:
11-6-1: Vacation Application And Procedure
11-6-1: VACATION APPLICATION AND PROCEDURE:
   A.   Application: Any person or entity desiring to vacate a recorded plat or
any part thereof, a public right-of-way, or an easement, shall complete and
file an application with the planning and zoning administrator and pay the
required application fee. The application shall be processed in accordance with
the procedures set forth in Idaho code sections 50-1306A, 50-1325, or 40-203,
as those sections may apply to the particular application.
   B.   Contents Of Application: A vacation application shall:
      1.   Include the name, address, and contact information for the
applicant;
      2.   Include the legal description, and accompanying survey or plat, for
the portion of the plat, right of way, or easement, to be vacated;
      3.   Identify any facilities, utilities, structures, or other
improvements located within the described plat, right of way, or easement;
      4.   Include brief description of the reasons for the requested vacation;
and
      5.   Identify whether the application has been submitted in conjunction
with any other applications (e.g. with a lot line adjustment).
   C.   Where the applicant also desires to replat the area to be vacated, the
applicant shall be required to also submit an appropriate plat application as
set forth elsewhere in this title.
   D.   Review By Planning And Zoning Administrator: Upon receipt of an
application for vacation and all other required information as provided for
herein, the planning and zoning administrator shall certify the application
(only when the same is complete) as complete and shall affix the date of
acceptance thereof.
   E.   Applications for vacation certified as complete shall thereafter be
processed by the city according to the procedures set forth in chapter 13 of
title 50, Idaho code, or chapter 2, title 40, Idaho code, as applicable. (Ord.
276, 10-11-2021)
CHAPTER 7
VARIANCES
SECTION:
11-7-1: Purpose
11-7-2: Application For Variance
11-7-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of a variance is to afford an applicant relief from the
requirements of a particular regulation, or regulations, in this title where
strict application of the regulation(s) would result in undue hardship. Undue
hardship cannot result from the applicant's own conduct, activities, or
intended activities, but must be the result of unique or peculiar
characteristics of the particular site for which a variance is requested. A
variance is not intended to, nor should it, grant a special privilege to an
applicant not available to similarly situated individuals or entities. (Ord.
276, 10-11-2021)
11-7-2: APPLICATION FOR VARIANCE:
   A.   An application for a variance shall be filed with the planning and
zoning administrator on a form prescribed by the city and the required
application fee paid. The application shall:
      1.   Include the name, address, and contact information for the
applicant;
      2.   Be accompanied by an accurate scale drawing of the site and all
adjacent property affected by the application, showing all existing and
proposed locations of the street, property lines, uses, structures, driveways,
pedestrian walks, off-street parking, off-street loading facilities and
landscaped areas;
      3.   Identify the regulation or regulations from which the applicant
seeks relief; and
      4.   Identify the unique or peculiar characteristics of the real property
which the applicant believes necessitate a variance.
   B.   Combining Applications: If an applicant has submitted a land division
application under this title (such as for preliminary plat, final plat, minor
subdivision, etc.), and approval of that land division application would
require a variance, a variance application shall be submitted in conjunction
with such application and processed by the city contemporaneously with the land
division application. Additionally, in such instances the variance application
will follow the procedures set forth for the land division application, and
will not need to comply with the separate procedures set forth in this section.
The fee required for processing and considering a variance shall still be
required. However, if the land division application is an administrative lot
split or lot line adjustment (and therefore does not go before the commission
or council), the variance application must be processed in accordance with this
chapter.
   C.   Administrator Review:
      1.   Certification: Upon receipt of a variance application, the
administrator shall certify the application (only when the same is complete) as
complete and shall affix the date of application acceptance thereon.
      2.   Review By Other Agencies: The administrator may, during the review
process, refer a variance application to as many departments or agencies as
deemed necessary.
   D.   Action By Commission: Within twenty-eight (28) days of the
certification as complete by the planning and zoning administrator, the
commission shall receive the variance application and set the same for a public
hearing. This provision only requires the hearing date to be selected and
scheduled by the commission within this time frame; therefore, the hearing may
occur more than twenty-eight (28) days after certification.
   E.   Public Hearing Procedure Variance: Prior to granting or denying a
variance, at least one public hearing shall be held in which interested persons
shall have an opportunity to be heard. Written notice of the public hearing on
said application shall be given by certified mail, with return receipt, at
least fifteen (15) days prior to the date of the public hearing to the property
owners of parcels located within three hundred (300) feet of the exterior
boundary of the parcel under consideration, and at least fifteen (15) days
prior to each hearing, notice of time and place shall be published in the
official newspaper or paper of general circulation within the jurisdiction. The
applicant is responsible for all notices and publishing costs.
   F.   Following the public hearing the commission shall in writing recommend
that the council grant or deny the variance. The commission may delay its
recommendation pending submission of additional information or recommending
granting or denying the application as presented. A recommendation must
identify the following:
      1.   Ordinance and standards used in evaluating the application;
      2.   Reasons for the recommendation; and
      3.   Actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain approval.
   G.   Action By The Council: The recommendation of the commission shall be
forwarded to the next regularly scheduled city council meeting for review by
the council and potential action to approve, conditionally approve or
disapprove the application by adopting the commission's recommendation.
However, the council may, after reviewing the recommendation, choose to set the
matter for an additional public hearing before the council to receive and
consider additional evidence or testimony regarding the application. If the
matter is set for the additional public hearing before the council, notice of
the hearing shall be provided in the same manner as set forth in section
11-7-2(E) above. Following the council's review, and in some instances a public
hearing before the council, the council shall enter a written decision that
either approves, conditionally approves, or disapproves the application. The
city clerk shall mail written notice to the applicant of the council's decision
within fourteen (14) days of the decision being entered.
   H.   Findings For Variance: The planning and zoning commission may recommend
and the city council may grant a variance if, on the basis of application,
investigation and evidence submitted, the following is found:
      1.   That literal interpretation and enforcement of the regulation would
result in undue hardship inconsistent with the objectives of these standards.
      2.   That there are unique or peculiar characteristics at the site of the
subject real property which do not apply generally to other properties.
      3.   That literal interpretation and enforcement of the regulation would
deprive the application of privileges enjoyed by other owners of similarly
situated properties.
      4.   That granting the variance will not constitute a grant of special
privilege inconsistent with limitations on other properties.
      5.   That granting the variance will not be detrimental to the public
health, safety or welfare or be materially injurious to properties or
improvements in the vicinity.
   I.   Notification To Applicant: Within fourteen (14) days after a decision
has been rendered by the council, the city clerk shall provide the applicant
with written notice of the decision. The original copy of the decision shall be
preserved in the city records.
   J.   Duration Of Approval: The use or construction permitted under the terms
of any variance shall be commenced within a twelve (12) month period. If such
use or construction has not commenced within such time period, the decision
authorizing the variance shall no longer be valid. Prior to the expiration of
the (12) month period, the planning and zoning commission, upon request of the
applicant, may extend the variance for up to an additional six (6) months from
the original date of approval. (Ord. 276, 10-11-2021)
