CITY CODE
of
MIDDLETON, IDAHO
2015
Code current through:
Ord. 712, passed August 20, 2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
         This code of the City of Middleton, as supplemented, contains
ordinances up to and including ordinance 712, passed August 20, 2025.
Ordinances of the City adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of
this code to the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith.
Consult the City office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision
of the code has been amended, superseded or repealed.
                     American Legal Publishing
                     Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not amend the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
ORDINANCE NO. 714
 
AN ORDINANCE ENACTED BY THE MIDDLETON CITY COUNCIL AMENDING
TITLE 1, CHAPTER 5, CREATING SECTION 1-5-10 OF THE MIDDLETON CITY CODE,
PERTAINING TO THE CREATION OF A FOURTH OF JULY PARADE AND FIREWORKS ADVISORY
COMMITTEE; PROVIDING FOR AN EFFECTIVE DATE; PROVIDING FOR SEVERABILITY; AND
REPEALING ALL ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS, ORDERS AND PARTS THEREOF, IN
CONFLICT HEREWITH.
 
BE IT ORDAINED by the Mayor and Council of the City of Middleton, County of
Canyon, State of Idaho:
 
Section 1.  That Title 1, Chapter 5, Section 1-5-
10 of the Middleton City Code is hereby created, as follows:
1-5-10: FOURTH OF JULY PARADE AND FIREWORKS ADVISORY COMMITTEE:
 
A.    COMMITTEE CREATED:
 
There is hereby created and established a committee to be known as the City of
Middleton's Fourth of July Parade and Fireworks Advisory Committee.
 
B.    MEMBERSHIP:
 
The City of Middleton’s Fourth of July Parade and Fireworks Advisory Committee
shall consist of up to eight (8) members, nominated by the mayor or members of
council and confirmed by majority vote of the city council. The
membership shall include two (2) Canyon County residents, four 
(4) City of Middleton residents, and two (2) City of Middleton Council Members.
 
C.    TERMS OF OFFICE:
 
The term of office for members shall not be more or less than three (3) years,
provided however, that at the expiration of said term of office, the member
shall be eligible for two (2) additional consecutive reappointments, each for
one full term in addition to the original term already served. No person shall
serve more than two (2) full consecutive terms without specific concurrence by
two-thirds (2h)  of the Council adopted by motion and recorded in the minutes.
Vacancies occurring otherwise than through the expiration of terms shall be
filled in the same
manner as the original appointment. Members may be removed by a majority vote of the council.
 
D.    ORGANIZATION:
 
The committee shall meet monthly at the City of Middleton Council Chambers,
with an exception being made should a meeting for that month be unnecessary.
Additional meetings may be called for by the committee, as necessary. The
committee shall elect a chairperson, vice chair, secretary and create and fill
any other office it may deem necessary. The chairperson shall preside at
meetings of the
 
committee. The vice chairperson shall, in the absence of the chairperson, perform the duties of the
chairperson. All meetings of the Committee shall be open to the public and follow the requirements
of Idaho's open meeting laws. Executive sessions may be closed by the presiding officer pursuant
to Idaho Code, Section 74-206.
 
A member of the Committee shall keep minutes and other appropriate written
records on behalf of the committee. A simple majority of committee members
present at any given meeting constitutes a quorum.
 
E.    POWERS; DUTIES:
 
It shall be the duty of the Committee to plan, prepare, and facilitate the
execution of the annual Fourth of July Parade and Fireworks celebration in the
City of   Middleton. The committee shall, when necessary, request information
or action items to be added to pertinent City Council Meeting Agendas for items
which require council action, discussion or approval.
 
Section 2. This ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and after its
passage, approval, and publication, according to law.
 
Section 3. This ordinance is hereby declared to be severable. If any portion of
this ordinance is declared invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the
remaining provisions shall
continue in full force and effect and shall be read to carry out the purposes of the ordinance before
the declaration of partial invalidity.
 
 
Section 4.
repealed.
All ordinances, resolutions, orders and parts thereof in conflict herewith are
 
 
PASSED BY THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF MIDDLETON, IDAHO, this  17th          
day of  September  , 2025.
 
         APPROVED BY THE  MAYOR  OF THE  CITY  OF  MIDDLETON,  IDAHO,  this
          day of                            2025.
 
ATTEST:
 
 
 
                                                                                                                                                                                     
Jackie Hutchison, Mayor City Clerk (or Deputy)
 
 
 
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alteration
1-1-5: Construction Of Words
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon adoption by the council, this code is hereby declared to be and shall
hereafter constitute the official code of the city of Middleton. This code of
ordinances shall be known and cited as the MIDDLETON CITY CODE and it is hereby
published by authority of the council and shall be kept up to date as provided
in section
1-1-3  of this chapter. (Ord. 548, 1-21-2015)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in all administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of the city of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (Ord. 548, 1-21-2015)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this code shall set forth the title, chapter and section
number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall constitute
sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to the
amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this code. Each such replacement page shall be
properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of this code.
(Ord. 548, 1-21-2015)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATION:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. The clerk shall see
that the replacement pages are properly inserted in the official copies
maintained in the office of the clerk. Said code books shall be and remain the
property of the city. (Ord. 548, 1-21-2015)
1-1-5: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
   A.   Whenever any word in any section of this code importing the plural
number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons,
any single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although
distributive words may not have been used.
   B.   When any subject matter, party or person is referred to in this code by
words importing the singular number only, or the masculine gender, several
matters, parties or persons and females as well as males and bodies corporate
shall be deemed to be included; provided, that these rules of construction
shall not be applied to any section of this code which contains any express
provision excluding such construction or where the subject matter or context
may be repugnant thereto.
   C.   The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the city has been
changed in the content of this code to "title", "chapter", "section" and/or
"subsection" or words of like import for organizational purposes only. Such
change to the city's ordinances is not meant to amend passage and effective
dates of such original ordinances.
   D.   The headings and subheadings of the several sections of this code are
intended as mere catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall
not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern,
limit, modify or in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the
provisions of any division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided,
shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the headings, are
amended or reenacted. (Ord. 548, 1-21-2015)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Court Proceedings
1-2-3: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the city passed prior to the adoption of this code
are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this code or are by
necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation
ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations; franchise
ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
city; and all special ordinances. (Ord. 494, 12-5-2012)
1-2-2: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former
ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to any
offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any
penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such
offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable, if any penalty, forfeiture or punishment be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   This section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed as abating any
action now pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of the city
herein repealed, and the provisions of all general ordinances contained in this
code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions and not a new enactment of the
same provision; nor shall this chapter be deemed as discontinuing, abating,
modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the
liability of any person, firm or corporation, or as waiving any right of the
city under any ordinance or provision thereof in force at the time of the
adoption of this code. (Ord. 494, 12-5-2012)
1-2-3: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be unconstitutional
or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision
shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of the remaining portions of
this code, or any part thereof. The city council hereby declares that it would
have passed each section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause
or phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections,
subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases be
declared unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (Ord. 494, 12-5-2012)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Definitions, General
1-3-1: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
For the purposes of this code, certain terms are defined as set forth in this
section. All words in the present tense include the future tense, the plural
includes the singular, and all words in the singular include the plural unless
the natural construction of the sentence indicates otherwise. The word "shall"
is mandatory.
   ABATABLE NUISANCES: Nuisance conditions that may be abated by the city in
accordance with the provisions of this code.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE: A detached structure that is incidental to the
principal structure and is located upon the same property. For example:
awnings, detached private garages, detached carports, detached sheds, factory
built additions, gazebos, greenhouses, patios, tool or storage cabinets and
sheds, playhouses, porches, private workshops, ramadas or irrigation pump
houses. The term shall not include inhabited structures or fences.
   ACCESSORY USE: A use incidental and subordinate to the principal use on a
lot.
   ADULT REGULATIONS:
      Adult Arcade: An establishment where, for any form of consideration, one
or more still or motion picture projectors, or similar machines, for viewing by
five (5) or fewer persons each, are used to show films, computer generated
images, digital video, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides or other
photographic reproductions which are distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis upon the depiction or description of specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas. This shall also apply to any arcade, which is not
customarily open to the general public because minors are excluded by virtue of
age as a prevailing business practice or as required by law.
      Adult Bookstore, Adult Novelty Store Or Adult Video Store: An
establishment that offers for sale or rent any of the following as one of its
principal business purposes:
         A.   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion pictures, videocassettes, digital images, slides,
live human representations or other visual representations which are
characterized by the depiction or description of specified sexual activities or
exposed specified anatomical areas; or
         B.   Instruments, devices or paraphernalia which are designed for use
in connection with specified sexual activities; or
         C.   Goods which are replicas of or which stimulate specified
anatomical areas or goods that are designed to be placed on specified
anatomical areas to cause sexual excitement thereof.
      Adult Cabaret: A nightclub, bar, restaurant or similar premises which
features live performances which are characterized by the exposure of specified
anatomical areas or by specified sexual activities, or which features films,
motion pictures, videocassettes, digital images, slides or other photographic
reproductions which are characterized by specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
      Adult Hotel/Motel: A hotel, motel or similar commercial establishment
which offers public accommodations, for any form of consideration, and which:
a) provides patrons with closed circuit television transmissions, films, motion
pictures, videocassettes, digital images, slides or other photographic
reproductions which are characterized by the depiction or description of
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, and which advertises
the availability of this sexually oriented type of material by means of a sign
visible from the public right of way, or by means of off premises advertising
including, but not limited to, newspapers, magazines, pamphlets, leaflets,
radio or television; and/or b) rents, leases, or lets any room for less than a
ten (10) hour period, or rents, leases or lets any single room more than twice
in a twenty four (24) hour period.
      Adult Motion Picture Theater: A business establishment where, for any
form of consideration, films, computer generated images, digital video, motion
pictures, videocassettes, slides or similar photographic reproductions are
shown, which are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis upon the
depiction or description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas.
      Adult Theater: A theater, concert hall, auditorium, or similar
establishment which, for any form of consideration, regularly features live
performances which are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on the
display of specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities.
      Bikini Bar: A business, as defined in title 23 of the Idaho Code,
licensed to serve beer, wine, alcohol, or spirituous liquor for consumption on
the premises which features live performers or servers wearing bikinis or
swimsuits covering specified anatomical areas.
      Modeling Studio: A business which provides, for pecuniary compensation,
monetary or other consideration, hire or reward, figure models who, for the
purposes of sexual stimulation of patrons, display specified anatomical areas
to be observed, sketched, photographed, painted, sculpted or otherwise depicted
by persons paying such consideration. "Modeling studio" does not include
schools maintained pursuant to standards set by the state board of education.
"Modeling studio" further does not include a studio or similar facility owned,
operated, or maintained by an individual artist or group of artists, and which
does not provide, permit, or make available specified sexual activities.
      Sexual Encounter Premises: A premises other than a hotel, motel or
similar premises, offering public accommodations, which, for any form of
consideration, provides a place where two (2) or more persons may congregate,
associate or consort in connection with specified sexual activities or the
exposure of specified anatomical areas. This definition does not include a
premises where an Idaho licensed medical practitioner, psychologist,
psychiatrist or similar professional person engages in medical or sexual
therapy.
      Sexually Oriented Business: An adult arcade, adult bookstore, adult
novelty store, adult video store, adult cabaret, adult motel, adult motion
picture theater, adult theater, bikini bar, modeling studio or sexual encounter
premises; or any premises where employees display specified anatomical areas or
engage in specified sexual activities.
      Sexually Oriented Business Employee: Any person who performs any service
on the premises of a sexually oriented business, on a full time, part time, or
contract basis, whether or not the person is denominated an employee,
independent contractor, agent or otherwise. Employee does not include a person
exclusively on the premises for repair or maintenance of the premises or for
the delivery of goods to the premises.
      Specified Anatomical Areas: Any of the following parts of the human body
with less than full, opaque coverings of the human genitals, anus, cleft of the
buttocks, or the female breast. Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid
state, even if completely and opaquely covered.
      Specified Sexual Activities: Shall mean and include any of the following
whether actual or simulated:
         A.   The fondling or other erotic touching of any specified anatomical
areas; or
         B.   Masochism, erotic or sexually oriented torture, beating or the
infliction of pain; or
         C.   Sexual intercourse, masturbation, sodomy, oral copulation,
coitus, ejaculation; or
         D.   The exposure or display of human genitals in a state of sexual
stimulation, arousal or tumescence; or
         E.   Excretory functions as a part of or in connection with any of the
activities listed above; or
         F.   Erotic or lewd touching, fondling or other contact with an animal
by a human; or
         G.   Erotic dancing or rhythmic movements with a device, instrument,
object or pole.
   AGRICULTURE: Tilling soil, horticulture, raising crops and livestock; but
excluding commercial livestock operations.
   AMENITY: Any permanent infrastructure feature, for example: baseball/
softball field; basketball court; boat dock/river access; community center;
daycare center; fishing pond; golf course/driving range; gym/health club;
playground/tot lot; skateboard park; swimming pool; tennis court.
   AMUSEMENT CENTER (INDOOR): An enclosed facility, where there are various
devices for entertainment used, which may include small children rides, coin
operated games, bowling, restaurants, theaters and sale of items.
   AMUSEMENT CENTER (OUTDOOR): A facility, where there may be rides, booths for
the conduct of games or sale of items, buildings for shows, entertainment,
restaurants, souvenir sales, and similar entertainment facilities and devices.
   ANIMAL CONTROL:
      Abandon (Animals): To forsake an animal without making reasonable
arrangements for its care.
      Abuse: Intentional, reckless or negligent conduct resulting in the
animal's bruising, bleeding, malnutrition, dehydration, burns, fractures or
breaks of any bones, subdural hematoma, soft tissue swelling or death and lack
of veterinary care.
      At Large: Off the premises of the owner, or agent, and not under control
either by leash, cord, chain or other means of physical restraint. On the
premises of the owner, or agent, and not confined by:
         A.   Substantial fence of sufficient strength, depth and height to
prevent the animal from escaping therefrom, or
         B.   Secured on the premises by a chain, cable, cord, adequately
functional electronic containment fence, or other nondestructive device
sufficient in strength to prevent the animal from escaping from premises and so
arranged that the animal will remain upon the premises and not come any closer
than six feet (6') to a public walkway or sidewalk when the restraint leash is
stretched to full length.
      Bite: The clamping of skin and subjacent soft tissues between the teeth
of an animal, which may cause punctures, wounds, lacerations, infections, act
as a disease vector or cause death.
      Enclosure: A fence or structure of at least six feet (6') in height,
forming or causing containment suitable to prevent the entry of young children,
and suitable to confine an animal in conjunction with other measures which may
be taken by the owner such as tethering of the animal. Such enclosure shall be
securely locked with secure sides, top and bottom and shall be designed to
prevent the animal from escaping.
      Microchip: An integrated circuit which is implanted subcutaneously in the
flesh of an animal.
      Vicious Animal: A. 1. Any animal which, when unprovoked, in a vicious or
terrorizing manner, approaches any person in apparent attitude of attack upon
the roads, sidewalks, and public grounds or places, or private property not
owned or possessed by the owner of the animal;
      2. Any animal with a known propensity, tendency or disposition to attack
unprovoked, to cause injury or to otherwise endanger the safety of human beings
or animals;
      3. Any animal which bites, inflicts injury, assaults or otherwise attacks
a human being or animal without provocation; or
      4. Any animal owned or harbored primarily or in part for the purpose of
fighting or any animal trained for fighting.
   B.   Notwithstanding the definition of a "vicious animal" herein, no animal
may be declared vicious if an injury or damage is sustained by a person who, at
the time such injury or damage was sustained, was committing a wilful trespass
or other tort upon the premises occupied by the owner of the animal, or was
teasing, tormenting, abusing or assaulting the animal or was committing or
attempting to commit a crime. No animal may be declared vicious if the animal
was protecting or defending a human being within the immediate vicinity of the
animal from an unjustified attack or assault.
   APARTMENT: A room or suite of rooms in a multi-family structure which is
used as a single housekeeping unit (EDU) and has complete kitchen facilities
permanently installed. Apartments will be accessed from a local or wider
roadway.
   ASSISTED LIVING FACILITY: A facility for the mildly physically or mentally
impaired that provide rooms, meals, personal care, supervision of self-
administered medication, and other related services such as recreational
activities, financial services, and transportation.
   AUCTION ESTABLISHMENT: A facility where goods are offered for sale to
persons who bid on an object in competition with others. The use of a site for
the public sale of goods, wares, merchandise, or equipment to the highest
bidder.
   BACKFLOW: The flow, other than the intended direction of flow, of any
foreign liquids, gases or substances into the distribution system of a public
water supply.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE: A device to counteract back pressure or prevent
siphonage.
   BICYCLE/PEDESTRIAN PATHWAY: Land used as a bicycle or pedestrian pathway
entirely through a block from road to road and/or providing access to a school,
park, recreation area or shopping center.
   BOARDING HOUSE: A building other than a hotel or restaurant where meals are
provided for compensation to three (3) or more persons, but not more than
twelve (12) persons who are not members of the householder's family.
   CARETAKER RESIDENCE: A single-family residence placed in conjunction with
and/or attached to a land use that requires twenty four (24) hour care in order
to protect the livelihood of a business.
   COMMERCIAL COACH: A manufactured structure, designed to be used for
commercial and other nonresidential purposes, that bears the label of the
department of labor and industrial services, building bureau. The label shall
designate the unit's plan approval number, occupancy group classification and
type of construction as specified in the international building code.
   COMMON AREA(S): The area(s) of a facility, complex, apartment building,
hotel, motel or the like that is (are) open either to the general public or
persons with the permission of the owner or agent of the owner of the area.
This definition would include, but not be limited to, the following: swimming
pools, restaurants, patios, hot tubs, saunas, laundry rooms, meeting rooms,
lobbies, lounges, bars and other areas within the facility that are either
constructed or designed for use in this manner.
   CONVENIENCE STORE: A retail establishment selling primarily food products,
household items, newspapers, magazines, candy, beverages and a limited amount
of freshly prepared foods, such as sandwiches and salads, for on or off
premises consumption. This may or may not include a service station.
   CROSS CONNECTION: Any physical arrangement whereby a public water supply is
connected, directly or indirectly, with any other water supply system, sewer,
drain, conduit, pool, storage reservoir, plumbing fixture, or other device
which contains or may contain contaminated water, sewage, or other waste or
liquids of unknown or unsafe quality which may be capable of introducing
contamination to the public water supply as a result of backflow.
   DAYCARE: Care and supervision provided for compensation during any part of a
twenty four (24) hour day, for a child or children not related by blood,
marriage, adoption or guardianship to the person or persons providing the care,
in a place other than the child's or children's own home or homes. An approved
state license shall be provided to the city.
   DAYCARE CENTER: A facility providing daycare where thirteen (13) or more
children, regardless of relationship to the daycare owner, daycare operator or
staff, are in attendance.
   DAYCARE FACILITY: A place or facility providing daycare services for
compensation to seven (7) or more children not related to the provider.
   DAYCARE, FAMILY: A home, place or facility providing daycare for six (6) or
fewer children.
   DAYCARE, GROUP: A home, place or facility providing daycare for seven (7) to
twelve (12) children.
   DEDICATION: The setting apart of land or interest in land for use by the
public. Land becomes dedicated when accepted by the city as a public
dedication, either by ordinance, resolution or entry in the official minutes,
or by the recording of a plat showing such dedication.
   DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY: A building, or portion thereof, containing two (2)
or more dwelling units, commonly referred to as apartments and may include
public housing. This applies to duplexes, triplexes, quads or clusters of
dwelling units not on separate lots.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A building designed for use and occupancy by one
family, is an equivalent dwelling unit (EDU) and has waste water flow of 250
gallons per day per unit. This definition excludes any group residence whose
occupants are under the supervision of the state board of correction pursuant
to section 20-219, Idaho Code, or who are required to register pursuant to
chapter 83 or 84, title 18, Idaho Code, or whose tenancy would otherwise
constitute a direct threat to the health or safety of other individuals or
whose tenancy would result in substantial physical damage to the property of
others.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY, ATTACHED: A dwelling consisting of two or more
dwelling units attached to one another by a common wall(s) with each dwelling
unit being on a separate lot, commonly referred to as townhouses and/or
townhomes.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY: A building designed for use and occupancy by two (2)
families living independently of each other.
   DWELLING UNIT: A building designed with complete independent living
facilities for one or more persons including permanent provisions for living,
sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation.
   EXTRAORDINARY RESOURCES: Government public health and safety personnel,
equipment or other resources which would not, in the absence of a special
event, be required or expended.
   FAMILY: One or more individuals living together related by blood or marriage
or a group of individuals not necessarily related by blood, marriage, adoption,
or guardianship living together in one single-family dwelling unit as a single
housekeeping unit. For purposes of this title, "family" does not include any
society, club, fraternity, sorority, association, lodge, federation, or like
organizations; or any group of individuals who are in group living arrangements
as a result of criminal offenses.
   FIREARM: Any instrument used in the propulsion of shot, shells, bullets or
other harmful objects by the action of gunpowder exploded within it, or release
of pressurized gas, compressed air, expanding gas, accelerant, spring or other
force producing means including, but not limited to, what are commonly known as
air rifles, BB guns, spring guns, wrist rockets, airsoft guns, pellet guns,
paintball guns, bows, compound bows, crossbows and recurve bows. Firearm also
includes the frame or receiver of any such weapon, any firearm muffler or
silencer, or any destructive device, including, but not limited to, a bomb,
grenade, rocket, missile, mine or similar device.
   FLEX SPACE: A building or multi-use project used for small-scale warehousing
and light industrial activity combined with office, retail, and/or other
commercial uses. Individual units or buildings may be used entirely for a
commercial, retail, or office use, but any warehousing and/or light industrial
use cannot exceed 70% of the total square footage of the building or individual
unit. Flex Space does not include mini-warehouse storage, individual storage
space for rent, or a use that involves a high level of truck and loading
activity.
      Front and street-side elevations are enhanced with more architectural
detail, including variations in roof form, building height, and building
materials in addition to an increased use of glass and architectural features
involving wood, faux wood, and/or metal. Entries are easily identifiable with
projecting or recessed forms and additional architectural detail.
      Loading docks and industrial roll-up/garage doors are located on only the
rear and non-street sides of the flex space. However, glass sliding doors and
architectural garage doors enhanced with significant amounts of glass, metal
and/or faux wood can be located on the front elevation if they enhance the
aesthetic of the front elevation.
   FLOOD TERMS:
      Area Of Shallow Flood Hazard: A designated AO or AH zone in the flood
insurance rate map (FIRM). The base flood depths range from one foot to three
feet (1' - 3'); a clearly defined channel does not exist; the path of flooding
is unpredictable and indeterminate; and, velocity flow may be evident.
      Area Of Special Flood Hazard: The land in the floodplain subject to one
percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any given year. Designation on
flood insurance rate maps always includes the letters A or V. Also known as the
"regulatory floodplain".
      Base Flood: A flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year; also referred to as the "100-year flood".
Designation on flood insurance rate maps always includes the letters A or V.
      Base Flood Elevation (BFE): The water surface elevation during the base
flood in relation to a specified datum. The base flood elevation is depicted on
the FIRM to the nearest foot and in the FIS to the nearest 0.1 foot.
      Basement: The portion of a structure including crawl space with its floor
subgrade (below ground level) on all sides.
      Critical Facility: Facilities that are critical to the health and welfare
of the community and that are especially important during and after a hazardous
event or have the potential to increase risk to the community during a
hazardous event, which include, but are not limited to, police stations, fire
stations, hospitals, schools, hazardous chemical facilities, propane storage
yards, cemeteries.
      Development: Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drill operations, and storage of
equipment or materials.
      Elevation Certificate: A federal emergency management agency form used to
provide elevation information necessary to ensure compliance with the
applicable community floodplain ordinances, to determine the proper insurance
rate premium, and/or support a request for a letter of map amendment or
revision (LOMA or LOMR) to flood insurance rate maps.
      Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM): An official map of a community, issued
by the federal insurance administration of the federal emergency management
agency (FEMA), delineating the areas of special flood hazard and/or risk
premium zones applicable to the community.
      Flood Insurance Study: The official report by the federal insurance
administration of the federal emergency management agency (FEMA) evaluating
flood hazards and containing flood profiles, floodway boundaries and water
surface elevations of the base flood.
      Flood Or Flooding: A general and temporary condition of partial or
complete inundation of normally dry land areas from:
         A.   The overflow of inland waters; or
         B.   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters
from any source.
      Floodplain: Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from
any source (see also definition of Flood Terms: Area Of Special Flood Hazard).
      Floodway (Regulatory Floodway): The channel of a river or other
watercourse and adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge
the base flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more
than one foot (1') as shown on the flood insurance rate map.
       Lowest Floor: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement or crawl space). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable
solely for parking vehicles, building access, or storage in an area other than
a basement or crawl space, is not considered a structure’s lowest floor,
provided that such enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in
violation of the application non-elevation design requirements of this chapter.
      New Construction: For the purposes of determining insurance rates, new
construction means structures for which the start of construction commenced on
or after the effective date of September 3, 1980 of the initial Flood Insurance
Rate Map and includes any subsequent improvements or additions to such
structures but does not include maintenance or repairs.
      For floodplain management purposes, new construction means structures for
which the start of construction commenced on or after the effective date of a
floodplain management regulation adopted by the City of Middleton and includes
any subsequent improvements or additions to such structures but does not
include maintenance and repairs.Lowest Finished Floor: The lowest floor of the
lowest enclosed area (including basement) that is finished or habitable. This
includes any floor that could be converted to such a use including a basement.
An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, used solely for parking of
vehicles, building access, or storage, in an area other than a basement, is not
considered a structure's lowest floor. The lowest floor is a determinate for
the flood insurance premium for a building, home or business.
      Start Of Construction: Includes substantial improvement, and means the
date the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, placement or other improvement was within one hundred
eighty (180) days of the permit date. The actual start means either the first
placement of permanent construction of a structure or site, such as the pouring
of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or
any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured
home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation,
such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of
roads and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings,
piers or foundation or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory structures, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. (Note:
Accessory structures are not exempt from any ordinance requirements.) For a
substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of the
building, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimension of the
building.
      Structure: A walled and roofed building and a gas or liquid storage tank
that is principally above ground.
      Substantial Damage: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed fifty percent (50%) of its market value before the damage occurred.
      Substantial Improvement: Reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty
percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the "start of
construction" of the improvement. The market value of the structure should be:
a) the appraised value of the structure prior to the start of the initial
repair or improvement, or b) in the case of damage, the value of the structure
prior to the damage occurring. This term includes structures which have
incurred "substantial damage", regardless of the actual amount of repair work
performed. The term does not include either:
         A.   A project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of State or local Health, Sanitary, or Safety Code specifications,
which have been identified by the local Code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions, or
         B.   Alteration of a historic structure provided that the alteration
will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic
structure.
   FLOOR AREA, GROSS: The sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several
floors including the exterior walls of a building or portion thereof.
   FLOOR AREA, NET: That portion of the gross floor area of the building
occupied by the listed use or uses and shall include hallways, storage and
packaging space, dressing or restrooms and laboratory or workrooms; provided,
however, that floor space within the building reserved for parking or loading
of vehicles, and basement space used only for building maintenance and
utilities shall be excluded.
   FUEL YARD: The use of a site where the primary business is that of storing
fuel, including, but not limited to, propane, kerosene, diesel, home heating
fuel, and gasoline.
   FUNERAL HOME: An establishment engaged in preparation of funeral services.
Uses may include the preparation of the deceased for burial, for the display of
the deceased and/or for ceremonies or services related thereto. A funeral home
may include facilities for embalming, but not for cremation. It may also
include facilities for the storage of caskets, funeral supplies, and funeral
vehicles. A funeral home may also be known as a funeral parlor or a mortuary.
   GARBAGE: Kitchen and table refuse and offal, swill and also every
accumulation of animal, fruit or vegetable matter, liquid or otherwise, that
attends the preparation, consumption, use, decay, cooking, dealing in, or
storage of animal matter, meats, fish, fowl, birds, fruits or vegetables;
except, that dead animals exceeding ten (10) pounds in weight, and offal of
slaughterhouses are not included within the meaning of the word "garbage" as
herein defined. The word "garbage" does not include dishwater or wastewater.
   GRAFFITI: Graffiti is not public art. Graffiti is any inscription, word,
painting, sign, figure, design, or other drawings which are written, scrawled,
printed, marked, etched, scratched, sprayed, drawn, painted, or engraved on or
otherwise affixed to any surface of a building, wall, sidewalk, road, sign,
phone pole, any permanent or temporary structure, or any other exterior surface
on public or private property by any graffiti implement or other device.
   GRAFFITI IMPLEMENT: An aerosol paint container, a broad tipped marker, gum
label, paint stick or graffiti stick, etching equipment, brush or any other
device capable of scarring, etching, or leaving a visible mark on any surface.
   HILLSIDE SUBDIVISION: Any subdivision or that portion of a subdivision
located in terrain having an average slope exceeding ten percent (10%).
   HOME OCCUPATION: Any business, profession, occupation or trade conducted for
gain or support within a residential building, or upon a lot if agriculturally
related, which is incidental and secondary to the use of such a building for
dwelling purposes and which does not change the residential character of the
dwelling.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACES: Those hard surface areas located upon real property
which either prevent or retard the entry of water into the soil mantle, which
existed under natural conditions preexistent to development, and/or which cause
water to run off the surface in greater quantities or at an increased rate of
flow from the flow present under natural conditions prior to development.
Impervious surfaces include, but are not limited to, rooftops, concrete or
asphalt sidewalks, walkways, patio areas, driveways, parking lots or storage
areas, and graveled, oiled, macadam or other surfaces which similarly impact
the natural saturation or runoff patterns which existed prior to development.
   IRRIGATION FACILITIES: Includes canals, laterals, ditches, conduits, gates,
pumps and allied equipment necessary for the supply, delivery and drainage of
irrigation water.
   JUNK VEHICLE: Any vehicle which:
      A.   Does not meet the vehicle equipment standards of Idaho Code title
49, chapter 9, as a result of damage or neglect, unless the vehicle is driven
on the City roadways on a regular basis; and
      B.   Is not in the current process of being restored or repaired by its
owner(s); and
      C.   Is not currently registered according to Idaho Code title 49,
chapter 4.
This is a distinct and separate classification from abandoned vehicle.
Abandoned vehicles are vehicles belonging to one person and left on the
property of another person or political subdivision. Junk vehicles are
unregistered, fail to conform to vehicle equipment standards and are not in the
process of repair and restoration.
   JUNKYARD: An outdoor space where junk, waste, discarded or salvaged
materials are stored or handled, including wrecking yards, and yards for used
building materials and places or yards for storage of salvaged building and
structural steel materials and equipment; excluding yards or establishments for
the sale, purchase or storage of used cars or machinery in operable condition,
and the processing of used cars or machinery in operable condition, and the
processing of used, discarded or salvaged materials as part of a permitted
manufacturing operation on the same premises.
   KENNEL, COMMERCIAL: Any lot or premises or portion thereof, on which three
(3) or more dogs, cats and other household domestic animals of at least three
(3) months of age are maintained, harbored, possessed, boarded, bred or cared
for in return for compensation or kept for sale.
   KENNEL, NONCOMMERCIAL: Any lot or premises or portion thereof in which more
than two (2) dogs, cats or other household domestic animals of at least three
(3) months of age are kept and/or boarded.
   LABORATORY; MEDICAL, DENTAL, OPTICAL: The use of a site for medical, dental
or optical lab work that can be performed outside of a hospital or medical
office.
   LANDSCAPING: Any activity that modifies the visible features of an area of
land, and includes any of the following:
   A.   Living elements, such as flora or fauna; or what is commonly known as
gardening, the art and craft of growing plants with a goal of creating a
beautiful environment within the landscape;
   B.   Natural elements such as landforms, terrain shape and elevation, or
bodies of water;
   C.   Human elements such as structures, fences or other material objects
created and/or installed by humans; and
   D.   Abstract elements such as artistic and lighting conditions.
   LOT: A piece or parcel of land separated from other pieces or parcels as
described by metes and bounds, aliquot parts or as part of a recorded
subdivision.
      Corner Lot: A lot abutting on two (2) or more intersecting roads where
the interior angle of intersection does not exceed one hundred thirty five
degrees (135°).
      Double Frontage Lot: A lot abutting two (2) parallel or approximately
parallel roads.
      Interior Lot: A lot having but one side abutting on a road.
   LOT COVERAGE: The area of a lot occupied by the principal building or
buildings and accessory buildings.
   LOT LINE: The boundary property line encompassing a lot. The front lot line
is the boundary line which abuts a public road. For a corner lot, the owner may
select either road line as the front lot line. The rear lot line is the lot
line most nearly parallel to and most remote from the front property line. All
other lot lines are side lot lines. An "interior lot line" is a side line in
common with another lot.
   LOT WIDTH: The width of a lot shall be:
      A.   If the side property lines are parallel, the perpendicular distance
between these side lines.
      B.   If the side property lines are not parallel, the width of the lot
shall be the length between side lot lines at right angles to the axis of the
lot measured at the required front setback line.
   LOW VOLUME LOCAL ROAD:
      A.   A low volume local road has a traffic volume of less than four
hundred (400) average daily trips.
      B.   A low volume local road shall not be a freeway, an expressway, an
interchange ramp, a freeway service road, a road on a designated state highway
system, a state maintained roadway, or a residential road in a neighborhood. In
terms of highway classification, it shall be a variation of a conventional road
or a special purpose road.
      C.   A low volume local road shall be classified as either paved or
unpaved.
   MANUFACTURED HOMES:
      Accessory Structure: A structure attached to or located adjacent to a
manufactured home, such as awnings, carports, garages, porches or steps.
      Foundation Fascia: A weather resistant material surrounding the entire
perimeter of a manufactured home which completely encloses the space between
the exterior wall of the manufactured home and the ground.
      Manufactured Home: A structure constructed according to HUD/FHA mobile
home construction and safety standards which is designed to be used as a
residential dwelling.
      Permanently Affixed: A manufactured home which has the running gear and
towing hitch, or similar devices, removed and is set up per manufacturer's
instructions on permanent footings, with supports having an anchoring system
that is totally concealed under the structure and complies with department of
housing and urban development standards.
   MOBILE FOOD TRUCK SERVICE: A vehicle or a readily portable structure used
solely for the purpose of preparing and selling food and beverages to the
public at large. Food trucks used for catering a single event for pay is not
included in this definition.
   MOBILE HOME: A detached single-family dwelling unit having all the following
characteristics:
         A.   Designed for long term occupancy and containing sleeping
accommodations, a flush toilet, a tub or shower bath and kitchen facilities
with plumbing and electrical connections for attachments to outside systems.
         B.   Designed to be transported after fabrication on its own wheels or
on flatbed or other trailers or detachable wheels.
         C.   Arriving at the site where it is to be occupied as a dwelling
complete, including major appliances and furniture, and ready for occupancy
except for minor and incidental unpacking and assembly operations, location of
foundation supports, connection to facilities and the like.
         D.   Designed to be mounted on a chassis running the length of the
unit with the outer walls on cantilevered supports extending from the chassis
or supported by the chassis rather than by a foundation running along the
perimeter of the unit.
         E.   Constructed with vertical exterior siding and a sheet metal roof.
      Cabana: A stationary lightweight structure which may be prefabricated or
demountable, with two (2) or more walls, used adjacent to and in conjunction
with a mobile home to provide additional living space meant to be moved with
the mobile home.
      Carport: A stationary structure consisting of a roof with its supports
used for sheltering a motor vehicle.
      Mobile Home Park: Any privately owned place where two (2) or more mobile
homes used for human occupancy are placed, located and maintained on a
permanent or semipermanent basis within five hundred feet (500') of each other
on a lot, tract or parcel of land under the same ownership, and for which a
fee, rental or contract for payment for such use is collected by or collectible
to the person holding the land.
      Mobile Home Space: A plot of land within a mobile home park designated
for the accommodation of a mobile home.
      Mobile Home Subdivision: A subdivision designed and intended for
residential use where residence is in mobile homes exclusively.
      Nonconforming Mobile Home: A mobile home which is not permitted under the
district in which it is located, but which was permitted by or conformed to
requirements of a zoning ordinance in effect prior to August 10, 1976.
      Permanent Living Quarters: The use of a mobile home on one specific site
for living quarters for a period in excess of forty five (45) days in any
twelve (12) month period shall constitute a use for permanent living quarters.
      Ramada: A stationary structure having a roof extending over a mobile
home, which may also extend over a patio or parking place for motor vehicles,
and is used principally for protection from sun and rain.
   MODULAR HOME: A. A dwelling unit which is fabricated in multiple sections at
a location other than the homesite, by assembly line production techniques or
by other construction methods unique to an off site manufacturing process. The
modular home shall be distinguished from a mobile home in the foundation
system. A modular home shall be constructed so the foundation support turns
along the outer perimeter of the structure.
   B.   Modular homes shall exhibit the following characteristics:
      1. Label certifying compliance with current federal manufactured home
construction and safety standards and/or the international building code
standards.
      2. Minimum floor area of nine hundred fifty (950) square feet.
      3. Roofs shall have a minimum slope of twenty five percent (25%) (3:12)
with minimum one foot (1') overhanging eaves.
      4. Shall have siding materials of wood, masonry, or horizontal
composition or metal.
      5. Will meet current International Building Code standards for
foundations, vents and anchoring.
   MORTUARY: An establishment in which deceased human bodies are kept and
prepared for burial or cremation.
   MOTOR HOME: A self-contained vehicle, designed for human habitation, with
its own motor power, and with a passageway from the body of the home to the
driver's and front passenger's seat.
   NONCONFORMING USE: Any use lawfully occupying a building, structure or land
on the effective date hereof, or of subsequent amendments thereto, which does
not conform to the regulations for the district in which it is located.
   NUISANCE: Anything offensive or obnoxious to the health or welfare of the
inhabitants of the City; or any act or thing repugnant to, or creating a hazard
to, or having a detrimental effect on the property of another person or to the
City, including defacing, scarring or marking publicly owned property.
   NUISANCE MATERIALS: Hazardous, noxious, dangerous, or offensive materials,
including, but not limited to, oil, gasoline, fuel, antifreeze, paint,
pesticides, or herbicides.
   OFF SITE SEWER FACILITY: Any sewer facility (including main lines, manholes,
pump stations, force mains, and related facilities) which is located beyond the
boundary of the development, and has the capability of providing sewer service
beyond the boundary of the development. Sewer facilities located within
existing roadways adjacent to the new development boundary are not considered
off site sewer extensions unless they are requested by the City specifically to
serve adjoining property. Oversized facilities within the boundary of the
development, excluding main lines, may be considered off site if the City
requires said facilities to have excess capacity.
   OFF SITE WATER FACILITY: Any water facility (including main lines, wells,
storage tanks, booster pump stations, pressure reducing valves, and related
facilities) which is located beyond the boundary of the development, and has
the capability of providing water service beyond the boundary of the
development. Water facilities located within existing roadways adjacent to the
new development boundary are not considered off site water extensions unless
they are requested by the City specifically to serve adjoining property.
Oversized facilities within the boundary of the development, excluding main
lines, may be considered off site if the City requires said facilities to have
excess capacity.
   ON SITE OVER DEPTH: Any on site sewer main which is required by the City to
be constructed at a depth in excess of the minimum required to provide service
to the farthest reach within the development, with a minimum allowable main
line depth of four feet (4.0') to the top of pipe below roadway finish grade.
   ON SITE WATER/SEWER STUB OUT: Any on site water or sewer main extension
which is required by the City to be constructed to the subdivision boundary for
the specific purpose of servicing adjoining property. In order to qualify the
stub out must not service any property within the development, or any property
owned or planned to be developed by the developer.
   ORIGINAL LOT/PARCEL: Any single lot or parcel of land, which was of record
and a legal lot at the time of the effective date hereof, but does not meet the
requirements of the district in which it is located for minimum lot width and
area, may be utilized if all other requirements of this title are met.
   OVERSIZED FORCE SEWER MAIN: Any on site sewage force main which is required
by the city to have an inside diameter greater than four inches (4"), or
greater than the size required to handle the peak flow calculated for the
development it is intended to serve with a minimum flow velocity of two feet
(2.0') per second, whichever is greater.
   OVERSIZED GRAVITY SEWER MAIN: Any on site gravity sewer main which is
required by the city to have an inside diameter greater than eight inches (8")
in order to provide capacity in excess of the peak flow calculated for the
development for which it is intended to serve.
   OVERSIZED LIFT STATION: Any on site sewage lift station which is required by
the city to have a capacity in excess of eighty (80) gallons per minute, or in
excess of the peak flow calculated for the development it is intended to serve,
whichever is greater. Pumping capacity in excess of eighty (80) gpm provided in
order to facilitate pumping equipment selection is not considered oversizing.
   OVERSIZED WATER MAIN: Any on site water main which is required by the city
water master plan to have an inside diameter greater than eight inches (8").
   PARKING SPACE: Usable space within a public or private parking area or
building, not less than one hundred eighty-nine (189) square feet (9 feet x 21
feet) exclusive of access drives, aisles or ramps for the storage of one
passenger automobile or commercial vehicle.
   PAWNBROKERAGE: Engaged in the buying and selling of new and/or secondhand
merchandise (not including passenger vehicles), and offering loans secured by
personal property.
   PAYDAY/TITLE/MONEY LOAN: "Payday loan establishment" means an establishment
licensed to make payday loans pursuant to part 4 of chapter 46, title 28, Idaho
Code. "Title loan establishment" means an establishment licensed to make title
loans pursuant to part 5 of chapter 46, title 28, Idaho Code. "Payday loan"
means a payday loan as defined in Idaho Code section 28-46-401. "Title loan"
means a title loan as defined in Idaho Code section 28-46-502.
   PEAK SEWER FLOW: The required design flow for any development calculated in
accordance with the requirements of the recommended standards for wastewater
facilities "Ten States Standards".
   PEAK WATER FLOW: The required design flow for any development shall be based
upon the fire flow requirements for the development and shall be calculated in
accordance with the requirements of the fire suppression rating schedule.
Minimum system pressure at peak flow is twenty (20) psi.
   PERFORMANCE BOND: An amount of money or other negotiable security paid by
the subdivider or his surety to the city which guarantees that the subdivider
will perform all actions required by the governing body regarding an approved
plat, and provides that if the subdivider defaults and fails to comply with the
provisions of an approved plat, the subdivider or his surety will pay damages
to the limit of the bond, or the surety will itself complete the requirements
of the approved plat.
   PIERCING SHOP: Any location where body piercing is engaged in or where the
business of body piercing is conducted. "Body piercing" means the perforation
of any human body part other than an earlobe for the purpose of inserting
jewelry or other decoration or for some other nonmedical purpose.
   PLAINLY AUDIBLE: Sound for which the information content is clearly
communicated to the listener, including, but not limited to, understandable
spoken speech, comprehension of whether a voice is raised or normal,
comprehensible musical rhythms, melody, or instrumentation, and the source of
which is identifiable to the listener.
   PLAT: A map of a subdivision.
      Final Plat: A map of all or part of a subdivision providing substantial
conformance to an approved preliminary plat, prepared by a registered
professional engineer or a registered land surveyor, in accordance with title 6
of this code and Idaho Code.
      Preliminary Plat: A preliminary map, including supporting data,
indicating a proposed subdivision development, prepared in accordance with
title 6 of this code and Idaho Code.
      Recorded Plat: A final plat bearing all of the certificates of approval
required in title 6 of this code and duly recorded in the county recorder's
office.
   PUBLIC DISPLAY OR OTHER EVENT USING FIREWORKS: Any use of fireworks except
the use of nonaerial common fireworks during the normal sales and use period
provided in section 39-2606, Idaho Code.
   PUBLIC FACILITY: Any land, structure or building owned by a government
agency. For example:
      A.   Water and wastewater collection, treatment and disposal facilities;
      B.   Stormwater collection, retention, detention, treatment and disposal
facilities, flood control facilities, and bank and shore protection and
enhancement improvements;
      C.   Landscaping associated with roads and bridges and rights of way
associated therewith;
      D.   Parks, open space and recreation areas, and related capital
improvements; and
      E.   Public safety facilities, including law enforcement, fire, emergency
medical and rescue and road lighting facilities.
   PUBLIC UTILITY YARD: Buildings, structures, or facilities, including
generating and switching stations, poles, lines, pipes, pumping stations,
repeaters, antennas, transmitters and receivers, valves and all buildings and
structures relating to the furnishing of utility services, such as electric,
gas, telephone, water, sewer, and public transit, to the public.
   PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY: Any system or water supply intended or used for human
consumption or other domestic uses, including source, treatment, storage,
transmission and distribution facilities, where water is furnished to any
collection or number of individuals, or is made available to the public for
human consumption or domestic use.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A self-contained vehicle, designed for human
habitation, with its own motor power, and with a passageway from the body of
the home to the driver’s and front passenger’s seat.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK: An area for the temporary placing of movable
vehicles designed and used for human occupation and housekeeping which involves
land under single ownership with lots rented for the location of recreational
vehicles and provision of facilities and services to campers by management.
   REFUSE: Useless or worthless matter including, but not limited to: all waste
wood, tree trimmings, grass cuttings, dead plants, weeds, leaves, dead trees,
chips, shavings, sawdust, printed matter, paper, used and discarded articles of
clothing, combustible waste pulp, boxes and packaging materials, glass, ashes,
construction debris, garbage, stable matter, junk or badly weathered building
materials not currently in use, stoves, refrigerators, washers, dryers,
furniture, mattresses.
   REFUSE INCINERATOR: Any device designed or operated to reduce the volume of
refuse. Natural gas fired pathological incinerators are excluded.
   RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property. Also a parcel of land dedicated or reserved for use as a public way
which normally includes roads, sidewalks, utilities or other service function.
   ROAD: A public right of way which provides vehicular and pedestrian access
to adjacent properties.
      Arterial: A general term including expressways, principal and minor
arterial roads; and interstate, state or county highways having regional
continuity.
      Boulevard: Any public road that provides travel lanes in each direction
with an unpaved raised or landscaped borrow median constructed or marked in a
manner to preclude its use by moving vehicles except in emergencies or for left
turn lanes.
      Collector Road: A road that collects traffic from local roads in
residential neighborhoods, commercial, or industrial areas and channels it into
the arterial system.
      Local Road: A road that provides for direct access to apartments,
residential lots, commercial lots, industrial or other abutting lands for local
traffic movements and connects to collector and/or arterial roads.
      Private Road: A road that is not accepted for public uses or maintenance
which provides vehicular and pedestrian access.
      A road that provides for direct access to townhome lots and associated
alley(s).
   RUBBISH: Ashes, broken crockery, broken bottles, broken bricks, tin vessels,
trimmings from lawns and flower gardens, including shrubbery, pasteboard boxes,
berry boxes, paper sacks, straw, sawdust, packing materials, shavings and
discarded household utensils; but the term "rubbish" shall not include broken
or discarded stoves or furniture, broken or discarded building material, trees
or any waste accumulated, other than heretofore specified.
   SALVAGE: The accumulation for storing, selling, dismantling, shredding or
compressing of scrap, discarded material, equipment or abandoned vehicles.
   SALVAGE YARD: A facility or area for storing, selling, dismantling,
shredding, compressing, or salvaging scrap, discarded material, or equipment.
   SECURITY UNIT: A mobile home used for residential purposes in the operation
of a business or industry to provide living quarters on the premises for a
night watchman or caretaker.
   SERVICE STATION: Premises used primarily for the retail sale and delivery to
the vehicle of motor vehicle fuel and of lubricating oils, tires and incidental
vehicular accessories, and providing vehicular lubrication and related
services, including minor motor vehicle repairs.
   SETBACK: The space on a lot required to be left open and unoccupied by
buildings or structures, either by the front, rear and side yard requirements
of title 5 of this code, or by delineation on a recorded subdivision map.
   SIGN: Any structure or natural object, such as a tree, rock, bush and the
ground itself, or part thereof or device attached thereto or painted or
represented thereon, which shall be used to attract attention to any object,
product, place, activity, person, institution, organization or business, or
which shall display or include any letter, word, model, banner, flag, pennant,
insignia, device or representation used as, or which is in the nature of an
announcement, direction or advertisement. For the purpose of this definition,
the word "sign" does not include the flag, pennant or insignia of any nation,
state, city or other political unit, or any political, educational, charitable,
philanthropic, civic, professional, religious, or like campaign, drive,
movement or event.
   SIGNS:
      Abandoned Sign: A sign which pertains to a time, event or purpose that
has passed or no longer applies.
      Animated And/Or Moving Message Signs: A sign, any visible part of which
blinks, flashes, moves or changes color, regardless of the source of energy
causing the animation, except signs performing a public service function
indicating time, temperature, stock market quotations or similar services.
      Copy: Individually or in combination, any letter, number, symbol,
drawing, design, graphic, picture, diagram, sketch, or the like. Copy area is
computed by measuring the area enclosed by straight lines drawn to enclose the
extremities of the copy.
      Freestanding Sign: A sign which is supported by one or more uprights,
poles or braces in or upon the ground.
      Mobile Sign: A sign able to move or be moved freely or easily.
      Off-Site Sign: A sign mounted or installed on property other than that
occupied by the use being advertised by said sign.
      Permanent Sign: A sign which is designed and constructed to resist the
wind and seismic forces. This definition includes signs attached to buildings
and signs attached to poles and/or bases placed in the ground.
      Roof Sign: A sign erected upon or above a roof or parapet of a building
or structure.
      Semi-Permanent Sign: A sign which is designed and constructed to resist
the wind and seismic forces. This definition includes signs attached to
buildings and signs attached to poles and/or bases placed in the ground. Semi-
permanent signs have an intended life of no more than five (5) years.
      Sign Area: The entire area of a sign on which copy is to be placed (signs
with advertising display surfaces on both sides shall be considered 1 sign and
both display surfaces are included in sign area). The structure supporting the
sign is not included in determining the area of the sign unless the structure
is designed in a way to display copy or to form an integral background for the
displayed copy. Sign area is calculated by measuring the perimeter of the
backing containing copy.
      Special Event Sign: A temporary sign that announces or advertises a
campaign, drive, activity, or celebration of a civic, political, public,
philanthropic, religious, or educational organization for noncommercial
purposes.
      Wall Sign: Any sign attached to or erected against the wall of a building
or structure, with the exposed face of the sign in a plane parallel to the
plane of said wall.
      Window Sign: Any sign placed inside or upon a window surface visible from
the outside of a building or structure and designed to be viewed from the
exterior.
   SMOKING: Inhaling, exhaling, burning, carrying or possessing any combusting
(heated, lit or smoldering) tobacco or any other substance, whether contained
in a cigar, cigarette, pipe or any other object. Smoking does not include
possession of an unlit or unheated cigar, cigarette or pipe. Smoking includes
e-cigarettes and vaping.
   SOLICITOR: An individual, including an employee or agent of a group of
individuals, partnership, or corporation, whether a resident of the City of
Middleton or not, who is taking or attempting to take, whether in person or by
telephone, orders for sale of food, beverages, goods, merchandise or services
to be furnished or performed in the future, whether he is collecting advance
payments on such sales or not. Such definition shall include any person who,
for himself, or for another person, hires, leases, uses or occupies any
building, structure, or motor vehicle within the City of Middleton for the sole
purpose of exhibiting samples and taking orders for future delivery.
   SPECIAL EVENT: Any organized formation, preplanned single gathering, short
term or temporary event or series of related consecutive daily gatherings or
events of an entertainment, cultural, recreational, educational, political,
religious or sporting nature, or of any other nature, expected to draw one
hundred (100) or more persons at any session as participants or spectators
which is proposed to be held on any City road, park property or other public
property that is owned, leased, operated, maintained, regulated, or controlled
by the City or other organized activity for a common or collective use that has
an impact on public property or facilities and the provision of City public
services in response thereto.
Examples of special events include, by way of illustration and without
limitation, these types of events if conducted on the City property, or upon
the sidewalks and roads of the City: concerts, dances, assemblages,
processions, parades, circuses, fairs, festivals, block parties, community
events, spectator sporting events, mass participation sports (such as,
marathons and running events, bicycle races or tours, sports tournaments),
other organized activity conducted for a common or collective use. Applicants,
sponsors, or promoters of events which would otherwise qualify as a special
event but expect less than one hundred (100) persons shall, at their choice, be
entitled to use the City Clerk's special event permit application, related
documents, and process to seek appropriate government agency approvals.
      Projected Attendees And Participants: The estimated number of persons who
will attend or participate, are reasonably likely to attend or participate, or
are expected to attend or participate in a special event. The number estimate
should consider the type and format of the special event, the size and location
of the event, any prior events which were similar, including the special event
history itself if it is an annual event or part of a series of gatherings or
events, and the entertainment, if any, planned.
      Special Event - City Sponsored: A preplanned single gathering, event or
series of related consecutive daily gatherings or events of an entertainment,
cultural, recreational, educational, political, religious or sporting nature,
or of any other nature, expected to draw one thousand (1,000) or more persons
at any special event as participants or spectators, and is, in major part,
initiated, financed, and executed by the City of Middleton or one or more of
its departments.
   SPONTANEOUS EVENT: An unplanned or unannounced event that is occasioned by
unforeseen circumstances, news or affairs coming into public knowledge less
than forty eight (48) hours before the event, which was not contemplated
beforehand by any participants therein. An event which requires advance
planning such as a recreational event, competition/contest/spectator sport,
parade, fair, festival, carnival, ticketed event, sales/trade show, or event
which requires a permit from the City is not considered to be a spontaneous
event.
   STAGING AREA: A designated area where equipment, materials, operable
vehicles, supplies are located but used elsewhere.
   STANDARD DRAWINGS AND SPECIFICATIONS: A set of adopted regulations setting
forth the details, specifications and instructions to be followed in the
planning, design and construction of certain public improvements in the City
formulated by the City Engineer, the District Health Department and/or other
City departments and approved by the City Council.
   STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected, except fences, driveways, patio
slabs, sidewalks, mechanical equipment slabs or any other similar horizontal
surface, which requires permanent location on the ground or is attached to
something having location on the ground.
   SUBDIVISION: The division of any site, lot, tract or parcel of land, as it
exists, into more than one part for the purpose of transfer of ownership or
development, whether immediate or future, and as more fully described in
section
5-3-1 of this Code.
   TATTOO PARLOR: Any location where tattooing is engaged in or where the
business of tattooing is conducted. This does not include day spas, beauty
parlors and other similar businesses.
   TEMPORARY MERCHANT: Any person whether owner or otherwise, whether a
resident of the City of Middleton or not, who engages in a temporary business
of selling and delivering goods, wares, merchandise and services within the
City of Middleton, and who, in furtherance of such purpose, hires, leases, uses
or occupies any building, structure or motor vehicle within the City of
Middleton for the exhibition and sale of food, beverages, goods, merchandise or
services.
   TERMINAL YARD, TRUCKING: An area or building where commercial vehicles load
and unload cargo and freight and where the cargo and freight may be stored,
broken down or aggregated into smaller or larger loads for transfer to other
vehicles or modes of transportation.
   TINY HOUSE: A home of four hundred (400) square feet or less, either on
wheels or a foundation. A home between four hundred (400) and one thousand
(1,000) square feet is considered a "small" house.
   TRAILER: A vehicle without motor power designed for carrying persons or
property on its own structure and to be drawn by a vehicle with motor power.
The term trailer shall include coach, boat trailer, storage trailer, travel
trailer, utility trailer, or other similar trailer, but shall not include a
semitrailer.
   TRAILER, UTILITY: A vehicular type unit designed to be towed including, but
not limited to: horse trailers; stock trailers; flatbed trailers; snowmobile
trailers; boat trailers; motorcycle trailers; four-wheeler trailers; enclosed
utility trailers; contractor trailers; open trailers and equipment trailers.
   TRAVEL TRAILER: A vehicular portable structure designated as a temporary
dwelling for travel, recreational and vacation uses.
   TRUCK: Vehicles exceeding a maximum gross vehicle weight rating (GVWR) of
eight thousand (8,000) pounds (excluding pickup, dually style trucks, and SUV
type vehicles used for residential purposes) designed, used or maintained
mainly for the purpose of carrying goods and materials, usually consisting of a
single self-propelled unit but also often composed of a trailer vehicle hauled
by a tractor unit.
   TRUCK-TRACTOR: A noncargo carrying power unit used in combination with a
semitrailer. Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily for drawing other
vehicles but not so constructed as to carry a load other than a part of the
weight of the vehicle and load so drawn.
   VAGRANT: Every person without a residence.
   VAPING/ELECTRONIC CIGARETTES: A device that heats up a liquid solution
consisting of nicotine, propylene glycol and/or vegetable glycol, and
flavorings to a point where it actually turns into a vapor which can be
inhaled.
   VARIANCE: An adjustment or special exception made in the application of the
regulations set forth in this title to a particular piece of property which,
because of special circumstances, may be deprived of privileges commonly
enjoyed by other properties in the same zone or vicinity. Among other things,
it can be a modification of requirements with respect to fences and walls; lot
size; lot coverage; width; depth; front, side or rear yards; setbacks; parking
spaces; height of structures; or other title provision affecting the size or
shape of structure or the placement of structures upon lots.
   VICINITY MAP: A small scale map showing the location of a tract of land in
relation to a larger area.
   VISION TRIANGLE (Also Known As SIGHT TRIANGLE): A protected vision area
established to ensure that drivers have an unobstructed view as they come upon
a driveway access, alleyway or intersection. No hedge, shrub, fence, sign, wall
or other obstruction of any nature between three feet (3') and ten feet (10')
in height shall be permitted within the vision triangle.
   A.   Intersection Of Two Roads: That triangle of land defined on any corner
lot by measuring from the projected intersection of the roadway back of
sidewalk a distance of forty feet (40') along each roadway and connecting the
two (2) points with a straight line, this defines the boundaries of a vision
triangle of two (2) roads.
   B.   Intersection Of An Alley Or Driveway And A Road: That triangle of land
defined adjacent to any alley or driveway intersecting a road by measuring
along the alley or driveway edge and the back of sidewalk of the adjacent road
twenty feet (20') and connecting the two (2) points with a straight line, this
defines the boundaries of a vision triangle of a road and a driveway or alley.
   WATER USER: As used herein, any single-family dwelling or each unit of a
multiple-family dwelling and each apartment, mobile home, or any business or
water user.
   WRECKING YARD: Any use of premises, excluding fully enclosed buildings, on
which two (2) or more motor vehicles not in operating condition are standing
more than thirty (30) days, or on which used motor vehicles, or parts thereof,
are dismantled or stored.
(Ord. 531, 4-2-2014; amd. Ord. 562, 6-17-2015; Ord. 569, 12-21-2015; Ord. 570,
1-20-2016; Ord. 578, 5-4-2016; Ord. 587, 1-18-2017; Ord. 590, 4-5-2017; Ord.
594, 8-16-2017; Ord. 618, 6-5-2019; Ord. 619, 7-17-2019; Ord. 642, 11-18-2020;
Ord. 646, 1-6-2021; Ord. 673, 1-4-2023; Ord. 702, 9-18-2024)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: Misdemeanors
1-4-2: Infractions
1-4-3: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: MISDEMEANORS:
A violation of any provision of this code or any other city ordinance
specifically declared to be a misdemeanor may be fined in a sum not to exceed
one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for any offense and such person may be
confined in jail for a period of not more than six (6) months. Either or both
such fine and imprisonment may be imposed, and in addition thereto, any person
so convicted shall pay such restitution, damages, collection or other costs as
the court may assess. (Ord. 587, 1-18-2017)
1-4-2: INFRACTIONS:
Unless otherwise provided, any person found in violation of any provision of
this code or any other ordinance of the city is guilty of an infraction and may
be fined one hundred and fifty dollars ($150.00) for the first offense, and two
hundred and fifty dollars ($250) for the second offense. Third and subsequent
offenses are misdemeanors and punishable as provided in section
1-4-1  of this chapter. These fines may be in addition to any other penalties
prescribed by this code. (Ord. 587, 1-18-2017; amd. Ord. 694, 3-20-2024)
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intent of
the council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or employee is
specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the duty. (Ord. 587,
1-18-2017)
CHAPTER 5
ELECTED AND APPOINTED OFFICERS; BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
SECTION:
1-5-1: Mayor
1-5-2: City Council
1-5-3: Meetings
1-5-4: Appointed Officers
1-5-5: Planning And Zoning Commission
1-5-6: Library Board
1-5-7: Building Code Board Of Appeals
1-5-8: Local Improvement District Advisory Committee
1-5-9: City Of Middleton Youth Council
1-5-1: MAYOR:
   A.   Duties, Generally: The Mayor, the Superintending and Administrative
Officer of the City, shall devote so much of his time to the duties of his
office as an efficient and faithful discharge thereof may require. He shall
preside at all meetings of the Council and shall have a vote when the Council
is equally divided, and may call special meetings of the Council when
necessary. He shall appoint all officers of the City, subject to the approval
of the Council, and have such other powers as provided by law. He shall, from
time to time, provide for the Council such information and recommend such
measures as he may deem beneficial to the City. He shall serve as the personnel
officer. He shall require that every officer, on the expiration of his term of
office or resignation or removal, deliver to the City, or his successor, all
assets belonging to such office. He shall perform all other duties required and
necessary for the efficient operation of the business of the City, and all
other duties conferred by the laws of the State of Idaho.
   The Mayor shall have the duties prescribed by title 50, chapter 6, Idaho
Code.
   B.   Salary: The Mayor of Middleton shall receive a monthly salary of five
thousand four hundred sixteen dollars and sixty-six cents ($5,416.66), and
shall receive the same employee benefits as any full-time city employee, except
for accrual of vacation or sick leave.
      1.   Discretionary Election to Serve Without Compensation: Solely for the
purposes of the Mayor’s salary and employment benefits, the Mayor may elect, at
any time, to serve as without compensation from the City of Middleton. Such an
election shall not impact the Mayor’s duties, responsibilities, or authorities,
and the impact thereof shall be limited solely to the exclusion of the Mayor
from being treated as an employee for payroll purposes. Such an election may be
revoked at any time.
   C.   Discretionary Spending: The Mayor of Middleton shall have discretionary
approval on non-emergency expenses up to $6,000.00. The Mayor of Middleton
shall also have discretionary approval on necessary emergency expenses over
$6,000.00 including but not limited to proper maintenance of municipal water
and sewer systems. (Ord. 548, 1-21-2015; amd. Ord. 623, 8-7-2019; Ord. 648, 8-
4-2021; Ord. 690, 2-7-2024; Ord. 691, 2-21-2024)
1-5-2: CITY COUNCIL:
   A.   Composition: The legislative authority of the City shall be vested in a
Council consisting of four (4) members, qualified as provided by law. The
Council shall have such powers and duties as prescribed in Idaho Code section
50-701.
   B.   Salary Of Members: Each member of the Council shall receive a monthly
salary of one thousand and thirty-three dollars and thirty-three cents
($1,033.33).
(Ord. 548, 1-21-2015; amd. Ord. 623, 8-7-2019; Ord. 712, 8-20-2025)
1-5-3: MEETINGS:
   A.   Date and Time: The Council shall hold regular meetings on the first and
third Wednesday of each month. Each meeting shall be held in the building
located at 1103 W Main Street and commence at five thirty o’clock (5:30) P.M.,
unless otherwise approved by the Council. If the first or third Wednesday shall
fall on a holiday, the meeting shall be held the evening following at the same
time.
   B.   Special Meetings: The Mayor or one-half (1/2) plus one of the
membership of the Council may call special meetings as provided in Idaho Code
section 74-204(2). All regular and special meetings shall comply with Idaho
Code section 74-201 et seq., regarding open meetings.
   C.   Mayoral Authority: The Mayor shall preside over all meetings of the
City Council and has all authority to conduct such meetings in a manner he or
she deems fit and to maintain the order thereof.
   D.   Meeting Agendas: Any member of the City Council shall have the
authority to add items to the agenda and have them labeled as “Action Items.”
Such additions by City Council members shall be submitted to the City Clerk at
least five business days prior to the meeting at which they will be heard, and
they shall be limited to two items per agenda. The Mayor may decline to
agendize any proposed item that is profane or defamatory. In the event the
Mayor declines to agendize the item, a substitute item shall be placed upon the
council agenda to allow the council to consider overriding the Mayor’s decision
and placing the item on a future council agenda. (Ord. 548, 1-21-2015; amd.
Ord. 619, 7-17-2019; Ord. 639, 9-2-2020; Ord. 667, 7-6-2022)
1-5-4: APPOINTED OFFICERS:
   A.   City Clerk: The City Clerk shall be appointed by the Mayor, with the
consent of the City Council and shall have those duties as prescribed by Idaho
Code section 50-207. The City Clerk or designee shall be responsible for
receiving and responding to all public records requests.
   B.   City Treasurer: The City Treasurer shall be appointed by the Mayor with
the consent of the City Council. The City Clerk may be appointed to serve as
the City Treasurer. The City Treasurer shall be the custodian of all monies
belonging to the City and shall perform those other duties set forth in section
50-208 and other sections of the Idaho Code and as directed by the Mayor and
City Council.
   C.   City Attorney: The city attorney shall be appointed by the mayor with
the consent of the city council and shall have those duties as prescribed by
Idaho Code section 50-208A.
   D.   City Engineer: The mayor, with the consent of the city council, may
appoint or contract with a city engineer, which shall perform such duties as
provided by Idaho Code, city ordinances and direction of the mayor.
   E.   Public Works Superintendent: The mayor, with the consent of the city
council, may appoint or contract with a city public works superintendent, which
shall perform such duties as provided by Idaho Code, city ordinances and
direction of the mayor.
   F.   Building Official: The mayor, with the consent of the city council, may
appoint or contract with a city building official, which shall perform such
duties as provided by Idaho Code, city ordinances and direction of the mayor.
   G.   Planning And Zoning Official: The mayor, with the consent of the city
council, may appoint or contract with a city planning and zoning official,
which shall perform such duties as provided by Idaho Code, city ordinances and
direction of the mayor.
   H.   Chief Of Police: The mayor, with the consent of city council, may
appoint a chief of police, who shall perform such duties as provided by Idaho
laws and city ordinances.
   I.   City Administrator: The mayor, with the consent of city council, may
appoint a city administrator, who shall perform such general oversight,
supervisory, human resource and other duties as assigned by the mayor.
   J.   Terms Of Office, Unappointment: The above referenced appointive
officials, and any other officials duly appointed by the mayor and city
council, shall serve until removed from appointment by the procedures
identified in Idaho Code 50-206.
(Ord. 587, 1-18-2017; amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018; Ord. 619, 7-17-2019)
1-5-5: PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION:
   A.   Commission Established: There is hereby created and established, under
the provisions of Idaho Code section 67-6504, a commission to be known as the
"Middleton planning and zoning commission".
   B.   Membership And Terms Of Office:
      1.   Residency:
         a.   The commission shall consist of a minimum of five (5) members to
be appointed by the mayor, with the consent and approval of the council. At
least three (3) of the five members shall have lived within City limits for two
(2) years or more immediately prior to their appointment. Up to two (2) of the
five members may live outside City limits but must have lived within the City’s
area of impact for at least two (2) years immediately prior to their
appointment to the commission. All members must maintain their residency within
City limits or within the City’s area of impact during their service on the
commission.
      2.   Selection And Term:
         a.   The terms of office for all appointed members shall be for three
(3) years.
         b.   Vacancies occurring otherwise than through the expiration of
terms shall be filled by action of the mayor and confirmed by the council.
         c.   Members shall be selected without regard to political
affiliations, and shall serve without compensation except that they shall each
receive per diem compensation for every regular meeting of the commission that
they duly attend, as set by resolution of the council.
         d.   Members may be removed by a majority vote of the council.
   C.   Organization, Rules And Meetings:
      1.   Officers: The commission shall elect its own chairman, and may
create and fill such other offices as it may determine necessary.
      2.   Required Meetings: The commission shall hold one regular meeting
each month for at least nine (9) months in each year. A majority of the
currently appointed voting members of the commission shall constitute a quorum.
      3.   Open Meetings; Records: All meetings shall be open to the public.
Written record of meetings, hearings, resolutions, studies, findings, permits
and determinations shall be kept, which record shall be a public record.
      4.   Authority: The commission may request the attendance at any meeting
of such other city officials as it may deem necessary.
   D.   Duties: The planning and zoning commission shall have those duties as
prescribed by the local land use planning act, Idaho Code section 67-6501 et
seq.
   E.   Review Of Maps, Plats: Any and all planning maps, preliminary plats and
replats of lands which require the approval of the city council shall first be
submitted to the commission for its recommendation.
(Ord. 548, 1-21-2015; amd. Ord. 659, 1-19-2022)
1-5-6: LIBRARY BOARD:
   A.   Appointment; Terms; Removal; Compensation:
      1.   Appointment: There is hereby established a library board of the
city, consisting of five (5) trustees to be appointed by the mayor with the
advice and approval of council. A member of the city council shall not be one
of the five (5) appointed trustees of the library board.
      2.   Terms: The members of the library board shall be residents of the
city and shall hold their office for five (5) years from the date of their
appointment and until their successors are appointed. The board shall report
all vacancies on the board to the council within five (5) working days, and
shall be filled by appointment in the same manner as the original appointments.
Appointments to complete an unexpired term shall be for the remainder of the
term only.
      3.   Removal: Any trustee may be removed by the city council by the
unanimous vote of all of its members.
      4.   Compensation: Members of the board shall serve without salary but
may receive their actual and necessary budgeted expenses while engaged in
authorized business of the library.
   B.   Powers And Duties: The trustees of the library board shall have the
powers and duties as prescribed by Idaho Code section 33-2607. All money for
library purposes shall be placed in the custody of the city treasurer and shall
be paid out upon receipt of proper vouchers duly authenticated by the library
board.
   C.   Donations: The library board shall have the authority to accept
donations on behalf of the city. All donations made for the benefit of the
library shall have title vested in the city and a record of all donations shall
be kept at city hall. All donated properties shall be controlled by the
council. (Ord. 548, 1-21-2015)
1-5-7: BUILDING CODE BOARD OF APPEALS:
There is hereby established a building code board of appeals having three (3)
members performing the duties according to international residential code rule
112. Board members shall be appointed by the city council and shall serve until
replaced. (Ord. 587, 1-18-2017)
1-5-8: LOCAL IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT ADVISORY COMMITTEE:
   A.   Committee Created: There is hereby created and established a committee
to be known as the City of Middleton’s Local Improvement District Advisory
Committee.
   B.   Membership: The City of Middleton’s Local Improvement District Advisory
Committee shall consist of eight (8) members, all appointed by the mayor and
confirmed by majority vote of the city council. If the mayor should fail to
appoint a member within sixty (60) days of a vacancy, the Council President of
the City of Middleton would assume the obligation of an appointment. The
membership shall include three (3) Canyon County residents, two (2) City of
Middleton residents, two (2) City of Middleton Council Members, and (1)
commercial developer.
   C.   Terms Of Office: The term of office for members shall not be more or
less than three (3) years, provided however, that at the expiration of said
term of office, the member shall be eligible for two (2) additional consecutive
reappointments, each for one full term in addition to the original term already
served. No person shall serve more than two (2) full consecutive terms without
specific concurrence by two-thirds (2/3) of the Council adopted by motion and
recorded in the minutes. Vacancies occurring otherwise than through the
expiration of terms shall be filled in the same manner as the original
appointment. Members may be removed by a majority vote of the council.
   D.   Organization: The committee shall meet monthly at City of Middleton
Council Chambers, with an exception being made should a meeting for that month
be unnecessary. Additional meetings may be called for by the mayor, as
necessary. The committee shall elect a chairperson and create and fill any
other office it may deem necessary. The chairperson shall preside at meetings
of the committee. The vice chairperson shall, in the absence of the
chairperson, perform the duties of the chairperson. All meetings of the
Committee shall be open to the public and follow the requirements of Idaho’s
open meeting laws. Executive sessions may be closed by the presiding officer
pursuant to Idaho Code, Section 74-206.
   A member of the Committee shall keep minutes and other appropriate written
records on behalf of the committee. A simple majority of committee members
present at any given meeting constitutes a quorum.
   E.   Powers; Duties: It shall be the duty of the Committee to review and
consider the possibility of using local improvement districts to improve
infrastructure in the City of Middleton. (Ord. 692, 12-20-2023; amd. Ord. 692
(amended), 3-6-2024)
1-5-9: CITY OF MIDDLETON YOUTH COUNCIL:
   A.   Committee Created: There is hereby created and established a committee
to be known as the City of Middleton Youth Council.
   B.   Membership: The City of Middleton Youth Council shall consist of
fifteen (15) members, twelve (12) shall be from among the student population
that live within the boundaries of the Middleton School District to include
private, charter and home school students, nominated by a responsible adult or
employee of the School District. Minor students shall not be permitted without
signed permission from a legal guardian. Members shall consist of one (1) boy
and one (1) girl from each grade seven (7) through twelve (12). Nominations
shall include a letter of recommendation outlining qualifications and qualities
of the prospective member. Nominations shall be reviewed and confirmed by
majority vote of the City Council. The thirteenth (13) member shall be from the
City of Middleton City Council, nominated and confirmed by a majority vote of
the City Council. The fourteenth (14) and fifteenth (15) members shall be
adults residing within the boundaries of the Middleton School District,
nominated by themselves or another member of the community (after they
themselves have passed a background check at the cost of the city). Nominations
shall include a letter of recommendation outlining qualifications and qualities
of the prospective member. Nominations shall be reviewed and confirmed by
majority vote of the city council.
   C.   Terms of Office: The term of office for student members shall run from
the date of their appointment and terminate thirty (30) days prior to the
beginning of the next school year according to the official calendar
established by the Middleton School District, provided however, that at the
expiration of said term of office, the member shall be eligible for additional
consecutive reappointments, provided that the student will now represent the
grade level in which they will attend and the reappointment is made by the City
Council. Vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as the original
appointment. Members may be removed by a majority vote of the council with or
without cause.
   D.   Organization:
      The committee shall meet monthly at the City of Middleton Council
Chambers, with an exception being made should a meeting for that month be
unnecessary, as determined by the chairperson. Additional meetings may be
called for by the Council representative, as necessary. The Youth Council shall
elect a chairperson and vice chairperson and create and fill any other board
office it may deem necessary. The chairperson shall preside at meetings of the
committee. The vice chairperson shall, in the absence of the chairperson,
perform the duties of the chairperson. All meetings of the Youth Council shall
be open to the public and follow the requirements of Idaho's open meeting laws.
Executive sessions may be closed by the presiding officer pursuant to Idaho
Code, Section 74-206.
      A member of the Committee shall keep minutes and other appropriate
written records on behalf of the committee. A simple majority of committee
members present at any given meeting constitutes a quorum.   
      The members shall serve without compensation.
   E.   Powers; Duties: It shall be the duty of the Committee to discuss issues
or concerns deemed to be relevant to the student population of the greater
Middleton community and forward recommendations to appropriate government
entities, non-profit organizations, or community organizations. (Ord. 706, 12-
18-2024)
CHAPTER 6
PERSONNEL REGULATIONS
SECTION:
1-6-1: Personnel Handbook
1-6-1: PERSONNEL HANDBOOK:
There is hereby established a system of personnel administration as set forth
in the employee handbook adopted by resolution of the city council. The
contents of the employee handbook are presented as a policy and do not
constitute a contract. Employees are free to resign at any time just as the
city is free to terminate the employee at any time, thus constituting an "at
will" employment relationship. (Ord. 548, 1-21-2015)
CHAPTER 7
CITY FINANCES
SECTION:
1-7-1: Presentation, Allowing Of Claims
1-7-2: Funds; Accounts
1-7-3: Designated Depositories
1-7-1: PRESENTATION, ALLOWING OF CLAIMS:
   A.   Procedure: Any person having a claim against the City shall file the
same with the City Clerk at least five (5) days prior to a regular meeting of
the Council. Such claim shall be in the form of a bill of particulars stating
each item in detail, and for what and when the same accrued, and shall be
accompanied by the affidavit of the claimant that the services were performed
or the articles were furnished as therein stated, and that the same is correct,
reasonable and just, and that neither the same nor any part thereof has been
paid. When a claim or any item thereof has once been disallowed in whole or
part by the Council, the same shall not again be presented to the Council or
considered by the Council except by a unanimous vote of all the members elected
to the Council. Every claim or account, when presented, shall contain all items
of account and demands which the party claims against the City up to the time
of filing the same.
   B.   Approval By Council; Paid By Check: All financial claims and accounts
against the City shall be paid by check upon approval of a majority of the
Council, unless otherwise authorized. All checks shall be signed by two (2)
authorized signers. (Ord. 548, 1-21-2015)
1-7-2: FUNDS; ACCOUNTS:
   A.   Funds: The City's system for accounting of receipts, expenditures, and
reporting shall be as prescribed in the Uniform Accounting and Reporting Manual
for Idaho Cities and any amendments thereto. Said system shall be organized and
operated on a fund basis. The City Treasurer shall determine, establish, and
maintain at least the minimum number of governmental, proprietary, and
fiduciary funds consistent with the requirements of State law and this Code and
generally accepted accounting principles.
   B.   Accounts: The City Treasurer shall maintain separate accounts in the
records for each fund. Unless otherwise required by law or grant regulations,
each fund for which there is a separate account may be pooled with other such
funds in one bank account or investment. (Ord. 548, 1-21-2015)
1-7-3: DESIGNATED DEPOSITORIES:
The City Treasurer is hereby authorized to deposit and invest City funds in the
following institutions:
Bank of the Cascades
Capital Educators Federal Credit Union
Clarity Credit Union
Idaho Independent Bank
Intermountain Community Bank
Key Bank of Idaho
Pioneer Federal Credit Union
Sunwest Bank
U.S. Bank
Wells Fargo Bank
Zions Bank (Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
CHAPTER 8
CORPORATE SEAL
SECTION:
1-8-1: Corporate Seal Of City
1-8-1: CORPORATE SEAL OF CITY:
   A.   Description: The corporate seal of the city shall be circular in form
with inner and outer circles. The outer circle shall be one and seven-eighths
inches (17/8") in diameter and the inner circle one and three-sixteenths inches
(13/16") in diameter. It shall bear upon the space between the two (2) circles
the words: "City Of Middleton, Canyon County, Idaho" and upon the space within
the inner circle the words, "Incorporated April 20, 1910".
   B.   Adoption: The seal described in this section be and the same is hereby
adopted as the seal of the city. (Ord. 4, 5-10-1910)
CHAPTER 9
OFFICIAL NEWSPAPER
SECTION:
1-9-1: Official Newspaper Designated
1-9-1: OFFICIAL NEWSPAPER DESIGNATED:
The Idaho Press-Tribune, printed and published in the city of Nampa, be and is
hereby designated the official newspaper of the city, and such ordinances,
notices and publications as are required by law to be given publication in a
newspaper shall be published in said Idaho Press-Tribune. (Ord. 123, 11-5-1968;
amd. 1981 Code)
CHAPTER 10
CITY DEPOSITORIES 1
(Rep. by Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  1-7-3 of this title.
CHAPTER 11
MIDDLETON TROLLEY STATION
SECTION:
1-11-1: Rental Fee
1-11-2: Cleaning Deposit
1-11-3: Waiver Or Reduction Of Cleaning Deposit And/Or Rental Fee
1-11-4: Rental Agreement
1-11-1: RENTAL FEE:
The rent for use of the Middleton Trolley Station, located at 310 E. Main
Street, Middleton, Idaho, shall be established from time to time by resolution
of the council. (Ord. 587, 1-18-2017)
1-11-2: CLEANING DEPOSIT:
The city may charge a refundable cleaning deposit, as established from time to
time by resolution of the council, to all renters. The city shall have the
right to keep such cleaning deposit if the Trolley Station is not left in as
good as or better condition than it was found. (Ord. 587, 1-18-2017)
1-11-3: WAIVER OR REDUCTION OF CLEANING DEPOSIT AND/OR RENTAL FEE:
Upon a person's or an organization's written request and a showing of a good
cause, the Mayor, and City Administrator may waive or reduce the cleaning
deposit and/or rental fee of the trolley station. (Ord. 587, 1-18-2017; amd.
Ord. 630, 3-4-2020)
1-11-4: RENTAL AGREEMENT:
Any person, organization or other entity renting the Trolley Station must enter
into a rental agreement provided by the city prior to use of the facility.
(Ord. 587, 1-18-2017)
CHAPTER 12
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
(Rep. by Ord. 520, 2-5-2014)
CHAPTER 13
CITY ELECTIONS
SECTION:
1-13-1: Idaho Municipal Election Laws
1-13-1: IDAHO MUNICIPAL ELECTION LAWS:
City elections shall be governed by the election laws contained in Idaho Code
title 34 and title 50, chapter 4, unless otherwise provided by this code. (Ord.
520, 2-5-2014)
CHAPTER 14
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES
SECTION:
1-14-1: Neighborhood Meeting
1-14-2: Land Use Application And Public Hearing Procedures
1-14-3: Comprehensive Plan, Zoning And Subdivision Decisions
1-14-4: Applications Requiring Public Hearings
1-14-5: Applications Not Requiring A Public Hearing
1-14-6: Appeals
1-14-7: Area Of City Impact
1-14-7-1: Area Of City Impact Modification
1-14-7-2: Factors To Consider
1-14-1: NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING:
   A.   Neighborhood Meeting Requirements: Prior to filing an application for a
rezone, annexation, development agreement, comprehensive plan text and/or map
amendments, preliminary plat, special use permit or variance, applicants shall
conduct a neighborhood meeting. The purpose of the neighborhood meeting is to
present the proposed application to neighbors, answer questions and receive
comments.
   B.   Notice Of Meeting:
      1.   The applicant shall provide written notice of the neighborhood
meeting to owners of record of property within five hundred feet (500') of the
exterior boundary of the subject property and to the City of Middleton.
      2.   Applicant's mailed notice must be postmarked at least ten days prior
to the neighborhood meeting.
   C.   Meeting Standards:
      1.   Neighborhood meetings shall be conducted Monday through Thursday
only, except meetings may not be held on a holiday or on the day before a
holiday. All neighborhood meetings must start between 6 p.m. and 8 p.m.
      2.   Neighborhood meetings shall be held at one of the following
locations:
         a.   On the subject property;
         b.   At the nearest available public meeting place such as a fire
station, library, school or community center; or
         c.   At an office space with suitable meeting facilities if such
facilities are within a one mile radius of the nearest public meeting place; or
   D.   Time Of Meeting: The Neighborhood Meeting shall be held not more than
90 calendar days nor less than five calendar days prior to submission of the
application.
   E.   Written Verification: The application shall include a list, signed by
those who attended the neighborhood meeting, including the date and start time
of the meeting and meeting notes, including comments of attendees and issues
discussed.
   F.   Declared Health Emergency:
      1.   In the event of a declared health emergency affecting the City of
Middleton, applicants shall hold an in-person neighborhood meeting so long as
the applicant is able to make accommodations for the meeting that comply with
all local, state, and federal health mandates. If an in-person neighborhood
meeting is legally prohibited, a virtual meeting may be held.
      2.   Applicant shall also make reasonable accommodations to receive
comments or questions via email, U.S. Mail, or video conferencing either at the
neighborhood meeting or within five (5) business days following the
neighborhood meeting. Copies of all written correspondence and emails received
shall be submitted to the City with the application materials.
      3.   If applicant chooses video conferencing to receive comments and
questions in addition to the in-person neighborhood meeting, the applicant
shall record the meeting and submit a copy of the recording to the city as part
of its application. Applicant shall record the names of all persons who
participate in the video conference.
(Ord. 609, 7-3-2018; amd. Ord. 631, 3-18-2020; Ord. 645, 12-2-2020; Ord. 659,
1-19-2022; Ord. 673, 1-4-2023)
1-14-2: LAND USE APPLICATION AND PUBLIC HEARING PROCEDURES:
   A.   Application And Fee: Applications shall be on forms provided by the
City and be accompanied by a fee as established by the City Council.
   B.   Notice For Public Hearings:
      1.   For all legislative public hearings and quasi-judicial public
hearings, and upon receipt of a complete application and fee, the City shall
follow the notice and hearing procedures in Idaho Code section 67-6509, which
notice includes publishing legal notice in the official newspaper of general
circulation in Middleton and sending notice of the application and public
hearing to all political subdivisions providing services in Middleton.
      2.   For all legislative public hearings, which are hearings brought
pursuant to the Local Land Use Planning Act (Idaho State Code Title 67, Ch. 65)
and require a decision that has a broad application, a draft of the legislative
proposal should be prepared and made available for public inspection no later
than the day the notice of public hearing is published in the newspaper of
general circulation. Such applications include applications to amend the City
zoning and subdivision ordinances or Comprehensive Plan text or map.
      3.   For all quasi-judicial public hearings, which are applications such
as a rezone or preliminary plat that pertain to a specific site or parcel, City
shall also provide the following notice at least fifteen (15) days prior to the
public hearing:
         a.   City shall mail notice of the public hearing time, date, and
place of hearing together with a summary of the application to all owners of
record for property that is within five hundred (500) feet of the perimeter
boundary of the parcel(s) that is the subject of the land use application.
Applicant shall be responsible for obtaining an accurate list of mailing
addresses from the Canyon County Assessor's Office or other County Department
and shall be responsible for providing the City with printed mailing labels to
complete the required notice.
         b.   When there are more than two hundred and fifty (250) property
owners within five hundred (500) feet of the subject property, mailed notice
shall not be required, and, instead, a second notice of the time and place of
the hearing and summary of the proposal shall be published in a newspaper of
general circulation within the City not less than ten days prior to the
hearing.
         c.   City shall post the project site with a sign that gives notice of
the time and place of the hearing and summary of the application(s). A sign
shall be posted at all locations where a public road is adjacent to the subject
property. The cost of the posting shall be included in the filing fee for the
application.
   C.   General Public Hearing Procedure:
      1.   At the commencement of the public hearing, the Commission/Council or
the Chairperson/Mayor may establish a time limit to be observed by speakers:
applicant - not to exceed fifteen (15) minutes; planning and zoning official -
not to exceed ten (10) minutes; individuals - not to exceed three (3) minutes
per person or fifteen (15) minutes for spokesperson after the Chairperson/Mayor
pre-authorizes a spokesperson; applicant rebuts testimony that proposal does
not comply with plans, ordinances and standards - not to exceed ten (10)
minutes.
      2.   No person shall be permitted to speak before the Commission/Council
at a public hearing until such person is recognized by the Chairperson/Mayor.
      3.   Testimony should directly address the subject being considered
during the hearing before the Commission/Council.
      4.   Testimony should not be repetitious with other entries in the
record.
      5.   Testimony should not be derogatory to any person.
      6.   Testimony should comply with applicable time restrictions.
      7.   If oral testimony fails to comply with the aforementioned standards,
the Chairperson/Mayor may declare such testimony out- of-order and require it
to cease.
      8.   All public hearing proceedings shall be recorded electronically and
all persons speaking shall speak before a microphone in such a manner as will
assure that the recorded testimony is complete and audible. A transcribable,
verbatim record of quasi-judicial hearings shall be made and kept for a period
at least six (6) months after the date of the final decision.
   D.   Order Of Events For Public Hearings: Public hearings should follow the
order of events set forth below.
      1.   Chairperson/Mayor or designee announces the item for Commission/
Council consideration, and opens the public hearing. The Commission/Council
shall not begin deliberations until all testimony and evidence has been
presented. No person shall be permitted to speak at a public hearing until such
person has been recognized by the Chairperson/Mayor. If there is a question of
"conflict of interest", as defined by Idaho Code section 67-6506, for any
Commissioner/Councilmember, it shall be disclosed at the beginning of the
hearing and, if the Commission/Council finds a conflict of interest exists, the
disclosing Commissioner/Councilmember shall step away from the Commission/
Council and not participate in deliberations or decisions for that item, and
shall rejoin the Commission/Council after action on that item is concluded. Any
information received by a Commissioner/Councilmember other than during the
public hearing shall be disclosed at the beginning of the hearing.
      2.   Applicant describes the application and reasons it complies or does
not comply with plans, ordinances and standards.
      3.   The planning and zoning official or designee reports why the
application complies or does not comply with plans, ordinances and standards.
      4.   Individuals/spokespersons testify why an application complies or
does not comply with plans, ordinances and standards. Speakers shall not be
interrupted by the audience. Questions from the decision makers should be asked
of the person testifying before that person leaves the podium whenever
possible. Public officials, when recognized, shall be allowed to question the
speaker and the speaker shall be limited to answer questions asked. The
question and answer period shall not be included in the speaker's time limit.
Any person not conforming to these procedures may be prohibited from speaking
during a public meeting. Should any person refuse to comply with such
prohibition, he or she may be removed from the room by order of the Hearing
Officer. Testimony should be in the following order:
         a.   Those testifying the application complies,
         b.   Those identifying subjects not discussed in the application,
applicant's testimony or planning and zoning official report,
         c.   Those testifying the application does not comply,
         d.   Rebuttal testimony from the applicant. Decision-makers should ask
any final questions. Only information from the record can be rebutted. If the
applicant testifies about new facts, then others testifying must be given an
opportunity to respond to the new facts.
      5.   The Chairperson/Mayor closes the public comment portion of the
hearing by declaration or Commission/Council motion.
      6.   Commission/Council deliberates toward a decision. Commission/Council
may ask the planning and zoning official or designee questions during this
time.
      7.   The Commission/Council may continues the matter for additional
information or makes a verbal recommendation/decision by majority vote followed
by a signed written decision that is legally considered a "final decision" that
can be appealed by an affected person. The final decision or recommendation may
be an approval, approval with conditions, or denial. The recommendation/
decision should include a reasoned statement that explains the criteria and
standards considered relevant, the relevant contested facts relied on, the
rationale for the decision based on the applicable criteria and provisions of
plans, ordinances or standards, pertinent constitutional principles and factual
information contained in the record.
   E.   Final Decision. When a final decision has been made, the City shall
send a copy of the final decision promptly by electronic mail, or first class
postage prepaid U.S. mail, to the applicant and to any affected property owners
who have requested notice of the final decision.
   F.   Reconsideration Request and Appeal. Applicants, or an affected property
owner as defined in Idaho Code 67-6521, shall have fourteen (14) days after a
written final decision is executed to request reconsideration by the final-
decision maker. Such request must identify specific deficiencies in a final
decision. Failure to request reconsideration may invalidate a subsequent
judicial appeal. After considering the identified deficiencies, the final
decision about the reconsidered request shall be issued and distributed to the
applicant and to any affected property owners who have requested notice of the
final decision.
(Ord. 609, 7-3-2018; amd. Ord. 659, 1-19-2022)
1-14-3: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN, ZONING AND SUBDIVISION DECISIONS:
   A.   Application: Any person seeking an amendment of the text or map of the
comprehensive plan, or the zoning and subdivision ordinance, shall submit an
application, designating the change desired, and the reasons therefor.
   B.   Notice And Hearing: The Planning and Zoning Commission shall consider
the application at a public hearing and make a recommendation to City Council.
The City Council shall consider the application and the commission's
recommendation at a public hearing and make a final decision.
   C.   Action By Commission:
      1.   Before the commission recommends an amendment to an ordinance, the
applicant must show that the proposed amendment is in harmony with the
comprehensive plan.
      2.   The commission shall make its recommendation within thirty (30) days
of the conclusion of the commission's public hearing.
   D.   Action By Council: The Council, following receipt of the commission's
recommendation, shall consider the application and the commission's
recommendation and make a final decision. The Council may approve, approve with
modifications or deny the application. If the Council makes a material change
in the application, another noticed hearing shall be held before the City
Council makes a final decision on the application. The Council shall make a
decision within thirty (30) days of the conclusion of the Council's public
hearing.
   E.   Amending Ordinance: The Council, upon approval of a proposed amendment,
shall adopt an ordinance amending the title, plan or map. No plan or amendment
shall be effective unless adopted by ordinance by the Council. (Ord. 609, 7-3-
2018)
1-14-4: APPLICATIONS REQUIRING PUBLIC HEARINGS:
The following applications require a public hearing: adoption or revision of
the comprehensive plan, adoption or revision of the zoning map; adoption or
revision of the zoning and subdivision ordinance; annexation, development
agreements; preliminary plats, special use permits, variances; adoption of a
future acquisitions map, and any other application that Idaho Code requires to
be considered at a public hearing.
(Ord. 609, 7-3-2018; amd. Ord. 659, 1-19-2022)
1-14-5: APPLICATIONS NOT REQUIRING A PUBLIC HEARING:
Unless otherwise identified, an application to the City will not require a
public hearing. The City Council may require a public hearing any time it
determines that a public hearing would be in the best interest of the City.
   A.   Commission Action:
      1.   At a public meeting, not a public hearing, the commission shall
consider an application's compliance with City plans, Code and standards, and
recommend the Council approve, conditionally approve, or deny the application.
The recommendation shall specify:
         a.   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the application,
         b.   The reasons for approval or denial, and
         c.   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to gain
approval.
      2.   The commission shall make a recommendation within thirty (30) days
of the conclusion of the public meeting.
   B.   Council Action:
      1.   At a public meeting, not a public hearing, and upon receipt of the
commission's recommendation if required, the Council shall consider the
application and approve, conditionally approve or deny it. The decision shall
specify:
         a.   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the application,
         b.   The reasons for approval or denial, and
         c.   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to gain
approval.
      2.   The Council shall make a decision within thirty (30) days of the
conclusion of the public meeting.
(Ord. 609, 7-3-2018; amd. Ord. 619, 7-17-2019; Ord. 659, 1-19-2022)
1-14-6: APPEALS:
Appeal procedure shall follow Idaho Code section 67-6521. (Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
1-14-7: AREA OF CITY IMPACT:
1-14-7-1: AREA OF CITY IMPACT MODIFICATION:
The Middleton area of City impact boundary, map and regulations may be modified
from time to time according to the procedures in Idaho Code section 67-6526.
Any modifications to the boundary and/or regulations governing the area of City
impact must be agreed to with Canyon County and adopted by ordinance. (Ord.
551, 4-15-2015; amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
1-14-7-2: FACTORS TO CONSIDER:
   A.   The following factors shall be considered when establishing an area of
City impact:
      1.   Trade area;
      2.   Geographical factors; and
      3.   Areas that can reasonably be expected to be annexed to the City in
the future. (Ord. 551, 4-15-2015; amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
CHAPTER 15
PERMITS, EXCEPTIONS TO STANDARDS, AND LICENSES
SECTION:
1-15-1: Subdivision Plat Permit
1-15-2: Exceptions Or Waivers Of Standards
1-15-3: Subdivision Infrastructure Construction Permit
1-15-4: Right-Of-Way Permit
1-15-5: Vacations And Dedications
1-15-5-1: Application Procedure
1-15-5-2: Action On Request
1-15-6: Variance Procedure
1-15-7: Special Use Permits
1-15-8: Design Review Permit
1-15-8-1: Applicability
1-15-8-2: Regulations
1-15-8-3: Procedures For Obtaining Design Review Approval
1-15-8-4: Submittal Requirements
1-15-8-5: Design Criteria And Standards
1-15-8-6: Certificate Of Occupancy
1-15-8-7: Terms Of Approval
1-15-8-8: Time Limitations For Action Upon Application
1-15-9: Building Permit
1-15-10: Floodplain Development Permit
1-15-11: Sign Permit
1-15-11-1: Introduction
1-15-11-2: Permits
1-15-11-3: Inspection
1-15-11-4: Requirements And Criteria
1-15-11-5: Exempt Signs
1-15-11-6: Nonconforming Signs
1-15-11-7: Prohibited Signs
1-15-11-8: Enforcement
1-15-12: Vendors, Solicitors And Temporary Merchants Permit
1-15-13: Special Event Permit
1-15-13-1: Special Event Permit Required; Exceptions
1-15-13-2: Permit Application; Fees; Insurance And Indemnification
1-15-13-3: Application; Review; Conditions Of Approval; Grounds For Denial,
Suspension Or Revocation; Display Of Permit; Cleanup
1-15-13-4: Notice Of Revocation Or Suspension Of Permit
1-15-14: Fireworks Permit
1-15-14-1: Sale Of Fireworks
1-15-14-2: Temporary Fireworks Stands
1-15-14-3: Public Display Permit
1-15-14-4: Authorized Dates For The Sale And Use Of Fireworks
1-15-14-5: General Regulations
1-15-15: Middleton Market Permit
1-15-16: Mineral Extraction Permit
1-15-16-1: Definitions
1-15-16-2: Submittal Requirements For Mining Applications
1-15-16-3: Goals And Standards For Mineral Extraction And Surface Mining
1-15-17: Liquor, Beer And Wine Regulations
1-15-17-1: Purpose And Intent
1-15-17-2: Applicability
1-15-17-3: Definitions
1-15-17-4: License Required
1-15-17-5: Application For Licenses
1-15-17-6: Application Forms
1-15-17-7: Qualifications Of Licensee
1-15-17-8: Investigation Of Applicant
1-15-17-9: Licensee To Report Changes
1-15-17-10: Renewal Of License
1-15-17-11: Period For Which License Is Issued
1-15-17-12: License Fees
1-15-17-13: Revocation Of License
1-15-17-14: Denial Of Application, Suspension And/Or Revocation Of License
1-15-17-15: Notice Of Hearing
1-15-17-16: Hours Of Sale
1-15-17-17: Right Of Inspection
1-15-17-18: Alcohol Beverage Catering Permit
1-15-17-19: Repeal And Saving Clause
1-15-17-20: Severability
1-15-18: Wine License
1-15-18-1: License Required; Fees; Term
1-15-18-2: Application For And Issuance Of License
1-15-18-3: Qualifications
1-15-18-4: License Restrictions
1-15-18-5: Consumption On Premises
1-15-18-6: Revocation Of License
1-15-19: Precious Metals License
1-15-19-1: Definitions
1-15-19-2: Application
1-15-19-3: Exemptions
1-15-19-4: License Required
1-15-19-5: License Fee
1-15-19-6: Investigation
1-15-19-7: Standards
1-15-19-8: Records
1-15-19-9: Goods To Be Retained For Five Days
1-15-19-10: Violations
1-15-19-11: Penalties
1-15-19-12: Notice Of Suspension, Revocation And Denial And Appeals
1-15-1: SUBDIVISION PLAT PERMIT:
Upon City Council approval of a subdivision preliminary plat application, the
City shall provide a permit to the applicant with a copy of the approved
preliminary plat attached. The subdivision plat permit is authorization for
infrastructure construction drawings to be prepared. (Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
1-15-2: EXCEPTIONS OR WAIVERS OF STANDARDS:
   A.   Exceptions or waivers of standards, other than land uses according to
Title 5, Chapter 4, Table 1 of this code, may be approved through one of the
following public hearing processes:
      1.   Special use permit,
      2.   Development agreement accompanying a rezone application,
      3.   Variance,
      4.   Condition of approval as part of a land use application, or
      5.   Approval of a preliminary plat, with or without conditions.
(Ord. 609, 7-3-2018; amd. Ord. 619, 7-17-2019)
1-15-3: SUBDIVISION INFRASTRUCTURE CONSTRUCTION PERMIT:
Upon City approval of infrastructure construction drawings for a subdivision,
the City shall provide a permit to the applicant with a copy of the approved
construction drawings attached. The subdivision infrastructure construction
permit is authorization for the approved infrastructure to be constructed.
(Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
1-15-4: RIGHT-OF-WAY PERMIT:
To be determined at a later date. (Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
1-15-5: VACATIONS AND DEDICATIONS:
1-15-5-1: APPLICATION PROCEDURE:
   A.   Required: Any property owner desiring to vacate an existing
subdivision, public right-of-way or easement, or desiring to dedicate a road
right-of-way or easement, shall complete and file an application with the City
and also file such other applications as are otherwise required by law. These
provisions shall not apply to any road right-of-way or easement to be dedicated
by recording the plat of a subdivision.
   B.   Processing: The City shall process the application according to the
notice and hearing requirements in all relevant State Statutes and City
ordinances. (Ord. 568, 12-21-2015; amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
1-15-5-2: ACTION ON REQUEST:
   A.   Planning And Zoning Commission Recommendations: The commission shall
review the request and any agency response and make a recommendation to the
City for approval, conditional approval or denial.
   B.   City Action:
      1.   When considering an application for vacation procedures, the City
shall establish a date for public hearing and give such public notice as
required by law. The City may approve or deny the application. Whenever public
rights-of-way or lands are vacated, the City shall provide adjacent property
owners with appropriate assurances in the form of a quitclaim deed or other
documents for said vacated rights-of-way in such proportions as are prescribed
by law.
      2.   When considering an application for dedication, the City may approve
or deny the application. When a dedication is approved, any required road or
utility improvements shall be constructed prior to acceptance of the
dedication. (Ord. 568, 12-21-2015; amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
1-15-6: VARIANCE PROCEDURE:
   A.   Definition And Purpose: A "variance" is an adjustment or special
exception made in the application of the regulations set forth in this Code to
a particular lot which, because of special circumstances, may be deprived of
privileges commonly enjoyed by other lots in the same zone or vicinity. Among
other things, it can be a modification of requirements with respect to fences
and walls; lot size and shape; lot coverage; width; setbacks; parking spaces;
height; or other provision affecting the size or shape of structure or the
placement of structures upon lots.
   B.   Public Hearing: Notice and an opportunity to be heard shall be provided
to owners within three hundred feet (300') of the boundaries of the subject
property.
   C.   Action: After notice and hearing, the commission may approve,
conditionally approve or deny a variance application. Whenever the commission
approves or denies a variance, it shall specify in writing: 1) the ordinance
and standards used in evaluating the application; 2) the reasons for approval
or denial; and 3) if denied, the actions, if any, that the applicant can take
to obtain approval. The commission shall make a decision within thirty (30)
days of the conclusion of the public hearing. The commission shall make
findings regarding the following:
      1.   That literal interpretation and enforcement of the regulation would
result in practical difficulty or unnecessary physical hardship inconsistent
with the objectives of the zoning ordinance. Hardships must result from special
site characteristics relating to size, shape or dimensions of a site or the
location of existing structures thereon; from geographic, topographic or other
physical conditions; or from population densities, road locations or traffic
conditions.
      2.   That there are extraordinary site characteristics applicable to the
property involved or intended use of the property which do not apply generally
to other properties classified in the same zoning district.
      3.   That literal interpretation and enforcement of the regulation would
deprive the applicant of privileges enjoyed by the owners of other properties
classified in the same zoning district.
      4.   That the granting of the variance will not constitute a grant or
special privilege inconsistent with the limitations on other properties
classified in the same zoning district.
      5.   That the granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the
public health, safety or welfare or materially injurious to properties or
improvements in the vicinity.
   D.   Conditions: Upon granting a variance, conditions may be attached to:
      1.   Minimize adverse impact on other development;
      2.   Control the sequence and timing of construction;
      3.   Control the duration of the variance;
      4.   Assure that development is maintained properly;
      5.   Designate the exact location and nature of development or
construction;
      6.   Require the provision for on site or off site public facilities or
services;
      7.   Require more restrictive standards than those generally required in
an ordinance;
      8.   Require mitigation of effects of the proposed development upon
service delivery by any political subdivision, including school districts,
providing services within the planning jurisdiction.
   E.   Appeal: An affected person aggrieved by the commission decision may,
within fifteen (15) days of the written commission decision, file a written
appeal with the City, along with a nonrefundable fee. The Council shall
consider the appeal at a noticed public hearing and may approve, approve with
conditions or deny the application. (Ord. 551, 4-15-2015; amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-
2018)
1-15-7: SPECIAL USE PERMITS:
   A.   Description:
      1.   The purpose of review shall be to determine that the characteristics
of any such use shall not be unreasonable or incompatible with the type of uses
permitted in the area. Nothing construed herein shall be deemed to require the
commission to grant a special use permit.
      2.   Certain types of uses possess unique and special characteristics
which require special consideration prior to their being permitted in a
particular district. A special use permit may be granted to an applicant if the
proposed use is allowed by a special use permit under the land use schedule in
section
5-4-1, Table 1 of this Code.
      3.   No building permit shall be issued when a special use permit is
required by the terms of this chapter, unless a special use permit has been
previously granted by the City and then only in accordance with the terms and
conditions of the special use permit.
      4.   No special use permit shall be transferable from one property to
another. In the event the property changes hands, the new owner, if he or she
desires to continue the special use, shall appear before the commission for
review. Said continuance use shall be subject to the same terms and conditions
of the permit.
      5.   Prior to granting a special use permit, studies may be required of
the social, economic, fiscal and environmental effects of the proposed special
use.
      6.   The granting of a special use permit shall not be considered as
establishing a binding precedent to grant other special use permits.
   B.   Procedures: The commission shall conduct at least one public hearing on
the application.
   C.   Action By Commission: After notice and hearing, the commission may
approve, conditionally approve or deny a special use permit application.
Whenever the commission approves or denies a permit, it shall specify in
writing: 1) the ordinance and standards used in evaluating the application
(city code, Idaho Standards for Public Works Construction and Middleton
Supplement to the Idaho Standards for Public Works Construction); 2) the
reasons for approval or denial; and 3) if denied, the actions, if any, that the
applicant can take to obtain approval. The commission shall make a decision
within thirty (30) days of the conclusion of the public hearing.
   D.   Conditions: Upon granting a special use permit, conditions may be
attached to:
      1.   Minimize adverse impact on other development (spaces, fences,
parking, traffic flow, etc.).
      2.   Control the sequence and timing.
      3.   Control duration of the use.
      4.   Assure that development is maintained properly.
      5.   Designate the location and nature of development, including signs.
      6.   Require the provision for on site or off site public facilities or
services.
      7.   Require more restrictive standards than those generally required in
an ordinance (surfacing of parking areas to City specifications, regulation of
points of vehicular ingress and egress, landscaping and maintenance, regulation
of noise, vibration, odors or other similar nuisances).
      8.   Specify the period of time for which a permit is issued and
conditions which, if not followed, will bring about revocation of the special
use permit.
      9.   Require mitigation of effects of the proposed use upon service
delivery by any political subdivision, including school districts, providing
services within the planning area of Middleton.
   E.   Appeal: An affected person aggrieved by the commission decision may,
within fifteen (15) days of the written commission decision, file a written
appeal with the City, along with a nonrefundable fee. The Council shall
consider the appeal at a noticed public hearing and may approve, approve with
conditions or deny the application.
(Ord. 551, 4-15-2015; amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018; Ord. 619, 7-17-2019)
1-15-8: DESIGN REVIEW PERMIT:
1-15-8-1: APPLICABILITY:
A design review is required for all nonresidential structures and residential
structures containing more than two (2) residences. (Ord. 588, 3-1-2017; amd.
Ord. 609, 7-3-2018; Ord. 639, 9-2-2020)
1-15-8-2: REGULATIONS:
   A.   Design review approval is required before issuing a building permit.
   B.   Design review proposals shall be reviewed by the committee or
Administrator as outlined in this section.
      1.   Authority Of The Administrator:
         a.   The Administrator is empowered to approve minor modifications to
projects that have received design review approval by the committee for the
duration of a valid building permit. Minor modifications under the authority of
the Administrator may include, but are not limited to, the following: changes
to approved colors and/or siding materials, landscape plans, window changes
that do not significantly affect project design, appearance or function,
changes to dumpster enclosures or changes to lighting.
The Administrator shall make the determination as to what constitutes minor
modifications. All approved modifications must be documented on the approved
set of plans on file with the City.
         b.   The Administrator is empowered to exempt from the design review
process projects determined to be so minor as to not conflict with the design
review standards of this chapter, nor to impact any adjacent properties.
Examples include, but are not limited to: minor deck additions, additions of a
window or door, minor landscape changes. Said exemption must be issued in
writing by the Administrator prior to issuance of a building permit, and shall
be approved by the Chair of the committee, or his/her designee. Should the
Administrator or the committee Chair determine that the proposal cannot be
exempted, said proposal shall receive design review approval prior to issuance
of a building permit.
      2.   Authority Of The Committee: The committee is hereby empowered to
approve all other application proposals defined in section
1-15-8-3 of this chapter. The committee may elect to approve applications for
design review by consent agenda. All application criteria and standards
established in this design review district or this chapter shall apply to
consent agenda applications. (Ord. 588, 3-1-2017; amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
1-15-8-3: PROCEDURES FOR OBTAINING DESIGN REVIEW APPROVAL:
An applicant desiring to obtain design review approval shall file with the City
at least fourteen (14) business days prior to a regularly scheduled meeting of
the committee a completed application form together with all of the fees,
information and materials required by this chapter. Complete applications to be
considered by the committee will be scheduled for the next available committee
meeting. (Ord. 609, 7-3-2018; amd. Ord. 639, 9-2-2020)
1-15-8-4: SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS:
All design review plans and drawings shall be prepared by an Idaho licensed
architect, or as approved by the building official.
   A.   Materials Waived: The materials required in this section may be waived
by the Administrator after administrative review of the application should no
need be found therefor.
   B.   Vicinity Map: A vicinity map in sufficient detail to show the location
of the proposed construction within the City and in relation to adjacent
properties, buildings, roads, streams and other public easements and rights-of-
way.
   C.   Site Plan: A site plan of the property upon which construction is
proposed in sufficient detail to show the following:
      1.   Exterior boundary lines of the property together with dimensions;
      2.   Location of the proposed and existing structures with dimensions
showing the setback of each structure from the nearest property line and a
statement indicating the percentage of the lot coverage by proposed building
and parking areas together with the total square footage of the parcel of
property;
      3.   Location of on site parking spaces and access including the
dimensions of the spaces and the width and length of access;
      4.   Location of dumpster and/or garbage and recycling storage areas
including the dimensions and proposed fencing or other screening;
      5.   Designation of the zoning district in which the project is located
and the location of any zoning district boundary line within the proposed
project or the immediate vicinity thereof;
      6.   Location of existing sewer and water lines indicating size, and the
location and size of such lines to be extended into the proposed project
together with the location of underground telephone, power, gas and cable
utilities;
      7.   Location of existing and proposed fire hydrants in the immediate
vicinity of the project or within the project;
      8.   Location and widths of rights-of-way of the adjacent roads together
with the location of any proposed road or other right- of-way;
      9.   Location and dimensions of easements, private and public, within and
adjacent to the proposed project together with the purpose thereof;
      10.   All existing vegetation over two inches (2") in caliper, including
size and species;
      11.   Proposed landscaping of the project including types and size of
trees, shrubs, ground cover and other vegetation;
      12.   Location and height of walls or fences; chain link fencing is not
allowed on the street side(s) of the site. Brick, wrought iron, vinyl, or
additional types of material may be approved, but will be reviewed on a case by
case basis. Fencing to be decorative but functional for the site.
      13.   Location of parking areas;
      14.   Location of vehicular and pedestrian circulation patterns,
easements and proposed improvements;
      15.   Irrigation system for landscaping; and
      16.   Pictures of street view(s), a minimum of both ways from site.
   D.   Architectural Plan: An architectural plan of the proposed construction
in sufficient detail to show the following:
      1.   All actual exterior elevations;
      2.   Location and type of exterior lighting. Only LED, downward facing,
shielded lighting is allowed. [Cut sheet of lighting is required]; and
      3.   Address numbers to be of contrasting color to building and shall be
illuminated.
   E.   Sample Board: A board with mounted samples of the actual building
materials in the actual colors proposed. (Ord. 600, 12-20-2017; amd. Ord. 609,
7-3-2018; Ord. 639, 9-2-2020)
1-15-8-5: DESIGN CRITERIA AND STANDARDS:
The intent of design review is to ensure harmony of the building and site with
the community design elements of the City of Middleton. Each building will
contain four (4) or more of the following community design elements: A-frame or
gable roof, stucco with, brick or rock, accenting, vertical or horizontal metal
siding with brick or rock accenting and roofing, some timberwork, or a public
art feature (which must be reviewed and approved separately to be included as
an element).
   A.   Architectural Quality:
      1.   The building character shall be clearly defined by use of sloped
roofs, parapets, cornices or other architectural features,
      2.   There shall be continuity of materials, colors and signing within
the project,
      3.   There shall be continuity among accessory structures, fences, walls
and landscape features within the project,
      4.   Exterior lighting will be LED, shielded, downlighting and not have
an adverse impact upon other properties and/or public roads,
      5.   Garbage storage areas and satellite receivers will be screened from
public view,
      6.   The project's materials, colors and signing will be compatible with
the townscape, surrounding neighborhoods and adjoining structures.
   B.   Circulation Design:
      1.   Traffic: Traffic shall flow safely within the project and onto
adjacent roads. Traffic includes vehicle, bicycle and pedestrian use.
Consideration shall be given to adequate sight distances and proper signage;
      2.   Pathways: Refer to subsections
5-4-10-8A1 and A2 of this Code. (Ord. 600, 12-20-2017; amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018;
Ord. 639, 9-2-2020)
1-15-8-6: CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY:
The building inspector shall not issue a certificate of occupancy for
structures which are required to obtain design review approval until upon final
inspection by the Administrator it is determined that the project is
constructed in accordance with the approved design review application and
plans, and all improvements, amenities and landscaping have been installed.
(Ord. 588, 3-1-2017; amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
1-15-8-7: TERMS OF APPROVAL:
Design review approval expires twelve (12) months from the date of the
decision. (Ord. 588, 3-1-2017; amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
1-15-8-8: TIME LIMITATIONS FOR ACTION UPON APPLICATION:
The committee shall have thirty (30) days minimum, or until after the next
regularly scheduled meeting to consider and approve or deny an application for
design review approval pursuant to this chapter. The time for action upon an
application may be extended by either the committee or the Council at the
request of the applicant or in cases where the complexity of the project or
changes made by the applicant during the review process require additional time
to properly review and consider the application. (Ord. 588, 3-1-2017; amd. Ord.
609, 7-3-2018; Ord. 639, 9-2-2020)
1-15-9: BUILDING PERMIT:
See section
4-1-1 of this Code for building permits. (Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
1-15-10: FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
   A.   Floodplain Permit Required: A floodplain development permit shall be
approved by the City before a building permit is issued for construction or
development within any area of special flood hazard. The permit shall be for
all structures, including manufactured homes, and for all other development
including fill and other activities, as defined in section
4-3-5 of this Code. A floodplain development permit shall be required for any
development that could possibly increase or alter the flood hazard.
   B.   Application For Permit: Application for a floodplain development permit
shall be made on forms furnished by the City and shall include the following:
      1.   Plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, location,
dimensions and elevations of the area in question.
      2.   Existing and proposed structures, fill, storage of materials,
drainage facilities and their location.
      3.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all structures.
      4.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any structure has
been floodproofed.
      5.   Certification by a registered professional engineer or architect
that the floodproofing methods for any nonresidential structure meet the
floodproofing criteria in subsection
4-3-7-5B of this Code.
      6.   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development.
      7.   Any additional information required by the City.
      8.   Prior to issuance of a building permit a preconstruction elevation
certificate, certified by a registered professional engineer, architect, or
licensed surveyor must be received.
      9.   Prior to issuance of a certificate of occupancy, a postconstruction
elevation certificate certified by a registered professional engineer,
architect or licensed surveyor must be received.
   C.   Review: Upon receipt of a complete floodplain development permit
application, the Zoning Administrator shall review the application and grant or
deny the requested development permit, in accordance with the provisions of
subsection
4-3-8A1 of this Code.
   D.   Notice To Applicant, Issuance Of Permit: After rendering a decision,
the City shall return one copy of the application and decision, together with
those items required by subsection B of this section, to the applicant, after
having marked such copy either as approved or disapproved and attested to the
same by signing such copy. One copy of the complete application and decision,
similarly marked, shall be retained by the City.
   E.   Appeals: Any person aggrieved by a decision of the City in the grant or
denial of a floodplain development permit may appeal such decision to the City
Council, by filing a notice of appeal stating the nature of the appeal with the
City Council, within thirty (30) days of the return of the City's decision to
the applicant. The City Council, within fifteen (15) days of the receipt of a
notice of appeal, shall schedule and hold a public hearing in accordance with
the hearing provisions of 67-6509, Idaho Code, to further consider the
application. Following the public hearing, the City Council shall, within
fifteen (15) days of the hearing, affirm, affirm with modification or reverse
the decision of the City. The decision of the City Council shall be in writing
and accompanied by a statement in the form of findings of fact and conclusions
of law that explain the criteria and standards considered relevant, state the
facts relied upon, and explain the justification for the decision based upon
the criteria, standards, and facts as set forth. In accordance with the
provisions of section 67-5270, Idaho Code, a person aggrieved by a decision of
the City Council in its grant or denial of a floodplain development permit may
appeal the City Council's decision to the District Court.
   F.   Expiration And Revocation Of Development Permit: If the work described
in the floodplain development permit has not begun within one year from the
date of issuance thereof, said permit shall expire and shall be revoked by the
Zoning Administrator and written notice thereof shall be given to the persons
affected. (Ord. 531, 4-2-2014; amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
1-15-11: SIGN PERMIT:
1-15-11-1: INTRODUCTION:
Signs can be helpful in identifying and locating a route or destination, but
they can also distract the attention of motorists, rendering them inattentive,
even for a brief moment, from their duty while operating a motor vehicle.
Signs, especially of poor quality, construction or installation, can also
reduce the value and desirability of a place and deter individuals or entities
from purchasing property or opening a business in the City. Federal law allows
the City to regulate location, number, size, and, to some extent, duration.
There are three (3) main categories of signs: permanent, semipermanent or
temporary. Time extensions may be granted for up to double the defined time.
(Ord. 587, 1-18-2017; amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
1-15-11-2: PERMITS:
   A.   Required: Unless exempt or prohibited below, all signs require a permit
issued by the City prior to construction or installation of the sign. Upon
receipt of an application for a permit, on a form approved by the City, the
City will process the application pursuant to the City's zoning provisions and
according to the sign criteria relating to the number, location, design,
quality, construction, proposed installation, and lighting.
   B.   Copy: A permit is not required to change the copy on a painted or
printed sign, face or panel.
   C.   Maintenance Or Repair: A permit is not required for the repainting,
cleaning or other normal maintenance or repair of a sign or sign structure for
which a permit has previously been issued, provided neither the sign or sign
structure does not vary from the originally permitted design.
   D.   Permit Duration: Construction of a sign must be completed within one
hundred eighty (180) days from the date of the issuance of a permit, otherwise
the permit will automatically become null and void thereafter if not already
inspected by the building official and reported in compliance as provided for
in this section
1-15-11.
   E.   Fees: Sign permits shall not be issued by the City until required
application and inspection fees have been paid. (Ord. 587, 1-18-2017; amd. Ord.
609, 7-3-2018)
1-15-11-3: INSPECTION:
The building official shall inspect installed signs and report the sign's
conformance with this Code. If a sign is on real property with a structure to
be occupied, the sign shall be inspected before the building official issues a
final certificate of occupancy for the structure. (Ord. 587, 1-18-2017; amd.
Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
1-15-11-4: REQUIREMENTS AND CRITERIA:
  Permanent Semipermanent Temporary Special Event Mobile Off Site
               Permanent Semipermanent Temporary Special     Mobile   Off Site
                                                 Event
                                                 No - copy
                                                 of sign to
                                                 be included
Sign permit    Yes       Yes           No        as part of  No       Yes
required                                         special
                                                 event
                                                 permit
                                                 application
Height         30'       8'            8'        8'          8'       8'
               On site,                On site,  On site, at On site,
               at least  On site, at   at least  least 5'    at least
Location       5' from   least 5' from 5' from   from the    5' from   
               the       the property  the       property    the
               property  line          property  line        property
               line                    line                  line
               1 per                   1 per     1 per                Off site
               street    1 per street  street    street      1 per    with
Number         side, 1   side, 1 per   side, 1   side, 1 per street   written
               per wall, wall, 1 per   per wall, wall, 1 per side     permission
               1 per     window        1 per     window               from
               window                  window                         landowner
Maximum copy                                                      
area:
               Single
               tenant:
               64 sq.
               ft. per                 32 sq.                32 sq.
 Freestanding side      32 sq. ft.    ft. per   64 sq. ft.  ft. per  8 sq. ft.
               2 or more per side      side      per side    side     per side
               tenants:
               200 sq.
               ft. per
               side
 Wall         25% of    25% of wall   25% of    25% of wall n/a      25% of
               wall area area          wall area area                 wall area
               Less than Less than 50% Less than Less than            Less than
 Window       50% of    of window     50% of    50% of      n/a      50% of
               window    area          window    window area          window
               area                    area                           area
                                                             Take
                                                             down
Duration       Permanent Up to 5 years Up to 60  Up to 10    each     Up to 5
                                       days      days        night or years
                                                             up to 7
                                                             days
 
Notes:
   1.    Square foot restrictions apply to both sides of a sign.
   2.    Sign permit holders may apply for 1 administrative extension of the
duration period.
   3.    Only 1 temporary sign at a time may be installed on a parcel of
property.
   4.    Signs must be located outside the vision triangle.
   5.    Signs shall not be located on sidewalks, roads or other public rights-
of-way, except that temporary signs may be located on sidewalks in the downtown
business district when there is a minimum 5 feet of unobstructed sidewalk
width.
   6.    Wall and window area is based on the wall or window on which the sign
is installed.
   7.    Signs shall be located on the same parcel as the business being
advertised, except special event signs, or on private property with the
property owner's permission.
   8.    Signs that fit within multiple sign categories (e.g., an off-site
special event sign) shall be required to comply with the most restrictive
regulations in the above table.
(Ord. 587, 1-18-2017; amd. Ord. 590, 4-5-2017; Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
    A.   Permanent Signs:
      1.   Ability To Withstand Natural Forces: Permanent signs shall be
designed and installed to withstand natural forces occurring in the area.
      2.   Utility Occupancy Standards: To prevent the construction of signs
that are faulty or hazardous, signs and sign structures shall comply with the
utility occupancy (U occupancy) standards contained in the structural design
chapter of the International Building Code, as amended, including provisions
pertaining to the following specific criteria adopted by the City as applying
within City limits:
 
Wind speed       90 miles per hour
Ground snow load 20 pounds per square foot
Seismic zone     B
 
      3.   Professional Design: Permanent signs must be professionally designed
and installed.
      4.   Copy: Copy must be set, printed or stenciled (not handwritten) in a
professional manner and not utilize broken, old, torn or worn materials.
      5.   Vision Triangle: The top of any sign located near the ground in a
vision triangle shall be no higher than three feet (3'), and the bottom of any
freestanding sign located in a vision triangle shall be at least ten feet (10')
high, from the existing centerline elevation of any adjacent road or driveway
within the vision triangle.
      6.   Freestanding Signs: Signs and structures supporting freestanding
signs shall be made of vinyl, plastic, stucco, wood, metal, masonry, or other
similar material of a more permanent nature.
      7.   Electrical Signs And Lighting:
         a.   Electrical signs require an electrical permit.
         b.   Illuminated signs and lighting devices shall not be or contain
rotating or moving light(s) and shall not exceed six hundred (600) total watts.
         c.   The light fixture for an exterior lit sign shall be shielded and
directed toward the sign so as to illuminate the message board portion of a
sign and not impede, obstruct or distract pedestrian or vehicular traffic.
         d.   Wiring must be enclosed in metal conduit.
      8.   Maintenance: Signs shall be maintained in good appearance, safety
and repair.
   B.   Semipermanent Signs:
      1.   Semipermanent must be professionally designed and installed.
      2.   Copy must be set, printed or stenciled (not handwritten) in a neat
and professional manner.
      3.   Semipermanent signs may not utilize broken, unsightly, inferior, old
or worn materials.
      4.   Semipermanent signs must be self-supporting to withstand natural
forces occurring in the area.
      5.   Signs shall be continually maintained in a state of good appearance,
safety and repair.
   C.   Temporary And Special Event Signs:
      1.   Temporary and special event signs must be constructed and copy
prepared in a professional manner, mechanically stenciled.
      2.   Temporary and special event signs may not utilize broken, unsightly,
inferior, old or worn materials.
      3.   Must be self-supporting to avoid falling over.
      4.   Signs shall be continually maintained in a state of good appearance,
safety and repair. (Ord. 587, 1-18-2017; amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
1-15-11-5: EXEMPT SIGNS:
The following signs, when in accord with vision triangles and the following
provisions, shall be exempt from the permit and fee provisions of this chapter:
   A.   Commercially prepared and sold house numbers, nameplates, "no
trespassing", "beware of dog", "no dumping", "garage sale", "yard sale" and
other similar signs.
   B.   Memorial signs containing the name, date constructed, use of a building
or other historical information, when built into the walls of the buildings.
   C.   Signs carried by an individual. (Ord. 587, 1-18-2017; amd. Ord. 609, 7-
3-2018)
1-15-11-6: NONCONFORMING SIGNS:
Signs not in conformance with the requirements of this chapter as of May 18,
2007, shall be determined to be nonconforming and shall be allowed to continue
so long as the sign (including the face) or sign structure is not altered in
any way. Copy can be changed without changing the nonconforming status of the
sign. (Ord. 587, 1-18-2017; amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
1-15-11-7: PROHIBITED SIGNS:
The following signs are expressly prohibited in all zones:
   A.   An abandoned sign, or a sign advertising an activity, event or
information that has already occurred or a business that is no longer in
business at the site of the sign.
   B.   Animated and/or electronic traveling message signs.
   C.   A sign erected or maintained to malign or incite hate speech.
   D.   A sign in a public right-of-way, easement, or vision triangle.
   E.   A sign not in compliance with this section
1-15-11.
   F.   Hot air or helium balloons greater than five feet (5') in length or
width when inflated.
   G.   On site home occupation signs.
   H.   Outdoor neon.
   I.   Roof signs.
   J.   Searchlights, except for law enforcement and emergency situations.
   K.   Signs containing obscene copy.
   L.   Signs that resemble or imitate a law enforcement, emergency services or
traffic control sign or device.
   M.   Signs determined by the City Planning and Zoning Commission to be
similar to any of the above prohibited signs.
   N.   Signs stapled or taped to telephone or other utility or traffic control
poles or devices.
   O.   Signs with copy patently offensive to people residing or doing business
in Middleton. (Ord. 587, 1-18-2017; amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
1-15-11-8: ENFORCEMENT:
Any person who violates any provision of this section
 1-15-11 shall be guilty of an infraction and penalized pursuant to section
1-4-2 of this title. Any sign that violates the provisions of this section
1-15-11 is an abatable nuisance. (Ord. 587, 1-18-2017; amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
1-15-12: VENDORS, SOLICITORS AND TEMPORARY MERCHANTS PERMIT:
In addition to all other regulations in this chapter, vendors, solicitors and
temporary merchants shall be subject to the following:
   A.   Application:
      1.   All Applicants for a Vendors, Solicitors and Temporary Merchant
Permit shall submit an application on a form prepared by the City and pay the
application fee approved by City Council. The Vendors, Solicitors and Temporary
Merchants Permit is an annual permit that expires every December 31st
regardless of the date issued.
      2.   The provisions of this section shall not apply to:
         a.   Traveling salespersons for local businesses;
         b.   Newspaper Subscriptions: The sale of a newspaper subscription in
which the seller is a person engaged in both the delivery and sale of the
newspaper;
         c.   School Students, Fundraising: The occasional sale of admission by
local school students to a function of their school or fundraising sales by
local service clubs and groups such as Elks, Kiwanis, Lions. Boy or Girl
Scouts;
         d.   Political Funds, Membership: Any political group seeking funds or
membership;
         e.   Garage, Yard Sales: Garage, yard or similar sales by individuals
at their residence or place of business not exceeding two (2) separate sales in
one calendar year, not to exceed three (3) days each, which sales shall not
include business inventory or items that have been purchased for the purpose of
resale at another garage sale;
         f.   Special Events: Any activity conducted pursuant to a special
events permit.
      3.   No person shall be issued a license when that person:
         a.   Is under the age of 18 years old;
         b.   Is required to register as a sex offender, pursuant to the sexual
offender registration notification and community right-to-know act, Idaho Code
section 18-8301 et seq., and the juvenile sex offender registration
notification and community right-to-know act, Idaho Code section 18-8401 et
seq.;
         c.   Is currently on probation or parole for any felony;
         d.   Has had a similar license revoked by the City or any other City
or County in the State of Idaho.
   B.   Bond Requirement applicable to door-to-door solicitors only:
      1.   Amount; Guarantee: Before any City business registration is issued
for engaging in the business of “vendor”, “solicitor”, or “temporary merchant”,
as defined in chapter 3 of this title:
         a.   Every individual shall deposit with the City a surety bond, a
cashier’s check or a letter of credit from a financial institution in the
amount of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
         b.   Every entity, which has employees or agents acting in the
capacity of vendor, solicitor, canvasser or temporary merchant, shall deposit
with the City a surety bond covering all such employees or agents and running
to the City, or a cashier’s check or irrevocable letter of credit in the amount
of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per employee or agent to a maximum of five
thousand dollars ($5,000.00). The surety bond must be one issued by an agent
upon which service of process may be made in the State of Idaho.
      2.   Action Brought: Action on the surety bond, cashier’s check or
irrevocable letter of credit may be brought directly by any person damaged by a
registrant’s violation of any provision of this chapter.
      3.   Bond Reimbursement: After expiration of a City business
registration, the City shall, upon application of the registrant, return the
bond or cashier’s check within sixty (60) calendar days after receipt of
application for return, unless the City has been notified of the pendency of
any claim or cause of action by any person upon the bond, cashier’s check or
irrevocable letter of credit.
   C.   Restrictions:
      1.   Location: No registrant hereunder shall have an exclusive right to
any location and shall not operate in any congested area, public road right-of-
way, park or facility, or where his operations might impede or inconvenience
the public, without written City authorization. For the purpose of this
chapter, the judgment of a public safety officer, exercised in good faith,
shall be deemed conclusive as to whether the area is congested or the public
impeded or inconvenienced.
      2.   Zoning: Any business activity conducted by a registrant may only be
conducted in an area of the City properly zoned for such activity.
      3.   Removal Of Trash: All trash or debris accumulating within twenty
feet (20') of any vending stand shall be collected by the vendor and deposited
in trash containers. All vendors selling food or beverages must provide trash
receptacles adjacent to or as part of their stands.
      4.   Prohibited Areas: Vendor carts, stands, trailers and motor vehicles
are prohibited within thirty feet (30') of a fire hydrant, fire escape, bus
stop, loading zone, fire station, police station or hospital, and within public
rights-of-way, unless otherwise permitted.
   D.   Unlawful Conduct: No registrant hereunder shall:
      1.   Misrepresent the purpose of, or affiliation of those engaged in, the
solicitation.
      2.   Continue efforts to solicit from an individual once that individual
informs the solicitor that he does not wish to give anything to or buy anything
from that solicitor.
      3.   Represent the issuance of any registration under this chapter as an
endorsement or recommendation of the solicitation.
      4.   Enter upon any premises when the same is posted with a sign stating
“No Peddlers Allowed” or “No Solicitation Allowed” or other words to such
effect.
      5.   Commit fraud, make misrepresentations or false statements in the
course of carrying on the business.
   E.   Revocation of License.
      1.   City Administration and/or City Council have the power to revoke any
license granted in accordance with this chapter for any of the following
causes:
         a.   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application or during the course of conducting business or trade;
         b.   Any other violation of this chapter;
         c.   Conviction of any crime involving a felony;
         d.   Conducting business in an unlawful manner or in such a manner as
to constitute a breach of the peace or to constitute a menace to the health,
safety or general welfare of the public.
   F.   Appeals. Appeals may be submitted in writing to the Clerk’s Office
within five days of the denial of a license. The Clerk’s Office shall have up
to five days to determine the final disposition.
   G.   Requirements for Mobile Food Truck Service and Vending Carts/Trailers:
      1.   In addition to the requirements of this chapter, food truck vendors,
including vending carts and trailers, must provide the additional documents:
         a.   Landowner permission to prepare and vend food from the
landowner’s parcel.
         b.   Southwest District Health license to vend from a food truck, cart
or trailer.
         c.   Proof of inspection and approval from the Middleton Fire Rural
District to vend from a food truck cart or trailer.
         d.   Sanitary sewer plan, including plan for gray water disposal.
         e.   When vending on City owned property, proof of Workers’
compensation insurance, general liability insurance with a minimum coverage of
S1,000.000.00 and automobile insurance with a minimum coverage of
$1,000,000.00.
      2.   Food Truck, Cart and Trailer Vendors must also comply with the
following requirements:
         a.   Only one food truck/cart/trailer per tax parcel, except City may
allow up to three such vendors at any City Park.
         b.   Hours for vending are 6 a.m, to 10 p.m., except in City Parks
where the hours are dawn to dusk.
         c.   No connections to City utilities.
         d.   No tables, chairs, benches or other furniture can be placed on
site for sit-down dining.
         e.   No food trucks/carts/trailers on vacant lots unless the lot is
paved with asphalt or concrete.
         f.   No generator noise or other noise that would rise to the level of
a nuisance as defined by MCC
8-1-5 .
         g.   Food trucks, carts and trailers shall have a clean appearance at
all times.
         h.   Food trucks, carts and trailers cannot occupy parking stalls on a
lot to the degree that the existing business on site will have less than the
number of parking stalls required by MCC
4-5-11 .
   H.   Enforcement Authority. Any law enforcement officer or city licensing
officer shall be authorized to enforce this chapter.
   I.   A violation of this section shall be punishable as provided for in
Middleton City Code 01-04-02. (Ord. 594, 8-16-2017; amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018;
Ord. 679, 8-16-2023; Ord. 694, 3-20-2024; Ord. 696, 6-26-2024)
1-15-13: SPECIAL EVENT PERMIT:
1-15-13-1: SPECIAL EVENT PERMIT REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   No person shall stage, promote, or conduct any special event in the
City without first obtaining a special event permit from the City. Prior
authorization is required for an event organizer to use the words "City of
Middleton" or a facsimile of the City Seal in the title, advertisement, or
other depiction of the special event.
   B.   A special event permit under this chapter is not required for events to
be attended by fewer than one hundred (100) people. The requirements for
permitting under this chapter shall not apply to:
      1.   Funeral processions;
      2.   Spontaneous events for the purpose of expressive activity that occur
in response to breaking or emerging news;
      3.   City sponsored activities and events.
   C.   Applicants, sponsors, or promoters of events which would otherwise
qualify as a special event but expect less than one hundred (100) persons may
apply for a special event permit.
   D.   All special events that involve the use of vehicles, animals,
fireworks, pyrotechnics, or auditory amplification devices shall be required to
obtain a special event permit, regardless of the number of attendees. (Ord.
549, 1-21-2015; amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
1-15-13-2: PERMIT APPLICATION; FEES; INSURANCE AND INDEMNIFICATION:
   A.   All applicants for a special event permit shall submit an application
on a form prepared by the City allowing time for review, necessary meetings and
inclusion on agenda for consideration by City Council and no earlier than one
year prior to the date of commencement of the special event.
   B.   The permit application fee will be set by Council resolution.
   C.   The special event permit does not preclude the need for other permits
required by the City or other government agencies.
   D.   Unless otherwise approved by the City, all applicants shall submit,
with the application, and maintain, at least until the conclusion of the
special event, a comprehensive general liability insurance policy in the amount
of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00), with the City of Middleton named as an
additional insured, and written by a company authorized to write insurance
policies within the State of Idaho, and filed with the Middleton City Clerk's
Office. Applicants must also execute indemnification and hold harmless
provisions contained within the application to address potential liabilities
and damages to persons and/or property. (Ord. 549, 1-21-2015; amd. Ord. 609, 7-
3-2018)
1-15-13-3: APPLICATION; REVIEW; CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL; GROUNDS FOR DENIAL,
SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION; DISPLAY OF PERMIT; CLEANUP:
   A.   Application: Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, special
event applicants, promoters and sponsors whose special events require the use
of Municipal resources as a result of their anticipated attendance or
heightened security concerns may be required to reimburse the City for expended
resources at the hourly rate or salary of City or other personnel involved in
the permit processing, event traffic control, or other facility or event
support and for the use of City equipment and other nonpersonnel expense. When
required, payment of fees and services or a reasonable estimate thereof shall
be paid at the time the completed application is approved, unless the City
extends time for payment. In any event, full cost recovery for resources shall
be required no later than ten (10) days following the conclusion of the special
event.
   B.   Meeting: At any time, the City may call a meeting when the review and
coordination of a specific special event application is deemed necessary by
applicable governmental agencies and districts, at which the applicant shall be
required to attend.
   C.   Review: Upon receipt of a completed application, the City shall set the
matter before the City Council.
   D.   Council Review: The City Council shall review the application for a
special event permit and shall approve, approve with conditions or deny the
application. A denial of the application may be based upon any of the criteria
set forth in subsection E of this section.
   E.   Grounds For Denial, Suspension Or Revocation: A special event permit
may be denied, suspended, or revoked, if the City determines:
      1.   The applicant has made any false, material representation in the
application;
      2.   The applicant fails to provide any of the items or information
required by this chapter;
      3.   The applicant fails to gain required licenses, permits, or
permissions from applicable governmental agencies or districts;
      4.   The special event shall substantially interfere or conflict with any
other approved and scheduled special event;
      5.   The special event:
         a.   Substantially interrupts the safe and orderly movement of
vehicular and pedestrian traffic in the area of the special event;
         b.   Causes unresolvable conflict with construction or development;
         c.   Closes roads on weekdays between seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. to
nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. or between four o'clock (4:00) P.M. to six o'clock (6:
00) P.M. determined by the City;
         d.   Exceeds the lawful capacity of the facility;
         e.   Requires parking exceeding what is available;
         f.   Causes unmitigatable adverse impact upon residential or business
access and traffic circulation; or
         g.   Otherwise substantially and adversely impacts public safety and
welfare;
      6.   The event coordinator, applicant, promoter, or sponsor failed to pay
for a previously permitted event;
      7.   The event coordinator fails to provide sufficient services
including, but not limited to:
         a.   Qualified traffic controllers;
         b.   Monitors for crowd control;
         c.   Safety, health, emergency medical, or sanitation equipment,
services or facilities;
         d.   Off site parking or shuttle service, or both, when required to
minimize substantial adverse impacts on general parking and traffic circulation
in the vicinity of the event;
      8.   The event creates the possibility of disorderly conduct likely to
endanger public safety or to cause property damage;
      9.   The sale, resale, or offer to sell or resell any goods, food, or
beverages in the special event venue except as expressly authorized by the
special event permit;
      10.   The event violates any other provision of this chapter; a violation
by the applicant of any Federal, State or local laws or ordinances during the
special event; or a violation of the conditions of the permit.
   F.   Display Of Permit: The special event permit shall be displayed or held
by the sponsor or event coordinator at the special event venue and shall be
exhibited upon demand of any City official.
   G.   Cleanup: As a condition of the issuance of a special event permit, the
applicant shall be required to make adequate provisions for cleaning up,
repairing, and/or replacing damaged property in the area or route of the event
both during and upon completion of the event and to return the area or route to
the same condition of material preservation and cleanliness as existed prior to
the event. (Ord. 549, 1-21-2015; amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
1-15-13-4: NOTICE OF REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF PERMIT:
The City shall notify the permit holder in writing stating the reasons for the
suspension or revocation. If there is an emergency or imminent need the City
may immediately suspend or revoke the permit notifying the permit holder
verbally. In the event of a suspension or revocation, the applicant may appeal
the suspension or revocation to the City Council by filing a written appeal
with the City within five (5) days of notice of the suspension or denial. The
City Council shall consider the appeal at the next regularly scheduled City
Council meeting. (Ord. 549, 1-21-2015; amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
1-15-14: FIREWORKS PERMIT:
1-15-14-1: SALE OF FIREWORKS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any individual or entity to import, export,
offer for sale, expose for sale, or sell at retail nonaerial common fireworks
without first obtaining a permit from the City. Retail sales shall be conducted
pursuant to Idaho Code section 39-2604.
      1.   A maximum of one permit shall be issued per one thousand five
hundred (1,500) population.
      2.   A permit issued pursuant to this chapter shall be valid for twelve
(12) months from the date issued. A permit shall be valid only for the specific
premises or location designated in the permit. However, subject to reasonable
conditions necessary for protection of the public health, safety and welfare,
an applicant may be granted permits for more than one site or location within
the City. No permit shall be transferable or assignable.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any individual or entity to import fireworks
or offer wholesale sales of fireworks without first obtaining a license
pursuant to Idaho Code section 39-2603. (Ord. 555, 3-18-2015; amd. Ord. 609, 7-
3-2018)
1-15-14-2: TEMPORARY FIREWORKS STANDS:
Retail sales of nonaerial common fireworks shall be allowed only from within a
temporary fireworks stand which has been inspected and approved by the
Middleton Rural Fire District. Temporary fireworks stands shall comply with the
requirements of Idaho Code section 39-2607, as amended. (Ord. 555, 3-18-2015;
amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
1-15-14-3: PUBLIC DISPLAY PERMIT:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any individual or entity to undertake a public
display or other event using fireworks without having first obtained a permit
from the City. Public displays of fireworks shall be conducted in compliance
with Idaho Code section 39-2605. The permit shall be nontransferable, shall
list the specific date or dates upon which the display or event shall occur and
the types of fireworks and uses that will be allowed.
   B.   In addition to operating without a permit or outside the permit's
restrictions as stated herein, it shall be a violation of this section should
the City and/or the Fire Marshal determine that:
      1.   The public display was not supervised by a qualified person.
      2.   The public display constituted an unreasonable hazard to persons or
property.
      3.   The public display utilized fireworks other than nonaerial common
fireworks or fireworks that the Fire Marshal had determined at time of issuance
of permit will not constitute an unreasonable hazard to persons or property.
(Ord. 555, 3-18-2015; amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
1-15-14-4: AUTHORIZED DATES FOR THE SALE AND USE OF FIREWORKS:
Nonaerial common fireworks, special fireworks, and fireworks may be sold and
used beginning at twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight June 23, and ending at twelve
o'clock (12:00) midnight July 5, and beginning at twelve o'clock (12:00)
midnight December 26 and ending at twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight January 1
each year. The use of fireworks must also comply with the City noise ordinance,
section
 8-1-5 of this Code. (Ord. 555, 3-18-2015; amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
1-15-14-5: GENERAL REGULATIONS:
The sale, storage and use of nonaerial fireworks, special fireworks and
fireworks shall comply with the provisions of Idaho Code title 39, chapter 26,
as amended. (Ord. 555, 3-18-2015; amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
1-15-15: MIDDLETON MARKET PERMIT:
Any person desiring to conduct transactions at the Middleton Market shall first
submit an application on a form provided by the City, pay a fee established by
the City, and obtain a permit issued by the City. (Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
1-15-16: MINERAL EXTRACTION PERMIT:
1-15-16-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this section
1-15-16, definitions of applicable terms shall be those of Idaho Code title 47,
chapter 15, the Idaho Surface Mining Act, and implementing regulations pursuant
in the Idaho Administrative Procedures Act. (Ord. 528, 2-19-2014; amd. Ord.
609, 7-3-2018)
1-15-16-2: SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS FOR MINING APPLICATIONS:
The applicant shall file a detailed written and graphic plan on a form prepared
by the City and accompanying the necessary fees, as set by resolution of the
Council. Submittals shall include the following:
   A.   Site plan (including phasing);
   B.   Operations plan (dust mitigation, equipment and vehicle maintenance,
material storage, etc.);
   C.   Stormwater plan;
   D.   Traffic plan (internal and off site);
   E.   Reclamation plan, before submitted to other agencies. (Ord. 528, 2-19-
2014; amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
1-15-16-3: GOALS AND STANDARDS FOR MINERAL EXTRACTION AND SURFACE MINING:
   A.   Temporary Use: Mineral extraction, surface mining and processing
activities are considered a temporary use, and applicants shall be required to
restore the land to a form suitable for future land use that is consistent with
the property's zone designation and consistent with the comprehensive plan map
designation. In granting the use, the City shall make a specific finding of
fact that the proposed mineral extraction and processing meets all of the
following criteria:
      1.   Is consistent with the City's comprehensive plan.
      2.   Is compatible with adjacent zoning, existing and planned land use.
      3.   Provides for the mitigation of environmental impacts including
visual quality, pollution control, natural and constructed environment, health,
safety, and general welfare.
   B.   Extraction Guidelines: Mineral extraction activities shall be planned,
designed and operated in compliance with the following extraction standards:
      1.   Prevent the deposit of mud on improved roads.
      2.   Minimize the adverse impact of mining operations on surface and/or
ground water:
         a.   Surface water and sediment control to conform to current State
and Federal Best Management Practices.
         b.   Mining activities within floodplain shall demonstrate adequate
conveyance of flood flows, stabilization of the channel, and design to
withstand capture of the main channel during a flood event.
         c.   Material or mineral stockpiles and/or structures shall not be
placed within the floodway.
         d.   Use or reuse of water in mining and processing of sand and gravel
to conform to adopted State and Federal Best Management Practices.
      3.   Ensure community safety, health and welfare from mining practices:
         a.   Final slopes of pits shall not be greater than three to one (3:1)
for safety and protection of property, unless stability at greater slopes can
be demonstrated.
         b.   Hours of operation shall be established to ensure compatibility
with surrounding uses.
         c.   Mining operations setbacks to be at least fifty feet (50') from
adjacent property lines and at least two hundred fifty feet (250') from
occupied dwellings.
      4.   Minimize adverse impacts due to truck traffic:
         a.   Intersection of haul roads and the public road system shall be
designed in accordance with the current AASHTO Design Manual.
         b.   Signs, speed zones, and lane markings consistent with safe
ingress/egress of heavy truck traffic shall be used.
         c.   Adverse impacts to public roadways shall be mitigated through
construction or maintenance of roadways as warranted by use.
      5.   Return the land to a form and productivity that is beneficial to the
community:
         a.   Provide timetable for in progress and final restoration.
         b.   During the mining process and after the mining operations have
been completed, provide for the restoration of land that has been subjected to
surface disturbance by mining thereby conserving natural resources, aid in the
protection of wildlife and aquatic resources and establish recreational, open
space, residential, and industrial sites in conformance with the comprehensive
plan. (Ord. 587, 1-18-2017; amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
1-15-17: LIQUOR, BEER AND WINE REGULATIONS:
1-15-17-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
This article establishes minimum requirements for the licensing of the sale of
alcoholic beverages for the protection of public health, welfare, and safety;
and for the orderly, moral and responsible conduct of the business of selling
and distributing alcoholic beverages, and for the general welfare, all within
the boundaries of the City. (Ord. 687, 2-21-2024)
1-15-17-2: APPLICABILITY:
The provisions of this Article shall govern the issuance, renewal, transfer
and/or revocation of licenses and other matters pertaining to licenses for the
sale of liquor by the drink at retail, wine by the drink and retail wine
license, the sale of beer, including bottled and canned beer, none of which is
to be consumed on the premises where sold, and including the selling of beer
for consumption on the premises, draft and bottled or canned beer, or draft
only, and liquor catering permits, as the same are defined in this Article.
City. (Ord. 687, 2-21-2024)
1-15-17-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this Article, the words set out in this section are defined
as follows:
ALCOHOL BEVERAGE CATERING PERMIT: A license issued by the City Clerk
authorizing a person to serve and sell liquor, beer, and /or wine by the drink
at a party or convention which is off the site of the licensed premises.
APPLICANT: Includes any individual, firm, co-partnership, association,
corporation or any group or combination, acting as a unit, and the plural as
well as the singular number unless the intent to give a more limited meaning is
disclosed by the context.
BAR/TAVERN/ LOUNGE: A building where alcoholic beverages are sold for
consumption on the premises, not including restaurants as defined herein.
BEER: Any beverage obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
decoction of barley, malt, and/or ingredients in drinkable water.
BEER RETAILER, OFF-PREMISES LICENSE: A license issued by the City Clerk
authorizing a person to sell only bottled or canned beer, none of which is
consumed on the premises where sold.
BEER RETAILER, ON-PREMISES LICENSE: A license issued by the City Clerk
authorizing a person to sell, for consumption on the premises, draft beer and
bottled or canned beer, or draft beer only.
INTERDICTED PERSON: A person to whom the sale of liquor, beer and/or wine is
prohibited under the laws of the State of Idaho.
LICENSEE: The person to whom a license is issued under the provisions of this
article.
LIQUOR: An alcoholic beverage made by distillation rather than by fermentation.
LIQUOR BY THE DRINK AT RETAIL LICENSE: A license issued by the City Clerk to a
qualified person, under which it shall be lawful for the licensee to engage in
activities concerning the sale and/or distribution of liquor, , as the case may
be, as provided in this article.
PREMISES: The place of building in which the sale of beer at retail, sale of
liquor by the drink at retail, and/or wine by the drink at retail for
consumption on the premises as is authorized under the provisions of this
article.
RESTAURANT: A premises where the principal business conducted on the premises
is the selling of food prepared on the premises for consumption on or off the
premises. The premises shall also, as a minimum, be equipped with operational
equipment hereinafter listed in group 1 and/or group 2; and which equipment
must be operational during business hours:
   A.   Group 1: A type one grease exhaust hood as defined in the current
adopted edition of the international mechanical code and international fire
code, a utensil and equipment sink and a hand wash sink.
   B.   Group 2: A three (3) compartment dishwashing sink or commercial
dishwashing equipment, a hand wash sink, and multiuse (not single service)
dishware and utensils to serve a minimum of thirty (30) people.
RETAIL WINE LICENSE: A license issued by the City Clerk authorizing a person to
sell wine at retail for consumption off the licensed premises.
RETAILER: Any person engaged in the distribution of beer or wine to the
customer for consumption by the customer upon licensed premises, or for sale
for consumption not on the premises.
WINE: An alcoholic beverage containing not more than fourteen percent (14%)
alcohol by volume obtained by the fermentation of the natural sugar content of
fruits or other agricultural products containing sugar.
WINE RETAILER, OFF-PREMISES LICENSE: A license issued by the City Clerk
authorizing a person to sell wine, none of which is consumed on the premises
where sold.
WINE RETAILER, ON-PREMISES LICENSE: A license issued by the City Clerk
authorizing a person to sell wine by the individual glass or opened bottle at
retail for consumption on the premises only. City. (Ord. 687, 2-21-2024)
1-15-17-4: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It is unlawful for any person without first having obtained a license under the
provisions of this article to:
   A.   Sell liquor by the drink at retail for consumption on the licensed
premises.
   B.   Serve and sell liquor at retail by the drink at a party or convention
which is off the site of the licensed premises.
   C.   Sell only bottled or canned beer, none of which is consumed on the
premises where sold.
   D.   Sell for consumption on the premises draft beer, bottled beer, and/or
canned beer, and/or draft beer only.
   E.   Sell wine at retail for consumption off the premises.
   F.   Sell wine by the individual glass or opened bottle at retail for
consumption on the premises only.
   G.   Otherwise manufacture, bottle, possess for resale, or distribute or
sell wine and/or beer. City. (Ord. 687, 2-21-2024)
1-15-17-5: APPLICATION FOR LICENSES:
Prior to the issuance of a license, as required in section
1-15-17-4  of this article, the applicant shall file with the City Clerk an
application, in writing, which application shall be on the official application
form approved by the City Council, which shall be in writing, signed by the
applicant, and containing such information and statements relative to the
applicant and the premises where either liquor, beer and/or wine is to be sold.
The City of Middleton shall not exceed the issuance of one (1) license for each
one thousand five hundred (1,500) of population of the City, in accordance with
Idaho Code § 23-903. City. (Ord. 687, 2-21-2024)
1-15-17-6: APPLICATION FORMS:
All applications for a license shall require the applicant to set forth the
following information:
   A.   A detailed description of the premises for which a license is sought
for a bar, tavern or lounge, its location, and a plot and floor plan depicting
the following:
      1.   Floor Plan: The floor plan shall be drawn to a scale of one-eighth
of an inch representing one foot (1/8" = 1'). The floor plan will include game
machine areas, seating areas, exit paths, counters, bars, restrooms, offices,
storage rooms and or space, kitchens, windows and doors and the direction of
swing of the door and shall indicate (not to scale) the location of emergency
lights, and exit signs. The floor plan shall include all floors occupied by the
applicant and any basement or floor levels located below.
      2.   Plot Plan: Drawn to a scale of not less than one-sixteenth of an
inch representing one foot (1/16" = 1'). The plot plan shall include the
structure being used, parking, fencing, storage or trash enclosures, lighting
locations, street entrances, and walkways.
   B.   The names and addresses of all persons who will have any financial
interest in any business to be carried on, in or upon the licensed premises,
whether such interest results from open loans, mortgages, conditional sales
contracts, silent partnerships, trusts, or any other basis than upon trade
account incurred in the ordinary course of business and the amounts and nature
of such interests including the shareholders with names and addresses provided.
   C.   If the premises to be licensed are not owned by the applicant, then it
shall be incumbent upon the applicant to furnish a certified copy of the lease
by which applicant will occupy the premises and that the lessor has consented
to the sale of liquor, beer or wine on the premises, and the applicant shall
furnish evidence of the lease by which the applicant is entitled to possession
of the property.
   D.   The name and address of the applicant shall include, if the applicant
is a partnership, whether a general or limited partnership and if the applicant
is a corporation, the officers, directors and principal stockholders of the
corporation.
   E.   All venues functioning as an event center must provide a final copy of
their submitted and approved security plan through the Idaho State Police.
City. (Ord. 687, 2- 21-2024)
1-15-17-7: QUALIFICATIONS OF LICENSEE:
No license shall be issued to any applicant for a new, renewed or transferred
license who:
   A.   Is not a bona fide owner of such business.
   B.   Proposes a premises for the sale of liquor, beer or wine on the
premises that does not conform to the laws and regulations of the state of
Idaho and to the ordinances of the county of Canyon, the City of Middleton,
which are applicable thereto and which relate to public health, safety, and
planning and zoning.
   C.   Is prohibited from being issued a license because of the occurrence of
one or more convictions, events or activities, as set forth below. If one of
the following subsections applies to the applicant, or any partner, manager or
officer of said applicant (referred to sometimes hereinafter collectively as
“applicant”), then a license shall not be issued to said applicant for a period
of three (3) years following the occurrence of the event, conviction or
activity described. If two (2) of the following apply to the applicant, then a
license shall not be issued to said applicant for a period of three (3) to ten
(10) years following the occurrence of the most recent event, conviction or
activity described, depending upon the severity of the situation and as
determined within the sound discretion of the City Clerk. If three (3) or more
of the following apply to the applicant, the City Clerk shall deny the issuance
of the license to said applicant for a period of time deemed appropriate in the
City Clerk’s discretion, but in no event less than five (5) years following the
most recent occurrence of any event, conviction or activity described in the
following subsections. The City Clerk shall have the authority and discretion,
should the situation be deemed sufficiently severe, to permanently deny the
issuance of a license to any applicant to whom three (3) or more of the
following subsections are found to apply:
      1.   The applicant has been convicted and/or been granted a withheld
judgment for any crime that is defined as a felony in the jurisdiction in which
the judgment was entered and/or has paid any fine and/or completed any sentence
whether by confinement, probation and/or parole for any said felony; or
      2.   The applicant has been convicted of the violation of any law or
regulation of the state, or of the United States, governing or prohibiting the
sale of alcoholic beverages or intoxicating liquor, or who forfeited or
suffered the forfeiture of a bond for their appearance to answer charges to any
such violation; or
      3.   The applicant has been convicted of driving a motor vehicle under
the influence of alcohol, drugs or any other intoxicating substances as defined
in the jurisdiction in which the judgment was entered; or
      4.   The applicant has engaged in the operation, or has interest therein,
of any house or place for the purpose of prostitution, or has engaged in the
operation of any house or premises within the City limits of Middleton which
has been declared and found to have been a moral nuisance as defined by this
code or state law; or
      5.   The applicant has, subsequent to the effective date of this article,
been convicted in any jurisdiction or received a withheld judgment for any
crime concerning the possession of any controlled substances; or
      6.   The applicant has, for violation of any law or regulation, had a
similar license revoked by any jurisdiction granting the license and/or had
their license revoked by the state of Idaho or Canyon County; or
      7.   The applicant fails to report the occurrence of any of the foregoing
events, convictions or activities either when they occur or when making
application for a new, renewed or transferred license.
   D.   Who is under the age of nineteen (19) years.
   E.   Proposes to license a premises for the sale of liquor by the drink at
retail, for consumption on the licensed premises, to serve and sell liquor at
retail by the drink at a party or convention which is off the site of the
licensed premises, to sell for consumption on the premises draft beer and
bottled or canned beer or draft beer only and/or to sell wine by the individual
glass or open bottle at retail for consumption on the premises that is
conducted for pleasure or profit that is within three hundred feet (300') of
any public school, church or other place of worship, or college, measured in a
straight line from the nearest corner of said building to the nearest entrance
of the licensed premises, except on/in premises in the city center zoning
district that have received approval of the City Council. This provision does
not apply to licensed premises which preexisted the public school, church or
other places of worship or college.
   F.   Has a bar/tavern/lounge where parking lot lighting levels have not been
designed, installed and maintained at a level of at least “one foot-candle”
which is defined as a unit measurement of illuminance on a surface at ground
level equal to one lumen per square foot.
   G.   Proposes a licensed premises that is a dangerous building as defined in
the current adopted edition of the uniform code for the abatement of dangerous
buildings, as adopted by the City.
   H.   Submits an application which shall contain a false material statement
knowingly made.
   I.   Allows conduct to occur on the licensed premises which is a moral
nuisance as defined by the laws of the state of Idaho and/or the ordinances of
the City.
   J.   Allows the licensed premises to be frequented by intoxicated and/or
disorderly persons, or if the licensed premises is frequented by persons
convicted of crimes of violence and/or controlled substances, and/or lewd or
lascivious conduct.
   K.   Manages and/or operates the licensed premises in such a way as to be a
nuisance to surrounding businesses by reason of the conduct of employees or
clientele of the licensed premises, where said employees or clientele engage in
lewd and/or violent and/or disorderly behavior.
   L.   Proposes a licensed premises for which a license has already been
issued. No premises may have more than one license issued. City. (Ord. 687, 2-
21-2024)
1-15-17-8: INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT:
   A.   Upon receiving an application for a new license, or an application for
license renewal or an application for license transfer, the office of the City
Clerk, city building official, police chief and fire marshal of the City of
Middleton shall investigate the statements and representation contained in the
application, shall inspect the premises where the applicant proposes to do
business, and make such other further investigations as may be deemed proper to
ascertain whether the applicant conforms to all of the requirements of this
article. All of such reports and findings shall be submitted to the City Clerk,
who shall then decide whether or not to grant or deny the request for a
license.
   B.   In the event the City Clerk shall deny an application, the City Clerk
must specify the following in writing:
      1.   The statute, ordinances and/or standards used to evaluate.
      2.   Specify the reasons for the denial.
      3.   The actions, if any, the applicant could take to obtain the license,
transfer, or renewal.
      4.   Decisions of the City Clerk may be appealed to the city council,
this appeal must be filed within fifteen (15) days of the date of mailing which
shall be made by return receipt requested and/or by registered mail and/or by
delivery of the decision of the City Clerk to the applicant.
      5.   The City Council shall, within thirty (30) days of the final
decision of the City Clerk, make a decision of the appeal. In the event the
City Council should deny any application, the City Council shall specify in
writing those matters set forth in subsections B.1., B.2. and B.3. of this
section. City. (Ord. 687, 2-21-2024)
1-15-17-9: LICENSEE TO REPORT CHANGES:
If, during the period of any license issued under this article, any change
takes place in licensee’s circumstances relating to the licensee’s
qualifications to hold a license and/or in relationship to the floor and/or
plot plan, the licensee shall forthwith make a verified report of such change
including a new floor plan or plot plan if applicable to the change in
circumstances. City. (Ord. 687, 2-21-2024)
1-15-17-10: RENEWAL OF LICENSE:
Request for license renewal shall be submitted to the City Clerk on a renewal
application form provided by that office. The renewal application shall be
filed with the City Clerk by April 1 of each and every year. The renewal
application shall include any changes, modifications or alterations to the
nature or operational characteristics of the business. Failure to provide a
complete and accurate application in advance of the April 1 deadline shall
cause delay in processing the application and shall result in a fine of fifty
dollars ($50.00) for each day after April 1 the request for license renewal is
filed. The City Clerk will not issue a license until all fines and fees are
paid in full. City. (Ord. 687, 2-21-2024)
1-15-17-11: PERIOD FOR WHICH LICENSE IS ISSUED:
All licenses issued under the provisions of this article shall run from June 1
through May 31. All such licenses shall expire at twelve o’clock (12:00)
midnight, May 31 of the year in which they shall be issued, notwithstanding the
fact that such license may have been issued after June 1. City. (Ord. 687, 2-
21-2024)
1-15-17-12: LICENSE FEES:
An applicant shall be charged by the City Clerk the following application and
license fees to be payable at the time the license is issued. All license fees
shall be paid to the general fund of the city.
   A.   Liquor By The Drink At Retail License: The maximum fee allowed by the
state of Idaho per annum for the license year; provided, however, that if the
license be issued for less than a full calendar year, the license fee shall be
prorated as of the actual months of issuance, but in no event for less than six
(6) months.
   B.   Liquor Catering Permit: The maximum fee allowed by the state of Idaho
for each day the permit is to be effective.
   C.   Beer Retailer, On Premises Consumption License: The maximum fee allowed
by the state of Idaho per annum for the license year; provided, however, that
if the license be issued for less than a full calendar year, the license fee
shall be prorated as of the actual months of issuance, but in no event for less
than six (6) months.
   D.   Beer Retailer, Packaged Beer License - Not To Be Consumed On The
Premises: The maximum fee allowed by the state of Idaho per annum for the
license year; provided, however, that if the license be issued for less than a
full calendar year, the license fee shall be prorated as of the actual months
of issuance, but in no event for less than six (6) months.
   E.   Wine By The Drink License: The maximum fee allowed by the state of
Idaho per annum for the license year; provided, however, should the license be
issued for less than a full calendar year, the license fee shall be prorated in
accordance with the actual months of issuance, but in no event for less than
six (6) months.
   F.   Wine Retailer License: The maximum fee allowed by the state of Idaho
per annum for the license year; provided, however, should the license be issued
for less than a full calendar year, the license fee shall be prorated in
accordance with the actual months of issuance, but in no event for less than
six (6) months.
   G.   Transfer Fee: An amount established by resolution of the City Council
   H.   Refund: In the event the city clerk should reject any application for
license renewal or transfer and there is no appeal of the decision of the
clerk, the City Clerk, following the time for the period for which an appeal
may be filed, shall refund the amount of the license fee to the applicant which
was submitted with the application. City. (Ord. 687, 2-21-2024)
1-15-17-13: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
When the city clerk suspends, revokes or refuses to renew a license issued
pursuant to the provisions of this article for a violation or failure to comply
with the provisions of this article, the city clerk shall notify the licensee
of the city clerk’s intent to suspend, revoke or refuse to renew, which notice
shall be in writing and shall contain the reasons for such action and shall set
forth those matters specified in subsections
1-15-17-8 B.1. through B.3. of this article. City. (Ord. 687, 2-21-2024)
1-15-17-14: DENIAL OF APPLICATION, SUSPENSION AND/OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
The City Clerk shall:
   A.   Deny an application of any applicant who does not meet the
qualifications of section
1-15-17-7  of this article, unless the applicant has a license that is subject
to a term of suspension and the term of the suspension has not been completed,
in which case a license may be issued subject to the suspension and the
applicant complying with the qualifications of section
1-15-17-17  of this article within the same period of the suspension.
   B.   Revoke the license of any licensee who does not meet the qualifications
to hold a license as set forth in subsections
1-15-17-17  A., C., and/or H. of this article, and/or denies access for
inspection conducted pursuant to section
1-15-17-17  of this article.
   C.   Suspend the license at any time, during the period for which a license
is issued, wherein the licensee is unable to meet the qualifications to hold a
license as set forth in subsections
1-15-17-17  B., E., F. and/or G. of this article. In the event the licensee is
able to come into compliance with the requirements of said subsections, then
the suspension shall be terminated. No suspension can be for a period greater
than one hundred eighty (180) days. In the event the licensee does not come
into compliance in the period of the suspension, the license shall be
immediately revoked by the terms of the suspension.
   D.   Suspend the license, for a period of up to one week per event, of any
licensee in the event of circumstances occurring upon the licensed premises
which are disqualifications from holding a license as defined in subsections
1-15-17-17  J. and K. of this article, or in the event a licensee violates the
provisions of section
1-15-17-16  of this article and/or interferes and/or impedes an inspection
conducted under section
1-15-17-17  of this article, and/or fails to comply with section 1-15-17-9 of
this article. In the event the licensee does not come into compliance within
the period of the suspension, the license shall be immediately revoked by the
terms of the suspension. In the event the licensee has received three (3)
previous suspensions within a license year, the clerk shall revoke the license.
   E.   When the City Clerk determines to suspend a license pursuant to
subsection D. of this section, the affected licensee may petition the Clerk
once per license year prior to the effective date of the suspension requesting
that a monetary payment be allowed in lieu of the license suspension. If the
Clerk determines such payment to be consistent with the purpose of the laws for
the state of Idaho and the ordinances of the city of Middleton and in the
public interest, the Clerk shall establish a monetary payment in an amount not
to exceed five thousand dollars ($5,000.00). The licensee may reflect the
payment amount determined by the Clerk, and instead be subject to the
suspension provision of this subsection. Upon payment of the amount
established, the Clerk shall cancel the suspension period. The Clerk shall
cause any payment to be paid to the general fund of the City. City. (Ord. 687,
2-21-2024)
1-15-17-15: NOTICE OF HEARING:
Whenever information is submitted to, or shall come to the attention of any
official, department head or employee of the City, that a licensee has
committed any act rendering the licensee’s license subject to suspension and/or
revocation, the official, department head or employee, as the case may be,
shall report such information to the City Clerk in writing. In the event it
appears to the City Clerk, after having received such report, that there are
grounds for the suspension and/or revocation of a license, after having
conducted a reasonable investigation into the matter, the City Clerk shall
propose to suspend, or terminate the license. The Clerk shall send to the
licensee a notice containing the findings required by section
1-15-17-8  of this article. The licensee shall have the right to appeal the
decision of the clerk to the City Council. City. (Ord. 687, 2-21-2024)
1-15-17-16: HOURS OF SALE:
   A.   Liquor: No liquor shall be sold, offered for sale, or given away upon
any licensed premises, and all liquor not sealed in bottles must be located in
a separate room or cabinet during the following hours:
      1.   Memorial Day, Thanksgiving Day, and Christmas Day from one o’clock
(1:00) A.M. to ten o’clock (10:00) A.M. the following day.
      2.   On any other day between one o’clock (1:00) A.M. and ten o’clock
(10:00) A.M.
      3.   Any patron present on the licensed premises after the sale of liquor
has stopped as provided in subsection A.2. of this section, shall have a
reasonable time, not to exceed thirty (30) minutes, to consume any beverages
already served.
      4.   Any person who consumes or intentionally permits the consumption of
any liquor upon a licensed premises after the time provided for in subsection
A.3. of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   B.   Beer/Wine: It shall be unlawful and a misdemeanor for any person in any
place licensed to sell beer and/or wine, or where beer and/or wine is sold to
be consumed on the premises, to sell or permit to be consumed on the premises,
beer and/or wine as the same is defined by law, between the hours of one
o’clock (1:00) A.M. and six o’clock (6:00) A.M. and during the following times:
      1.   Any patron present on the licensed premises after the sale of beer
has stopped as provided in this subsection shall have a reasonable time, not to
exceed thirty (30) minutes, to consume any beverage already served.
      2.   Any person who consumes or intentionally permits consumption of beer
and/or wines upon a licensed premises after the time provided for in this
subsection shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. City. (Ord. 687, 2-21-2024)
1-15-17-17: RIGHT OF INSPECTION:
The City Clerk, the City Fire Marshal, City building official, City police and
any other peace officer or designee of said officials, or officers, shall have
the right at any time to conduct an inspection of the premises of any licensee
for the purpose of investigating whether or not the licensee is in compliance
with this article. City. (Ord. 687, 2-21-2024)
1-15-17-18: ALCOHOL BEVERAGE CATERING PERMIT:
   A.   An alcohol beverage catering permit is a permit issued pursuant to this
section which authorizes the permit holder to dispense, serve or sell liquor,
beer or wine by the drink at a party, special event, or convention, but said
license shall not exceed five (5) consecutive days upon obtaining an alcohol
beverage catering permit, with an option to request one permit extension on the
same terms and conditions as the original permit, which extension may be issued
or denied at the sole and absolute discretion of the original issuing entity.
An alcohol beverage catering permit shall be limited to authorization to sell
or dispense liquor or beer or wine, or any combination thereof, based upon the
type of license which the applicant possesses. In addition:
      1.   A permit shall not be issued/obtained to a person, or for the
benefit of another person, attempting to circumvent established alcohol
licensing procedures, i.e., operating two (2) separate establishments under one
license or for the benefit of a person whose alcohol license has been revoked
or canceled; and
      2.   No location may have more than twenty-four (24) days in any calendar
year where alcohol is served pursuant to a catering permit or permits.
   B.   Applications for a catering permit under this section shall be made to
the City Clerk upon the form prescribed by the Chief of Police, which shall
contain the following information:
      1.   The name and address of the applicant and the number of the
applicant’s State liquor, beer or wine license and the applicant’s County and
City liquor, beer, or wine license number. An alcohol beverage catering permit
shall be limited to authorization to sell liquor or beer or wine, or any
combination thereof, based upon the type of license which the applicant
possesses.
      2.   The dates and hours during which the permit is to be effective, not
to exceed five (5) consecutive days.
      3.   The names of the organizations, groups, or persons sponsoring the
event.
      4.   The address at which the liquor, beer, or wine is to be served with
a detailed description or diagram of the location where the alcoholic beverages
are to be served and sold.
   C.   The application shall be verified by the applicant and filed with the
City Clerk at least five (5) business days prior to the day on which the event
for which the permit is requested will occur. A filing fee in the maximum
amount allowed by the State of Idaho for each day the permit is to be effective
shall be paid to the City Clerk which shall not be refunded in any event.
   D.   Upon the filing of an application, the City Clerk shall, upon receiving
approval or denial from the Chief of Police and Fire Marshal, approve or
disapprove the application and indicate the determination on the face of the
application by endorsement signed by the Clerk of the City. Copies of the
application, permit, and endorsements shall be retained by the Clerk. The Clerk
shall forward copies of said document to the Alcohol Beverage Control
Department of the Idaho State Police.
      1.   The Chief of Police and Fire Marshal may recommend the catering
permit be issued with conditions. The City may consider factors such as: the
anticipated number of participants, the location of the venue described for the
catering permit, pedestrian and vehicular traffic, the occurrence of other
events in the area at the same time, ingress or egress of customers to the
venue and surrounding businesses, the presence of minors, and other related and
relevant factors.
      2.   Conditions imposed may include, but are not limited to:
         a.   Posting signs;
         b.   Hiring additional security personnel at the applicant’s expense;
         c.   Hiring trained alcohol servers:
         d.   Reducing the number of dates or times for which the permit is
issued;
         e.   Ensuring compliance with Fire Code and access of emergency
vehicles and personnel;
         f.   Or maintenance of the venue in a specified manner, including
restricted area and access points.
   E.   In the event the Clerk shall deny an application, the Clerk must
specify the following in writing:
      1.   The statute, ordinance and/or standards used to evaluate.
      2.   Specify the reasons for the denial.
      3.   The actions, if any, the applicant could take to obtain the license,
transfer or renewal.
   F.   Decisions of the City Clerk may be appealed to the City Council, that
appeal must be filed within fifteen (15) days of the date of mailing and/or
delivery of the decision of the City Clerk to the applicant.
   G.   The City Council shall, within thirty (30) days of the final decision
of the City Clerk, make a decision on the appeal. In the event the Council
should deny any application, the Council shall specify, in writing, the reasons
as set forth in subsections E.1. through E.3. of this section.
   H.   The City Council, by the enactment of this article, does hereby
designate the City Clerk as its duly authorized agent to act on behalf of the
Council, except on appeal, in the granting of these permits. City. (Ord. 687,
2-21-2024)
1-15-17-19: REPEAL AND SAVING CLAUSE:
Previous provisions of this Code pertaining to beer regulations, liquor and
sale of wine shall, after this article is in full force and effect, be
repealed; except, that said provisions shall apply, govern and regulate all
licenses issued thereunder and shall govern the revocation of any license
issued thereunder; but said provisions shall not apply, govern and/or regulate
any license required under this article to be issued. City. (Ord. 687, 2-21-
2024)
1-15-17-20: SEVERABILITY:
Should any section, clause, sentence or provision of this article be held
invalid for any reason, such holding or decree shall not be construed as
affecting the validity of any of the remaining portions hereof, it being
declared that the City Council would have adopted the remainder of this
article, notwithstanding the invalidity of any such section, clause, sentence
or provisions. City. (Ord. 687, 2-21-2024)
1-15-18: WINE LICENSE:
1-15-18-1: LICENSE REQUIRED; FEES; TERM:
   A.   At Retail Or By Drink: It shall be lawful for any person to sell wine
at retail and to sell wine by the drink within the corporate limits of the City
after having first procured a license therefor for each.
   B.   Fee; Term: The license fee imposed and collected shall be established
from time to time by resolution of the Council. Such license year shall be from
June 1 through May 31; provided, however, should a license be issued for less
than a full year, the license fee shall be prorated in accordance with the
actual months of issuance. (Ord. 549, 1-21-2015; amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
1-15-18-2: APPLICATION FOR AND ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
Application for license shall be upon application forms furnished by the City.
A complete application shall be placed on the Council agenda for its decision
to approve or deny. All licenses approved by the Council shall be signed by the
Mayor, duly attested to by the Clerk and the Seal of the City attached, and
every license shall specify the name of the person to whom it is issued, and
the time and date it is issued and the amount paid for the same. (Ord. 549, 1-
21-2015; amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
1-15-18-3: QUALIFICATIONS:
The applicant for a retail wine license and a license to sell wine by the drink
shall possess all of the qualifications necessary to obtain a license from the
Director of Law Enforcement of the State, as prescribed by the laws of the
State, and maintain such qualifications throughout the period for which such
license is issued. The possession of licenses regularly issued by the State and
the County in addition to a City beer license, shall be prima facie evidence of
the applicant's qualifications to receive a license hereunder. (Ord. 549, 1-21-
2015; amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
1-15-18-4: LICENSE RESTRICTIONS:
The assignment or transfer of a wine license or wine by the drink license shall
be the same as provided by section
1-15-17-1 of this chapter and as provided by Idaho Code section 23-908. (Ord.
549, 1-21-2015; amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
1-15-18-5: CONSUMPTION ON PREMISES:
   A.   Retail, By The Drink: Retailers holding valid licenses for the retail
sale of liquor by the drink pursuant to Idaho Code title 23, chapter 9, may
sell wine for consumption on or off the licensed premises. Persons holding
valid wine by the drink licenses may sell wine for consumption on the premises
only.
   B.   Prohibition: Retailers who do not possess a valid license for the
retail sale of liquor by the drink or retailers who do not have a valid wine by
the drink license shall not permit consumption of wine on the licensed premises
and may sell the wine only in its original unbroken, sealed container.
   C.   Hours Of Sale: Wine sold for consumption on or off the licensed
premises may be sold only during hours that beer can be sold pursuant to the
laws of the State of Idaho. (Ord. 549, 1-21-2015; amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
1-15-18-6: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
The Mayor and Council may revoke or cancel any license for fraud or
misrepresentation in its procurement, or for a violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter, or for any conduct or act of the licensee or his
employees or any conduct or act permitted by him on the premises where such
business is conducted, or in connection therewith or adjacent thereto, tending
to render such business or such premises where the same is conducted as a
public nuisance or a menace to the health, peace, safety or general welfare of
the City. Revocation or suspension of the State license by the Director of Law
Enforcement shall be deemed prima facie evidence for revocation or suspension
of the license issued herein. (Ord. 549, 1-21-2015; amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
1-15-19: PRECIOUS METALS LICENSE:
1-15-19-1: DEFINITIONS:
   ITINERANT DEALER: Any precious metal dealer engaged in any temporary or
transient business conducted in a shop, room, motel room or other premises
rented for less than thirty (30) consecutive days or used on temporary basis.
   PRECIOUS METAL: Any item composed in whole or in part of gold, silver or
platinum. The term precious metal shall include any jewelry, coin or any gold
or silver ingot or bar composed in whole or part of gold, platinum or silver.
Coins, commemorative medals and tokens struck by or on behalf of a private
mint. Bullion bars and disks of the type traded by banks and commodity
exchanges. The term precious metal shall not include any coin struck on behalf
of the United States government intended to be legal tender.
   PRECIOUS METAL DEALER: Any person, firm, partnership, or corporation who
buys precious metals or gems from the general public with an intent to obtain a
monetary profit for himself or for a principal.
   PURCHASE: The acquisition of precious metals or gems for a consideration of
cash, goods or other precious metals or gems. Except as specified in section
1-15-19-3 of this chapter, trade ins shall be covered by the provisions of this
section
1-15-19. (Ord. 587, 1-18-2017; amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
1-15-19-2: APPLICATION:
This section
1-15-19 shall be applicable to the principals of any entity performing any
activity regulated by this section
1-15-19 and to their agents and employees and to persons forming a partnership
for the purpose of engaging in any activity subject to regulation by this
section
1-15-19. Every dealer regulated hereunder shall be liable for all the penalties
provided herein for violation of any provision of this section
1-15-19, whether such violation be committed by himself or his agent, clerk or
employee. (Ord. 587, 1-18-2017; amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
1-15-19-3: EXEMPTIONS:
This section
1-15-19 shall not apply to:
   A.   Licensed pawnbrokers.
   B.   Any person who, solely as a hobby, collects items regulated by this
section
1-15-19 and who purchases, or exchanges such items in pursuit of that hobby.
   C.   Persons or transactions associated with bona fide trade shows or
conventions where all transactions of purchase, sale or exchange are made in
connection with such trade shows or conventions and within the confines of the
trade show or convention site.
   D.   Purchases of precious metals or gems directly from manufacturers or
wholesalers for retail or wholesale inventories or from other dealers.
   E.   Purchases of precious metals or gems from a duly qualified fiduciary
who, in the administration of an estate, is disposing of the assets of the
estate. (Ord. 587, 1-18-2017; amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
1-15-19-4: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, partnership or corporation
to engage in the business of a precious metal dealer unless a valid license
therefor has been issued as herein provided and said license is in full force
and effect.
   B.   Application for such license shall be made to the City Clerk in such
form and manner as he or she may prescribe. An applicant shall be required to
be fingerprinted by an appropriate agency to be designated by the City Clerk on
a biennial basis. The cost of taking and processing such fingerprints shall be
borne by the applicant. The City Clerk is authorized to perform or request
criminal history checks of any applicant including a national background check
by the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Pursuant to Idaho Code section 67-3008
the City Clerk may forward an applicant's fingerprints through the Idaho State
Police to the Federal Bureau of Investigation Identification Division for a
national background check. Unless otherwise provided for by law, criminal
history records shall not be disseminated to a private entity. Such application
shall include, but not necessarily be limited to, the following information:
      1.   The name and address of the applicant, and if a partnership, the
names and addresses of each partner, and if a corporation or association, the
names and addresses of the principal stockholders, and the name of the
operating manager of the business;
      2.   Whether the applicant has had a similar license revoked by the City
of Middleton or any other city of this State or of the United States or any
state of the United States within the past five (5) years;
      3.   Whether the applicant has been convicted of any felony or
misdemeanor, other than minor traffic violations, the nature of the offense,
and the date, and the punishment or penalty assessed therefor.
   C.   Upon receipt of an application for a license, the City Clerk shall
cause an investigation to be made of the applicant or applicants to include
itinerant dealers. Such investigation shall be completed within thirty (30)
days. A provisional license may be issued pending completion of the required
investigation.
   D.   A provisional license may be issued pending completion of the required
investigation.
   E.   No person shall be issued a license to engage in the business of a
precious metal dealer when that person:
      1.   Is under the age of eighteen (18) years;
      2.   Is not the bona fide owner of such business;
      3.   Has had a similar license revoked by this City or any other city of
this State or of the United States or any other state of the United States
within the five (5) years immediately preceding the date of the filing of the
application;
      4.   Has been convicted of any felony, or has been convicted of any other
crime, whether felony or misdemeanor, involving moral turpitude within the five
(5) years immediately preceding the date of the filing of the application;
      5.   Has misrepresented or made a false or fraudulent statement of
material or relevant facts contained in the application; or
      6.   Has engaged in a fraudulent transaction or enterprise.
An affirmative showing with respect to the qualifications herein specified
shall be required to be made with respect to each applicant and to each partner
of a partnership applicant and to each officer, director or member of the
governing board of a corporation or association.
   F.   Upon completion of the investigation, the City Clerk shall notify the
applicant whether his license request is approved and upon payment of the
prescribed license fee shall issue a license. Such license shall show the name
and address of said licensee, the amount of fee paid, the date of issuance and
the date of expiration.
   G.   The City Clerk shall notify the applicant if his license request is
disapproved, the reasons therefor and advise him of the appeal procedure.
   H.   Licenses shall not be transferable, either as to person or place. The
license issued hereunder shall be posted conspicuously in each place of
business named therein. (Ord. 587, 1-18-2017; amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
1-15-19-5: LICENSE FEE:
The nonrefundable license fee for an established precious metal dealer in an
amount established by the Middleton City Council and listed on the most current
City Clerk license fee schedule shall be paid to the City Clerk. The license to
conduct the business of an established precious metal dealer shall expire on
December 31 of each year. Renewal of the license and payment of the license fee
shall be made on or before January 1 of the year for which such renewal is
desired. (Ord. 587, 1-18-2017; amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
1-15-19-6: INVESTIGATION:
Upon receipt of an application for any license under this section
1-15-19, the application shall be referred to the Middleton Police Department
which shall conduct an investigation to determine the suitability of the
applicant to be licensed. The investigation shall require an applicant to
provide information and fingerprints necessary to obtain criminal history
information from the Idaho State Police and the Federal Bureau of Investigation
pursuant to Idaho Code section 67-3008 and congressional enactment Public Law
92544. The Middleton Police Department shall submit a set of fingerprints
obtained from the applicant and the required fees to the Idaho State Police
Bureau of Criminal Identification for a criminal records check of State and
national databases. The submission of fingerprints and information required by
this section shall be on forms prescribed by the Idaho State Police. The
Middleton Police Department is authorized to receive criminal history
information from the Idaho State Police and from the Federal Bureau of
Investigation for the purpose of evaluating the fitness of an applicant for
licensure. As required by State and Federal law, further dissemination or other
use of the criminal history information is prohibited. The applicant shall pay,
in advance, the fees required by the Idaho State Police Bureau of Criminal
Identification for the criminal records check. (Ord. 587, 1-18-2017; amd. Ord.
609, 7-3-2018)
1-15-19-7: STANDARDS:
The Middleton Police Department shall approve the issuance of a license
whenever it shall find that the applicant has complied with the provisions of
this section
1-15-19 and is otherwise qualified. Such approval shall be communicated to the
Licensing Officer for finalization of the application and issuance of the
license. (Ord. 587, 1-18-2017; amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
1-15-19-8: RECORDS:
   A.   Every precious metal dealer shall keep a record of every article
purchased by him or her, and this record shall be open to the inspection of any
City of Middleton police officer at any time during the hours of business so
long as said inspection does not unreasonably interfere with the business
activities. Such record shall provide the following information:
      1.   Name and address of the precious metal dealer.
      2.   The name, age, sex, driver's license photocopy or photo
identification number and state of issue, and street address of the person with
whom the transaction is conducted.
      3.   The date of the transaction, the article pledged or sold together
with its description, serial number or other identification, and the amount and
terms of the transaction.
      4.   Signature for the transaction by both the precious metal dealer and
the seller.
The requirement for identification and recordkeeping will not apply to buyers
of precious metals.
   B.   Every record shall be executed by the precious metal dealer at the time
of purchase or sale, the precious metal dealer shall compare the picture and
signature upon the motor vehicle operator's license or State issued
identification card with that upon the record.
   C.   All records of purchase shall be retained by the precious metal dealer
for a one year period.
   D.   Every precious metal dealer having good cause to believe that any
property in his possession has been previously lost or stolen shall forthwith
report such fact to the Middleton City Police Department, together with the
name of the owner, if known, and the date when and the name of the person from
whom the property was received. (Ord. 587, 1-18-2017; amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
1-15-19-9: GOODS TO BE RETAINED FOR FIVE DAYS:
The precious metal dealer shall retain all precious metals or gems purchased
for a minimum of five (5) days from the date of purchase. Until the expiration
of this period, the dealer shall not sell, alter or dispose of a purchased item
in whole or in part, or remove it from the City of Middleton. All articles
required to be held under this section shall be open to and made available for
inspection by any Middleton police officer during normal business hours. (Ord.
587, 1-18-2017; amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
1-15-19-10: VIOLATIONS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any precious metal dealer and any clerk, agent
or employee of a precious metal dealer to:
      1.   Acquire, by purchase, trade, exchange or otherwise, goods bearing
evidence of a serial number which has been tampered with or scratched or
obliterated in any manner, unless such person immediately contacts the
Middleton Police Department.
      2.   Accept, buy or exchange any articles prior to examining the
identifying credentials of the person selling or exchanging said articles.
      3.   Fail to maintain the record required under section
1-15-19-8 of this chapter or fail to maintain such record as to any item of
which record is required to be maintained under section
1-15-19-8 of this chapter or fail to make an entry of any material matter in
the record of any transaction.
      4.   Make any false entry in the record required by section
1-15-19-8 of this chapter.
      5.   Obliterate or destroy the record required by section
1-15-19-8 of this chapter; provided, however, that such records may be
destroyed at the expiration of the one year retention period prescribed in
section
1-15-19-8 of this chapter.
      6.   Refuse to allow any Middleton police officer to inspect the record
required by section
1-15-19-8 of this chapter, or any articles in his possession during normal
business hours.
      7.   Report any material matter falsely to a law enforcement officer.
      8.   Acquire by purchase, trade, exchange or otherwise, any articles from
any person under eighteen (18) years of age, without the express written
consent of his or her parent or guardian or unless said minor is the head of a
family.
      9.   Fail to report forthwith to the Middleton Police Department the
receipt of any property which he has good cause to believe has been lost or
stolen, together with the name of the owner, if known, and the date when and
the name of the person from whom the property was received.
      10.   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in the course of
carrying on the business of a precious metal dealer.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to use a false name, a fictitious
address, or any address other than the true address, or to furnish any false,
untrue or misleading information or statement relating to the information
required by section
1-15-19-8 of this chapter. (Ord. 587, 1-18-2017; amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
1-15-19-11: PENALTIES:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this section
1-15-19 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be
punished as provided in section
 1-4-1 of this title. (Ord. 587, 1-18-2017; amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
1-15-19-12: NOTICE OF SUSPENSION, REVOCATION AND DENIAL AND APPEALS:
   A.   If an enforcement officer determines that facts exist for the denial,
suspension, or revocation of a license under this section
1-15-19, the Licensing Officer shall notify the applicant or licensee
(respondent) in writing of the intent to deny, suspend or revoke the license,
including the grounds therefor, by personal delivery, or by certified mail. The
notification shall be directed to the most current business address on file
with the Licensing Officer. Within five (5) working days of receipt of such
notice, the respondent may provide to the Licensing Officer, in writing, a
response that shall include a statement of reasons why the license should not
be denied, suspended, or revoked. Within three (3) days of the receipt of
respondent's written response, the Licensing Officer shall notify respondent,
in writing, of the hearing date on respondent's denial, suspension, or
revocation proceeding.
   B.   Within ten (10) working days of the receipt of respondent's written
response, the Mayor and City Council shall conduct a hearing at which
respondent shall have the opportunity to be represented by counsel and present
evidence and witnesses on respondent's behalf. If a response is not received by
the Licensing Officer within the time stated, or if, after the hearing, the
City Council finds that grounds as specified in this section
1-15-19 exist for denial, suspension, or revocation, then such denial,
suspension, or revocation shall become final five (5) days after the Licensing
Officer sends, by certified mail, written notice that the license has been
denied, suspended, or revoked.
   C.   If the City Council finds that no grounds exist for denial, suspension,
or revocation of a license then, within five (5) days after the hearing, the
Licensing Officer shall withdraw the intent to deny, suspend, or revoke the
license and shall so notify the respondent, in writing, by certified mail of
such action and shall, contemporaneously therewith, issue the license. (Ord.
587, 1-18-2017; amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
CHAPTER 16
PARKS IMPACT FEES
SECTION:
1-16-1: Findings
1-16-2: Authority, Applicability, And Effective Date
1-16-3: Intent
1-16-4: Imposition And Computation Of Impact Fees
1-16-5: Payment Of Impact Fees
1-16-6: Impact Fee Funds; Refunds Of Impact Fees Paid
1-16-7: Exemptions From Impact Fees
1-16-8: Credits; Reimbursements
1-16-9: Appeals
1-16-10: Impact Fee Advisory Committee
1-16-11: Miscellaneous Provisions
1-16-1: FINDINGS:
The City Council of the City of Middleton, Idaho, finds that:
   A.   Based on the City of Middleton comprehensive plan adopted by the City
pursuant to title 67, chapter 65, Idaho Code, including, but not limited to,
the capital improvements element of the comprehensive plan, and the general
governmental goal of protecting the health, safety, and general welfare of the
citizens of the City, and its area of City impact, it is necessary that the
City's public facilities for City park public facilities accommodate new growth
and development within the City.
   B.   New residential growth and development imposes and will impose
increasing and excessive demands upon the public facilities.
   C.   The revenues generated from new residential growth and development
often do not generate sufficient funds to provide the necessary improvements to
these public facilities to accommodate new growth and development.
   D.   New growth and development are expected to continue, and will place
ever increasing demands on the City to provide and expand the public facilities
to serve new growth and development.
   E.   The City has planned for the improvement of the public facilities in
the capital improvements plan.
   F.   The creation of an equitable impact fee system would enable the City to
impose a proportionate share of the costs of needed improvements to the public
facilities to accommodate new growth and development, and would assist the City
in implementing the capital improvements element of the comprehensive plan.
   G.   In order to implement an equitable impact fee system for the public
facilities, the City retained Keller & Associates to prepare an impact fee
study for these types of facilities. The resulting document (the "impact fee
study") is on file in the Office of the City Clerk of the City of Middleton.
   H.   The impact fee study is consistent with the City of Middleton
comprehensive plan and the levels of service set forth in the impact fee study
are hereby adopted.
   I.   The impact fee study sets forth reasonable methodologies and analyses
for determining the impacts of residential new growth and development on the
public facilities and determines the cost of acquiring or constructing the
improvements necessary to meet the demands for such public facilities created
by new growth and development.
   J.   The impact fee study uses a calculation methodology that is a net of
credits for the present value of revenues that will be generated by new growth
and development based on historical funding patterns and that are reasonably
anticipated to be available to pay for system improvements including user fees,
debt service payments, taxes, assessments, intergovernmental transfers, and all
other available sources of funding such system, and included consideration of
the following factors:
      1.   The cost of existing system improvements within the service area or
areas;
      2.   The means by which existing system improvements have been financed;
      3.   The extent to which the new development will contribute to the cost
of system improvements through taxation, assessment, or developer or landowner
contributions, or has previously contributed to the cost of system improvements
through developer or landowner contributions;
      4.   The extent to which the new development is required to contribute to
the cost of existing system improvements in the future;
      5.   The extent to which the new development should be credited for
providing system improvements, without charge to other properties within the
service area or areas;
      6.   Extraordinary costs, if any, incurred in serving the new
development;
      7.   The time and price differential inherent in a fair comparison of
fees paid at different times; and
      8.   The availability of other sources of funding system improvements
including, but not limited to, user charges, general tax levies,
intergovernmental transfers, and special taxation.
   K.   The impact fees are based on the impact fee study, and do not exceed
the costs of system improvements for the public facilities to serve new
development that will pay the impact fees.
   L.   The City parks included in the calculation of impact fees in the impact
fee study will benefit all new growth and development throughout the City, and
it is therefore appropriate to treat all areas of the City as a single service
area for purposes of calculating, collecting and spending the impact fees
collected.
   M.   There is both a rational nexus and a rough proportionality between the
development impacts created by each type of development covered by this chapter
and the impact fees that such development will be required to pay.
   N.   This chapter creates a system by which impact fees paid by new growth
and development will be used to finance, defray or to provide capital
improvements for the public facilities in ways that benefit the development for
which impact fees were paid.
   O.   This chapter creates a system under which impact fees shall not be used
to correct existing deficiencies in public facilities, or to replace or
rehabilitate existing public facilities, or to pay for routine operation or
maintenance of those public facilities.
   P.   This chapter creates a system under which there shall be no double
payment of impact fees, in accordance with Idaho Code section 67-8204(19).
   Q.   This chapter is consistent with all applicable provisions of title 67,
chapter 82, Idaho Code, concerning impact fee ordinances.
   R.   This chapter shall not be deemed invalid because payment of an impact
fee may result in an incidental benefit to others within the service area other
than the fee payer. (Ord. 541, 8-6-2014; amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
1-16-2: AUTHORITY, APPLICABILITY, AND EFFECTIVE DATE:
   A.   This chapter is enacted pursuant to the City's general police powers
pursuant to the authority granted to the City by title 50, Idaho Code, and
pursuant to the authority granted to the City by section 67-8201 et seq., Idaho
Code.
   B.   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all territory within the
limits of the City. (Ord. 541, 8-6-2014; amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
1-16-3: INTENT:
   A.   The intent of this chapter is to promote the health, safety and general
welfare of the residents of the City and its area of City impact.
   B.   The intent of this chapter is to be consistent with those principles
for allocating a fair and proportionate share of the cost of capital
improvements to public facilities to serve new development in compliance with
the provisions set forth in section 67-8201 et seq., Idaho Code. The provisions
of this chapter shall be interpreted, construed and enforced in accordance with
the provisions set forth in section 67-8201 et seq., Idaho Code.
   C.   The intent of this chapter is that impact fees should be charged,
collected, and expended for City park capital improvements to increase the
service capacity of those public facilities, which capital improvements are
included in approved capital improvements plans that list the capital
improvements that may be funded with impact fees.
   D.   The intent of this chapter is to ensure that: public facilities are
available to serve new development; new development bears a proportionate share
of the cost of City park capital improvements to such public facilities; to
ensure that such proportionate share does not exceed the cost of the capital
improvements to such public facilities required to serve new development; and
to ensure that the funds collected from new development are used for capital
improvements for public facilities that benefit new development.
   E.   It is not the intent of this chapter to collect any monies from new
development in excess of the actual amount necessary to offset new demands for
capital improvements to public facilities created by such new development.
   F.   It is not the intent of this chapter that the impact fees be used to
remedy any deficiency in City parks existing on the effective date hereof, or
ever be used to replace, rehabilitate, maintain and/or operate any public
facilities.
   G.   It is not the intent of this chapter that any monies collected from an
impact fee deposited in an Impact Fee Fund ever be commingled with monies from
a different fund, or ever be used for capital improvements that are different
from those for which the impact fee was paid.
   H.   It is not the intent of this chapter that impact fees be used for:
      1.   Construction, acquisition or expansion of public facilities other
than capital improvements identified in the capital improvements plan.
      2.   Repair, operation or maintenance of existing or new capital
improvements.
      3.   Upgrading, updating, expanding or replacing existing capital
improvements to serve existing development in order to meet stricter safety,
efficiency, environmental or regulatory standards.
      4.   Upgrading, updating, expanding or replacing existing capital
improvements to serve existing development to provide better service to
existing development.
      5.   Administrative and operating costs of the City unless such costs are
attributable to development of the capital improvements plan used to determine
impact fees by a surcharge imposed by ordinance on the collection of an impact
fee, which surcharge shall not exceed a development's proportionate share of
the cost of preparing the capital improvements plan.
      6.   Principal payments and interest or other finance charges on bonds or
other indebtedness except financial obligations issued by or on behalf of the
City to finance capital improvements identified in the capital improvements
plan. (Ord. 541, 8-6-2014; amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
1-16-4: IMPOSITION AND COMPUTATION OF IMPACT FEES:
   A.   The development impact fee reflects the need for capital improvements
to public facilities created by new development. Any application for a building
permit enabling the construction and, in the case of construction that does not
require a building permit, any building that takes place on or after the
effective date hereof shall be subject to the imposition of impact fees in the
manner and amount set forth in this chapter. The methodology adopted for the
purpose of determining City parks impact fees shall be based upon the
assumptions set forth in the impact fee study and pursuant to the following:
      1.   The development impact fee shall not exceed the proportionate share
of the costs incurred or the costs that will be incurred by the City in the
provision of system improvements to serve new development.
      2.   The proportionate share is the cost attributable to the new
development after consideration by the City of the following factors:
         a.   Any appropriate credit, offset or contribution of money,
dedication of land, or construction of system improvements;
         b.   Payments reasonably anticipated to be made by or as a result of a
new development in the form of user fees and debt service payments;
         c.   That portion of general tax and other revenues allocated by the
jurisdiction to system improvements; and
         d.   All other available sources of funding such system improvements.
      3.   In determining the proportionate share of the cost of system
improvements to be paid by the developer, the following additional factors
shall be considered:
         a.   The cost of existing system improvements within the service area
or areas;
         b.   The means by which existing system improvements have been
financed;
         c.   The extent to which the new development will contribute to the
cost of system improvements through taxation, assessment, or developer or
landowner contributions, or has previously contributed to the cost of system
improvements through developer or landowner contributions;
         d.   The extent to which the new development is required to contribute
to the cost of existing system improvements in the future;
         e.   The extent to which the new development should be credited for
providing system improvements, without charge to other properties within the
service area or areas;
         f.   Extraordinary costs, if any, incurred in serving the new
development;
         g.   The time and price differential inherent in a fair comparison of
fees paid at different times; and
         h.   The availability of other sources of funding system improvements
including, but not limited to, user charges, general tax levies,
intergovernmental transfers, and special taxation. The governmental entity
shall develop a plan for alternative sources of revenue.
      4.   Based upon the foregoing, the current parks impact fees for the city
of Middleton are as follows:
 
Single Family Residential: $2,313/EDU
Multifamily Residential    $2,361/EDU
 
   B.   Impact fees shall be required as a condition of approval of all
residential development in the service area for which a building permit is
required and shall be payable prior to the issuance of any building permit (or
installation permit in the case of a manufactured home) for a dwelling unit.
Except as otherwise provided herein, after the effective date hereof, no
building permit shall be issued until the impact fees described in this chapter
have been paid, unless the development for which the permit is sought is
exempted or approved credits are used to cover the impact fee. The City shall
have the authority to withhold a building permit, stop construction, withhold
utility services or impose liens as the case may be, until the appropriate
impact fee has been collected.
   C.   After payment of the development impact fees or execution of an
agreement for payment of development impact fees, additional development impact
fees or increases in fees may not be assessed unless the number of service
units increases or the scope or schedule of the development changes. In the
event of an increase in the number of service units or schedule of the
development changes, the additional development impact fees to be imposed are
limited to the amount attributable to the additional service units or change in
scope of the development.
   D.   A fee payer required to pay an impact fee may choose to have the amount
of such impact fee determined pursuant to either the fee schedule (whereupon
such payment shall be recognized as full and complete payment of the
development's proportionate share of system improvement costs, except as
provided in Idaho Code section 67-8214(3)) or subsections E through G of this
section. If the fee payer chooses to have the amount of such impact fee
determined pursuant to subsections E through G of this section, such impact fee
shall be subject to the adjustment described in this section, if applicable. If
the project is a mix of those uses listed on the fee schedule, then the impact
fees shall be determined by adding up the impact fees that would be payable for
each use as if it were a freestanding use pursuant to the fee schedule.
   E.   Individual assessment of impact fees is permitted in situations where
the fee payer can demonstrate by clear and convincing evidence that the
established impact fee is inappropriate for the project. Written application
for individual assessment shall be made to the City at any time prior to
receiving building permit(s). Late applications for individual assessment of
impact fees may be considered for a period of sixty (60) days after the receipt
of a building permit only if the fee payer makes a showing that the facts
supporting such application were not known or discoverable prior to receipt of
a building permit and that undue hardship would result if said application is
not considered. Such independent impact fee calculation study for the fee
payer's development shall be prepared at the fee payer's cost by a qualified
professional and contain studies, data and other relevant information and be
submitted to the City for review. Any such study shall be based on the same
methodology and the same level of service standards, improvements and costs
used in the impact fee study, and must document the methodologies and
assumptions used. The City may hire a professional consultant to review any
independent impact fee calculation study on behalf of the City, and may charge
the reasonable costs of such review to the fee payer.
   F.   Any independent impact fee calculation study submitted by a fee payer
may be accepted, rejected or accepted with modifications by the City as the
basis for calculating impact fees. The City shall not be required to accept any
study or documentation the City reasonably deems to be inaccurate or
unreliable, and shall have the authority to request that the fee payer submit
additional or different documentation for consideration in connection with
review of any independent impact fee calculation. If such additional or
different documentation is accepted or accepted with modifications as a more
accurate measure of the impact fees due in connection with fee payer's proposed
development than the applicable impact fees set forth in the fee schedule, then
the impact fee due under this chapter shall be calculated according to such
documentation.
   G.   The City shall render a written decision establishing the impact fees
in connection with the individual assessment within thirty (30) days of the
date a complete application is submitted. The decision shall include an
explanation of the calculation of the impact fees, shall specify the system
improvement(s) for which the impact fees are intended to be used, and shall
include an explanation of the factors considered pursuant to Idaho Code section
67-8207.
   H.   Certification of the impact fee for a project may be applied for in the
following manner:
      1.   Written application may be made to the City not later than sixty
(60) days after development approval by the City Council. Late applications for
certification of the impact fee will not be considered unless the fee payer
makes a showing that the facts supporting such application were not known or
discoverable until after the time had run and that undue hardship would result
if said application is not considered.
      2.   The City shall provide the fee payer with a written impact fee
certification for the project within thirty (30) days of the date a complete
application is submitted. The certification provided by the City shall
establish the impact fee for the project in question so long as there is no
material change to the project as identified in the certification application
or the impact fee schedule. The certification shall include an explanation of
the calculation of the impact fees, shall specify the system improvement(s) for
which the impact fees are intended to be used, and shall include an explanation
of the factors considered, which factors are identified in subsection G of this
section.
   I.   Appeals of the City's determination of an individual assessment or
certification shall be made to the City as provided further in this chapter.
   J.   There may be circumstances where the anticipated fiscal impacts of a
proposed development are of such magnitude that the City may be unable to
accommodate the development without excessive or unscheduled public
expenditures that exceed the amount of the anticipated impact fees from such
development. If the City determines that a proposed development would create
such an extraordinary impact on the City's parks, the City may refuse to
approve the proposed development and/or may recommend to the other affected
government agencies that the project not be approved. In the alternative, the
City may calculate a pro rata share per dwelling unit, or square feet of
nonresidential buildings, of the extraordinary impact and charge a reasonable
extraordinary impact fee that is greater than would ordinarily be charged
pursuant to the fee schedule.
   K.   If the City discovers an error in its impact fee formula that results
in assessment or payment of more than a proportionate share, City shall, at the
time of assessment on a case by case basis, adjust the impact fee to collect no
more than a proportionate share or discontinue the collection of any impact
fees until the error is corrected by ordinance. (Ord. 541, 8-6-2014; amd. Ord.
609, 7-3-2018; Ord. 650, 10-6-2021; Ord. 686, 11-15-2023)
1-16-5: PAYMENT OF IMPACT FEES:
   A.   After the effective date hereof all fee payers shall pay the impact
fees as provided by this chapter to the City following application for a
building permit and prior to the issuance of any building permit for a dwelling
unit.
   B.   All impact fees paid by a fee payer pursuant to this chapter shall be
promptly deposited in the Impact Fee Fund. (Ord. 541, 8-6-2014; amd. Ord. 609,
7-3-2018)
1-16-6: IMPACT FEE FUNDS; REFUNDS OF IMPACT FEES PAID:
   A.   There is hereby established a City Park Impact Fee Fund into which
shall be deposited all park impact fees for the purpose of ensuring City park
impact fees collected pursuant hereto are designated for the accommodation of
City park capital improvements reasonably necessary to serve new development
that paid the impact fee.
   B.   Each fund shall be an interest bearing account which shall be accounted
for separately from other impact fee funds and from other City funds. Any
interest or other income earned on monies deposited in a fund shall be credited
to such fund. Expenditures of impact fees shall be made only for the category
of system improvements for which the impact fees were collected and as
identified in the capital improvements plan.
   C.   Except as otherwise provided herein, monies from the fund, including
any accrued interest, shall be limited to the financing of acquisition,
expansion, and/or improvement of capital improvements, or for principal and
interest payments on bonds or other borrowed revenues used to acquire, expand
or improve such capital improvements, necessary to serve new development.
Impact fees in each fund shall be spent within eight (8) years from the date
such impact fees were collected on a first in/first out (FIFO) basis. The City
may hold the impact fees longer than the prescribed time period if the City
identifies, in writing: 1) a reasonable cause why the impact fees should be
held longer; and 2) an anticipated date by which the impact fees will be
expended but in no event longer than eleven (11) years from the date the impact
fees were collected.
   D.   The City shall prepare annual reports to be provided to the Advisory
Committee and the City Council, which reports shall: 1) describe the amount of
all impact fees collected, appropriated or spent for system improvements during
the preceding year, as applicable, by category of public facility and service
area; and 2) describe the percentage of tax and revenues other than impact fees
collected, appropriated or spent for system improvements during the preceding
year, as applicable, by category of public facility and service area.
   E.   Funds shall be deemed expended when payment of such funds has been
approved by the City. The fee payer or successor in interest shall be entitled
to a refund of the impact fee if:
      1.   Service is available but never provided;
      2.   A building permit or permit for installation of a manufactured home
is revoked or abandoned;
      3.   The City, after collecting the impact fee when service is not
available, has failed to appropriate and expend the collected impact fees; or
      4.   The fee payer pays an impact fee under protest and a subsequent
review of the impact fee paid or the completion of an individual assessment
determines that the impact fee paid exceeded the proportionate share to which
the City was entitled to receive.
   F.   When the right to a refund exists, within ninety (90) days after the
City determines that a refund is due, the City shall provide written notice of
entitlement to a refund, to the owner of record and the fee payer who paid the
impact fees at the address shown on the application for development approval,
or to a successor in interest who has notified the City of a transfer of the
right or entitlement to a refund and who has provided to the City a mailing
address. When the right to a refund exists, the City shall also publish the
notice of entitlement to a refund within thirty (30) days after the expiration
of the eight (8) year period after the date that the impact fees were
collected. Such published notice shall contain the heading "Notice Of
Entitlement To Impact Fee Refund".
   G.   A refund shall include interest at one-half (1/2) the legal rate
provided for in section 28-22-104, Idaho Code, from the date on which the
impact fee was originally paid.
   H.   In order to be eligible for a refund, a fee payer, successor in
interest or owner of record shall file a written application for a refund with
the City within six (6) months of the time such refund becomes payable under
subsection C of this section, or within six (6) months of publication of the
notice of entitlement to a refund, whichever is later. If a successor in
interest claims a refund of impact fees, the City may require written
documentation that such rights have been transferred to the claimant prior to
issuing the requested refund. Refunds shall be paid within sixty (60) days
after the date on which the City determines that a sufficient proof of claim
for a refund has been made.
   I.   Any person entitled to a refund shall have standing to sue for a refund
under the provisions of this chapter if there has not been a timely payment of
a refund as provided herein. (Ord. 541, 8-6-2014; amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
1-16-7: EXEMPTIONS FROM IMPACT FEES:
   A.   The following types of land development shall be exempted from payment
of the impact fees imposed by this chapter:
      1.   Rebuilding the same amount of square feet of a dwelling unit or
nonresidential structure that was destroyed by fire or other catastrophe,
provided that the structure is rebuilt and ready for occupancy within two (2)
years of its destruction.
      2.   Construction of an unoccupied, detached accessory structure, or
addition of uses related to a dwelling unit unless it can be clearly
demonstrated that the use creates a significant impact on the capacity of
system improvements.
      3.   Remodeling or repairing a dwelling unit or a nonresidential
structure in a manner that does not increase the number of service units.
      4.   Replacing a dwelling unit with another dwelling unit on the same
lot, provided that the number of service units does not increase.
      5.   Placing a temporary construction trailer or office on a lot.
      6.   Constructing an addition on a residential structure which does not
increase the number of service units.
      7.   Adding uses that are typically accessory to residential uses, such
as tennis courts or clubhouse, unless it can be clearly demonstrated that the
use creates a significant impact on the capacity of system improvements.
   B.   An impact fee will be assessed for installation of a modular building,
manufactured home or recreational vehicle unless the fee payer can demonstrate
by documentation such as utility bills and tax records, either: 1) that a
modular building, manufactured home or recreational vehicle was legally in
place on the lot or space prior to the effective date hereof; or 2) that an
impact fee has been paid previously for the installation of a modular building,
manufactured home or recreational vehicle on that same lot or space. Lawful
storage of a recreational vehicle shall not be deemed installation for purposes
of this chapter. (Ord. 541, 8-6-2014; amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
1-16-8: CREDITS; REIMBURSEMENTS:
   A.   No fee payer shall be required to construct, fund or contribute any
capital improvement to meet the same need for City parks for which an impact
fee is imposed. All system improvements constructed, funded or contributed over
and above the proportionate share of system improvement costs, including such
system improvements paid for pursuant to a local improvement district, shall
result in either a credit on future impact fees or reimbursement (at the fee
payer's option) for such excess construction, funding or contribution to be
paid from impact fees paid by future development that benefits from such system
improvements constructed, funded or contributed by the fee payer. However, no
credit or reimbursement shall be provided for: 1) project improvements; 2) any
construction, funding or contribution not agreed to in writing by the City
prior to commencement of such construction, funding or contribution; 3) any
construction, funding or contribution of a type of capital improvements not
included in the calculation of the applicable impact fee; and 4) any
improvement required by an agency other than the City for that agency's
development approval.
   B.   In the calculation of an individual assessment of impact fees for a
project, credit shall be given for the present value of all tax and user fee
revenue generated by the fee payer within the service area and used by the City
for system improvements of the category for which the impact fee is being
collected. If the amount of such credit exceeds the impact fee for a project,
the fee payer shall receive a credit on future impact fees. The credit may be
applied by the fee payer as an offset against future impact fees only in the
service area where the credit was generated.
   C.   In the calculation of impact fees for a project, credit or
reimbursement (at the fee payer's option) shall be given for the present value
of any construction of system improvements or contribution of land or money
required by the City from the developer for system improvements of the category
for which the impact fee is being collected, including system improvements paid
for through local improvement district assessments. Credit or reimbursement
shall not be given for project improvement.
   D.   If credit or reimbursement is due to the fee payer, the City and fee
payer shall enter into a written agreement, negotiated in good faith, prior to
the construction, funding or contribution. The written agreement shall include,
without limitation: a description of the construction, funding or contribution
of system improvements including, in the case of real property, a legal
description of the real property; description as to how the system improvements
are to be valued; the amount of the credit or the amount, time and form of
reimbursement; instructions as to how the capital improvements should be
provided to the City to ensure full transfer of ownership; and the
circumstances under which the credit or reimbursement is deemed effective. To
assist in such reimbursement, the City shall continue to collect impact fees
from other developers whose proposed developments will benefit from such
construction, funding or contribution, and will promptly transfer such funds to
the fee payer. If a successor in interest claims a reimbursement or credit, the
City may require written documentation that such rights have been conveyed to
the claimant prior to issuing the requested reimbursement or credit.
   E.   Approved credits may be used to reduce the amount of impact fees in
connection with any new development until the amount of the credit is
exhausted. Each time a request to use approved credits is presented to the
City, the City shall reduce the amount of the applicable impact fee otherwise
due from the fee payer and shall note in the City records the amount of credit
remaining, if any. Upon request of the fee payer, the City shall issue a letter
stating the amount of credit available. If the credit has not been exhausted
within eight (8) years of the date of issuance of the first building permit for
which an impact fee was due and payable, or within such other time period as
may be designated in writing by the City, such credit shall lapse, unless a
refund of the remaining credit is applied for.
   F.   Approved credits or reimbursement shall only be used to reduce the
amount of the impact fee of the category for which the impact fee is otherwise
due, and shall not be paid to the fee payer in cash or in credits against any
other monies due from the fee payer to the City.
   G.   Credit for land dedications shall, at the fee payer's option, be valued
at: 1) one hundred percent (100%) of the most recent assessed value for such
land as shown in the records of the Canyon County Assessor; or 2) that fair
market value established by a private appraiser reasonably acceptable to the
City in an appraisal paid for by the fee payer. Credit for contribution or
construction of system improvements shall be valued by the City based on
complete engineering drawings, specifications, and construction cost estimates
submitted by the fee payer to the City, which estimates shall be revised as
actual costs become available. The City shall determine the amount of credit
due based on the information submitted, or, if the City determines that such
information is inaccurate or unreliable, then on alternative engineering or
construction costs reasonably acceptable to the City as a more accurate measure
of the value of the offered system improvements to the City.
   H.   Approved credits for land dedications shall become effective when the
land has been conveyed to the City in a form reasonably acceptable to the City
at no cost to the City, and has been accepted by the City. Approved credits for
contribution or construction of system improvements shall generally become
effective when: 1) all required construction has been completed and has been
accepted by the City; and 2) all design, construction, inspection, testing,
bonding, and acceptance procedures have been completed in compliance with all
applicable requirements of the City. Approved credits for the construction of
system improvements may become effective at an earlier date if the fee payer
posts security in the form of a performance bond, irrevocable letter of credit
or escrow agreement in the amount and under terms reasonably acceptable to the
City.
   I.   Credit may only be transferred by a fee payer that has received credit
to such fee payer's successor in interest. The credit may be used only to
offset impact fees for the same category for which the credit was issued.
Credits shall be transferred by any written instrument clearly identifying
which credits are being transferred, the dollar amount of the credit being
transferred, and the system improvements for which the credit was issued. The
instrument of transfer shall be signed by both the transferor and transferee,
and a copy of the document shall be delivered to the City for documentation of
the transfer before the transfer shall be deemed effective.
   J.   In the event that a developer intends to contribute or dedicate an
interest in land in lieu of paying impact fees or a portion thereof, the
following procedures and criteria shall be applied:
      1.   The City with the advice of the appropriate department head and the
City Attorney will determine whether the land proposed for dedication is
acceptable based upon the following considerations:
         a.   Size: The size of the parcel is expressed as a net amount and is
exclusive of road right-of-way, existing and proposed easements, borrow pits,
lakes, and other manmade or natural conditions which restrict or impede the
intended use of such areas.
         b.   Unity: The land to be dedicated shall form a single parcel of
land except where aforesaid review determines that two (2) or more parcels
would be in the best public interest.
         c.   Shape: The configuration of the parcel of land is such as to be
usable for public facilities purposes as determined by the City.
         d.   Location: The land to be dedicated is so located as to serve the
needs of the development, by being within the service area public facilities.
         e.   Access: Appropriate access to the land to be dedicated is
provided by improved public road frontage.
         f.   Utility: Dedicated land should be usable for public facilities
purposes and meet the following criteria prior to its final acceptance by the
City:
            (1)   The property is platted and ready to be developed.
            (2)   All utilities are in place and are at the perimeter of the
site and include roads, walks, curbs, water lines, sewer lines, electric
service lines, and telephone service lines.
            (3)   All utilities are of sufficient quality and quantity to
adequately service the site.
            (4)   The property is filled and compacted to comply with all
appropriate Subdivision Codes, Building and Zoning Codes, and flood insurance
laws and regulations. The fill and compaction are of sufficient quality to
accept the contemplated improvements.
         g.   Plans: City, regional, and State plans shall be taken into
consideration when evaluating land proposals for dedication.
      2.   Appeals of the City's determination of land suitability shall be
made to the City Council by the filing of an appeal with the City Clerk no
later than ten (10) days following the date of the decision of the City. (Ord.
541, 8-6-2014; amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
1-16-9: APPEALS:
The decisions of the City may be appealed as provided below:
   A.   Any fee payer who is or may be obligated to pay an impact fee may
appeal a decision made by the City in applying this chapter to the City
Council's designee. Such decisions that may be appealed include:
      1.   The applicability of an impact fee to the development.
      2.   The amount of an impact fee to be paid for the development.
      3.   The availability, amount or application of any credit.
      4.   The amount of any refund, reimbursement or credit.
      5.   Any discretionary action or inaction by or on behalf of the City.
A fee payer may pay an impact fee under protest in order to obtain a
development approval or building permit(s) and, by paying such impact fee,
shall not be estopped from exercising the right of appeal provided herein, nor
shall the fee payer be estopped from receiving a refund of any amount deemed to
have been illegally collected. Upon final disposition of an appeal, the impact
fee shall be adjusted in accordance with the decision rendered and, if
necessary, a refund paid.
   B.   In order to pursue an appeal, the fee payer shall file a written notice
of appeal with the City Council's designee within fifteen (15) days after the
date of the decision being appealed, or the date on which the fee payer
submitted a payment of impact fees under protest, whichever is later. Such
written application shall include a statement describing why the appellant
believes that the decision was in error; together with copies of any documents
that the appellant believes supports the claim.
   C.   The City Council's designee shall notify the fee payer of the hearing
date on the appeal, which notice shall be given no less than fifteen (15) days
prior to the date of the hearing, and shall hear the appeal within thirty (30)
days after receipt of a written notice of appeal. The appellant shall have a
right to be present and to present evidence in support of the appeal. The City
who made the decision under appeal shall likewise have the right to be present
and to present evidence in support of the decision. The burden of proof in any
such hearing shall be on the fee payer to demonstrate that the amount of the
impact fee, credit, reimbursement or refund was not properly calculated by the
City.
   D.   The criteria to be used by the City Council's designee shall be
whether: 1) the decision or interpretation made by the City; or 2) the
alternative decision or interpretation offered by the appellant, more
accurately reflects the intent of this chapter that new development in the City
pay its proportionate share of the costs of system improvements for public
facilities necessary to serve new growth and development. The City Council's
designee may affirm, reject or revise the decision of the City, providing
written findings of fact and conclusions, within fifteen (15) days after
hearing the appeal. The City Council's designee shall modify the amount of the
impact fee, credit, refund or reimbursement only if there is substantial
evidence in the record that the City erred, based upon the methodologies
contained in the impact fee study, this chapter and/or the capital improvements
plan. The decision of the City Council's designee shall be final.
   E.   Upon voluntary agreement by the fee payer and the City, the fee payer
and the City may enter into mediation with a qualified independent party to
address a disagreement related to the impact fee for proposed development.
Costs for the independent mediation service shall be shared equally by the fee
payer and the City. Mediation may take place at any time during an appeals
process and participation in mediation does not preclude the fee payer from
pursuing other remedies. (Ord. 541, 8-6-2014; amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
1-16-10: IMPACT FEE ADVISORY COMMITTEE:
   A.   The City has established an Advisory Committee. The Advisory Committee
shall continue to be composed of not fewer than five (5) members appointed by
the City Council. Two (2) or more members of the Advisory Committee shall be
active in the business of development, building or real estate. The Advisory
Committee shall serve in an advisory capacity to the City Council and is
established to:
      1.   Assist the City in adopting land use assumptions;
      2.   Review the capital improvements plan, and proposed amendments, and
file written comments;
      3.   Monitor and evaluate implementation of the capital improvements
plan;
      4.   File periodic reports, at least annually, with respect to the
capital improvements plan and report to the City any perceived inequities in
implementing the capital improvements plan or imposing the impact fees; and
      5.   Advise the City of the need to update or revise land use
assumptions, the capital improvements plan, and impact fees.
   B.   The City shall make available to the Advisory Committee, upon request,
all financial and accounting information, professional reports in relation to
other development and implementation of land use assumptions, the capital
improvements plan and periodic updates of the capital improvements plan. (Ord.
541, 8-6-2014; amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
1-16-11: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS:
   A.   As used in this chapter, masculine, feminine or neuter gender and the
singular or plural number shall each be deemed to include the others wherever
and whenever the context so dictates; the word shall, will or must is always
mandatory; the word may is permissive; and the word should indicates that which
is recommended, but not required.
   B.   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to create any additional
right to develop real property or diminish the power of the City in regulating
the orderly development of real property.
   C.   Nothing in this chapter shall limit or modify the rights of any person
to complete any development for which a lawful building permit was issued prior
to the effective date hereof.
   D.   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the City from requiring a
developer to construct reasonable project improvements in conjunction with a
project.
   E.   Nothing in this chapter shall limit the ability of the City to enter
into intergovernmental agreements as provided in section 67-8204A, Idaho Code.
   F.   Nothing in this chapter shall obligate the City to approve any
development request that may reasonably be expected to reduce levels of service
below minimum acceptable levels established in the development impact fee
study.
   G.   Nothing in this chapter shall obligate the City to approve development
which results in extraordinary impact.
   H.   Notwithstanding any agreement by the fee payer to pay the proportionate
share of system improvement costs documented by the supplemental study, nothing
in this chapter shall obligate the City to approve development that results in
an extraordinary impact.
   I.   Nothing in this chapter shall work to limit the use by the City of the
power of eminent domain or supersede or conflict with requirements or
procedures authorized in the Idaho Code for local improvement districts or
general obligation bond issues.
   J.   A development impact fee shall not exceed a proportionate share of the
cost of system improvements determined in accordance with section 67-8207,
Idaho Code. Development impact fees shall be based on actual system improvement
costs or reasonable estimates of such costs.
   K.   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent or prohibit
private agreements between developers, the City, the Idaho Transportation
Department, and/or other governmental entities in regard to the construction or
installation of system improvements or providing for credits or reimbursements
for system improvement costs incurred by a developer or fee payer, including
interproject transfers of credits, or providing for reimbursement for project
improvements that are used or shared by more than one development project. If
it can be shown that a proposed development has a direct impact on a public
facility under the jurisdiction of the Idaho Transportation Department, then
the agreement shall include a provision for the allocation of development
impact fees collected from the developer or fee payer for the improvement of
the public facility by the Idaho Transportation Department.
   L.   Nothing in this chapter shall restrict or diminish the power of the
City: 1) to impose reasonable conditions on the annexation of any property to
the City in accordance with Idaho Code, including conditions for recovery of
project or system improvement costs required as a result of such voluntary
annexation, or 2) to negotiate and execute development agreements that may
impose additional conditions on development, including the recovery of project
or system improvement costs, either in connection with a proposed annexation or
in connection with any other development within the City.
   M.   The impact fees described in this chapter, and the administrative
procedures of this chapter shall be reviewed at least once every five (5) years
to ensure that: 1) the demand and cost assumptions and other assumptions
underlying such impact fees are still valid; 2) the resulting impact fees do
not exceed the actual costs of providing City parks required to serve new
development; 3) the monies collected in any Impact Fee Fund have been and are
expected to be spent for system improvements of the type for which such impact
fees were paid; and 4) such system improvements will benefit those developments
for which the impact fees were paid.
   N.   Violation of this chapter shall be subject to those remedies provided
in this Code. Knowingly furnishing false information to any official of the
City charged with the administration of this chapter on any matter relating to
the administration of this chapter including, without limitation, the
furnishing of false information regarding the expected size or use of a
proposed development, shall be a violation of this chapter.
   O.   The captions used in this chapter are for convenience only and shall
not affect the interpretation of any portion of the text of this chapter. (Ord.
541, 8-6-2014; amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
CHAPTER 17
LATECOMERS FEES
SECTION:
1-17-1: Extensions And Improvements To City Facilities
1-17-1: EXTENSIONS AND IMPROVEMENTS TO CITY FACILITIES:
   A.   Extensions: Extensions of City facilities built by others to serve new
subdivisions or undeveloped areas shall conform to the City's adopted master
plans and follow as closely as practicable the locations specified by the City.
If a master plan is not available for the area of development, a site specific
engineering analysis may be submitted to the City for consideration and action.
Such extensions shall be allowed only as approved by the City. Where the master
plan or site specific review requires oversizing of facilities placed as an
extension, the provisions herein for partial reimbursement in accordance with
an agreement may apply.
   B.   Facility Conformance: In addition to providing the system to serve the
undeveloped area and other facilities as required, the developer shall be
responsible to conform off site facilities to meet the demands and needs of the
subdivision.
   C.   Costs: Costs for all system extensions and/or oversizing or off site
facilities shall be the responsibility of the developer.
   D.   Compliance: Design and construction of extensions and/or oversizing or
off site improvements shall comply with the "Idaho Standards for Public Works
Construction" and the Middleton supplemental standards.
   E.   Plans: The plans for all extensions and/or oversizing of facility
upgrades or off site improvements shall be prepared and signed by a registered
professional engineer. Three (3) copies of the plans shall be filed with the
City for simple extensions per Idaho Code. Extensions and system modifications
not considered simple extensions may be submitted to other relevant agencies
for review and approval as required by Idaho Code. In approving drawings for
extension and/or oversizing, the City may impose other requirements such as a
special permit fee, right-of-way limits, sequence of construction, time limits
for having existing service disrupted, the filing of a performance bond and
other similar measures as may be required to protect the public. No work shall
commence on any such extension and/or oversizing until the project has been
approved by the City.
   F.   Obligation Of Owner: After the construction of any system extension
and/or oversizing, the owner shall have a registered professional engineer
submit record drawings to the City and certify to the City and to relevant
agencies, if needed, that the said system extensions and/or oversizing were
installed in accordance with the record drawings submitted. Following
certification by the registered professional engineer and acceptance by the
City, the entire extension and/or oversizing of the system shall become
property of the City.
   G.   Additions After Acceptance By City: Any permit application for a
service connection at any time after the extension has been originally accepted
by the City will be required to include the standard permit fees and inspection
fees as may be established by the City for such purposes.
   H.   Methods Of Computing Credits:
      1.   Oversized Facilities: Credits for oversized facilities shall be
based upon the actual materials cost of the oversized facility minus the
materials cost of an equivalent standard-size facility. Reimbursement of the
credits shall be done in accordance with an agreement between the City and the
owner.
      2.   On Site Stub Out: There is no credit available for onsite stub outs.
      3.   Off Site Facility: Credits for off-site facilities shall be based on
an agreement between the City and the owner.
   I.   Eligible Construction Costs: In order for any constructed facilities to
be eligible for construction credits the developer shall conform to the
following requirements:
      1.   The work for which construction credits are requested shall be
specifically agreed to in writing prior to the City issuing final plan approval
for construction.
      2.   All work shall be competitively bid. The bids shall be reviewed and
approved by the City prior to award.
      3.   The developer shall organize the bidding documents to show an
individual unit bid price for every item for which he is requesting
construction credits. Actual construction costs shall be established by the bid
price accepted by the owner.
      4.   The developer shall submit a tabulation of all bids received, along
with a copy of the selected contractor's bid which includes all work for which
construction credits are requested.
      5.   Construction cost change orders are not eligible for construction
credits unless approved in writing by the City.
   J.   Oversizing Agreement: Upon final inspection and acceptance by the City,
a letter detailing the total dollar amount of credits shall be issued to the
developer by the City. The developer shall then execute an agreement with the
City, which shall establish the payment terms. All fees shall be collected by
the City at the time of preliminary plat application, final plat application,
and/or building permit application as specified in the agreement.
   K.   Off Site System Extension:
      1.   Latecomer's Fee Negotiated: For all off site system extensions,
which are constructed and paid for by the developer, the developer may
negotiate with the City a "latecomer's fee" which shall be charged to all
property indicated by the service area boundary shown on the service area map
which receives benefit from the extension and did not participate in financing
the original construction. Seventy five percent (75%) of the total service area
shall be used for purposes of calculating the latecomer's fee to account for
potentially undevelopable property within said service area. The fees collected
shall be placed into a separate interest bearing account.
      2.   Payments: Payments shall be made until the agreement is paid in
full, or a period of ten (10) years, whichever is sooner. The developer may
request a five (5) year extension on the reimbursement period within six (6)
months of the period's expiration, and may request a second five (5) year
extension within six (6) months of the first extension's expiration, for a
total reimbursement period not to exceed twenty (20) years, with each extension
request subject to approval by City Council. Any interest rate paid shall be
established in the agreement. The City shall charge a fee for administration of
the "latecomer's" account which shall be established in the agreement.
      3.   Calculation: The latecomer's fee shall be calculated by the
following equation:
 
                             Credit + Administration fee
Latecomer's fee ($/acre) = [ (75%)(Total service area - Total development ]
                             area)
 
      4.   Method Of Collecting Latecomers' Fees: All fees shall be based upon
gross development area and shall be collected by the City at the time of
preliminary plat application, final plat application, and/or building permit
application as specified in the agreement. Fees may be further subdivided for
collection purposes on an individual basis as follows:
         a.   For commercial and/or industrial developments the fees shall be
based upon the commercial lot area plus a percentage of any right-of-way and/or
common area as applicable.
         b.   For residential developments the fees shall be based upon a per
equivalent single-family dwelling basis based upon the total fee established on
the gross area of the subdivision divided by the number of equivalent single-
family dwellings. (Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
CHAPTER 18
MIDDLETON RURAL FIRE DISTRICT DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEES
SECTION:
1-18-1: Short Title, Applicability, Findings And Purpose
1-18-2: Definitions
1-18-3: Imposition Of Fire District Impact Fee
1-18-4: Collection Of Fire District Impact Fees
1-18-5: Exemptions
1-18-6: Individual Assessment Process
1-18-7: Developer Credits And Reimbursement
1-18-8: Methodology For The Calculation Of Fire District Impact Fees
1-18-9: Extraordinary Impacts
1-18-10: Fee Payer Refunds
1-18-11: Establishment Of Fire District Trust Fund And Trust Accounts
1-18-12: Expenditure Of Fire District Impact Fees
1-18-13: Appeals, Protest And Mediation
1-18-14: Periodic Reviews
1-18-15: Audit
1-18-16: Development Impact Fee Advisory Standing Committee
1-18-17: Enforcement And Collection
1-18-18: City/Fire District Intergovernmental Agreement
1-18-19: Miscellaneous Provisions
1-18-20: Punishment
1-18-21: Construction Of Intent
1-18-1: SHORT TITLE, APPLICABILITY, FINDINGS AND PURPOSE:
   A.    Short title. This Chapter shall be known and may be cited as the
Middleton Rural Fire District Development Impact Fee Ordinance.
   B.   Authority. This ordinance is enacted pursuant to the City's general
police powers, its authority to enact ordinances, and its authority as provided
by the Idaho Development Impact Fee Act codified at Chapter 82 of Title 67,
Idaho Code (the "Act") and other applicable laws of the state of Idaho to
impose development impact fees; and the City's and the Fire District's
Authority to enter into an Intergovernmental Agreement as provided for in Idaho
Code § 67-8204A to impose, collect and expend development impact fees.
   C.   Applicability. Except as otherwise exempted in section
1-18-5, these provisions shall apply to the Development of property located
within the boundaries of the City of Middleton, Idaho.
   D.   Findings:
      1.   The Middleton Rural Fire District, (the "Fire District") is a fire
district organized and existing by virtue of the Fire Protection District Law
Chapter 14 of Title 31, Idaho Code, and its boundaries include areas within the
City limits of the City of Middleton (the "City") and areas surrounding the
City on the north, east and west, and the Fire District provides fire and
emergency services within the City; and
      2.   The Fire District's duty and responsibility is to provide protection
of property against fire and the preservation of life, and enforcement of any
of the fire codes and other rules that are adopted by the state fire marshal;
and
      3.   The City is experiencing considerable growth and Development; and
      4.   The purposes of the Act [Idaho Code § 67-8202] are as follows:
         a.   Ensure that adequate public facilities are available to serve new
growth and Development;
         b.   Promote orderly growth and Development by establishing uniform
standards by which local governments, such as the City and the Fire District,
may require those who benefit from new growth and Development pay [development
impact fees] their proportionate share of the costs of new public facilities
needed to serve that new growth and Development; and
         c.   Establish minimum standards for adoption of development impact
fee ordinances by cities; and
         d.   Ensure that those who benefit from new growth and Development are
required to pay no more than their proportionate share of the cost of public
facilities needed to serve that new growth and Development and to prevent
duplicate and ad hoc development requirements; and
         e.   To empower cities to adopt ordinances to impose development
impact fees.
      5.   The Act:
         a.   Does not authorize the Fire District to enact a development
impact fee ordinance; and
         b.   Does provide, pursuant to Idaho Code § 67-8204A, in circumstances
where the City and the Fire District are both affected by the considerable
growth and Development as is occurring within the City, that the City and the
Fire District may enter into the Intergovernmental Agreement for the purpose of
agreeing to collect and expend development impact fees for System Improvements
which provides for a new funding mechanism for those System Improvements Costs
incurred by the Fire District to meet the demand and growth occurring within
the City and which promotes and accommodates orderly growth and development and
protects the public health, safety and general welfare of the residences within
the boundaries of the City.
      6.   New residential growth within the City and within the boundaries of
the Fire District imposes and will impose increasing and excessive demands upon
the existing Fire District Capital Facilities.
      7.   The tax revenues generated from new residential Development within
the City and within the boundaries of the Fire District often do not generate
sufficient funds to provide the necessary improvements and expansion of
existing Fire District Capital Facilities to accommodate for that new growth.
      8.   New growth within the City and within the boundaries of the Fire
District is expected to continue, and will place ever-increasing demands on the
Fire District to provide and expand the Fire District's Capital Facilities to
serve that new growth.
      9.   Section 67-8204A of the Act authorizes the City to adopt an impact
fee system and to enter into the Intergovernmental Agreement with the Fire
District to offset, recoup, or reimburse the portion of the costs of needed
improvements to the Fire District Capital Facilities caused by new growth and
Development in the City and within the boundaries of the Fire District.
      10.   The creation of an equitable impact fee system facilitated by the
Intergovernmental Agreement with the Fire District, will promote the purposes
set forth in the Act, in that it would:
         a.   Ensure that adequate Fire District Capital Facilities are
available to serve new growth and Development;
         b.   Promote orderly growth and Development by establishing uniform
standards by which the City may require that those who benefit from new growth
and Development pay a proportionate share of the cost of new Fire District
Capital Facilities needed to serve new growth and Development in the City and
within the boundaries of the Fire District;
         c.   Establish minimum standards for the adoption of Fire District
Impact Fees;
         d.   Ensure that those who benefit from new growth and development are
required to pay no more than their proportionate share of the cost of Fire
District Capital Facilities needed to serve new growth and Development in the
City and within the boundaries of the Fire District; and
         e.   Prevent duplicate and ad hoc Development requirements in the
City.
      11.   The City has formed an Advisory Committee as required by Idaho Code
§ 67-8205, and the Committee has performed the duties required of it pursuant
to Idaho Code §§ 67-8205 and 67-8206(2). The City and the Fire District intend
that the Committee will continue to exist and perform those duties identified
in Idaho Code § 67-8205 that occur following the adoption of this Middleton
Rural Fire District Development Impact Fee Ordinance.
      12.   The Fire District has planned for the improvement of Fire District
Capital Facilities in the Capital Improvements Plan.
      13.   The creation of an equitable impact fee system would enable the
City to accommodate new development, and would assist the Fire District to
implement the capital improvements element of the Capital Improvements Plan.
      14.   In order to implement an equitable impact fee system for the Fire
District's fire prevention and life preservation facilities, the City adopted
by resolution and the Fire District adopted by resolution the Middleton Rural
Fire District Impact Fee Study and Capital Improvements Plan (the "Capital
Improvements Plan"). Galena Consulting was hired by the Fire District to assist
the Advisory Committee in the preparation of the Study.
      15.   The methodology used in the Capital Improvements Plan, as applied
through this Chapter, complies with all applicable provisions of Idaho law,
including those set forth in Idaho Code §§ 67-8204(1), (2), (16) and (23), 67-
8207 and 67-8209. The incorporation of the Capital Improvements Plan by
reference satisfies the requirement in Idaho Code § 67-8204(16) for a detailed
description of the methodology by which the Fire District Impact Fees were
calculated, and the requirement in Idaho Code § 67-8204(24) for a description
of acceptable levels of service for Fire District System Improvements.
      16.   In determining the proportionate share of System Improvements
Costs, the Capital Improvements Plan has considered: (a) the cost of the
existing System Improvements; (b) the means by which the existing System
Improvements have been financed; (c) the extent to which the new Development
will contribute to System Improvements Costs through taxation, assessment, or
developer or landowner contributions, or has previously contributed to System
Improvements Costs through developer or landowner contributions; (d) the extent
to which the new Development is required to contribute to System Improvements
Costs in the future; (e) the extent to which the new Development should be
credited for providing System Improvements, without charge to other properties
within the Service Area or areas; (f) Extraordinary Costs, if any, incurred in
serving the new Development; (g) the time and price differential inherent in a
fair comparison of fees paid at different times; and (h) the availability of
other sources of funding System Improvements including, but not limited to,
user charges, general tax levies, intergovernmental transfers, and special
taxation and includes a plan for alternative sources of revenue.
      17.   The Capital Improvements Plan contains the Capital Improvements
planned by the Fire District during the term of the Capital Improvements Plan,
and such element has been developed in conformance with the requirements in
Chapter 82 of Title 67, Idaho Code.
      18.   The Capital Improvements Plan sets forth reasonable methodologies
and analyses for determining the impacts of various types of new Development on
the Fire District Capital Facilities, and determines the cost of acquiring or
constructing the improvements necessary to meet the demands for such facilities
created by new Development.
      19.   In accordance with Idaho Code, the Capital Improvements Plan was
based on actual System Improvements Costs or reasonable estimates of such
costs. In addition, the Capital Improvements Plan uses a fee calculation
methodology that is net of credits for the present value of revenues that will
be generated by new growth and Development based on historical funding patterns
and that are anticipated to be available to pay for System Improvements,
including taxes, assessments, user fees, and intergovernmental transfers.
      20.   The Fire District Impact Fees established by this Chapter are based
on the Capital Improvements Plan, and do not exceed System Improvements Costs
to serve new Development that will pay the Fire District Impact Fees.
      21.   The Fire District Capital Facilities included in the calculation of
fees in the Capital Improvements Plan will benefit all new residential
Development throughout the City which is also within the boundaries of the Fire
District, and it is therefore appropriate to treat all areas of the City that
are also within the boundaries of the Fire District as a single Service Area
for purposes of calculating, collecting, and spending the Fire District Impact
Fees collected from Developers.
      22.   There is both a rational nexus and a rough proportionality between
Development impacts created by each type of Development covered by this
Chapter, the development impact fees assessment of such Development covered by
this Chapter, and the development impact fees that such Developer will be
required to pay.
      23.   This Chapter creates a system by which development impact fees paid
by Developers will be used to finance, defray, or reimburse a portion of the
costs incurred by the Fire District to construct and/or purchase System
Improvements in ways that benefit the Development for which each development
impact fee was paid within a reasonable period of time after the development
impact fee is paid, and in conformance with Idaho Code § 67-8210.
      24.   This Chapter creates a system under which development impact fees
shall not be used to correct existing deficiencies for any Fire District
Capital Facilities, or to replace or rehabilitate existing Fire District
Capital Facilities, or to pay for routine operation or maintenance of those
facilities.
      25.   This Chapter creates a system under which there shall be no double
payment of development impact fees, in accordance with Idaho Code § 67-8204
(19).
      26.   This Chapter is consistent with all applicable provisions of the
Act concerning development impact fee ordinances.
   E.   Purpose.
      1.   This Chapter is adopted to be consistent with, and to help implement
the Capital Improvements Plan.
      2.   The intent of this Chapter is to ensure that new residential
development bears a proportionate share of the cost of System Improvements; to
ensure that such proportionate share does not exceed the cost of such System
Improvements required to accommodate new Development; and to ensure that funds
collected from new Development are actually used for System Improvements in
accordance with the Act.
      3.   It is the further intent of this Chapter to be consistent with those
principles for allocating a fair share of the cost of System Improvements to
new Development, and for adopting development impact fee ordinances,
established by the Act.
      4.   It is not the intent of this Chapter to collect any money from any
new Development in excess of the actual amount necessary to offset new demands
for System Improvements created by such new Development.
      5.   It is the intent of this Chapter that any monies collected, as an
imposed Fire District Impact Fee, are deposited in the Trust Accounts of the
Trust Fund, are never commingled with monies from a different impact fee
account, are never used for a development impact fee component different from
that for which the fee was paid, are never used to correct current deficiencies
in the Fire District Capital Facilities, and are never used to replace,
rehabilitate, maintain or operate any Fire District Capital Facilities. (Ord.
634, 9-16-2020)
1-18-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter, the following words and terms shall have the following
meanings, unless another meaning is plainly intended and words and terms
appearing in the singular number includes the plural and the plural the
singular:
ACT:              The Idaho Development Impact Fee Act as set forth in Chapter 82 of Title 67, Idaho
                  Code.
ADVISORY          The City of Middleton Development Impact Fee Advisory Standing Committee formed and
COMMITTEE:        staffed by the City pursuant to Idaho Code § 67-8205 to prepare and recommend the
                  Capital Improvements Plan and any amendments, revisions or updates of the same.
APPROPRIATE:      To legally obligate by contract or otherwise commit to the expenditure of funds by
                  appropriation or other official act of the Board of Commissioners.
BOARD OF          The Board of Commissioners of the Middleton Rural Fire District, which is its
COMMISSIONERS:    governing board.
                  The permit required for foundations, new construction and additions pursuant to
BUILDING PERMIT:  Middleton City Code §
                  4-1-1.
CAPITAL           Improvements with a useful life of ten (10) years or more, by new construction or
IMPROVEMENTS:     other action, which increases the service capacity of Fire District Capital
                  Facilities.
CAPITAL           A component of the Capital Improvements Plan identified as Exhibit III-2 Middleton
IMPROVEMENTS      Rural Fire District CIP adopted by the Fire District and the City pursuant to
ELEMENT:          Chapters 65 and 82 of Title 67, Idaho Code, and as amended, which component meets
                  the requirements of the capital improvements plan required by the Act.
CAPITAL           The Middleton Rural Fire District Impact Fee Study and Capital Improvements Plan
IMPROVEMENTS      recommended by the Advisory Committee and adopted by the Fire District and the City
PLAN:             pursuant to the Act that identifies Fire District Capital Facilities for which Fire
                  District Impact Fees may be used as a funding source.
CITY:             The City of Middleton.
CITY COUNCIL:     The City Council of the City of Middleton.
COUNTY:           Canyon County.
                  Any person or legal entity undertaking development including a Development that
DEVELOPER:        seeks an annexation into the City and/or undertakes the subdivision of property
                  pursuant to Idaho Code §§ 50-1301 through 50-1334, as amended.
                  Any construction or installation of a building or structure, or any change in use of
                  a building or structure, or any change in the use, character or appearance of land,
DEVELOPMENT:      which creates additional demand and need for public facilities or the annexation
                  into the City and/or subdivision of property that would permit any change in the
                  use, character or appearance of land.
DEVELOPMENT       Any written duly authorized document from the City which authorizes the commencement
APPROVAL:         of a Development.
                  A requirement attached to a Developmental approval or other City governmental action
DEVELOPMENT       approving or authorizing a particular Development project including, but not limited
REQUIREMENT:      to, a rezoning, which requirement compels the payment, dedication or contribution of
                  goods, services, land or money as condition of approval.
EXTRAORDINARY     Those costs incurred as result of an extraordinary impact.
COSTS:
                  An impact which is reasonably determined by the Fire District to:
                     1.   Result in the need for Fire District system improvements, the cost of which
EXTRAORDINARY     will significantly exceed the sum of the development impact fees to be generated
IMPACT:           from the project or the sum agreed to be paid pursuant to a development agreement as
                  allowed by Idaho Code § 67-8214(2), as amended; or
                     2.   Result in the need for Fire District system improvements which are not
                  identified in the capital improvements plan.
FEE PAYER:        The person who pays or is required to pay a Fire District Impact Fee. A fee payer
                  may include a developer.
FIRE DISTRICT:    The Middleton Rural Fire District, a fire district organized and existing by virtue
                  of the Fire Protection District Law, Chapter 14 of Title 31, Idaho Code.
FIRE DISTRICT     The Fire District Administrator of the Fire District or their designee.
ADMINISTRATOR:
FIRE DISTRICT     Fire District stations and equipment which is identified in Exhibit III-2 of the
CAPITAL           Capital Improvements Plan, and specifically including those related costs including
FACILITIES:       System Improvements Costs, but not including maintenance, operations, or
                  improvements that do not expand their capacity.
FIRE DISTRICT     The Fire District Trust Fund established by action of the Board of Commissioners of
DEVELOPMENT       the Fire District as set forth in Board of Commissioners' by resolution and pursuant
IMPACT FEE        to section
CAPITAL PROJECTS  1-18-11 of this Chapter and pursuant to Idaho Code § 67-8210(1) into which all Fire
TRUST FUND (the   District Impact Fees shall be deposited and maintained by the Fire District.
"TRUST FUND"):
                  A payment of money imposed as condition of Development Approval to pay for a
                  proportionate share of the costs of System Improvements needed to serve the
                  Development. The term does not include the following:
                     1.   A charge or fee to pay the administrative plan review, or inspection cost
                  associated with permits required for Development;
                     2.   Connection or hookup charges;
FIRE DISTRICT        3.   Availability charges for drainage, sewer, water or transportation charges
IMPACT FEE:       for services provided directly to the development; or
                     4.   Amounts collected from a Developer in a transaction in which the Fire
                  District has incurred expenses in constructing Capital Improvements for the
                  Development if the owner or developer has agreed to be financially responsible for
                  the construction or installation of those Capital Improvements, unless a written
                  agreement is made, pursuant to Idaho Code § 67-8209(3) as amended, for credit or
                  reimbursement.
                  The City of Middleton/Middleton Rural District Intergovernmental Agreement to
INTERGOVERNMENTAL Collect and Expend Development Impact Fees For Fire District Systems Improvements
AGREEMENT:        entered into by and between the City and the Fire District pursuant to Idaho Code §
                  67-8204A for the collection and expenditure of Fire District Impact Fees established
                  pursuant to this Chapter.
LAND USE          A description of the service area and projections of land uses, densities,
ASSUMPTIONS:      intensities and population in the service area over at least a ten (10) year period.
LEVEL OF SERVICE: A measure of the relationship between service capacity and service demand for Public
                  Facilities.
                  A structure, constructed according to HUD/FHA mobile home construction and safety
                  standards, transportable in one (1) or more sections, which, in the traveling mode,
                  is eight (8) feet or more in width or is forty (40) body feet or more in length, or
                  when erected on site, is three hundred twenty (320) or more square feet, and which
                  is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or
MANUFACTURED/     without a permanent foundation when connected to required utilities, and includes
MOBILE HOME:      the plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical systems contained in such
                  structure, except that such term shall include any structure which meets all the
                  requirements of this subsection except the size requirements and with respect to
                  which the manufacturer voluntarily files a certification required by the secretary
                  of housing and urban development and complies with the standards established under
                  42 U.S.C. §§ 5401 et seq.
                  Any building or building component other than a manufactured/mobile home, which is
MODULAR BUILDING: constructed according to the International Building Code, as adopted or any
                  amendments thereto, which is of closed construction and is either entirely or
                  substantially prefabricated or assembled at a place other than the building site.
PRESENT VALUE:    The total current monetary value of past, present or future payments, contributions
                  or dedications of goods, services, materials, construction or money.
PROJECT:          A particular Development on an identified parcel of land.
                  In contrast to System Improvements, shall mean site improvements and facilities that
PROJECT           are planned and designed to provide service for a particular Development Project and
IMPROVEMENTS:     that are necessary for the use and convenience of the occupants or users of the
                  Project.
PROPORTIONATE     That portion of System Improvements Costs determined pursuant to Idaho Code § 67-
SHARE:            8207 which reasonably relates to the service demands and needs of the Project.
PUBLIC            Land, buildings and equipment used for fire protection, emergency medical and
FACILITIES:       rescue, and water supply production, storage and distribution facilities which have
                  a useful life of ten (10) years or more.
RECREATIONAL      A vehicular type unit primarily designed as temporary quarters for recreational,
VEHICLE:          camping, or travel use, which either has its own motive power or is mounted on or
                  drawn by another vehicle.
SERVICE AREA:     Any defined geographic area defined by the Capital Improvements Plan.
                  A standardized measure of consumption, use, generation or discharge attributable to
                  an individual unit of Development calculated in accordance with generally accepted
SERVICE UNIT:     engineering or planning standards for a particular category of Capital Improvements.
                  As specifically used in this Ordinance, service units include all dwelling units
                  intended for residential use development.
SYSTEM            In contrast to Project Improvements, shall mean Capital Improvements to Public
IMPROVEMENTS:     Facilities which are designed to provide service to a Service Area. For the purpose
                  of this Chapter, System Improvements are for Fire District Capital Facilities.
                  Costs incurred for construction or reconstruction of System Improvements, including
                  design, acquisition, engineering and other costs, and also including, without
                  limitation, the type of costs described in Idaho Code § 50-1702(h), as amended, to
                  provide additional Public Facilities needed to service new growth and Development.
                  For clarification, System Improvements Costs do not include:
                     1.   Construction, acquisition or expansion of Public Facilities other than
                  Capital Improvements identified in the Capital Improvements Plan;
                     2.   Improvements, repair, operation or maintenance of existing or new capital;
SYSTEM               3.   Upgrading, updating, expanding or replacing existing Capital Improvements to
IMPROVEMENTS      serve existing Development in order to meet stricter safety, efficiency,
COSTS:            environmental or regulatory standards;
                     4.   Upgrading, updating, expanding or replacing existing Capital Improvements to
                  provide better service to existing Development;
                     5.   Administrative and operating costs of the Fire District and/or the City
                  unless such costs are attributable to Development of the Capital Improvements Plan,
                  as provided in Idaho Code § 67-8208, as amended; and
                     6.   Principal payments and interest or other finance charges on bonds or other
                  indebtedness except financial obligations issued by or on behalf of the Fire
                  District to finance Capital Improvements identified in the Capital Improvements
                  Plan.
                  Any of one or more interest bearing accounts within the Fire District Development
TRUST ACCOUNTS:   Impact Fee Capital Projects Trust Fund established in section
                  1-18-11 of this Chapter. (Ord. 634, 9-16-2020)
 
1-18-3: IMPOSITION OF FIRE DISTRICT IMPACT FEE:
   A.   Imposition of Impact Fee. A Fire District Impact Fee is hereby imposed
on all new Development in the area of the City that is also within the
boundaries of the Fire District.
   B.   Fee Schedule. Fire District Impact Fees shall be calculated in
accordance with the fee schedule which is set forth in the Capital Improvements
Plan providing for standard fees based on the total number of dwelling units or
square feet of nonresidential space in the Development, unless: (1) the Fee
Payer requests an individual assessment pursuant to section
1-18-6  of this Chapter; or (2) the City and the Fire District find the
Development will have an Extraordinary Impact pursuant to section
1-18-9  of this Chapter. The methodology for determining the costs per service
unit provided for in the fee schedule is set forth in the Capital Improvements
Plan.
   C.   Impact Fee Schedule: The schedule of development impact fees for the
various land uses per unit of development are herein set forth as follows:
 
Residential (per Single Family per Housing Unit) $665.00
Residential (Multi-Family per Housing Unit)      $665.00
Development Type (per 1,000 Square Feet)
   Retail                                     $780.00
   Office                                     $300.00
   Industrial                                 $135.00
   Institutional                              $541.00
 
   D.   Developer’s Election. A Developer shall have the right to elect to pay
a project’s proportionate share of System Improvements Costs by payment of Fire
District Impact Fee according to the fee schedule as full and complete payment
of the Development project’s proportionate share of System Improvements Costs,
except as provided in Idaho Code § 67-8214(3), as amended.
   E.   Procedures:
      1.   Building Permit. Upon submittal of complete building permit plans
for the Development to the City, the City shall calculate the Fire District
Impact Fee for the Development within thirty (30) days of submittal unless the
Fee Payer requests an individual assessment or the City determines that the
Development may have Extraordinary Impact.
      2.   Exemption. An exemption pursuant to section
1-18-5 A of this Chapter must be claimed by the Fee Payer upon application for
a Building Permit or manufactured home installation permit. Any exemption not
so claimed shall be deemed waived by the Fee Payer. (Ord. 634, 9-16-2020; amd.
Ord. 682, 11-13-2023)
1-18-4: COLLECTION OF FIRE DISTRICT IMPACT FEES:
   A.   Certification. After the Fire District Impact Fee due for a proposed
Development has been calculated by the City pursuant to the fee schedule
attached to the Capital Improvements Plan or by the Fire District Administrator
using the individual assessment process, the Fee Payer may request from the
City or the Fire District Administrator a certification of the amount of Fire
District Impact Fee due for that Development. Within thirty (30) days after
receiving such request, the City or the Fire District Administrator shall issue
a written certification of the amount of the Fire District Impact Fee due for
the proposed Development. Such certification shall establish the Fire District
Impact Fee so long as there is no material change to the particular Development
as identified in the individual assessment application, or the impact fee
schedule attached to the Capital Improvements Plan. The certification shall
include an explanation of the calculation of the Fire District Impact Fee
including an explanation of factors considered under Idaho Code § 67-8207 and
shall also specify the System Improvement(s) for which the Fire District Impact
Fee is intended to be used. If the Impact Fee is calculated by the City
pursuant to the fee schedule, the City shall provide the certification to the
Fee Payer and the Fire District Administrator. If the Impact Fee is determined
by the Fire District Administrator following an individual assessment of the
fee, the Fire District Administrator shall provide the certification to the Fee
Payer and the City.
   B.   Payment of Fees. The Fire District Impact Fee shall be paid either to
the City or to the Fire District at the following times:
      1.   If a Building Permit or manufactured/mobile home installation permit
is required, then at the time before the permit is issued;
      2.   If no Building Permit or manufactured/mobile home installation
permit is required, then at the time that construction commences; or
      3.   At such other time as the Developer and the Fire District have
agreed upon in writing with notice to the City.
   C.   In the event a Fire District Impact Fee is paid to the Fire District,
then the Fire District Administrator shall immediately notify the City of said
payment.
   D.   All Fire District Impact Fees paid to the City shall then be delivered
to the Fire District Administrator on a once-a-month basis. (Ord. 634, 9-16-
2020)
1-18-5: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.    Exemptions. The provisions of this Chapter shall not apply to the
following:
      1.   Rebuilding the same amount of floor space of a structure which is
destroyed by fire or other catastrophe, provided the structure is rebuilt and
ready for occupancy within two (2) years of its destruction;
      2.   Remodeling or repairing a structure which does not increase the
number of service units;
      3.   Replacing a residential unit, including a manufactured/mobile home,
with another residential unit on the same lot; provided that, the number of
service units does not increase;
      4.   Placing a temporary construction trailer or office on a lot;
      5.   Constructing an addition on a residential structure which does not
increase the number of service units;
      6.   Adding uses that are typically accessory to residential uses, such
as tennis court or a clubhouse, unless it can be clearly demonstrated that the
use creates a significant impact on the capacity of System Improvements; or
      7.   The installation of a modular building, manufactured/mobile home or
recreational vehicle if the Fee Payer can demonstrate by documentation such as
utility bills and tax records that either:
         a.   A modular building, manufactured/mobile home or recreational
vehicle was legally in place on the lot or space prior to the effective date of
this Chapter; or
         b.   A Fire District Impact Fee has been paid previously for the
modular building, manufactured/mobile home or recreational vehicle on that same
lot or space.
   B.    Exemption Claim Process: An exemption from a Fire District Impact Fee
must be claimed on the Application by the Developer (Fee Payer) upon submitting
their application for a Building Permit or manufactured home installation
permit. Any exemption not so claimed shall be deemed waived by the Fee Payer.
Applications for exemption shall be determined by the City within ninety (90)
days of receipt of the claim for exemption. (Ord. 634, 9-16-2020)
1-18-6: INDIVIDUAL ASSESSMENT PROCESS:
   A.   In lieu of calculating the amount of the Fire District Impact Fee using
the impact fee schedules in MCC §
1-20-1 of this title, an individual assessment of Impact Fees is permitted.
      1.   Individual Assessment Process: A Fee Payer may file a written
request for an individual assessment of the Development by the Administrator
prior to the receipt of a building permit or other necessary approvals or
entitlements from the City. A request for an individual assessment process
shall involve consideration of studies, data, and any other relevant
information submitted by the Fee Payer to adjust the amount of the Fire
District Impact Fee.
      2.   Each individual assessment request and supporting documentation
submitted by the Fee Payer shall be based on the same level of service
standards and unit costs for System Improvements used in the applicable Capital
Improvements Plan, shall use an average cost (not a marginal cost) methodology,
and shall document the relevant methodologies and assumptions used.
      3.   Each individual assessment request delivered to the Administrator
may then be accepted, rejected, or accepted with modifications by the
Administrator as the basis for calculating the Fire District Impact Fee. The
criteria for acceptance, rejection or acceptance with modifications shall be
whether the individual assessment is a more accurate measure of demand for
System Improvements element(s) created by the proposed Development, or the
costs of those facilities, than the applicable fee shown in the fee schedule,
based on the standards in Section 67-8207, Idaho Code.
      4.    The Administrator shall issue a written decision within thirty (30)
days following receipt of a completed request for individual assessment
together with all supporting information from the Fee Payer, so as not to
unreasonably delay the Developer's (Fee Payer's) subsequent applications to the
City for Building Permits.
      5.   The decision by the Administrator on an application for an
individual assessment shall include an explanation of the calculation of the
Fire District Impact Fee, shall specify the System Improvement(s) for which the
Fire District Impact Fee is intended to be used, and shall include an
explanation of those factors identified in Idaho Code § 67 8207.
      6.   If an individual assessment is accepted or accepted with
modifications by the Administrator then the Fire District Impact Fee due under
this Article for such Development shall be calculated according to such
individual assessment.
      7.   The Fire District Administrator shall provide notice of final
determination of an individual assessment to the Developer (Fee Payer) and the
City. (Ord. 634, 9-16-2020)
1-18-7: DEVELOPER CREDITS AND REIMBURSEMENT:
   A.   Credits to be Issued. When a Developer or their predecessor in title or
interest has constructed System Improvements of the same category as a Fire
District Capital Improvements Element, or contributed or dedicated land or
money towards the completion of System Improvements of the same category as a
Fire District Capital Improvements Element, and the Fire District has accepted
such construction, contribution or dedication, the Fire District shall issue a
credit against the Fire District Impact Fees otherwise due for the same Fire
District Capital Improvements Element in connection with the proposed
Development, as set forth in this section, credit shall be issued regardless of
whether the contribution or dedication to System Improvements was required by
the Fire District as a condition of Development Approval or was offered by the
Developer and accepted by the Fire District in writing, and regardless of
whether the contribution or dedication was contributed by the Developer or by a
local improvement district controlled by the Developer.
   B.   Limitations. Credits against a Fire District Impact Fee shall not be
given for: (a) Project Improvements; or (b) any construction, contribution or
dedication not agreed to in writing by the Fire District prior to commencement
of the construction, contribution, or dedication. Credits issued for one Fire
District Capital Improvements Element may not be used to reduce Fire District
Impact Fees due for a different capital improvement. No credits shall be issued
for System Improvements contributed or dedicated prior to the effective date of
this Chapter. Prior contributions may only be taken into account pursuant to an
individual assessment.
   C.   Valuation of Credit at Present Value:
      1.   Land. Credit for qualifying land dedications shall, at the Fee
Payer's option, be valued at the present value of: (a) one hundred percent
(100%) of the most recent assessed value for such land as shown in the records
of the county assessor; or (b) that fair market value established by a private
appraiser acceptable to the Fire District in an appraisal paid for by the Fee
Payer.
      2.   Improvements. Credit for qualifying acquisition or construction of
System Improvements shall be valued by the Fire District at the present value
of such improvements based on complete engineering drawings, specifications,
and construction cost estimates submitted by the Fee Payer to the Fire
District. The Fire District Administrator shall determine the amount of credit
due based on the information submitted, or, if it determines that such
information is inaccurate or unreliable, then on alternative engineering or
construction costs acceptable to the Fire District as a more accurate measure
of the value of the offered System Improvements to the Fire District.
   D.   When Credits Become Effective:
      1.   Land. Approved credits for land dedications shall become effective
when the land has been conveyed to the Fire District in a form acceptable to
the Fire District, at no cost to the Fire District, and has been accepted by
the Fire District. Upon request of the Fee Payer, the Fire District shall issue
a letter stating the amount of credit available.
      2.    Improvements. Approved credits for acquisition or construction of
System Improvements shall generally become effective when (a) all required
construction has been completed and has been accepted by the Fire District, (b)
a suitable maintenance and warranty bond has been received and approved by the
Fire District, and (c) all design, construction, inspection, testing, bonding,
and acceptance procedures have been completed in compliance with all applicable
requirements of the Fire District and the state of Idaho. Upon request of the
Fee Payer, the Fire District shall issue a letter stating the amount of credit
available.
   E.   Credit Request Procedures:
      1.   Request. In order to obtain a credit against a Fire District Impact
Fee otherwise due, a Fee Payer shall submit to the City a written offer of
request to dedicate to the Fire District specific parcels of qualifying land or
a written offer to contribute or construct specific System Improvements to the
Fire District Capital Facilities in accordance with all applicable State or
City design and construction standards, and shall specifically request a credit
against the type of Fire District Impact Fee for which the land dedication or
System Improvements is offered. The City shall then deliver the written offer
of request to the Fire District Administrator.
      2.   Review. After receipt of the written offer of request for credit,
the Fire District Administrator shall review the request and determine whether
the land or System Improvements offered for credit will reduce the costs of
providing Fire District Capital Facilities by an amount at least equal to the
value of the credit. If the Fire District Administrator determines that the
offered credit satisfies that criteria and will be acceptable to the Board of
Commissioners, then the credit shall be issued. The Fire District shall
complete its review and determination of an application within thirty (30) days
after receipt of an application for credit.
      3.   Credits Exceeding Fee Amounts Due. If the credit due to a Fee Payer
pursuant to subsection
1-18-7D of this Chapter exceeds the Fire District Impact Fee that would
otherwise be due from the Fee Payer pursuant to this Chapter (whether
calculated through the fee schedule attached to the Capital Improvement Plan or
through an individual assessment), the Fee Payer may choose to receive such
credit in the form of either: (a) a credit against future Fire District Impact
Fee due for the same System Improvements; or (b) a reimbursement from Fire
District Impact Fees paid by future Development that impacts the System
Improvements contributed or dedicated by the Fee Payer. Unless otherwise stated
in an agreement with the Fee Payer, the Fire District shall be under no
obligation to use any Fire District funds - other than Fire District Impact
Fees paid by other Development for the same System Improvements - to reimburse
the Fee Payer for any credit in excess of Fire District Impact Fees that are
due.
      4.   Written Agreement Required. If credit or reimbursement is due to the
Fee Payer pursuant to this section, the Fire District shall enter into a
written agreement with the Fee Payer, negotiated in good faith, prior to the
contribution, dedication, or funding of the System Improvements giving rise to
the credit. The agreement shall provide for the amount of credit or the amount,
time and form of reimbursement, and shall have a term not exceeding ten (10)
years.
      5.   The Fire District Administrator's determination on the written offer
of request for credit shall be provided to the Fee Payer and the City. (Ord.
634, 9-16-2020)
1-18-8: METHODOLOGY FOR THE CALCULATION OF FIRE DISTRICT IMPACT FEES:
   A.   General Provisions.
      1.   Accounting Principles. The calculation of the Fire District Impact
Fee shall be in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A
development impact fee shall not be deemed invalid because payment of the fee
may result in an incidental benefit to owners or Developers within the service
area other than the Fee Payer.
      2.   Levels of Service. The Fire District Impact Fee shall be calculated
on the basis of levels of service for Public Facilities adopted in this Chapter
that are applicable to existing Development as well as new growth and
Development. The construction, improvement, expansion or enlargement of new or
existing Public Facilities for which the Fire District Impact Fee is imposed
must be attributable to the capacity demands generated by the new Development.
   B.   Methodology; Proportionate Methodology. The Fire District Impact Fee
shall not exceed a proportionate share of the cost of the System Improvements
determined in accordance with Idaho Code § 67-8207, as amended. Fire District
Impact Fees shall be based on actual System Improvements Costs or reasonable
estimates of such costs. The amount of the Fire District Impact Fee shall be
calculated using the methodology contained in the Capital Improvements Plan.
   C.   Proportionate Share Determination.
      1.   Fire District Impact Fee shall be based on a reasonable and fair
formula or method under which the Fire District Impact Fee imposed does not
exceed a proportionate share of the costs incurred or to be incurred by the
Fire District in the provision of System Improvements to serve the new
Development. The proportionate share is the costs attributable to the new
Development after the Fire District considers the following:
         a.   Any appropriate credit, offset or contribution of money,
dedication of land or construction of System Improvements;
         b.   Payments reasonably anticipated to be made by or as a result of a
new Development in the form of user fees and debt service payments;
         c.   That portion of general tax or other revenues allocated by the
Fire District to System Improvements; and
         d.   All other available sources of funding such System Improvements.
      2.   In determining the proportionate share of the cost of System
Improvements to be paid by the Developer, the following factors shall be
considered by the Fire District and accounted for in the calculation of the
Fire District Impact Fee:
         a.   The costs of existing System Improvements within the Service
area;
         b.   The means by which existing System Improvements have been
financed;
         c.   The extent to which the new Development will contribute to System
Improvements Costs through taxation, assessments, or developer or landowner
contributions, or has previously contributed to System Improvements Costs
through Developer or landowner contributions;
         d.   The extent to which the new development is required to contribute
to the cost of existing System Improvements in the future;
         e.   The extent to which the new Development should be credited for
providing System Improvements, without charge to other properties within the
Service Area;
         f.   Extraordinary costs, if any, incurred in serving the new
Development;
         g.   The time and price differential inherent in a fair comparison of
fees paid at different times; and
         h.   The availability of other sources of funding System Improvements
including, but not limited to, user charges, general tax levies,
intergovernmental transfers and special taxation. (Ord. 634, 9-16-2020)
1-18-9: EXTRAORDINARY IMPACTS:
   A.   In the event the City makes an initial determination that Development
may impose Extraordinary Impact, the City shall provide the Development
application to the Fire District Administrator along with the City's initial
determination. The Fire District Administrator shall then review and determine
whether or not the Development application will impose Extraordinary Impact.
   B.   If the Fire District Administrator determines that a proposed
Development generates Extraordinary Impact that will result in extraordinary
Systems Improvements Costs, the Fire District Administrator will notify the Fee
Payer and the City of such Fire District Impact Fee determination within thirty
(30) days after Fire District Administrator's receipt from the City of the
Development Application and the City's initial determination. Such notice shall
include a statement that the potential impacts of such Development on System
Improvements are not adequately addressed by the Capital Improvements Plan, and
that a supplemental study, at the Fee Payer's expense will be required.
   C.   Circumstances that may lead to a determination of Extraordinary Impact
include, but are not limited to: (a) an indication the assumptions used in the
Capital Improvements Plan underestimate the level of activity or impact on Fire
District Capital Facilities from the proposed Development or activity.
   D.   Within thirty (30) days following the designation of a Development with
Extraordinary Impact, the Fire District Administrator shall meet with the Fee
Payer to discuss whether the Fee Payer wants to: (1) pay for the supplemental
study necessary to determine the System Improvements Costs related to the
proposed Development; (2) modify the proposal to avoid generating Extraordinary
Impact; or (3) withdraw the application for certification, Building Permit or
Development approval.
   E.   If the Fee Payer agrees to pay for the supplemental study required to
document the proposed Development's proportionate share of System Improvements
Costs, then the Fire District and the Fee Payer shall jointly select an
individual or organization acceptable to both to perform such study. The Fee
Payer shall enter into a written agreement with such individual or organization
to pay the costs of such study. Such agreement shall require the supplemental
study to be completed within thirty (30) days of such written agreement, unless
the Fee Payer agrees to a longer time.
   F.   Once the study has been completed, the Fee Payer may choose to: (a) pay
the proportionate share of System Improvements Costs documented by the
supplemental study; or (b) modify the proposed Development to reduce such
costs; or (c) withdraw the application. If the Fee Payer agrees to pay the
System Improvements Costs documented in the supplemental study, that agreement
shall be reduced to writing between the Fire District and the Fee Payer prior
to review and consideration of any application for any Development approval or
Building Permit related to the proposed Development.
   G.   Notwithstanding any agreement by the Fee Payer to pay the proportionate
share of System Improvements Costs documented by the supplemental study,
nothing in this ordinance shall obligate the City to approve Development that
results in an Extraordinary Impact to the Fire District. (Ord. 634, 9-16-2020)
1-18-10: FEE PAYER REFUNDS:
   A.   Duty to Refund:
      1.   Fire District Impact Fees shall be refunded to the Fee Payer, or to
a successor in interest, in the following circumstances:
         a.   Service is available but never provided;
         b.   A Building Permit, or permit for installation of a manufactured
home, is denied by the City or abandoned;
         c.   The Fee Payer pays a Fire District Impact Fee under protest and a
subsequent review of the fee paid or the completion of an individual assessment
determines that the fee paid exceeded the proportionate share to which the Fire
District was entitled to receive;
         d.   The Fire District has collected a Fire District Impact Fee and
the Fire District has failed to Appropriate or expend the collected fees
pursuant to section below; or
         e.   Failure of the Fire District to commence construction or encumber
the fund in the Fire District Development Impact Fee Capital Projects Trust
Fund.
      2.   Any Fire District Impact Fee paid shall be refunded if the Fire
District has failed to commence construction of System Improvements in
accordance with this Chapter, or to appropriate funds for such construction,
within eight (8) years after the date on which such fee was collected by the
Fire District. Any refund due shall be paid to the owner of record of the
parcel for which the Fire District Impact Fee was paid. The Fire District may
hold Fire District Impact Fees for longer than eight (8) years if the Fire
District identifies in writing and in written notice to the owner of record of
the parcel: (a) a reasonable cause why the fees should be held longer than
eight (8) years; and (b) an anticipated date by which the fees will be
expended, but in no event greater than eleven (11) years from the date they
were collected. If the Fire District complies with the previous sentence, then
any Fire District Impact Fees so identified shall be refunded to the Fee Payer
if the Fire District has failed to commence construction of System Improvements
in accordance with the written notice, or to Appropriate Funds for such
construction on or before the date identified in such writing.
      3.   No Refund Due for Subsequent Reduction in Size of Development or
Service Units. After a Fire District Impact Fee has been paid pursuant to this
Chapter and after a certificate of occupancy has been issued by the City, no
refund of any part of such fee shall be made if the project for which the fee
was paid is later demolished, destroyed, or is altered, reconstructed, or
reconfigured so as to reduce the size of the project or the number of units in
the project.
      4.   Interest. Each refund shall include a refund of interest at one-half
the legal rate provided for in Idaho Code § 28-22-104 from the date on which
the fee was originally paid.
      5.   Timing. The Fire District shall make a determination of whether a
refund is due within thirty (30) days after receipt of a written request for a
refund from the owner of record of the property for which the fee was paid.
When the right to a refund exists, the Fire District shall send the refund to
the owner of record within ninety (90) days after the Fire District determines
that a refund is due. (Ord. 634, 9-16-2020)
1-18-11: ESTABLISHMENT OF FIRE DISTRICT TRUST FUND AND TRUST ACCOUNTS:
   A.   The Trust Fund established by the Fire District will be maintained by
the Fire District for the purpose of ensuring that all Fire District Impact
Fees collected, pursuant to this Chapter, are used to address impacts
reasonably attributable to new Development for which the Fire District Impact
Fees are paid. The Trust Fund shall be divided into the Trust Accounts. All
funds in all Trust Accounts in the Trust Fund shall be maintained in an
interest-bearing account. The interest earned on each Trust Account pursuant to
Idaho Code § 67-8210(1) shall not be governed by Idaho Code § 57-127, as
amended, but shall be considered funds of the Trust Accounts and shall be
subject to the same restrictions on uses of funds as the Fire District Impact
Fees on which the interest is generated.
   B.   Deposit of Fire District Impact Fees. All monies paid by a Fee Payer,
pursuant to this Chapter, shall be identified as Fire District Impact Fees and
shall be promptly deposited by the Fire District Administrator in the
appropriate Trust Accounts of the Trust Fund.
      1.   First-in/First-out. Monies in each Trust Account shall be spent in
the order collected, on a first-in/first-out basis.
      2.   Maintenance of Records. The Fire District shall maintain and keep
accurate financial records for each Trust Account that shall show the source
and disbursement of all revenues, that shall account for all monies received,
that shall ensure that the disbursement of funds from each Trust Account shall
be used solely and exclusively for the provisions of projects specified in the
Capital Improvements Plan, and that shall provide an annual accounting for each
Fire District Impact Fee Account showing the source and amount of all funds
collected and the projects that were funded. (Ord. 634, 9-16-2020)
1-18-12: EXPENDITURE OF FIRE DISTRICT IMPACT FEES:
   A.   Expenditures of Fire District Impact Fees collected and deposited in
the Trust Fund shall be made only for System Improvements within the Service
Area for which the Impact Fee was collected in accordance with the Capital
Improvements Plan.
   B.   Capital Improvements Plan Reimbursement; Surcharge. A portion of each
Impact Fee collected shall be designated as a surcharge for reimbursement of
the Fire District for the cost of preparing the Capital Improvements Plan in
accordance with Idaho Code § 67-8208. The surcharge shall not exceed the
Development's proportionate share of the cost of preparing the Capital
Improvements Plan. (Ord. 634, 9-16-2020)
1-18-13: APPEALS, PROTEST AND MEDIATION:
   A.   Appeals. Any Fee Payer that is or may be obligated to pay a Fire
District Impact Fee, or that claims a right to receive a refund, reimbursement,
exemption or credit under this Chapter, and who is dissatisfied with a decision
made either by the City or by the Fire District Administrator in applying this
Chapter, may appeal such decision as follows:
      1.   in the case of a decision made by the City to the City Council; and
      2.   in the case of a decision made by the Fire District Administrator to
the Board of Commissioners.
   B.   The Fee Payer shall have the burden on appeal of demonstrating that the
decision was in error.
   C.   In order to pursue the appeal described in this subsection, the Fee
Payer shall file a written notice of the appeal with the City within thirty
(30) days after the date of the City's or the Fire District Administrator's
decision, or the date on which the Fee Payer submitted a payment of the Fire
District Impact Fee under protest, whichever is later. Such written application
shall include a statement describing why the Fee Payer believes that the
appealed decision was in error, together with copies of any documents that the
Fee Payer believes support the claim.
   D.   Appeals of the Fire District Administrator's decisions shall be
delivered by the City to the Fire District Administrator.
   E.   The City Council or the Board of Commissioners, as the case may be,
shall hear the appeal within sixty (60) days after receipt of a written notice
of appeal. The Fee Payer shall have a right to be present and to present
evidence in support of the appeal. The City or Fire District Administrator who
made the decision under appeal or their representative shall likewise have the
right to be present and to present evidence in support of the decision. The
criteria to be used by the City Council or by the Board of Commissioners in
considering the appeal shall be whether: (a) the decision or interpretation
made by the City or Fire District Administrator; or (b) the alternative
decision or interpretation offered by the Fee Payer, more accurately reflects
the intent of this Chapter that new development in the City pay its
proportionate share of the costs of system improvements to Fire District
facilities necessary to serve new development and whether the provisions of
this Chapter has been correctly applied. The City Council or Board of
Commissioners, as the case may be, shall issue a decision upholding, reversing,
or modifying the decision being appealed within thirty (30) days after hearing
the appeal.
   F.   Payment Under Protest. A Fee Payer may pay a Fire District Impact Fee
under protest in order not to delay in the issuance of a Building Permit by the
City. A Fee Payer making a payment under protest shall not be estopped from
exercising the right to appeal provided herein, nor shall such Fee Payer be
estopped from receiving a refund of any amount deemed to have been illegally
collected.
   G.   Mediation.
      1.   Any Fee Payer that has a disagreement with the City or the Fire
District Administrator regarding a Fire District Impact Fee Determination that
is or may be due for a proposed Development pursuant to this Chapter, may enter
into a voluntary agreement with the City or the Fire District, as the case may
be, to subject the disagreement to mediation by a qualified independent party
acceptable to both the Fee Payer and the Fire District.
      2.   Mediation may take place at any time following the filing of a
timely appeal pursuant to section
1-18-13C of this Chapter, or as an alternative to such appeal, provided that
the request for mediation is filed no later than the last date on which a
timely appeal could be filed pursuant to section
1-18-13C of this Chapter.
      3.   Participation in mediation does not preclude the Fee Payer from
pursuing other remedies provided for in this section.
      4.   If mediation is requested, any related mediation costs shall be
shared equally by the Fee Payer and the City or the Fire District, as the case
may be, and a written agreement regarding the payment of such costs shall be
executed prior to the commencement of mediation.
      5.   In the event that mediation does not resolve the issues between the
Fire District and the Fee Payer, the Fee Payer retains all rights to seek
relief from a court of competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 634, 9-16-2020)
1-18-14: PERIODIC REVIEWS:
   A.   Review and Modification of Capital Improvements Plan. Unless the Board
of Commissioners deems some other period is appropriate, the Board of
Commissioners shall, at least once every five (5) years, commencing from the
date of the original adoption of the Capital Improvements Plan, review the
Development potential and update the Capital Improvements Plan in cooperation
with the City and in accordance with the procedures set forth in Idaho Code §
67-8206, as amended. Each update shall be prepared by the Fire District
Administrator in consultation with the Advisory Committee.
   B.   Annual review. The Fire District shall annually adopt a capital budget.
(Ord. 634, 9-16-2020)
1-18-15: AUDIT:
As part of its annual audit process, the Fire District shall prepare an annual
report:
   A.   Describing the amount of all Fire District Impact Fees collected,
appropriated or spent during the preceding year by category of Public Facility;
and
   B.   Describing the percentage of taxes and revenues from sources other than
the Fire District Impact Fees collected, appropriated or spent for System
Improvements during the preceding year by Systems Improvements category of Fire
District Capital Facilities. (Ord. 634, 9-16-2020)
1-18-16: DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEE ADVISORY STANDING COMMITTEE:
   A.   Committee Created: The City of Middleton/Middleton Rural Fire District
Development Impact Fee Advisory Committee standing committee of the City
Council is established (hereinafter in this Chapter referred also as “Advisory
Committee” or “Committee
   B.   Membership: The members of the Committee shall be appointed (including
vacancy appointments) as provided in the intergovernmental agreement. All
appointments are for a term of one (1) year or until someone is appointed in
his/her place, and there shall not be fewer than five (5) members of which two
(2) or more members shall be active in the business of development, building or
real estate and at least two (2) or more members shall not be employees or
officials of the City or the Fire District. All members must reside within the
service area of the applicable capital improvement plan.
   C.   Charge: The Advisory Committee shall serve as an advisory committee to
the City Council and the Board of Commissioners of the Fire District and is
charged with the following responsibilities:
      1.   Assist the City and the Fire District in adopting land use
assumptions; and
      2.   Review the Capital Improvements Plan; and
      3.   Monitor and evaluate implementation of the Capital Improvements
Plan;
      4.   File with the Fire District, Fire District Administrator and the
City Clerk, at least annually, with respect to the Capital Improvements Plan, a
report of any perceived inequities in implementing the Capital Improvements
Plan or imposing the Fire District Impact Fees;
      5.   Advise the City Council and the Board of Commissioners of the Fire
District of the need to update or revise land use assumptions, Capital
Improvements Plan and Fire District Development Impact Fees; and
      6.   The Fire District shall make available to the Advisory Committee,
upon request, all financial and accounting information, professional reports in
relation to other development and implementation of land use assumptions, the
Capital Improvements Plan and periodic updates of the Capital Improvements
Plan.
   D.   Reporting: The Advisory Committee reports directly to the Fire District
Board of Commissioners and to the City Council.
   E.   City Council and Fire District Board of Commissioners Review of
Committee’s Report and Recommendations: The City Council and the Fire District
Board of Commissioners shall each consider the Advisory Committee’s recommended
revision(s) at least once every twelve (12) months. The Advisory Committee’s
recommendations and the City Council’s and Board of Commissioners’ actions are
intended to ensure that the benefits to a Development paying Fire District
Impact Fees are equitable, so that the Fire District Impact Fee charged to the
Development shall not exceed a proportionate share of System Improvements
Costs, and that the procedures for administering Fire District Impact Fees
remain efficient. (Ord. 634, 9-16-2020; amd. Ord. 684, 11-14-2023)
1-18-17: ENFORCEMENT AND COLLECTION:
   A.   When any Fire District Impact Fee is due pursuant to this Chapter, or
pursuant to the terms of any written agreement between a Fee Payer and the Fire
District, and such Fire District Impact Fee has not been paid in a timely
manner, the City, or Fire District Administrator on behalf of the Fire
District, may exercise any or all of the following powers as applicable to
their authority, in any combination, to enforce the collection of the Fire
District Impact Fee:
      1.   Withhold Building Permits, manufactured home installation permits,
or other City Development Approval related to the Development for which the
Fire District Impact Fee is due until all Fire District Impact Fees due have
been paid, and issue stop work orders, and revoke or suspend a Building Permit.
      2.   Withhold utility services from the Development for which the Fire
District Impact Fee is due until all Fire District Impact Fees due have been
paid; and
      3.   Add interest to the Fire District Impact Fee not paid in full at the
legal rate provided for in Idaho Code § 28-22-104, as amended, plus five
percent (5%) beginning on the date at which the payment of the Fire District
Impact Fee was due until paid in full.
      4.   Impose a penalty of five percent (5%) of the total Fire District
Impact Fee (not merely the portion dishonored, late or not paid in full) per
month beginning on the date at which the payment of the Fire District Impact
Fee was due until paid in full.
      5.   Impose a lien pursuant to the authority of Idaho Code § 67-8213(4)
for failure to timely pay a Fire District Impact Fee following the procedures
contained in Idaho Code Title 45, Chapter 5. (Ord. 634, 9-16-2020)
1-18-18: CITY/FIRE DISTRICT INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT:
   A.   The City is a governmental entity that is empowered by the Act to adopt
development impact fee ordinances and as such is authorized, by Idaho Code §
67-8204A, to enter into the Intergovernmental Agreement with the Fire District
for the purpose of agreement to collect and expend Fire District Impact Fees
for System Improvements as provided in this Chapter.
   B.   The City and the Fire District have entered into the Intergovernmental
Agreement which is in full force and effect.
   C.   The Intergovernmental Agreement complies with this Chapter and requires
the Fire District to be governed by and to fully abide by the provisions of
this Chapter.
   D.   Any amendments of the Intergovernmental Agreement shall be implemented
by corresponding relevant amendments of this Chapter which amendments shall not
apply to any Fire District Impact Fees then not expended and currently held in
the Trust Fund. (Ord. 634, 9-16-2020)
1-18-19: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS:
   A.   Nothing in this Chapter shall prevent the Fire District from requiring
a Developer to construct reasonable Project Improvements, as are required by
the fire codes and other rules that are adopted by the state fire marshal, in
conjunction with a Development.
   B.   Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed to prevent or prohibit
private agreements between property owners or developers, the Idaho
Transportation Department and governmental entities in regard to the
construction or installation of System Improvements or providing for credits or
reimbursements for System Improvements Costs incurred by a Developer including
inter-project transfers of credits or providing for reimbursement for Project
Improvements which are used or shared by more than one (1) Development project.
   C.   Nothing in this Chapter shall obligate the City to approve Development
which results in an Extraordinary Impact.
   D.   Nothing in this Chapter shall obligate the Fire District to approve any
Development request which may reasonably be expected to reduce levels of
service below minimum acceptable levels established in this Chapter.
   E.   Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed to create any additional
right to develop real property or diminish the City in regulating the orderly
development of real property within its boundaries.
   F.   Nothing in this Chapter shall work to limit the use by the City of the
power of eminent domain or supersede or conflict with requirements or
procedures authorized in the Idaho Code for local improvement districts or
general obligation bond issues.
   G.   Nothing herein shall restrict or diminish the power of the City to
annex property into its territorial boundaries or exclude property from its
territorial boundaries upon request of a developer or owner, or to impose
reasonable conditions thereon, including the recovery of Project or System
Improvements Costs required as a result of such voluntary annexation.
   H.   The Fire District shall develop a plan for alternative sources of
revenue, which shall include but not necessarily be limited to plans generated
during the Fire District's annual budget process, lobbying efforts, tax
increment financing, and implementation of user fees, administrative and
regulatory fees and other forms of revenue.
   I.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this Chapter, that portion of a
Project for which a complete application for a Building Permit has been
received by the City, prior to the effective date of this Chapter, shall not be
subject to the Fire District Impact Fee imposed by this Chapter. If the
resulting Building Permit is later revised or replaced after the effective date
of the ordinance codified in this Chapter, and the new Building Permit(s)
reflects a development density, intensity, development size or number of units
more than ten percent (10%) higher than that reflected in the original Building
Permit, then the Fire District Impact Fee may be charged on the difference in
density, intensity, development size or number of units between the original
and the revised or replacement Building Permit.
   J.   Any monies, including any accrued interest not assigned to specific
System Improvements within such Capital Improvements Plan and not expended
pursuant to section
1-18-12 of this Chapter or refunded pursuant to section
1-18-10 of this Chapter shall be retained in the same account until the next
Fire District fiscal year.
   K.   If the Fire District discovers an error in the Capital Improvements
Plan that results in assessment or payment of more than a proportionate share
of System Improvements Costs on any proposed Development, the Fire District
Administrator shall: (1) adjust the Fire District Impact Fee to collect no more
than a proportionate share; or (2) discontinue the collection of any Fire
District Impact Fees until the error is corrected by ordinance.
   L.   If Fire District Impact Fees are calculated and paid based on a mistake
or misrepresentation, they shall be recalculated. Any amounts overpaid by a Fee
Payer shall be refunded by the Fire District within thirty (30) days after the
Fire District's acceptance of the recalculated amount, with interest at the
legal rate provided for in Idaho Code § 28-22-104 from the date on which the
fee was paid. Any amounts underpaid by the Fee Payer shall be paid to the Fire
District within thirty (30) days after the Fire District Administrator's
acceptance of the recalculated amount, with interest at the legal rate provided
for in Idaho Code § 28-22-104 from the date on which the fee was paid. In the
case of an underpayment to the Fire District, the Administrator may request the
City and the City may withhold issuance of the Building Permits or Development
Approval for the project for which the Fire District Impact Fee was paid until
such underpayment is corrected, and if amounts owed to the Fire District are
not paid within such thirty-day (30) period, the Fire District Administrator
may also ask the City to and the City may revoke any Building Permits or
Development Approval issued in reliance on the previous payment of such Fire
District Impact Fee and refund such fee to the Fee Payer.
   M.   The Advisory Committee has been established by the City and has
reviewed and recommended to the City Council the approval of the Capital
Improvements Plan shall continue in existence, and shall by operation of this
chapter. (Ord. 634, 9-16-2020)
1-18-20: PUNISHMENT:
Any person who violates any provision of this Chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, punishable by up to one (1) year in the county jail, and/or a one
thousand dollar ($1,000.00) fine, or both. Knowingly furnishing false
information to any official of the City or the Fire District charged with the
administration of this chapter, including without limitation, the furnishing of
false information regarding the expected size, use or impacts from a proposed
development, shall be a violation of this chapter. (Ord. 634, 9-16-2020)
1-18-21: CONSTRUCTION OF INTENT:
All provisions, terms, phrases and expressions contained in this Chapter shall
be liberally construed in order that the true intent and meaning of the Act and
the City Council and the Board of Commissioners may be fully carried out. (Ord.
634, 9-16-2020)
CHAPTER 19
CALDWELL RURAL FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEES
SECTION:
1-19-1: Short Title, Applicability, Findings And Purpose
1-19-2: Definitions
1-19-3: Imposition Of Fire District Impact Fee
1-19-4:    Collection Of Fire District Impact Fees
1-19-5: Exemptions
1-19-6: Individual Assessment Process
1-19-7: Developer Credits And Reimbursement
1-19-8: Methodology For The Calculation Of Fire District Impact Fees
1-19-9: Extraordinary Impacts
1-19-10: Fee Payer Refunds
1-19-11: Establishment Of Fire District Trust Fund And Trust Accounts
1-19-12: Expenditure Of Fire District Impact Fees
1-19-13: Appeals, Protest And Mediation
1-19-14: Periodic Reviews
1-19-15: Audit
1-19-16: Development Impact Fee Advisory Standing Committee
1-19-17: Enforcement And Collection
1-19-18: City/Fire District Intergovernmental Agreement
1-19-19: Miscellaneous Provisions
1-19-20: Punishment
1-19-21: Construction Of Intent
1-19-1: SHORT TITLE, APPLICABILITY, FINDINGS AND PURPOSE:
   A.   Short title. This Chapter shall be known and may be cited as the
Caldwell Rural Fire District Development Impact Fee Ordinance.
   B.   Authority. This ordinance is enacted pursuant to the City's general
police powers, its authority to enact ordinances, and its authority as provided
by the Idaho Development Impact Fee Act codified at Chapter 82 of Title 67,
Idaho Code (the "Act") and other applicable laws of the state of Idaho to
impose development impact fees; and the City's and the Fire District's
Authority to enter into an Intergovernmental Agreement as provided for in Idaho
Code § 67-8204A to impose, collect and expend development impact fees.
   C.   Applicability. Except as otherwise exempted in section
1-19-5, these provisions shall apply to the Development of property located
within the boundaries of the City of Middleton, Idaho.
   D.   Findings:
      1.   The Caldwell Rural Fire Protection District, (the "Fire District")
is a fire district organized and existing by virtue of the Fire Protection
District Law Chapter 14 of Title 31, Idaho Code, and its boundaries include
areas within the City limits of the City of Middleton (the "City") which are
south of the Boise River; and
      2.   The Fire District's duty and responsibility is to provide protection
of property against fire and the preservation of life, and enforcement of any
of the fire codes and other rules that are adopted by the state fire marshal;
and
      3.   The City is experiencing considerable growth and Development; and
      4.   The purposes of the Act [Idaho Code § 67-8202] are as follows:
         a.   Ensure that adequate public facilities are available to serve new
growth and Development;
         b.   Promote orderly growth and Development by establishing uniform
standards by which local governments, such as the City and the Fire District,
may require those who benefit from new growth and Development pay [development
impact fees] their proportionate share of the costs of new public facilities
needed to serve that new growth and Development; and
         c.   Establish minimum standards for adoption of development impact
fee ordinances by cities; and
         d.   Ensure that those who benefit from new growth and Development are
required to pay no more than their proportionate share of the cost of public
facilities needed to serve that new growth and Development and to prevent
duplicate and ad hoc development requirements; and
         e.   To empower cities to adopt ordinances to impose development
impact fees.
      5.   The Act:
         a.   Does not authorize the Fire District to enact a development
impact fee ordinance; and
         b.   does provide, pursuant to Idaho Code § 67-8204A, in circumstances
where the City and the Fire District are both affected by the considerable
growth and Development as is occurring within the City, that the City and the
Fire District may enter into the Intergovernmental Agreement for the purpose of
agreeing to collect and expend development impact fees for System Improvements
which provides for a new funding mechanism for those System Improvements Costs
incurred by the Fire District to meet the demand and growth occurring within
the City and which promotes and accommodates orderly growth and development and
protects the public health, safety and general welfare of the residences within
the boundaries of the City.
      6.   New residential growth within the City and within the boundaries of
the Fire District imposes and will impose increasing and excessive demands upon
the existing Fire District Capital Facilities.
      7.   The tax revenues generated from new residential Development within
the City and within the boundaries of the Fire District often do not generate
sufficient funds to provide the necessary improvements and expansion of
existing Fire District Capital Facilities to accommodate for that new growth.
      8.   New growth within the City and within the boundaries of the Fire
District is expected to continue, and will place ever-increasing demands on the
Fire District to provide and expand the Fire District's Capital Facilities to
serve that new growth.
      9.   Section 67-8204A of the Act authorizes the City to adopt an impact
fee system and to enter into the Intergovernmental Agreement with the Fire
District to offset, recoup, or reimburse the portion of the costs of needed
improvements to the Fire District Capital Facilities caused by new growth and
Development in the City and within the boundaries of the Fire District.
      10.   The creation of an equitable impact fee system facilitated by the
Intergovernmental Agreement with the Fire District, will promote the purposes
set forth in the Act, in that it would: (a) ensure that adequate Fire District
Capital Facilities are available to serve new growth and Development; (b)
promote orderly growth and Development by establishing uniform standards by
which the City may require that those who benefit from new growth and
Development pay a proportionate share of the cost of new Fire District Capital
Facilities needed to serve new growth and Development in the City and within
the boundaries of the Fire District; (c) establish minimum standards for the
adoption of Fire District Impact Fees; (d) ensure that those who benefit from
new growth and development are required to pay no more than their proportionate
share of the cost of Fire District Capital Facilities needed to serve new
growth and Development in the City and within the boundaries of the Fire
District; and (e) prevent duplicate and ad hoc Development requirements in the
City.
      11.   The City has formed the Advisory Committee as required by Idaho
Code § 67-8205, and the Committee has performed the duties required of it
pursuant to Idaho Code §§ 67-8205 and 67-8206(2). The City and the Fire
District intend that the Committee will continue to exist and perform those
duties identified in Idaho Code § 67-8205 that occur following the adoption of
this Caldwell Rural Fire Protection District Development Impact Fee Ordinance.
      12.   The Fire District has planned for the improvement of Fire District
Capital Facilities in the Capital Improvements Plan.
      13.   The creation of an equitable impact fee system would enable the
City to accommodate new development, and would assist the Fire District to
implement the capital improvements element of the Capital Improvements Plan.
      14.   In order to implement an equitable impact fee system for the Fire
District's fire prevention and life preservation facilities, the City adopted
by resolution and the Fire District adopted by resolution the Caldwell Rural
Fire Protection District Impact Fee Study and Capital Improvements Plan (the
"Capital Improvements Plan"). Galena Consulting was hired by the Fire District
to assist the Advisory Committee in the preparation of the Study.
      15.   The methodology used in the Capital Improvements Plan, as applied
through this Chapter, complies with all applicable provisions of Idaho law,
including those set forth in Idaho Code §§ 67-8204(1), (2), (16) and (23), 67-
8207 and 67-8209. The incorporation of the Capital Improvements Plan by
reference satisfies the requirement in Idaho Code § 67-8204(16) for a detailed
description of the methodology by which the Fire District Impact Fees were
calculated, and the requirement in Idaho Code § 67-8204(24) for a description
of acceptable levels of service for Fire District System Improvements.
      16.   In determining the proportionate share of System Improvements
Costs, the Capital Improvements Plan has considered: (a) the cost of the
existing System Improvements; (b) the means by which the existing System
Improvements have been financed; (c) the extent to which the new Development
will contribute to System Improvements Costs through taxation, assessment, or
developer or landowner contributions, or has previously contributed to System
Improvements Costs through developer or landowner contributions; (d) the extent
to which the new Development is required to contribute to System Improvements
Costs in the future; (e) the extent to which the new Development should be
credited for providing System Improvements, without charge to other properties
within the Service Area or areas; (f) Extraordinary Costs, if any, incurred in
serving the new Development; (g) the time and price differential inherent in a
fair comparison of fees paid at different times; and (h) the availability of
other sources of funding System Improvements including, but not limited to,
user charges, general tax levies, intergovernmental transfers, and special
taxation and includes a plan for alternative sources of revenue.
      17.   The Capital Improvements Plan contains the Capital Improvements
planned by the Fire District during the term of the Capital Improvements Plan,
and such element has been developed in conformance with the requirements in
Chapter 82 of Title 67, Idaho Code.
      18.   The Capital Improvements Plan sets forth reasonable methodologies
and analyses for determining the impacts of various types of new Development on
the Fire District Capital Facilities, and determines the cost of acquiring or
constructing the improvements necessary to meet the demands for such facilities
created by new Development.
      19.   In accordance with Idaho Code, the Capital Improvements Plan was
based on actual System Improvements Costs or reasonable estimates of such
costs. In addition, the Capital Improvements Plan uses a fee calculation
methodology that is net of credits for the present value of revenues that will
be generated by new growth and Development based on historical funding patterns
and that are anticipated to be available to pay for System Improvements,
including taxes, assessments, user fees, and intergovernmental transfers.
      20.   The Fire District Impact Fees established by this Chapter are based
on the Capital Improvements Plan, and do not exceed System Improvements Costs
to serve new Development that will pay the Fire District Impact Fees.
      21.   The Fire District Capital Facilities included in the calculation of
fees in the Capital Improvements Plan will benefit all new residential
Development throughout the City which is also within the boundaries of the Fire
District, and it is therefore appropriate to treat all areas of the City that
are also within the boundaries of the Fire District as a single Service Area
for purposes of calculating, collecting, and spending the Fire District Impact
Fees collected from Developers.
      22.   There is both a rational nexus and a rough proportionality between
Development impacts created by each type of Development covered by this
Chapter, the development impact fees assessment of such Development covered by
this Chapter, and the development impact fees that such Developer will be
required to pay.
      23.   This Chapter creates a system by which development impact fees paid
by Developers will be used to finance, defray, or reimburse a portion of the
costs incurred by the Fire District to construct and/or purchase System
Improvements in ways that benefit the Development for which each development
impact fee was paid within a reasonable period of time after the development
impact fee is paid, and in conformance with Idaho Code § 67-8210.
      24.   This Chapter creates a system under which development impact fees
shall not be used to correct existing deficiencies for any Fire District
Capital Facilities, or to replace or rehabilitate existing Fire District
Capital Facilities, or to pay for routine operation or maintenance of those
facilities.
      25.   This Chapter creates a system under which there shall be no double
payment of development impact fees, in accordance with Idaho Code § 67-8204
(19).
      26.   This Chapter is consistent with all applicable provisions of the
Act concerning development impact fee ordinances.
   E.   Purpose.
      1.   This Chapter is adopted to be consistent with, and to help implement
the Capital Improvements Plan.
      2.   The intent of this Chapter is to ensure that new residential
development bears a proportionate share of the cost of System Improvements; to
ensure that such proportionate share does not exceed the cost of such System
Improvements required to accommodate new Development; and to ensure that funds
collected from new Development are actually used for System Improvements in
accordance with the Act.
      3.   It is the further intent of this Chapter to be consistent with those
principles for allocating a fair share of the cost of System Improvements to
new Development, and for adopting development impact fee ordinances,
established by the Act.
      4.   It is not the intent of this Chapter to collect any money from any
new Development in excess of the actual amount necessary to offset new demands
for System Improvements created by such new Development.
      5.   It is the intent of this Chapter that any monies collected, as an
imposed Fire District Impact Fee, are deposited in the Trust Accounts of the
Trust Fund, are never commingled with monies from a different impact fee
account, are never used for a development impact fee component different from
that for which the fee was paid, are never used to correct current deficiencies
in the Fire District Capital Facilities, and are never used to replace,
rehabilitate, maintain or operate any Fire District Capital Facilities. (Ord.
635, 9-16-2020)
1-19-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter, the following words and terms shall have the following
meanings, unless another meaning is plainly intended and words and terms
appearing in the singular number includes the plural and the plural the
singular:
ACT:                                      The Idaho Development Impact Fee Act as set forth in Chapter 82 of Title 67, Idaho
                                          Code.
                                          The City of Middleton Development Impact Fee Advisory Standing Committee formed and
ADVISORY COMMITTEE:                       staffed by the City pursuant to Idaho Code § 67-8205 to prepare and recommend the
                                          Capital Improvements Plan and any amendments, revisions or updates of the same.
APPROPRIATE:                              To legally obligate by contract or otherwise commit to the expenditure of funds by
                                          appropriation or other official act of the Board of Commissioners.
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS:                   The Board of Commissioners of the Caldwell Rural Fire Protection District, which is
                                          its governing board.
                                          The permit required for foundations, new construction and additions pursuant to
BUILDING PERMIT:                          Middleton City Code §
                                          4-1-1.
                                          Improvements with a useful life of ten (10) years or more, by new construction or
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS:                     other action, which increases the service capacity of Fire District Capital
                                          Facilities.
                                          A component of the Capital Improvements Plan identified as Exhibit III-2 Caldwell
                                          Rural Fire Protection District CIP adopted by the Fire District and the City
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS ELEMENT:             pursuant to Chapters 65 and 82 of Title 67, Idaho Code, and as amended, which
                                          component meets the requirements of the capital improvements plan required by the
                                          Act.
                                          The Caldwell Rural Fire Protection District Impact Fee Study and Capital
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS PLAN:                Improvements Plan recommended by the Advisory Committee and adopted by the Fire
                                          District and the City pursuant to the Act that identifies Fire District Capital
                                          Facilities for which Fire District Impact Fees may be used as a funding source.
CITY:                                     The City of Middleton.
CITY COUNCIL:                             The City Council of the City of Middleton.
                                          Any person or legal entity undertaking development including a Development that
DEVELOPER:                                seeks an annexation into the City and/or undertakes the subdivision of property
                                          pursuant to Idaho Code §§ 50-1301 through 50-1334, as amended.
                                          Any construction or installation of a building or structure, or any change in use of
                                          a building or structure, or any change in the use, character or appearance of land,
DEVELOPMENT:                              which creates additional demand and need for public facilities or the annexation
                                          into the City and/or subdivision of property that would permit any change in the
                                          use, character or appearance of land.
DEVELOPMENT APPROVAL:                     Any written duly authorized document from the City which authorizes the commencement
                                          of a Development.
                                          A requirement attached to a developmental approval or other city governmental action
DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENT:                  approving or authorizing a particular Development project including, but not limited
                                          to, a rezoning, which requirement compels the payment, dedication or contribution of
                                          goods, services, land or money as condition of approval.
EXTRAORDINARY COSTS:                      Those costs incurred as result of an extraordinary impact.
                                          An impact which is reasonably determined by the Fire District to:
                                             1.   Result in the need for Fire District system improvements, the cost of which
                                          will significantly exceed the sum of the development impact fees to be generated
EXTRAORDINARY IMPACT:                     from the project or the sum agreed to be paid pursuant to a development agreement as
                                          allowed by Idaho Code § 67-8214(2), as amended; or
                                             2.   Result in the need for Fire District system improvements which are not
                                          identified in the capital improvements plan.
FEE PAYER:                                The person who pays or is required to pay a Fire District Impact Fee. A fee payer
                                          may include a developer.
FIRE DISTRICT:                            The Caldwell Rural Fire Protection District, a fire district organized and existing
                                          by virtue of the Fire Protection District Law, Chapter 14 of Title 31, Idaho Code.
FIRE DISTRICT ADMINISTRATOR:              The Fire District Administrator of the Fire District or their designee.
                                          Fire District stations and equipment which is identified in Exhibit III-2 of the
FIRE DISTRICT CAPITAL FACILITIES:         Capital Improvements Plan, and specifically including those related costs including
                                          System Improvements Costs, but not including maintenance, operations, or
                                          improvements that do not expand their capacity.
FIRE DISTRICT DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEE      The Fire District Trust Fund established by action of the Board of Commissioners of
CAPITAL PROJECTS TRUST FUND (the “TRUST the Fire District and pursuant to section
FUND”):                                 1-19-11 of this Chapter and pursuant to Idaho Code § 67-8210(1) into which all Fire
                                          District Impact Fees shall be deposited and maintained by the Fire District.
                                          A payment of money imposed as condition of Development Approval to pay for a
                                          proportionate share of the costs of System Improvements needed to serve the
                                          Development. The term does not include the following:
                                             1.   A charge or fee to pay the administrative plan review, or inspection cost
                                          associated with permits required for Development;
                                             2.   Connection or hookup charges;
FIRE DISTRICT IMPACT FEE:                    3.   Availability charges for drainage, sewer, water or transportation charges
                                          for services provided directly to the development; or
                                             4.   Amounts collected from a Developer in a transaction in which the Fire
                                          District has incurred expenses in constructing Capital Improvements for the
                                          Development if the owner or developer has agreed to be financially responsible for
                                          the construction or installation of those Capital Improvements, unless a written
                                          agreement is made, pursuant to Idaho Code § 67-8209(3) as amended, for credit or
                                          reimbursement.
                                          The City of Middleton/Caldwell Rural Fire Protection District Intergovernmental
                                          Agreement to Collect and Expend Development Impact Fees For Fire District Systems
INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT:              Improvements entered into by and between the City and the Fire District pursuant to
                                          Idaho Code § 67-8204A for the collection and expenditure of Fire District Impact
                                          Fees established pursuant to this Chapter.
LAND USE ASSUMPTIONS:                     A description of the service area and projections of land uses, densities,
                                          intensities and population in the service area over at least a ten (10) year period.
LEVEL OF SERVICE:                         A measure of the relationship between service capacity and service demand for Public
                                          Facilities.
                                          A structure, constructed according to HUD/FHA mobile home construction and safety
                                          standards, transportable in one (1) or more sections, which, in the traveling mode,
                                          is eight (8) feet or more in width or is forty (40) body feet or more in length, or
                                          when erected on site, is three hundred twenty (320) or more square feet, and which
                                          is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or
MANUFACTURED/ MOBILE HOME:                without a permanent foundation when connected to required utilities, and includes
                                          the plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical systems contained in such
                                          structure, except that such term shall include any structure which meets all the
                                          requirements of this subsection except the size requirements and with respect to
                                          which the manufacturer voluntarily files a certification required by the secretary
                                          of housing and urban development and complies with the standards established under
                                          42 U.S.C. §§ 5401 et seq.
                                          Any building or building component other than a manufactured/mobile home, which is
MODULAR BUILDING:                         constructed according to the International Building Code, as adopted or any
                                          amendments thereto, which is of closed construction and is either entirely or
                                          substantially prefabricated or assembled at a place other than the building site.
PRESENT VALUE:                            The total current monetary value of past, present or future payments, contributions
                                          or dedications of goods, services, materials, construction or money.
PROJECT:                                  A particular development on an identified parcel of land.
                                          In contrast to System Improvements, shall mean site improvements and facilities that
PROJECT IMPROVEMENTS:                     are planned and designed to provide service for a particular Development Project and
                                          that are necessary for the use and convenience of the occupants or users of the
                                          Project.
PROPORTIONATE SHARE:                      That portion of system improvements costs determined pursuant to Idaho Code § 67-
                                          8207 which reasonably relates to the service demands and needs of the Project.
                                          Land, buildings and equipment used for fire protection, emergency medical and
PUBLIC FACILITIES:                        rescue, and water supply production, storage and distribution facilities which have
                                          a useful life of ten (10) years or more.
                                          A vehicular type unit primarily designed as temporary quarters for recreational,
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE:                     camping, or travel use, which either has its own motive power or is mounted on or
                                          drawn by another vehicle.
SERVICE AREA:                             Any defined geographic area defined by the Capital Improvements Plan.
                                          A standardized measure of consumption, use, generation or discharge attributable to
                                          an individual unit of development calculated in accordance with generally accepted
SERVICE UNIT:                             engineering or planning standards for a particular category of capital improvements.
                                          As specifically used in this chapter, service units include all dwelling units
                                          intended for residential use development.
                                          In contrast to Project Improvements, shall mean Capital Improvements to public
SYSTEM IMPROVEMENTS:                      facilities which are designed to provide service to a service area. For the purpose
                                          of this chapter, system improvements are for fire district capital facilities.
                                          Costs incurred for construction or reconstruction of System Improvements, including
                                          design, acquisition, engineering and other costs, and also including, without
                                          limitation, the type of costs described in Idaho Code § 50-1702(h), as amended, to
                                          provide additional Public Facilities needed to service new growth and Development.
                                          For clarification, System Improvements Costs do not include:
                                             1.   Construction, acquisition or expansion of Public Facilities other than
                                          Capital Improvements identified in the Capital Improvements Plan;
                                             2.   Improvements, repair, operation or maintenance of existing or new capital;
                                             3.   Upgrading, updating, expanding or replacing existing Capital Improvements to
SYSTEM IMPROVEMENTS COSTS:                serve existing Development in order to meet stricter safety, efficiency,
                                          environmental or regulatory standards;
                                             4.   Upgrading, updating, expanding or replacing existing Capital Improvements to
                                          provide better service to existing Development;
                                             5.   Administrative and operating costs of the Fire District and/or the City
                                          unless such costs are attributable to Development of the Capital Improvements Plan,
                                          as provided in Idaho Code § 67-8208, as amended; and
                                             6.   Principal payments and interest or other finance charges on bonds or other
                                          indebtedness except financial obligations issued by or on behalf of the Fire
                                          District to finance Capital Improvements identified in the Capital Improvements
                                          Plan.
                                          Any of one or more interest bearing accounts within the Fire District Development
TRUST ACCOUNTS:                        Impact Fee Capital Projects Trust Fund established in section
                                          1-19-11 of this Chapter. (Ord. 635, 9-16-2020)
 
1-19-3: IMPOSITION OF FIRE DISTRICT IMPACT FEE:
   A.   Imposition of Impact Fee. A Fire District Impact Fee is hereby imposed
on all new Development in the area of the City that is also within the
boundaries of the Fire District.
   B.   Fee Schedule. Fire District Impact Fees shall be calculated in
accordance with the fee schedule which is set forth in the Capital Improvements
Plan providing for standard fees based on the total number of dwelling units or
square feet of nonresidential space in the Development, unless (1) the Fee
Payer requests an individual assessment pursuant to section
1-19-6  of this Chapter; or (2) the City and the Fire District find the
Development will have an Extraordinary Impact pursuant to section 1-19-9 of
this Chapter. The methodology for determining the costs per service unit
provided for in the fee schedule is set forth in the Capital Improvements Plan.
   C.   Impact Fee Schedule: The schedule of development impact fees for the
various land uses per unit of development are herein set forth as follows:
 
Residential (per Single Family per Housing Unit) $665.00
Residential (Multi-Family per Housing Unit)      $665.00
Non-Residential (per square foot)                $ 0.33
 
   D.   Developer’s Election. A Developer shall have the right to elect to pay
a project’s proportionate share of System Improvements Costs by payment of Fire
District Impact Fee according to the fee schedule as full and complete payment
of the Development project’s proportionate share of System Improvements Costs,
except as provided in Idaho Code § 67-8214(3), as amended.
   E.   Procedures:
      1.   Building Permit. Upon submittal of complete building permit plans
for the Development to the City, the City shall calculate the Fire District
Impact Fee for the Development within thirty (30) days of submittal unless the
Fee Payer requests an individual assessment or the City determines that the
Development may have Extraordinary Impact.
      2.   Exemption. An exemption pursuant to section
1-19-5 A of this Chapter must be claimed by the Fee Payer upon application for
a Building Permit or manufactured home installation permit. Any exemption not
so claimed shall be deemed waived by the Fee Payer. (Ord. 635, 9-16-2020; amd.
Ord. 683, 11-13-2023)
1-19-4: COLLECTION OF FIRE DISTRICT IMPACT FEES:
   A.   Certification. After the Fire District Impact Fee due for a proposed
Development has been calculated by the City pursuant to the fee schedule
attached to the Capital Improvements Plan or by the Fire District Administrator
using the individual assessment process, the Fee Payer may request from the
City or the Fire District Administrator a certification of the amount of Fire
District Impact Fee due for that Development. Within thirty (30) days after
receiving such request, the City or the Fire District Administrator shall issue
a written certification of the amount of the Fire District Impact Fee due for
the proposed Development. Such certification shall establish the Fire District
Impact Fee so long as there is no material change to the particular Development
as identified in the individual assessment application, or the impact fee
schedule attached to the Capital Improvements Plan. The certification shall
include an explanation of the calculation of the Fire District Impact Fee
including an explanation of factors considered under Idaho Code § 67-8207 and
shall also specify the System Improvement(s) for which the Fire District Impact
Fee is intended to be used. If the Impact Fee is calculated by the City
pursuant to the fee schedule, the City shall provide the certification to the
Fee Payer and the Fire District Administrator. If the Impact Fee is determined
by the Fire District Administrator following an individual assessment of the
fee, the Fire District Administrator shall provide the certification to the Fee
Payer and the City.
   B.   Payment of Fees. The Fire District Impact Fee shall be paid either to
the City or to the Fire District at the following times:
      1.   If a Building Permit or manufactured/mobile home installation permit
is required, then at the time before the permit is issued;
      2.   If no Building Permit or manufactured/mobile home installation
permit is required, then at the time that construction commences; or
      3.   At such other time as the Developer and the Fire District have
agreed upon in writing with notice to the City.
   C.   In the event a Fire District Impact Fee is paid to the Fire District,
then the Fire District Administrator shall immediately notify the City of said
payment.
   D.   All Fire District Impact Fees paid to the City shall then be delivered
to the Fire District Administrator on a once-a-month basis. (Ord. 635, 9-16-
2020)
1-19-5: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Exemptions. The provisions of this Chapter shall not apply to the
following:
      1.   Rebuilding the same amount of floor space of a structure which is
destroyed by fire or other catastrophe, provided the structure is rebuilt and
ready for occupancy within two (2) years of its destruction;
      2.   Remodeling or repairing a structure which does not increase the
number of service units;
      3.   Replacing a residential unit, including a manufactured/mobile home,
with another residential unit on the same lot; provided that, the number of
service units does not increase;
      4.   Placing a temporary construction trailer or office on a lot;
      5.   Constructing an addition on a residential structure which does not
increase the number of service units;
      6.   Adding uses that are typically accessory to residential uses, such
as tennis court or a clubhouse, unless it can be clearly demonstrated that the
use creates a significant impact on the capacity of System Improvements; or
      7.   The installation of a modular building, manufactured/mobile home or
recreational vehicle if the Fee Payer can demonstrate by documentation such as
utility bills and tax records that either: (a) a modular building,
manufactured/mobile home or recreational vehicle was legally in place on the
lot or space prior to the effective date of this Chapter; or (b) a Fire
District Impact Fee has been paid previously for the modular building,
manufactured/mobile home or recreational vehicle on that same lot or space.
   B.   Exemption Claim Process: An exemption from a Fire District Impact Fee
must be claimed on the Application by the Developer (Fee Payer) upon submitting
their application for a Building Permit or manufactured home installation
permit. Any exemption not so claimed shall be deemed waived by the Fee Payer.
Applications for exemption shall be determined by the City within ninety (90)
days of receipt of the claim for exemption. (Ord. 635, 9-16-2020)
1-19-6: INDIVIDUAL ASSESSMENT PROCESS:
   A.   In lieu of calculating the amount of the Fire District Impact Fee using
the impact fee schedules in MCC §
1-20-1 of this title, an individual assessment of Impact Fees is permitted.
      1.   Individual Assessment Process. A Fee Payer may file a written
request for an individual assessment of the Development by the Administrator
prior to the receipt of a building permit or other necessary approvals or
entitlements from the City. A request for an individual assessment process
shall involve consideration of studies, data, and any other relevant
information submitted by the Fee Payer to adjust the amount of the Fire
District Impact Fee.
      2.   Each individual assessment request and supporting documentation
submitted by the Fee Payer shall be based on the same level of service
standards and unit costs for System Improvements used in the applicable Capital
Improvements Plan, shall use an average cost (not a marginal cost) methodology,
and shall document the relevant methodologies and assumptions used.
      3.   Each individual assessment request delivered to the Administrator
may then be accepted, rejected, or accepted with modifications by the
Administrator as the basis for calculating the Fire District Impact Fee. The
criteria for acceptance, rejection or acceptance with modifications shall be
whether the individual assessment is a more accurate measure of demand for
System Improvements element(s) created by the proposed Development, or the
costs of those facilities, than the applicable fee shown in the fee schedule,
based on the standards in Section 67-8207, Idaho Code.
      4.    The Administrator shall issue a written decision within thirty (30)
days following receipt of a completed request for individual assessment
together with all supporting information from the Fee Payer, so as not to
unreasonably delay the Developer's (Fee Payer's) subsequent applications to the
City for Building Permits.
      5.   The decision by the Administrator on an application for an
individual assessment shall include an explanation of the calculation of the
Fire District Impact Fee, shall specify the System Improvement(s) for which the
Fire District Impact Fee is intended to be used, and shall include an
explanation of those factors identified in Idaho Code § 67 8207.
      6.   If an individual assessment is accepted or accepted with
modifications by the Administrator then the Fire District Impact Fee due under
this Article for such Development shall be calculated according to such
individual assessment.
      7.   The Fire District Administrator shall provide notice of final
determination of an individual assessment to the Developer (Fee Payer) and the
City. (Ord. 635, 9-16-2020)
1-19-7: DEVELOPER CREDITS AND REIMBURSEMENT:
   A.   Credits to be Issued. When a Developer or their predecessor in title or
interest has constructed System Improvements of the same category as a Fire
District Capital Improvements Element, or contributed or dedicated land or
money towards the completion of System Improvements of the same category as a
Fire District Capital Improvements Element, and the Fire District has accepted
such construction, contribution or dedication, the Fire District shall issue a
credit against the Fire District Impact Fees otherwise due for the same Fire
District Capital Improvements Element in connection with the proposed
Development, as set forth in this section, credit shall be issued regardless of
whether the contribution or dedication to System Improvements was required by
the Fire District as a condition of Development Approval or was offered by the
Developer and accepted by the Fire District in writing, and regardless of
whether the contribution or dedication was contributed by the Developer or by a
local improvement district controlled by the Developer.
   B.   Limitations. Credits against a Fire District Impact Fee shall not be
given for: (a) Project Improvements; or (b) any construction, contribution or
dedication not agreed to in writing by the Fire District prior to commencement
of the construction, contribution, or dedication. Credits issued for one Fire
District Capital Improvements Element may not be used to reduce Fire District
Impact Fees due for a different capital improvement. No credits shall be issued
for System Improvements contributed or dedicated prior to the effective date of
this Chapter. Prior contributions may only be taken into account pursuant to an
individual assessment.
   C.   Valuation of Credit at Present Value:
      1.   Land. Credit for qualifying land dedications shall, at the Fee
Payer's option, be valued at the present value of: (a) one hundred percent
(100%) of the most recent assessed value for such land as shown in the records
of the county assessor; or (b) that fair market value established by a private
appraiser acceptable to the Fire District in an appraisal paid for by the Fee
Payer.
      2.   Improvements. Credit for qualifying acquisition or construction of
System Improvements shall be valued by the Fire District at the present value
of such improvements based on complete engineering drawings, specifications,
and construction cost estimates submitted by the Fee Payer to the Fire
District. The Fire District Administrator shall determine the amount of credit
due based on the information submitted, or, if it determines that such
information is inaccurate or unreliable, then on alternative engineering or
construction costs acceptable to the Fire District as a more accurate measure
of the value of the offered System Improvements to the Fire District.
   D.   When Credits Become Effective:
      1.   Land. Approved credits for land dedications shall become effective
when the land has been conveyed to the Fire District in a form acceptable to
the Fire District, at no cost to the Fire District, and has been accepted by
the Fire District. Upon request of the Fee Payer, the Fire District shall issue
a letter stating the amount of credit available.
      2.   Improvements. Approved credits for acquisition or construction of
System Improvements shall generally become effective when (a) all required
construction has been completed and has been accepted by the Fire District, (b)
a suitable maintenance and warranty bond has been received and approved by the
Fire District, and (c) all design, construction, inspection, testing, bonding,
and acceptance procedures have been completed in compliance with all applicable
requirements of the Fire District and the state of Idaho. Upon request of the
Fee Payer, the Fire District shall issue a letter stating the amount of credit
available.
   E.   Credit Request Procedures:
      1.   Request. In order to obtain a credit against a Fire District Impact
Fee otherwise due, a Fee Payer shall submit to the City a written offer of
request to dedicate to the Fire District specific parcels of qualifying land or
a written offer to contribute or construct specific System Improvements to the
Fire District Capital Facilities in accordance with all applicable State or
City design and construction standards, and shall specifically request a credit
against the type of Fire District Impact Fee for which the land dedication or
System Improvements is offered. The City shall then deliver the written offer
of request to the Fire District Administrator.
      2.   Review. After receipt of the written offer of request for credit,
the Fire District Administrator shall review the request and determine whether
the land or System Improvements offered for credit will reduce the costs of
providing Fire District Capital Facilities by an amount at least equal to the
value of the credit. If the Fire District Administrator determines that the
offered credit satisfies that criteria and will be acceptable to the Board of
Commissioners, then the credit shall be issued. The Fire District shall
complete its review and determination of an application within thirty (30) days
after receipt of an application for credit.
      3.   Credits Exceeding Fee Amounts Due. If the credit due to a Fee Payer
pursuant to subsection
1-19-7D of this Chapter exceeds the Fire District Impact Fee that would
otherwise be due from the Fee Payer pursuant to this Chapter (whether
calculated through the fee schedule attached to the Capital Improvement Plan or
through an individual assessment), the Fee Payer may choose to receive such
credit in the form of either: (a) a credit against future Fire District Impact
Fee due for the same System Improvements; or (b) a reimbursement from Fire
District Impact Fees paid by future Development that impacts the System
Improvements contributed or dedicated by the Fee Payer. Unless otherwise stated
in an agreement with the Fee Payer, the Fire District shall be under no
obligation to use any Fire District funds - other than Fire District Impact
Fees paid by other Development for the same System Improvements - to reimburse
the Fee Payer for any credit in excess of Fire District Impact Fees that are
due.
      4.   Written Agreement Required. If credit or reimbursement is due to the
Fee Payer pursuant to this section, the Fire District shall enter into a
written agreement with the Fee Payer, negotiated in good faith, prior to the
contribution, dedication, or funding of the System Improvements giving rise to
the credit. The agreement shall provide for the amount of credit or the amount,
time and form of reimbursement, and shall have a term not exceeding ten (10)
years.
      5.   The Fire District Administrator's determination on the written offer
of request for credit shall be provided to the Fee Payer and the City. (Ord.
635, 9-16-2020)
1-19-8: METHODOLOGY FOR THE CALCULATION OF FIRE DISTRICT IMPACT FEES:
   A.   General Provisions.
      1.   Accounting Principles. The calculation of the Fire District Impact
Fee shall be in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A
development impact fee shall not be deemed invalid because payment of the fee
may result in an incidental benefit to owners or Developers within the service
area other than the Fee Payer.
      2.   Levels of Service. The Fire District Impact Fee shall be calculated
on the basis of levels of service for Public Facilities adopted in this Chapter
that are applicable to existing Development as well as new growth and
Development. The construction, improvement, expansion or enlargement of new or
existing Public Facilities for which the Fire District Impact Fee is imposed
must be attributable to the capacity demands generated by the new Development.
   B.   Methodology; Proportionate Methodology. The Fire District Impact Fee
shall not exceed a proportionate share of the cost of the System Improvements
determined in accordance with Idaho Code § 67-8207, as amended. Fire District
Impact Fees shall be based on actual System Improvements Costs or reasonable
estimates of such costs. The amount of the Fire District Impact Fee shall be
calculated using the methodology contained in the Capital Improvements Plan.
   C.   Proportionate Share Determination.
      1.   Fire District Impact Fee shall be based on a reasonable and fair
formula or method under which the Fire District Impact Fee imposed does not
exceed a proportionate share of the costs incurred or to be incurred by the
Fire District in the provision of System Improvements to serve the new
Development. The proportionate share is the costs attributable to the new
Development after the Fire District considers the following:
         a.   Any appropriate credit, offset or contribution of money,
dedication of land or construction of System Improvements;
         b.   Payments reasonably anticipated to be made by or as a result of a
new Development in the form of user fees and debt service payments;
         c.   That portion of general tax or other revenues allocated by the
Fire District to System Improvements; and
         d.   All other available sources of funding such System Improvements.
      2.   In determining the proportionate share of the cost of System
Improvements to be paid by the Developer, the following factors shall be
considered by the Fire District and accounted for in the calculation of the
Fire District Impact Fee:
         a.   The costs of existing System Improvements within the Service
area;
         b.   The means by which existing System Improvements have been
financed;
         c.   The extent to which the new Development will contribute to System
Improvements Costs through taxation, assessments, or developer or landowner
contributions, or has previously contributed to System Improvements Costs
through Developer or landowner contributions;
         d.   The extent to which the new development is required to contribute
to the cost of existing System Improvements in the future;
         e.   The extent to which the new Development should be credited for
providing System Improvements, without charge to other properties within the
Service Area;
         f.   Extraordinary costs, if any, incurred in serving the new
Development;
         g.   The time and price differential inherent in a fair comparison of
fees paid at different times; and
         h.   The availability of other sources of funding System Improvements
including, but not limited to, user charges, general tax levies,
intergovernmental transfers and special taxation. (Ord. 635, 9-16-2020)
1-19-9: EXTRAORDINARY IMPACTS:
   A.   In the event the City makes an initial determination that Development
may impose Extraordinary Impact, the City shall provide the Development
application to the Fire District Administrator along with the City's initial
determination. The Fire District Administrator shall then review and determine
whether or not the Development application will impose Extraordinary Impact.
   B.   If the Fire District Administrator determines that a proposed
Development generates Extraordinary Impact that will result in extraordinary
Systems Improvements Costs, the Fire District Administrator will notify the Fee
Payer and the City of such Fire District Impact Fee determination within thirty
(30) days after Fire District Administrator's receipt from the City of the
Development Application and the City's initial determination. Such notice shall
include a statement that the potential impacts of such Development on System
Improvements are not adequately addressed by the Capital Improvements Plan, and
that a supplemental study, at the Fee Payer's expense will be required.
   C.   Circumstances that may lead to a determination of Extraordinary Impact
include, but are not limited to: (1) an indication the assumptions used in the
Capital Improvements Plan underestimate the level of activity or impact on Fire
District Capital Facilities from the proposed Development or activity.
   D.   Within thirty (30) days following the designation of a Development with
Extraordinary Impact, the Fire District Administrator shall meet with the Fee
Payer to discuss whether the Fee Payer wants to:
      1.   Pay for the supplemental study necessary to determine the System
Improvements Costs related to the proposed Development;
      2.   Modify the proposal to avoid generating Extraordinary Impact; or
      3.   Withdraw the application for certification, Building Permit or
Development approval.
   E.   If the fee payer agrees to pay for the supplemental study required to
document the proposed development's proportionate share of system improvements
costs, then the fire district and the fee payer shall jointly select an
individual or organization acceptable to both to perform such study. The fee
payer shall enter into a written agreement with such individual or organization
to pay the costs of such study. Such agreement shall require the supplemental
study to be completed within thirty (30) days of such written agreement, unless
the fee payer agrees to a longer time.
   F.   Once the study has been completed, the fee payer may choose to: (1) pay
the proportionate share of system improvements costs documented by the
supplemental study; or (2) modify the proposed development to reduce such
costs; or (3) withdraw the application. If the fee payer agrees to pay the
system improvements costs documented in the supplemental study, that agreement
shall be reduced to writing between the Fire District and the fee payer prior
to review and consideration of any application for any development approval or
building permit related to the proposed development.
   G.   Notwithstanding any agreement by the fee payer to pay the proportionate
share of system improvements costs documented by the supplemental study,
nothing in this ordinance shall obligate the city to approve development that
results in an extraordinary impact to the Fire District. (Ord. 635, 9-16-2020)
1-19-10: FEE PAYER REFUNDS:
   A.   Duty to Refund:
      1.   Fire District impact fees shall be refunded to the fee payer, or to
a successor in interest, in the following circumstances:
         a.   Service is available but never provided;
         b.   A building permit, or permit for installation of a manufactured
home, is denied by the city or abandoned;
         c.   The fee payer pays a Fire District impact fee under protest and a
subsequent review of the fee paid or the completion of an individual assessment
determines that the fee paid exceeded the proportionate share to which the Fire
District was entitled to receive;
         d.   The Fire District has collected a Fire District Impact Fee and
the Fire District has failed to appropriate or expend the collected fees
pursuant to section below; or
         e.   Failure of the Fire District to commence construction or encumber
the fund in the Fire District Development Impact Fee Capital Projects Trust
Fund.
      2.   Any Fire District Impact Fee paid shall be refunded if the Fire
District has failed to commence construction of System Improvements in
accordance with this Chapter, or to appropriate funds for such construction,
within eight (8) years after the date on which such fee was collected by the
Fire District. Any refund due shall be paid to the owner of record of the
parcel for which the Fire District Impact Fee was paid. The Fire District may
hold Fire District Impact Fees for longer than eight (8) years if the Fire
District identifies in writing and in written notice to the owner of record of
the parcel: (a) a reasonable cause why the fees should be held longer than
eight (8) years; and (b) an anticipated date by which the fees will be
expended, but in no event greater than eleven (11) years from the date they
were collected. If the Fire District complies with the previous sentence, then
any Fire District Impact Fees so identified shall be refunded to the fee payer
if the Fire District has failed to commence construction of system improvements
in accordance with the written notice, or to appropriate funds for such
construction on or before the date identified in such writing.
      3.   No refund due for subsequent reduction in size of development or
service units. After a Fire District impact fee has been paid pursuant to this
chapter and after a certificate of occupancy has been issued by the city, no
refund of any part of such fee shall be made if the project for which the fee
was paid is later demolished, destroyed, or is altered, reconstructed, or
reconfigured so as to reduce the size of the project or the number of units in
the project.
      4.   Interest. Each refund shall include a refund of interest at one-half
the legal rate provided for in Idaho Code § 28-22-104 from the date on which
the fee was originally paid.
      5.   Timing. The Fire District shall make a determination of whether a
refund is due within thirty (30) days after receipt of a written request for a
refund from the owner of record of the property for which the fee was paid.
When the right to a refund exists, the Fire District shall send the refund to
the owner of record within ninety (90) days after the Fire District determines
that a refund is due. (Ord. 635, 9-16-2020)
1-19-11: ESTABLISHMENT OF FIRE DISTRICT TRUST FUND AND TRUST ACCOUNTS:
   A.   The Trust Fund established by the Fire District will be maintained by
the Fire District for the purpose of ensuring that all Fire District impact
fees collected, pursuant to this chapter, are used to address impacts
reasonably attributable to new Development for which the Fire District impact
fees are paid. The trust fund shall be divided into the trust accounts. All
funds in all trust accounts in the trust fund shall be maintained in an
interest bearing account. The interest earned on each trust account pursuant to
Idaho Code § 67-8210(1) shall not be governed by Idaho Code § 57-127, as
amended, but shall be considered funds of the trust accounts and shall be
subject to the same restrictions on uses of funds as the Fire District impact
fees on which the interest is generated.
   B.   Deposit of Fire District Impact Fees. All monies paid by a fee payer,
pursuant to this chapter, shall be identified as Fire District impact fees and
shall be promptly deposited by the fire district administrator in the
appropriate trust accounts of the trust fund.
      1.   First-in/First-out. Monies in each trust account shall be spent in
the order collected, on a first-in/first-out basis.
      2.   Maintenance of Records. The Fire District shall maintain and keep
accurate financial records for each trust account that shall show the source
and disbursement of all revenues, that shall account for all monies received,
that shall ensure that the disbursement of funds from each trust account shall
be used solely and exclusively for the provisions of projects specified in the
capital improvements plan, and that shall provide an annual accounting for each
Fire District impact fee account showing the source and amount of all funds
collected and the projects that were funded. (Ord. 635, 9-16-2020)
1-19-12: EXPENDITURE OF FIRE DISTRICT IMPACT FEES:
   A.   Expenditures of Fire District impact fees collected and deposited in
the trust fund shall be made only for system improvements within the service
area for which the impact fee was collected in accordance with the capital
improvements plan.
   B.   Capital Improvements Plan Reimbursement; Surcharge. A portion of each
Impact Fee collected shall be designated as a surcharge for reimbursement of
the Fire District for the cost of preparing the Capital Improvements Plan in
accordance with Idaho Code § 67-8208. The surcharge shall not exceed the
Development's proportionate share of the cost of preparing the Capital
Improvements Plan. (Ord. 635, 9-16-2020)
1-19-13: APPEALS, PROTEST AND MEDIATION:
   A.   Appeals. Any fee payer that is or may be obligated to pay a Fire
District impact fee, or that claims a right to receive a refund, reimbursement,
exemption or credit under this chapter, and who is dissatisfied with a decision
made either by the city or by the Fire District Administrator in applying this
chapter, may appeal such decision as follows:
      1.   In the case of a decision made by the city to the City Council; and
      2.   In the case of a decision made by the Fire District Administrator to
the Board of Commissioners.
   B.   The fee payer shall have the burden on appeal of demonstrating that the
decision was in error.
   C.   In order to pursue the appeal described in this subsection, the fee
payer shall file a written notice of the appeal with the city within thirty
(30) days after the date of the city's or the Fire District Administrator's
decision, or the date on which the fee payer submitted a payment of the Fire
District impact fee under protest, whichever is later. Such written application
shall include a statement describing why the fee payer believes that the
appealed decision was in error, together with copies of any documents that the
fee payer believes support the claim.
   D.   Appeals of the Fire District Administrator's decisions shall be
delivered by the city to the Fire District Administrator.
   E.   The City Council or the Board of Commissioners, as the case may be,
shall hear the appeal within sixty (60) days after receipt of a written notice
of appeal. The fee payer shall have a right to be present and to present
evidence in support of the appeal. The city or Fire District Administrator who
made the decision under appeal or their representative shall likewise have the
right to be present and to present evidence in support of the decision. The
criteria to be used by the City Council or by the Board of Commissioners in
considering the appeal shall be whether: (1) the decision or interpretation
made by the city or Fire District Administrator; or (2) the alternative
decision or interpretation offered by the Fee Payer, more accurately reflects
the intent of this Chapter that new development in the City pay its
proportionate share of the costs of system improvements to Fire District
facilities necessary to serve new development and whether the provisions of
this Chapter has been correctly applied. The City Council or Board of
Commissioners, as the case may be, shall issue a decision upholding, reversing,
or modifying the decision being appealed within thirty (30) days after hearing
the appeal.
   F.   Payment Under Protest. A fee payer may pay a Fire District impact fee
under protest in order not to delay in the issuance of a building permit by the
city. A fee payer making a payment under protest shall not be stopped from
exercising the right to appeal provided herein, nor shall such fee payer be
stopped from receiving a refund of any amount deemed to have been illegally
collected.
   G.   Mediation.
      1.   Any fee payer that has a disagreement with the city or the Fire
District Administrator regarding a Fire District impact fee determination that
is or may be due for a proposed development pursuant to this chapter, may enter
into a voluntary agreement with the city or the Fire District, as the case may
be, to subject the disagreement to mediation by a qualified independent party
acceptable to both the fee payer and the Fire District.
      2.   Mediation may take place at any time following the filing of a
timely appeal pursuant to section
1-19-13C of this chapter, or as an alternative to such appeal, provided that
the request for mediation is filed no later than the last date on which a
timely appeal could be filed pursuant to section
1-19-13C of this chapter.
      3.   Participation in mediation does not preclude the fee payer from
pursuing other remedies provided for in this section.
      4.   If mediation is requested, any related mediation costs shall be
shared equally by the fee payer and the city or the Fire District, as the case
may be, and a written agreement regarding the payment of such costs shall be
executed prior to the commencement of mediation.
      5.   In the event that mediation does not resolve the issues between the
Fire District and the fee payer, the fee payer retains all rights to seek
relief from a court of competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 635, 9-16-2020)
1-19-14: PERIODIC REVIEWS:
   A.   Review and Modification of Capital Improvements Plan. Unless the Board
of Commissioners deems some other period is appropriate, the Board of
Commissioners shall, at least once every five (5) years, commencing from the
date of the original adoption of the capital improvements plan, review the
development potential and update the capital improvements plan in cooperation
with the city and in accordance with the procedures set forth in Idaho Code §
67-8206, as amended. Each update shall be prepared by the Fire District
Administrator in consultation with the Advisory Committee.
   B.   Annual review. The Fire District shall annually adopt a capital budget.
(Ord. 635, 9-16-2020)
1-19-15: AUDIT:
As part of its annual audit process, the Fire District shall prepare an annual
report:
   A.   Describing the amount of all Fire District impact fees collected,
appropriated or spent during the preceding year by category of public facility;
and
   B.   Describing the percentage of taxes and revenues from sources other than
the Fire District impact fees collected, appropriated or spent for system
improvements during the preceding year by systems improvements category of Fire
District capital facilities. (Ord. 635, 9-16-2020)
1-19-16: DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEE ADVISORY STANDING COMMITTEE:
   A.   Committee Created: The City of Middleton/Caldwell Rural Fire Protection
District Development Impact Fee Advisory Committee standing committee of the
City Council is established (hereinafter in this Chapter referred also as
“Advisory Committee” or “Committee.
   B.   Membership: The members of the Committee shall be appointed (including
vacancy appointments) as provided in the intergovernmental agreement. All
appointments are for a term of one (1) year or until someone is appointed in
his/her place, and there shall not be fewer than five (5) members of which two
(2) or more members shall be active in the business of development, building or
real estate and at least two (2) or more members shall not be employees or
officials of the City or the Fire District. All members must reside within the
service area of the applicable capital improvement plan.
   C.   Charge: The Advisory Committee shall serve as an advisory committee to
the City Council and the Board of Commissioners of the Fire District and is
charged with the following responsibilities:
      1.   Assist the city and the Fire District in adopting land use
assumptions; and
      2.   Review the capital improvements plan; and
       3.   Monitor and evaluate implementation of the capital improvements
plan;
      4.   File with the Fire District, Fire District Administrator and the
City Clerk, at least annually, with respect to the capital improvements plan, a
report of any perceived inequities in implementing the capital improvements
plan or imposing the fire district impact fees;
      5.    Advise the City Council and the Board of Commissioners of the Fire
District of the need to update or revise land use assumptions, capital
improvements plan and Fire District development impact fees; and
      6.   The Fire District shall make available to the Advisory Committee,
upon request, all financial and accounting information, professional reports in
relation to other development and implementation of land use assumptions, the
capital improvements plan and periodic updates of the capital improvements
plan.
   E.   Reporting: The Advisory Committee reports directly to the Fire District
Board of Commissioners and to the City Council.
   F.   City Council and Fire District Board of Commissioners Review of
Committee’s Report and Recommendations: The City Council and the Fire District
Board of Commissioners shall each consider the Advisory Committee’s recommended
revision(s) at least once every twelve (12) months. The Advisory Committee’s
recommendations and the City Council’s and Board of Commissioners’ actions are
intended to ensure that the benefits to a development paying Fire District
impact fees are equitable, so that the Fire District impact fee charged to the
development shall not exceed a proportionate share of system improvements
costs, and that the procedures for administering Fire District impact fees
remain efficient. (Ord. 635, 9-16-2020; amd. Ord. 685, 11-14-2023)
1-19-17: ENFORCEMENT AND COLLECTION:
   A.   When any Fire District impact fee is due pursuant to this chapter, or
pursuant to the terms of any written agreement between a fee payer and the Fire
District, and such Fire District impact fee has not been paid in a timely
manner, the city, or Fire District Administrator on behalf of the Fire
District, may exercise any or all of the following powers as applicable to
their authority, in any combination, to enforce the collection of the Fire
District impact fee:
      1.   Withhold building permits, manufactured home installation permits,
or other city development approval related to the development for which the
Fire District impact fee is due until all Fire District impact fees due have
been paid, and issue stop work orders, and revoke or suspend a building permit.
      2.   Withhold utility services from the development for which the Fire
District impact fee is due until all Fire District impact fees due have been
paid; and
      3.   Add interest to the Fire District impact fee not paid in full at the
legal rate provided for in Idaho Code § 28-22-104, as amended, plus five
percent (5%) beginning on the date at which the payment of the Fire District
impact fee was due until paid in full.
      4.   Impose a penalty of five percent (5%) of the total Fire District
impact fee (not merely the portion dishonored, late or not paid in full) per
month beginning on the date at which the payment of the Fire District impact
fee was due until paid in full.
      5.   Impose a lien pursuant to the authority of Idaho Code § 67-8213(4)
for failure to timely pay a Fire District impact fee following the procedures
contained in Idaho Code Title 45, Chapter 5. (Ord. 635, 9-16-2020)
1-19-18: CITY/FIRE DISTRICT INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT:
   A.   The city is a governmental entity that is empowered by the Act to adopt
development impact fee ordinances and as such is authorized, by Idaho Code §
67-8204A, to enter into the intergovernmental agreement with the Fire District
for the purpose of agreement to collect and expend Fire District impact fees
for system improvements as provided in this chapter.
   B.   The city and the Fire District have entered into the intergovernmental
agreement which is in full force and effect.
   C.   The intergovernmental agreement complies with this chapter and requires
the Fire District to be governed by and to fully abide by the provisions of
this chapter.
   D.   Any amendments of the intergovernmental agreement shall be implemented
by corresponding relevant amendments of this chapter which amendments shall not
apply to any Fire District impact fees then not expended and currently held in
the trust fund. (Ord. 635, 9-16-2020)
1-19-19: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS:
   A.   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the Fire District from requiring
a developer to construct reasonable project improvements, as are required by
the fire codes and other rules that are adopted by the state fire marshal, in
conjunction with a development.
   B.   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent or prohibit
private agreements between property owners or developers, the Idaho
Transportation Department and governmental entities in regard to the
construction or installation of system improvements or providing for credits or
reimbursements for system improvements costs incurred by a developer including
inter-project transfers of credits or providing for reimbursement for project
improvements which are used or shared by more than one (1) development project.
   C.   Nothing in this chapter shall obligate the city to approve development
which results in an extraordinary impact.
   D.   Nothing in this chapter shall obligate the Fire District to approve any
development request which may reasonably be expected to reduce levels of
service below minimum acceptable levels established in this chapter.
   E.   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to create any additional
right to develop real property or diminish the city in regulating the orderly
development of real property within its boundaries.
   F.   Nothing in this chapter shall work to limit the use by the city of the
power of eminent domain or supersede or conflict with requirements or
procedures authorized in the Idaho Code for local improvement districts or
general obligation bond issues.
   G.   Nothing herein shall restrict or diminish the power of the city to
annex property into its territorial boundaries or exclude property from its
territorial boundaries upon request of a developer or owner, or to impose
reasonable conditions thereon, including the recovery of project or system
improvements costs required as a result of such voluntary annexation.
   H.   The Fire District shall develop a plan for alternative sources of
revenue, which shall include but not necessarily be limited to plans generated
during the Fire District's annual budget process, lobbying efforts, tax
increment financing, and implementation of user fees, administrative and
regulatory fees and other forms of revenue.
   I.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, that portion of a
project for which a complete application for a building permit has been
received by the city, prior to the effective date of this chapter, shall not be
subject to the fire district impact fee imposed by this chapter. If the
resulting building permit is later revised or replaced after the effective date
of the ordinance codified in this chapter, and the new building permit(s)
reflects a development density, intensity, development size or number of units
more than ten percent (10%) higher than that reflected in the original building
permit, then the Fire District impact fee may be charged on the difference in
density, intensity, development size or number of units between the original
and the revised or replacement building permit.
   J.   Any monies, including any accrued interest not assigned to specific
system improvements within such capital improvements plan and not expended
pursuant to section
1-19-12 of this chapter or refunded pursuant to section
1-19-10 of this chapter shall be retained in the same account until the next
Fire District fiscal year.
   K.   If the Fire District discovers an error in the capital improvements
plan that results in assessment or payment of more than a proportionate share
of system improvements costs on any proposed development, the Fire District
Administrator shall:
      1.   Adjust the Fire District Impact Fee to collect no more than a
proportionate share; or
      2.   Discontinue the collection of any fire district impact fees until
the error is corrected by ordinance.
   L.   If Fire District impact fees are calculated and paid based on a mistake
or misrepresentation, they shall be recalculated. Any amounts overpaid by a fee
payer shall be refunded by the Fire District within thirty (30) days after the
Fire District's acceptance of the recalculated amount, with interest at the
legal rate provided for in Idaho Code § 28-22-104 from the date on which the
fee was paid. Any amounts underpaid by the Fee Payer shall be paid to the Fire
District within thirty (30) days after the Fire District Administrator's
acceptance of the recalculated amount, with interest at the legal rate provided
for in Idaho Code § 28-22-104 from the date on which the fee was paid. In the
case of an underpayment to the Fire District, the Administrator may request the
city and the city may withhold issuance of the building permits or development
approval for the project for which the Fire District impact fee was paid until
such underpayment is corrected, and if amounts owed to the Fire District are
not paid within such thirty-day (30) period, the Fire District Administrator
may also ask the city to and the city may revoke any building permits or
development approval issued in reliance on the previous payment of such Fire
District impact fee and refund such fee to the fee payer.
   M.   The Advisory Committee that was established during the preparation of
the capital improvements plan shall continue in existence, and shall by
operation of this chapter become the Advisory Committee created herein. (Ord.
635, 9-16-2020)
1-19-20: PUNISHMENT:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, punishable by up to one (1) year in the county jail, and/or a one
thousand dollar ($1,000.00) fine, or both. Knowingly furnishing false
information to any official of the city or the Fire District charged with the
administration of this chapter, including without limitation, the furnishing of
false information regarding the expected size, use or impacts from a proposed
development, shall be a violation of this chapter. (Ord. 635, 9-16-2020)
1-19-21: CONSTRUCTION OF INTENT:
All provisions, terms, phrases and expressions contained in this chapter shall
be liberally construed in order that the true intent and meaning of the Act and
the City Council and the Board of Commissioners may be fully carried out. (Ord.
635, 9-16-2020)
CHAPTER 20
TRANSPORTATION IMPACT FEE
SECTION:
1-20-1: Findings
1-20-2: Authority, Applicability, And Effective Date
1-20-3: Intent
1-20-4: Imposition And Computation Of Impact Fees
1-20-5: Payment Of Impact Fees
1-20-6: Impact Fee Funds; Refunds Of Impact Fees Paid
1-20-7: Exemptions From Impact Fees
1-20-8: Credits; Reimbursements
1-20-9: Appeals
1-20-10: Impact Fee Advisory Committee
1-20-11: Miscellaneous Provisions
1-20-12: Impact Fee Schedule
1-20-1: FINDINGS:
The City Council of the City of Middleton, Idaho, finds that:
   A.   Based on the City of Middleton comprehensive plan adopted by the City
pursuant to title 67, chapter 65, Idaho Code, including, but not limited to,
the capital improvements element of the comprehensive plan, and the general
governmental goal of protecting the health, safety, and general welfare of the
citizens of the City, and its area of City impact, it is necessary that the
City’s public facilities for City transportation accommodate new growth and
development within the City.
   B.   New residential, commercial, and industrial growth and development
imposes and will impose increasing and excessive demands upon the
transportation facilities.
   C.   The revenues generated from new residential, commercial, and industrial
growth and development often do not generate sufficient funds to provide the
necessary improvements to these transportation facilities to accommodate new
growth and development.
   D.   New growth and development are expected to continue and will place ever
increasing demands on the City to provide and expand the transportation
facilities to serve new growth and development.
   E.   The City has planned for the improvement of the transportation
facilities in the capital improvements plan, duly made part of the City of
Middleton’s Comprehensive Plan.
   F.   The creation of an equitable impact fee system for transportation
impact fees would enable the City to impose a proportionate share of the costs
of needed improvements to the public transportation facilities to accommodate
new growth and development, and would assist the City in implementing the
capital improvements element of the comprehensive plan.
   G.   In order to implement an equitable impact fee system for the public
facilities, the City retained Kittelson & Associates, Inc. to prepare an impact
fee study for these types of transportation facilities. The resulting document
(the “impact fee study”) is on file in the Office of the City Clerk of the City
of Middleton.
   H.   The impact fee study is consistent with the City of Middleton
comprehensive plan and the levels of service set forth in the impact fee study
are hereby adopted.
   I.   The impact fee study sets forth reasonable methodologies and analyses
for determining the impacts of new residential, commercial, and industrial
growth and development on the public transportation facilities and determines
the cost of acquiring or constructing the improvements necessary to meet the
demands for such public facilities created by new growth and development.
   J.   The impact fee study uses a calculation methodology that is a net of
credits for the present value of revenues that will be generated by new growth
and development based on historical funding patterns and that are reasonably
anticipated to be available to pay for system improvements including user fees,
debt service payments, taxes, assessments, intergovernmental transfers, and all
other available sources of funding such system, and included consideration of
the following factors:
      1.   The cost of existing system improvements within the service area or
areas;
      2.   The means by which existing system improvements have been financed;
      3.    The extent to which the new development will contribute to the cost
of system improvements through taxation, assessment, or developer or landowner
contributions, or has previously contributed to the cost of system improvements
through developer or landowner contributions;
      4.    The extent to which the new development is required to contribute
to the cost of existing system improvements in the future;
      5.    The extent to which the new development should be credited for
providing system improvements, without charge to other properties within the
service area or areas;
      6.    Extraordinary costs, if any, incurred in serving the new
development;
      7.    The time and price differential inherent in a fair comparison of
fees paid at different times; and
      8.   The availability of other sources of funding system improvements
including, but not limited to, user charges, general tax levies,
intergovernmental transfers, and special taxation.
   K.   The impact fees are based on the impact fee study, and do not exceed
the costs of system improvements for the public facilities to serve new
development that will pay the impact fees.
   L.   The City transportation infrastructure included in the calculation of
impact fees in the impact fee study will benefit all new growth and development
throughout the City, and it is therefore appropriate to treat all areas of the
City as a single service area for purposes of calculating, collecting and
spending the impact fees collected.
   M.   There is both a rational nexus and a rough proportionality between the
development impacts created by each type of development covered by this chapter
and the impact fees that such development will be required to pay.
   N.   This chapter creates a system by which impact fees paid by new growth
and development will be used to finance, defray or to provide capital
improvements for the public facilities in ways that benefit the development for
which impact fees were paid.
   O.   This chapter creates a system under which impact fees shall not be used
to correct existing deficiencies in public facilities, or to replace or
rehabilitate existing public facilities, or to pay for routine operation or
maintenance of those public facilities.
   P.   This chapter creates a system under which there shall be no double
payment of impact fees, in accordance with Idaho Code section 67-8204(19).
   Q.   This chapter is consistent with all applicable provisions of title 67,
chapter 82, Idaho Code, concerning impact fee ordinances.
   R.   This chapter shall not be deemed invalid because payment of an impact
fee may result in an incidental benefit to others within the service area other
than the fee payer.
(Ord. 591, 10-20-2021)
1-20-2: AUTHORITY, APPLICABILITY, AND EFFECTIVE DATE:
   A.   This chapter is enacted pursuant to the City’s general police powers
pursuant to the authority granted to the City by title 50, Idaho Code, and
pursuant to the authority granted to the City by section 67-8201 et seq., Idaho
Code.
   B.   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all territory within the
limits of the City.
(Ord. 591, 10-20-2021)
1-20-3: INTENT:
   A.   The intent of this chapter is to promote the health, safety and general
welfare of the residents of the City and its area of City impact.
   B.   The intent of this chapter is to be consistent with those principles
for allocating a fair and proportionate share of the cost of capital
improvements to public facilities to serve new development in compliance with
the provisions set forth in section 67-8201 et seq., Idaho Code. The provisions
of this chapter shall be interpreted, construed and enforced in accordance with
the provisions set forth in section 67-8201 et seq., Idaho Code.
   C.   The intent of this chapter is that impact fees should be charged,
collected, and expended for City transportation capital improvements to
increase the service capacity of those public facilities, which capital
improvements are included in approved capital improvements plans that list the
capital improvements that may be funded with impact fees.
   D.   The intent of this chapter is to ensure that: public facilities are
available to serve new development; new development bears a proportionate share
of the cost of City transportation capital improvements to such public
facilities; to ensure that such proportionate share does not exceed the cost of
the capital improvements to such public facilities required to serve new
development; and to ensure that the funds collected from new development are
used for capital improvements for public facilities that benefit new
development.
   E.   It is not the intent of this chapter to collect any monies from new
development in excess of the actual amount necessary to offset new demands for
capital improvements to public facilities created by such new development.
   F.   It is not the intent of this chapter that the impact fees be used to
remedy any deficiency in existing City transportation facilities on the
effective date hereof, or ever be used to replace, rehabilitate, maintain and/
or operate any public facilities.
   G.   It is not the intent of this chapter that any monies collected from an
impact fee deposited in an Impact Fee Fund ever be commingled with monies from
a different fund, or ever be used for capital improvements that are different
from those for which the impact fee was paid.
   H.   It is not the intent of this chapter that impact fees be used for:
      1.   Construction, acquisition or expansion of public facilities other
than capital improvements identified in the capital improvements plan.
      2.   Repair, operation or maintenance of existing or new capital
improvements.
      3.   Upgrading, updating, expanding or replacing existing capital
improvements to serve existing development in order to meet stricter safety,
efficiency, environmental or regulatory standards.
      4.   Upgrading, updating, expanding or replacing existing capital
improvements to serve existing development to provide better service to
existing development.
      5.   Administrative and operating costs of the City unless such costs are
attributable to development of the capital improvements plan used to determine
impact fees by a surcharge imposed by ordinance on the collection of an impact
fee, which surcharge shall not exceed a development’s proportionate share of
the cost of preparing the capital improvements plan.
      6.   Principal payments and interest or other finance charges on bonds or
other indebtedness except financial obligations issued by or on behalf of the
City to finance capital improvements identified in the capital improvements
plan.
(Ord. 591, 10-20-2021)
1-20-4: IMPOSITION AND COMPUTATION OF IMPACT FEES:
   A.   The development impact fee reflects the need for capital improvements
to public transportation facilities created by new development. Any application
for a building permit enabling the construction and, in the case of
construction that does not require a building permit, any building that takes
place on or after the effective date hereof shall be subject to the imposition
of impact fees in the manner and amount set forth in this chapter. The
methodology adopted for the purpose of determining City transportation impact
fees shall be based upon the assumptions set forth in the impact fee study and
pursuant to the following:
      1.   The development impact fee shall not exceed the proportionate share
of the costs incurred or the costs that will be incurred by the City in the
provision of system improvements to serve new development.
      2.   The proportionate share is the cost attributable to the new
development after consideration by the City of the following factors:
         a.   Any appropriate credit, offset or contribution of money,
dedication of land, or construction of system improvements;
         b.   Payments reasonably anticipated to be made by or as a result of a
new development in the form of user fees and debt service payments;
         c.   That portion of general tax and other revenues allocated by the
jurisdiction to system improvements; and
         d.   All other available sources of funding such system improvements.
      3.   In determining the proportionate share of the cost of system
improvements to be paid by the developer, the following additional factors
shall be considered:
         a.   The cost of existing system improvements within the service area
or areas;
         b.   The means by which existing system improvements have been
financed;
         c.   The extent to which the new development will contribute to the
cost of system improvements through taxation, assessment, or developer or
landowner contributions, or has previously contributed to the cost of system
improvements through developer or landowner contributions;
         d.   The extent to which the new development is required to contribute
to the cost of existing system improvements in the future;
         e.   The extent to which the new development should be credited for
providing system improvements, without charge to other properties within the
service area or areas;
         f.   Extraordinary costs, if any, incurred in serving the new
development;
         g.   The time and price differential inherent in a fair comparison of
fees paid at different times; and
         h.   The availability of other sources of funding system improvements
including, but not limited to, user charges, general tax levies,
intergovernmental transfers, and special taxation. The governmental entity
shall develop a plan for alternative sources of revenue.
      4.   The current transportation impact fees for the City of Middleton are
set forth in Title 1, Chapter 20, Section 1-16-12, Middleton City Code.
   B.   Impact fees shall be required as a condition of approval of all
residential, commercial, and industrial development in the service area for
which a building permit is required and shall be payable prior to the issuance
of any building permit (or installation permit in the case of a manufactured
home) for a dwelling unit. Except as otherwise provided herein, after the
effective date hereof, no building permit shall be issued until the impact fees
described in this chapter have been paid, unless the development for which the
permit is sought is exempted or approved credits are used to cover the impact
fee. The City shall have the authority to withhold a building permit, stop
construction, withhold utility services or impose liens as the case may be,
until the appropriate impact fee has been collected.
   C.   After payment of the development impact fees or execution of an
agreement for payment of development impact fees, additional development impact
fees or increases in fees may not be assessed unless the number of service
units increases or the scope or schedule of the development changes. In the
event of an increase in the number of service units or schedule of the
development changes, the additional development impact fees to be imposed are
limited to the amount attributable to the additional service units or change in
scope of the development.
   D.   A fee payer required to pay an impact fee may choose to have the amount
of such impact fee determined pursuant to either the fee schedule (whereupon
such payment shall be recognized as full and complete payment of the
development’s proportionate share of system improvement costs, except as
provided in Idaho Code section 67-8214(3)) or subsections E through G of this
section. If the fee payer chooses to have the amount of such impact fee
determined pursuant to subsections E through G of this section, such impact fee
shall be subject to the adjustment described in this section, if applicable. If
the project is a mix of those uses listed on the fee schedule, then the impact
fees shall be determined by adding up the impact fees that would be payable for
each use as if it were a freestanding use pursuant to the fee schedule.
   E.   Individual assessment of impact fees is permitted in situations where
the fee payer can demonstrate by clear and convincing evidence that the
established impact fee is inappropriate for the project. Written application
for individual assessment shall be made to the City at any time prior to
receiving building permit(s). Late applications for individual assessment of
impact fees may be considered for a period of sixty (60) days after the receipt
of a building permit only if the fee payer makes a showing that the facts
supporting such application were not known or discoverable prior to receipt of
a building permit and that undue hardship would result if said application is
not considered. Such independent impact fee calculation study for the fee
payer’s development shall be prepared at the fee payer’s cost by a qualified
professional and contain studies, data and other relevant information and be
submitted to the City for review. Any such study shall be based on the same
methodology and the same level of service standards, improvements and costs
used in the impact fee study, and must document the methodologies and
assumptions used. The City may hire a professional consultant to review any
independent impact fee calculation study on behalf of the City, and may charge
the reasonable costs of such review to the fee payer.
   F.   Any independent impact fee calculation study submitted by a fee payer
may be accepted, rejected or accepted with modifications by the City as the
basis for calculating impact fees. The City shall not be required to accept any
study or documentation the City reasonably deems to be inaccurate or
unreliable, and shall have the authority to request that the fee payer submit
additional or different documentation for consideration in connection with
review of any independent impact fee calculation. If such additional or
different documentation is accepted or accepted with modifications as a more
accurate measure of the impact fees due in connection with fee payer’s proposed
development than the applicable impact fees set forth in the fee schedule, then
the impact fee due under this chapter shall be calculated according to such
documentation.
   G.   The City shall render a written decision establishing the impact fees
in connection with the individual assessment within thirty (30) days of the
date a complete application is submitted. The decision shall include an
explanation of the calculation of the impact fees, shall specify the system
improvement(s) for which the impact fees are intended to be used, and shall
include an explanation of the factors considered pursuant to Idaho Code section
67-8207.
   H.   Certification of the impact fee for a project may be applied for in the
following manner:
      1.   Written application may be made to the City not later than sixty
(60) days after development approval by the City Council. Late applications for
certification of the impact fee will not be considered unless the fee payer
makes a showing that the facts supporting such application were not known or
discoverable until after the time had run and that undue hardship would result
if said application is not considered.
      2.   The City shall provide the fee payer with a written impact fee
certification for the project within thirty (30) days of the date a complete
application is submitted. The certification provided by the City shall
establish the impact fee for the project in question so long as there is no
material change to the project as identified in the certification application
or the impact fee schedule. The certification shall include an explanation of
the calculation of the impact fees, shall specify the system improvement(s) for
which the impact fees are intended to be used, and shall include an explanation
of the factors considered, which factors are identified in subsection G of this
section.
   I.   Appeals of the City’s determination of an individual assessment or
certification shall be made to the City as provided further in this chapter.
   J.   There may be circumstances where the anticipated fiscal impacts of a
proposed development are of such magnitude that the City may be unable to
accommodate the development without excessive or unscheduled public
expenditures that exceed the amount of the anticipated impact fees from such
development. If the City determines that a proposed development would create
such an extraordinary impact on the City’s transportation infrastructure and
facilites, the City may refuse to approve the proposed development and/or may
recommend to the other affected government agencies that the project not be
approved. In the alternative, the City may calculate a pro rata share per
dwelling unit, or square feet of nonresidential buildings, of the extraordinary
impact and charge a reasonable extraordinary impact fee that is greater than
would ordinarily be charged pursuant to the fee schedule.
   K.   If the City discovers an error in its impact fee formula that results
in assessment or payment of more than a proportionate share, City shall, at the
time of assessment on a case by case basis, adjust the impact fee to collect no
more than a proportionate share or discontinue the collection of any impact
fees until the error is corrected by ordinance.
(Ord. 591, 10-20-2021)
1-20-5: PAYMENT OF IMPACT FEES:
   A.   After the effective date hereof all fee payers shall pay the impact
fees as provided by this chapter to the City following application for a
building permit and prior to the issuance of any building permit for a dwelling
unit.
   B.   All impact fees paid by a fee payer pursuant to this chapter shall be
promptly deposited in the Impact Fee Fund.
(Ord. 591, 10-20-2021)
1-20-6: IMPACT FEE FUNDS; REFUNDS OF IMPACT FEES PAID:
   A.   There is hereby established a City Transportation Impact Fee Fund into
which shall be deposited all transportation impact fees for the purpose of
ensuring City transportation impact fees collected pursuant hereto are
designated for the accommodation of City transportation capital improvements
reasonably necessary to serve new development that paid the impact fee.
   B.   Each fund shall be an interest bearing account which shall be accounted
for separately from other impact fee funds and from other City funds. Any
interest or other income earned on monies deposited in a fund shall be credited
to such fund. Expenditures of impact fees shall be made only for the category
of system improvements for which the impact fees were collected and as
identified in the capital improvements plan.
   C.   Except as otherwise provided herein, monies from the fund, including
any accrued interest, shall be limited to the financing of acquisition,
expansion, and/or improvement of capital improvements, or for principal and
interest payments on bonds or other borrowed revenues used to acquire, expand
or improve such capital improvements, necessary to serve new development.
Impact fees in each fund shall be spent within eight (8) years from the date
such impact fees were collected on a first in/first out (FIFO) basis. The City
may hold the impact fees longer than the prescribed time period if the City
identifies, in writing: 1) a reasonable cause why the impact fees should be
held longer; and 2) an anticipated date by which the impact fees will be
expended but in no event longer than eleven (11) years from the date the impact
fees were collected.
   D.   The City shall prepare annual reports to be provided to the Advisory
Committee and the City Council, which reports shall: 1) describe the amount of
all impact fees collected, appropriated or spent for system improvements during
the preceding year, as applicable, by category of public facility and service
area; and 2) describe the percentage of tax and revenues other than impact fees
collected, appropriated or spent for system improvements during the preceding
year, as applicable, by category of public facility and service area.
   E.   Funds shall be deemed expended when payment of such funds has been
approved by the City. The fee payer or successor in interest shall be entitled
to a refund of the impact fee if:
      1.   Service is available but never provided;
      2.   A building permit or permit for installation of a manufactured home
is revoked or abandoned;
      3.   The City, after collecting the impact fee when service is not
available, has failed to appropriate and expend the collected impact fees; or
      4.   The fee payer pays an impact fee under protest and a subsequent
review of the impact fee paid or the completion of an individual assessment
determines that the impact fee paid exceeded the proportionate share to which
the City was entitled to receive.
   F.   When the right to a refund exists, within ninety (90) days after the
City determines that a refund is due, the City shall provide written notice of
entitlement to a refund, to the owner of record and the fee payer who paid the
impact fees at the address shown on the application for development approval,
or to a successor in interest who has notified the City of a transfer of the
right or entitlement to a refund and who has provided to the City a mailing
address. When the right to a refund exists, the City shall also publish the
notice of entitlement to a refund within thirty (30) days after the expiration
of the eight (8) year period after the date that the impact fees were
collected. Such published notice shall contain the heading “Notice Of
Entitlement To Impact Fee Refund”.
   G.   A refund shall include interest at one-half (½) the legal rate provided
for in section 28-22-104, Idaho Code, from the date on which the impact fee was
originally paid.
   H.   In order to be eligible for a refund, a fee payer, successor in
interest or owner of record shall file a written application for a refund with
the City within six (6) months of the time such refund becomes payable under
subsection C of this section, or within six (6) months of publication of the
notice of entitlement to a refund, whichever is later. If a successor in
interest claims a refund of impact fees, the City may require written
documentation that such rights have been transferred to the claimant prior to
issuing the requested refund. Refunds shall be paid within sixty (60) days
after the date on which the City determines that a sufficient proof of claim
for a refund has been made.
   I.   Any person entitled to a refund shall have standing to sue for a refund
under the provisions of this chapter if there has not been a timely payment of
a refund as provided herein. (Ord. 591, 10-20-2021)
1-20-7: EXEMPTIONS FROM IMPACT FEES:
   A.   The following types of land development shall be exempted from payment
of the impact fees imposed by this chapter:
      1.   Rebuilding the same amount of square feet of a dwelling unit or
nonresidential structure that was destroyed by fire or other catastrophe,
provided that the structure is rebuilt and ready for occupancy within two (2)
years of its destruction.
      2.   Construction of an unoccupied, detached accessory structure, or
addition of uses related to a dwelling unit unless it can be clearly
demonstrated that the use creates a significant impact on the capacity of
system improvements.
      3.   Remodeling or repairing a dwelling unit or a nonresidential
structure in a manner that does not increase the number of service units.
      4.   Replacing a dwelling unit with another dwelling unit on the same
lot, provided that the number of service units does not increase.
      5.   Placing a temporary construction trailer or office on a lot.
      6.   Constructing an addition on a residential structure which does not
increase the number of service units.
      7.   Adding uses that are typically accessory to residential uses, such
as tennis courts or clubhouse, unless it can be clearly demonstrated that the
use creates a significant impact on the capacity of system improvements.
   B.   An impact fee will be assessed for installation of a modular building,
manufactured home or recreational vehicle unless the fee payer can demonstrate
by documentation such as utility bills and tax records, either: 1) that a
modular building, manufactured home or recreational vehicle was legally in
place on the lot or space prior to the effective date hereof; or 2) that an
impact fee has been paid previously for the installation of a modular building,
manufactured home or recreational vehicle on that same lot or space. Lawful
storage of a recreational vehicle shall not be deemed installation for purposes
of this chapter.
(Ord. 541, 8-6-2014; amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018; Ord. 591, 10-20-2021)
1-20-8: CREDITS; REIMBURSEMENTS:
   A.   No fee payer shall be required to construct, fund or contribute any
capital improvement to meet the same need for City transportation for which an
impact fee is imposed. All system improvements constructed, funded or
contributed over and above the proportionate share of system improvement costs,
including such system improvements paid for pursuant to a local improvement
district, shall result in either a credit on future impact fees or
reimbursement (at the fee payer’s option) for such excess construction, funding
or contribution to be paid from impact fees paid by future development that
benefits from such system improvements constructed, funded or contributed by
the fee payer. However, no credit or reimbursement shall be provided for: 1)
project improvements; 2) any construction, funding or contribution not agreed
to in writing by the City prior to commencement of such construction, funding
or contribution; 3) any construction, funding or contribution of a type of
capital improvements not included in the calculation of the applicable impact
fee; and 4) any improvement required by an agency other than the City for that
agency’s development approval.
   B.   In the calculation of an individual assessment of impact fees for a
project, credit shall be given for the present value of all tax and user fee
revenue generated by the fee payer within the service area and used by the City
for system improvements of the category for which the impact fee is being
collected. If the amount of such credit exceeds the impact fee for a project,
the fee payer shall receive a credit on future impact fees. The credit may be
applied by the fee payer as an offset against future impact fees only in the
service area where the credit was generated.
   C.   In the calculation of impact fees for a project, credit or
reimbursement (at the fee payer’s option) shall be given for the present value
of any construction of system improvements or contribution of land or money
required by the City from the developer for system improvements of the category
for which the impact fee is being collected, including system improvements paid
for through local improvement district assessments. Credit or reimbursement
shall not be given for project improvement.
   D.   If credit or reimbursement is due to the fee payer, the City and fee
payer shall enter into a written agreement, negotiated in good faith, prior to
the construction, funding or contribution. The written agreement shall include,
without limitation: a description of the construction, funding or contribution
of system improvements including, in the case of real property, a legal
description of the real property; description as to how the system improvements
are to be valued; the amount of the credit or the amount, time and form of
reimbursement; instructions as to how the capital improvements should be
provided to the City to ensure full transfer of ownership; and the
circumstances under which the credit or reimbursement is deemed effective. To
assist in such reimbursement, the City shall continue to collect impact fees
from other developers whose proposed developments will benefit from such
construction, funding or contribution, and will promptly transfer such funds to
the fee payer. If a successor in interest claims a reimbursement or credit, the
City may require written documentation that such rights have been conveyed to
the claimant prior to issuing the requested reimbursement or credit.
   E.   Approved credits may be used to reduce the amount of impact fees in
connection with any new development until the amount of the credit is
exhausted. Each time a request to use approved credits is presented to the
City, the City shall reduce the amount of the applicable impact fee otherwise
due from the fee payer and shall note in the City records the amount of credit
remaining, if any. Upon request of the fee payer, the City shall issue a letter
stating the amount of credit available. If the credit has not been exhausted
within eight (8) years of the date of issuance of the first building permit for
which an impact fee was due and payable, or within such other time period as
may be designated in writing by the City, such credit shall lapse, unless a
refund of the remaining credit is applied for.
   F.   Approved credits or reimbursement shall only be used to reduce the
amount of the impact fee of the category for which the impact fee is otherwise
due, and shall not be paid to the fee payer in cash or in credits against any
other monies due from the fee payer to the City.
   G.   Credit for land dedications shall, at the fee payer’s option, be valued
at: 1) one hundred percent (100%) of the most recent assessed value for such
land as shown in the records of the Canyon County Assessor; or 2) that fair
market value established by a private appraiser reasonably acceptable to the
City in an appraisal paid for by the fee payer. Credit for contribution or
construction of system improvements shall be valued by the City based on
complete engineering drawings, specifications, and construction cost estimates
submitted by the fee payer to the City, which estimates shall be revised as
actual costs become available. The City shall determine the amount of credit
due based on the information submitted, or, if the City determines that such
information is inaccurate or unreliable, then on alternative engineering or
construction costs reasonably acceptable to the City as a more accurate measure
of the value of the offered system improvements to the City.
   H.   Approved credits for land dedications shall become effective when the
land has been conveyed to the City in a form reasonably acceptable to the City
at no cost to the City, and has been accepted by the City. Approved credits for
contribution or construction of system improvements shall generally become
effective when: 1) all required construction has been completed and has been
accepted by the City; and 2) all design, construction, inspection, testing,
bonding, and acceptance procedures have been completed in compliance with all
applicable requirements of the City. Approved credits for the construction of
system improvements may become effective at an earlier date if the fee payer
posts security in the form of a performance bond, irrevocable letter of credit
or escrow agreement in the amount and under terms reasonably acceptable to the
City.
   I.   Credit may only be transferred by a fee payer that has received credit
to such fee payer’s successor in interest. The credit may be used only to
offset impact fees for the same category for which the credit was issued.
Credits shall be transferred by any written instrument clearly identifying
which credits are being transferred, the dollar amount of the credit being
transferred, and the system improvements for which the credit was issued. The
instrument of transfer shall be signed by both the transferor and transferee,
and a copy of the document shall be delivered to the City for documentation of
the transfer before the transfer shall be deemed effective.
   J.   In the event that a developer intends to contribute or dedicate an
interest in land in lieu of paying impact fees or a portion thereof, the
following procedures and criteria shall be applied:
      1.   The City with the advice of the appropriate department head and the
City Attorney will determine whether the land proposed for dedication is
acceptable based upon the following considerations:
         a.   Size: The size of the parcel is expressed as a net amount and is
exclusive of road right-of-way, existing and proposed easements, borrow pits,
lakes, and other manmade or natural conditions which restrict or impede the
intended use of such areas.
         b.   Unity: The land to be dedicated shall form a single parcel of
land except where aforesaid review determines that two (2) or more parcels
would be in the best public interest.
         c.   Shape: The configuration of the parcel of land is such as to be
usable for public facilities purposes as determined by the City.
         d.   Location: The land to be dedicated is so located as to serve the
needs of the development, by being within the service area public facilities.
         e.   Access: Appropriate access to the land to be dedicated is
provided by improved public road frontage.
         f.   Utility: Dedicated land should be usable for public facilities
purposes and meet the following criteria prior to its final acceptance by the
City:
            (1)   The property is platted and ready to be developed.
            (2)   All utilities are in place and are at the perimeter of the
site and include roads, walks, curbs, water lines, sewer lines, electric
service lines, and telephone service lines.
            (3)   All utilities are of sufficient quality and quantity to
adequately service the site.
            (4)   The property is filled and compacted to comply with all
appropriate Subdivision Codes, Building and Zoning Codes, and flood insurance
laws and regulations. The fill and compaction are of sufficient quality to
accept the contemplated improvements.
         g.   Plans: City, regional, and State plans shall be taken into
consideration when evaluating land proposals for dedication.
      2.   Appeals of the City’s determination of land suitability shall be
made to the City Council by the filing of an appeal with the City Clerk no
later than ten (10) days following the date of the decision of the City.
(Ord. 591, 10-20-2021)
1-20-9: APPEALS:
The decisions of the City may be appealed as provided below:
   A.   Any fee payer who is or may be obligated to pay an impact fee may
appeal a decision made by the City in applying this chapter to the City
Council’s designee. Such decisions that may be appealed include:
      1.   The applicability of an impact fee to the development.
      2.   The amount of an impact fee to be paid for the development.
      3.   The availability, amount or application of any credit.
      4.   The amount of any refund, reimbursement or credit.
      5.   Any discretionary action or inaction by or on behalf of the City. A
fee payer may pay an impact fee under protest in order to obtain a development
approval or building permit(s) and, by paying such impact fee, shall not be
estopped from exercising the right of appeal provided herein, nor shall the fee
payer be estopped from receiving a refund of any amount deemed to have been
illegally collected. Upon final disposition of an appeal, the impact fee shall
be adjusted in accordance with the decision rendered and, if necessary, a
refund paid.
   B.   In order to pursue an appeal, the fee payer shall file a written notice
of appeal with the City Council’s designee within fifteen (15) days after the
date of the decision being appealed, or the date on which the fee payer
submitted a payment of impact fees under protest, whichever is later. Such
written application shall include a statement describing why the appellant
believes that the decision was in error; together with copies of any documents
that the appellant believes supports the claim.
   C.   The City Council’s designee shall notify the fee payer of the hearing
date on the appeal, which notice shall be given no less than fifteen (15) days
prior to the date of the hearing, and shall hear the appeal within thirty (30)
days after receipt of a written notice of appeal. The appellant shall have a
right to be present and to present evidence in support of the appeal. The City
who made the decision under appeal shall likewise have the right to be present
and to present evidence in support of the decision. The burden of proof in any
such hearing shall be on the fee payer to demonstrate that the amount of the
impact fee, credit, reimbursement or refund was not properly calculated by the
City.
   D.   The criteria to be used by the City Council’s designee shall be
whether: 1) the decision or interpretation made by the City; or 2) the
alternative decision or interpretation offered by the appellant, more
accurately reflects the intent of this chapter that new development in the City
pay its proportionate share of the costs of system improvements for public
facilities necessary to serve new growth and development. The City Council’s
designee may affirm, reject or revise the decision of the City, providing
written findings of fact and conclusions, within fifteen (15) days after
hearing the appeal. The City Council’s designee shall modify the amount of the
impact fee, credit, refund or reimbursement only if there is substantial
evidence in the record that the City erred, based upon the methodologies
contained in the impact fee study, this chapter and/or the capital improvements
plan. The decision of the City Council’s designee shall be final.
   E.   Upon voluntary agreement by the fee payer and the City, the fee payer
and the City may enter into mediation with a qualified independent party to
address a disagreement related to the impact fee for proposed development.
Costs for the independent mediation service shall be shared equally by the fee
payer and the City. Mediation may take place at any time during an appeals
process and participation in mediation does not preclude the fee payer from
pursuing other remedies.
(Ord. 591, 10-20-2021)
1-20-10: IMPACT FEE ADVISORY COMMITTEE:
   A.   The City has established an Advisory Committee. The Advisory Committee
shall continue to be composed of not fewer than five (5) members appointed by
the City Council. Two (2) or more members of the Advisory Committee shall be
active in the business of development, building or real estate. The Advisory
Committee shall serve in an advisory capacity to the City Council and is
established to:
      1.   Assist the City in adopting land use assumptions;
      2.   Review the capital improvements plan, and proposed amendments, and
file written comments;
         3.   Monitor and evaluate implementation of the capital improvements
plan;
      4.   File periodic reports, at least annually, with respect to the
capital improvements plan and report to the City any perceived inequities in
implementing the capital improvements plan or imposing the impact fees; and
      5.   Advise the City of the need to update or revise land use
assumptions, the capital improvements plan, and impact fees.
   B.   The City shall make available to the Advisory Committee, upon request,
all financial and accounting information, professional reports in relation to
other development and implementation of land use assumptions, the capital
improvements plan and periodic updates of the capital improvements plan.
(Ord. 591, 10-20-2021)
1-20-11: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS:
   A.   As used in this chapter, masculine, feminine or neuter gender and the
singular or plural number shall each be deemed to include the others wherever
and whenever the context so dictates; the word shall, will or must is always
mandatory; the word may is permissive; and the word should indicates that which
is recommended, but not required.
   B.   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to create any additional
right to develop real property or diminish the power of the City in regulating
the orderly development of real property.
   C.   Nothing in this chapter shall limit or modify the rights of any person
to complete any development for which a lawful building permit was issued prior
to the effective date hereof.
   D.   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the City from requiring a
developer to construct reasonable project improvements in conjunction with a
project.
   E.   Nothing in this chapter shall limit the ability of the City to enter
into intergovernmental agreements as provided in section 67-8204A, Idaho Code.
   F.   Nothing in this chapter shall obligate the City to approve any
development request that may reasonably be expected to reduce levels of service
below minimum acceptable levels established in the development impact fee
study.
   G.   Nothing in this chapter shall obligate the City to approve development
which results in extraordinary impact.
   H.   Notwithstanding any agreement by the fee payer to pay the proportionate
share of system improvement costs documented by the supplemental study, nothing
in this chapter shall obligate the City to approve development that results in
an extraordinary impact.
   I.   Nothing in this chapter shall work to limit the use by the City of the
power of eminent domain or supersede or conflict with requirements or
procedures authorized in the Idaho Code for local improvement districts or
general obligation bond issues.
   J.   A development impact fee shall not exceed a proportionate share of the
cost of system improvements determined in accordance with section 67-8207,
Idaho Code. Development impact fees shall be based on actual system improvement
costs or reasonable estimates of such costs.
   K.   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent or prohibit
private agreements between developers, the City, the Idaho Transportation
Department, and/or other governmental entities in regard to the construction or
installation of system improvements or providing for credits or reimbursements
for system improvement costs incurred by a developer or fee payer, including
interproject transfers of credits, or providing for reimbursement for project
improvements that are used or shared by more than one development project. If
it can be shown that a proposed development has a direct impact on a public
facility under the jurisdiction of the Idaho Transportation Department, then
the agreement shall include a provision for the allocation of development
impact fees collected from the developer or fee payer for the improvement of
the public facility by the Idaho Transportation Department.
   L.   Nothing in this chapter shall restrict or diminish the power of the
City: 1) to impose reasonable conditions on the annexation of any property to
the City in accordance with Idaho Code, including conditions for recovery of
project or system improvement costs required as a result of such voluntary
annexation, or 2) to negotiate and execute development agreements that may
impose additional conditions on development, including the recovery of project
or system improvement costs, either in connection with a proposed annexation or
in connection with any other development within the City.
   M.   The impact fees described in this chapter, and the administrative
procedures of this chapter shall be reviewed at least once every five (5) years
to ensure that: 1) the demand and cost assumptions and other assumptions
underlying such impact fees are still valid; 2) the resulting impact fees do
not exceed the actual costs of providing City transportation infrastructure
required to serve new development; 3) the monies collected in any Impact Fee
Fund have been and are expected to be spent for system improvements of the type
for which such impact fees were paid; and 4) such system improvements will
benefit those developments for which the impact fees were paid.
   N.   Violation of this chapter shall be subject to those remedies provided
in this Code. Knowingly furnishing false information to any official of the
City charged with the administration of this chapter on any matter relating to
the administration of this chapter including, without limitation, the
furnishing of false information regarding the expected size or use of a
proposed development, shall be a violation of this chapter.
   O.   The captions used in this chapter are for convenience only and shall
not affect the interpretation of any portion of the text of this chapter.
(Ord. 591, 10-20-2021)
1-20-12: IMPACT FEE SCHEDULE:
                                                    Average
Land          Peak     Trip Gen Network    New Trip Trip    VMT Cost Traffic
Use  ITE Land Hour     Unit-    Adjustment Factor   Length  (per     Impact
Type Use Code Trip Gen Type     Factor     (Pass-   (miles) mile)    Fee per
              Rate                         By)      (See             Unit
                                                    Note 2)
                     Peak                        New     Average
              ITE    Hour             Network    Trip    Trip    VMT    Traffic
Land Use Type Land   Trip   Trip Gen  Adjustment Factor  Length  Cost   Impact
              Use    Gen    Unit-Type Factor     (Pass-  (miles) (per   Fee per
              Code   Rate                        By)     (See    mile)  Unit
                                                         Note 2)
                            Per
Single Family 210    0.495  dwelling  0.317      1.00    11.2    $2,883 $5050
Housing                     unit
                            (PDU)
Multifamily
Housing, Low- 220    0.28   PDU       0.317      1.00    11.2    $2,883 $2857
Rise
Multifamily
Housing, Mid- 221    0.22   PDU       0.317      1.00    11.2    $2,883 $2245
Rise
Mobile Home   240    0.23   PDU       0.317      1.00    11.2    $2,883 $2347
Accessory     See    0.155  PDU       0.317      1.00    11.2    $2,883 $1581
Dwelling Unit Note 1
Senior Adult
Housing-      252    0.13   PDU       0.317      1.00    11.2    $2,883 $1326
Attached
Senior Adult
Housing-      251    0.15   PDU       0.317      1.00    11.2    $2,883 $1530
Detached
Assisted      254    0.13   Per bed   0.317      1.00    11.2    $2,883 $1326
Living
Hotel         310    0.3    Per room  0.317      1.00    11.2    $2,883 $3061
Motel         320    0.19   Per room  0.317      1.00    11.2    $2,883 $1939
Automobile                  Per 1000
Car Center/   942    1.555  SF        0.317      0.72    2.8     $2,883 $2856
Repair
Automobile    843    2.455  Per 1000  0.317      0.57    2.8     $2,883 $3569
Parts Sales                 SF
Bank (No      911    6.065  Per 1000  0.317      0.65    2.8     $2,883 $10056
Drive-Thru)                 SF
Bank (With    912    10.225 Per 1000  0.317      0.65    2.8     $2,883 $16953
Drive-Thru)                 SF
Building                    Per 1000
Materials and 812    1.03   SF        0.317      1.00    11.2    $2,883 $10509
Lumber
Church        560    0.245  Per 1000  0.317      1.00    5.6     $2,883 $1250
                            SF
Coffee/Donut                Per 1000
Shop No       936    18.155 SF        0.317      0.50    2.8     $2,883 $23154
Drive-Thru
Coffee/Donut                Per 1000
Shop with     937    21.69  SF        0.317      0.50    2.8     $2,883 $27663
Drive-Thru
Coffee shop
with Drive-   938    41.665 Per 1000  0.317      0.11    2.8     $2,883 $11690
Thru No                     SF
Indoor Seats
Convenience
Market        851    24.555 Per 1000  0.317      0.49    2.8     $2,883 $30690
(24hrs, No                  SF
Gas)
Day Care      565    5.56   Per 1000  0.317      1.00    2.8     $2,883 $14182
                            SF
Discount Club 857    2.09   Per 1000  0.317      0.63    8.4     $2,883 $10076
                            SF
High-Cube
Transload and               Per 1000
Short-Term    154    0.05   SF        0.317      1.00    11.2    $2,883 $510
Storage
Warehouse
Drinking      925    5.68   Per 1000  0.317      0.57    2.8     $2,883 $8258
Place/Bar                   SF
Free-standing               Per 1000
Discount      815    2.415  SF        0.317      0.83    8.4     $2,883 $15339
Store
Free Standing               Per 1000
Discount      813    2.165  SF        0.317      0.83    8.4     $2,883 $13751
Superstore
Furniture     890    0.26   Per 1000  0.317      0.47    8.4     $2,883 $935
Store                       SF
Hardware/     816    1.34   Per 1000  0.317      0.74    8.4     $2,883 $7588
Paint Store                 SF
Home                        Per 1000
Improvement   862    1.165  SF        0.317      0.58    8.4     $2,883 $5171
Superstore
Hospital      610    0.485  Per 1000  0.317      1.00    8.4     $2,883 $3711
                            SF
Light         110    0.315  Per 1000  0.317      1.00    11.2    $2,883 $3214
Industrial                  SF
Manufacturing 140    0.335  Per 1000  0.317      1.00    11.2    $2,883 $3418
                            SF
Mini-
Warehouse     See    0.052  Per 1000  0.317      1.00    5.6     $2,883 $265
(Self         Note 1        SF
Storage)
Automobile    840    1.215  Per 1000  0.317      1.00    8.4     $2,883 $9297
Sales, New                  SF
Automobile    841    1.875  Per 1000  0.317      1.00    8.4     $2,883 $14348
Sales, Used                 SF
Pharmacy/Drug               Per 1000
Store (No     880    4.255  SF        0.317      0.47    2.8     $2,883 $5101
Drive-Thru)
Pharmacy/Drug               Per 1000
Store (With   881    5.145  SF        0.317      0.51    2.8     $2,883 $6693
Drive-Thru)
Restaurant-                 Per 1000
Fast Food (No 933    14.17  SF        0.317      0.57    2.8     $2,883 $20602
Drive-Thru)
Restaurant -
Fast Food     934    16.335 Per 1000  0.317      0.50    2.8     $2,883 $20883
(With Drive-                SF
Thru)
Restaurant-   932    4.885  Per 1000  0.317      0.57    2.8     $2,883 $7102
High Turnover               SF
Shopping      820    1.905  Per 1000  0.317      0.66    5.6     $2,883 $6414
Center                      SF
Supermarket                 Per 1000
(Free         850    4.62   SF        0.317      0.64    2.8     $2,883 $7542
Standing
Tire Store    848    1.99   Per 1000  0.317      0.72    8.4     $2,883 $10964
                            SF
Variety Story               Per 1000
(Dollars      814    3.42   SF        0.317      0.66    8.4     $2,883 $17273
Store)
Warehousing   150    0.095  Per 1000  0.317      1.00    11.2    $2,883 $969
                            SF
Gas Station                 Per
with Conv Mkt 945    6.995  fueling   0.317      0.44    2.8     $2,883 $7851
(Fueling                    position
position)
Gas station                 Per
(fueling      944    7.015  fueling   0.317      0.58    2.8     $2,883 $10378
Position)                   position
Golf Course   430    1.455  Per hole  0.317      1.00    11.2    $2,883 $14845
(Hole)
Movie Theater 444    0.045  Per seat  0.317      1.00    8.4     $2,883 $344
Public Park   411    0.055  Per acre  0.317      1.00    5.6     $2,883 $281
Quick                       Per
Lubrication   941    2.425  servicing 0.317      0.58    2.8     $2,883 $3588
                            positions
Self-Service  947    2.77   Per stall 0.317      0.58    2.8     $2,883 $6098
Car Wash
Sup Conv Mkt/               Per
Gas Station   960    11.48  fueling   0.317      0.44    2.8     $2,883 $12884
>3000 sf and                position
>10 FP
Dental/Vision See    1.315  Per 1000  0.317      1.00    8.4     $2,883 $10063
              Note 1        SF
General       710    0.575  Per 1000  0.317      1.00    8.4     $2,883 $4400
Office                      SF
Medical       720    1.73   Per 1000  0.317      1.00    8.4     $2,883 $13238
                            SF
 
‘Trip generation data based on local data. Collected by Ada County Highway
District (ACHD) through individual assessment process. 2 Vehicle trips
generated by commercial land uses typically have lower lengths than trips
generated by residential or office land-uses. The U.S. Department of
Transportation’s Summary of Travel Trends: 2017 National Household Travel
Survey states that the average trip length of shopping trips and other family/
personal errands are approximately 32% shorter than the average trip lengths
for all trips. The COMPASS 2012 Regional Household Travel Survey states that
Home-Based-Shop trips are approximately 59% shorter than Home-Based-Work trips.
Trip reduction factors of 75% (correlates with 25% decrease), 50%, and 25% were
applied to land uses that are expected to have average trip lengths lower than
11.2 miles. These reduction factors were applied based on the guidance in the
travel surveys and expected development patterns in the Mid-Star service area.
Commercial and office-related development is expected to be centered on the SH
44 corridor and will result in trip lengths significantly shorter than trips
that require travel external to the Mid-Star service area.
(Ord. 591, 10-20-2021)
CHAPTER 21
DISPOSITION OF SURPLUS PROPERTY
SECTION:
1-21-1: Surplus Property; Authorization; Declaration; Disposal; Prohibitions
1-21-2: Sale At Retail
1-21-1: SURPLUS PROPERTY; AUTHORIZATION; DECLARATION; DISPOSAL; PROHIBITIONS:
No employee of the city is authorized to sell, transfer or give away personal
or real property of the city except in accordance with this article and state
law. The unauthorized sale or transfer of property of the city by any employee,
other than by discarding as waste material at the sanitary landfill or similar
approved depository for refuse, shall constitute a misdemeanor, punishable as
provided in Idaho Code sections 50-302(1) and 18-113, as amended, in addition
to any other civil or equitable remedy which might be available to the city or
criminal charge that might be appropriate under the circumstances. Only the
city council has authority to declare property, whether real or personal, to be
surplus. The city clerk shall coordinate the disposal of all surplus property,
including land, buildings, equipment, and other city assets no longer required
for city use, in the manner which is in the best interests of the city and
which is consistent with the requirements of law.
   A.   Declaration Of Surplus; Disposal Of Personal Property: For an item or
batch of items estimated by the city clerk to be valued at less than one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00), and subject to the prohibitions set forth in
subsection (5) of this section, the city clerk shall have full discretion on
when and how such an item, or batch of items, shall be disposed of following
declaration by the city council that such property is surplus, unless specific
dispositive instructions are given by the city council in that declaration.
Surplus personal property estimated by the city clerk to have a value of one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00), or more, shall be disposed of in accordance with
the provisions set forth in subsection (4) of this section. The city council
may, in any resolution declaring personal property to be surplus, direct the
method of disposition. If no method of disposition is set forth in the
resolution, such property shall be disposed of in any manner consistent with
this article and state and federal law.
   B.   Declaration Of Surplus; Disposal Of Real Property: When appropriate,
the city shall declare city owned real property to be surplus and dispose of
such property in accordance with the requirements and procedures set forth in
Idaho Code section 50-1403.
   C.   Transfer Of Surplus Property To Other Government Agencies: When
appropriate and in the city’s best interest, the city clerk shall recommend to
the mayor and city council the transfer or donation of surplus property to
other government agencies in accordance with the requirements of Idaho Code.
   D.   Disposition Of Surplus Property: The city clerk may dispose of personal
property through a sale, or may, in the alternative, dispose of said property
through exchange for property to be acquired by the city.
      1.   All sales of surplus personal property, except as specifically
provided for herein, shall be made through a public sale or auction and shall
be preceded by some form of public notice, which shall include, at a minimum, a
posting for at least three (3) days on the city’s internet website. Except
where such procedures or requirements are set forth in Idaho Code, decisions
concerning the procedures to be followed for the sale and any additional notice
beyond that required above shall be made by the city clerk.
      2.   If any sale or auction of surplus personal property fails to produce
a buyer at a minimum price set by the city council, if a minimum price was set,
or, if no bids are received, the city clerk shall proceed to dispose of the
property at his or her discretion, subject to the prohibitions set forth in
subsection (5) of this section, in any appropriate manner designed to maximize
the financial return to the city, unless otherwise instructed by the city
council in its resolution declaring such property to be surplus.
      3.   In the event items of surplus personal property are determined to
have no salable value because of condition, obsolescence or inappropriateness
of use for the general public, the city clerk shall dispose of such items in
any manner appropriate, subject to the prohibitions set forth in subsection (5)
of this section.
      4.   When real or personal property is purchased, donated or otherwise
conveyed to the city and federal funding designated for the purpose of
assisting low to moderate income persons with decent, safe, affordable housing
opportunities, has been utilized to obtain or improve the property, it may be
offered for public sale. If the property is not sold through a public sale, the
property may be sold, donated or otherwise conveyed directly to a low to
moderate income person as approved by the city clerk and housing program
administrator. In either event, the sale or conveyance must be consistent with
the requirements of the applicable federal regulations under which the property
was obtained initially or improved.
      5.   All proceeds from the sale or auction of an item or batch of items
of surplus property shall be deposited into the miscellaneous revenue account
of the department from which such item or batch of items originated.
   E.   Parties Prohibited From Purchasing Surplus Property: It shall be
unlawful for any of the following persons to purchase surplus property at any
sale or auction: mayor, city clerk, members of the city council, appointed
officials or department heads. It shall likewise be unlawful for any
partnership or entity in which any of the foregoing persons have any financial
interest to purchase such property. No employer, business partner, business
associate, or immediate family member of one of the aforementioned persons
shall be permitted to purchase surplus property at any sale or auction.
Finally, no city employee involved in the sale of any specific item or batch of
items of surplus property shall be permitted to purchase said property.
(Ord. 660, 2-2-2022)
1-21-2: SALE AT RETAIL:
Notwithstanding any other provision of this code, the city may sell personal
property to employees and members of the public at retail at city facilities
and events. For purposes of this section “facilities and events” shall include,
but shall not be limited to, vending machines, snack bars, gift shops, pro
shops or other marketing methods catering to city employees or members of the
public utilizing city facilities or participation in city sponsored events.
(Ord. 660, 2-2-2022)
CHAPTER 22
POLICE IMPACT FEES
SECTION:
1-22-1: Findings
1-22-2: Authority, Applicability, And Effective Date
1-22-3: Intent
1-22-4: Imposition And Computation Of Impact Fees
1-22-5: Payment Of Impact Fees
1-22-6: Impact Fee Funds; Refunds Of Impact Fees Paid
1-22-7: Exemptions From Impact Fees
1-22-8: Credits; Reimbursements
1-22-9: Appeals
1-22-10: Impact Fee Advisory Committee
1-22-11: Miscellaneous Provisions
1-22-12: Fee Schedule
1-22-1: FINDINGS:
The City Council of the City of Middleton, Idaho finds that:
   A.   Based on the City of Middleton Comprehensive Plan adopted by the City
pursuant to title 67, chapter 65, Idaho Code, including but not limited to the
capital improvements element of the Comprehensive Plan, and the general
governmental goal of protecting the health, safety, and general welfare of the
citizens of the City, and its area of city impact, it is necessary that the
City's public police facilities accommodate new growth and development within
the City.
   B.   New residential and non-residential growth and development imposes and
will impose increasing and excessive demands upon the public facilities.
   C.   The revenues generated from new residential and non-residential growth
and development often do not generate sufficient funds to provide the necessary
improvements to these public facilities to accommodate new growth and
development.
   D.   New growth and development are expected to continue, and will place
ever-increasing demands on the City to provide and expand the public facilities
to serve new growth and development.
   E.   The City has planned for the improvement of the public facilities in
the capital improvements plan.
   F.   The creation of an equitable impact fee system would enable the City to
impose a proportionate share of the costs of needed improvements to the public
facilities to accommodate new growth and development, and would assist the City
in implementing the capital improvements element of the comprehensive plan.
   G.   In order to implement an equitable impact fee system for the public
facilities, the City retained Galena & Associates to prepare an impact fee
study for these types of facilities. The resulting document (the "impact fee
study") is on file in the office of the city clerk of the City of Middleton.
   H.   The impact fee study is consistent with the City of Middleton
Comprehensive Plan and the levels of service set forth in the impact fee study
are hereby adopted.
   I.   The impact fee study sets forth reasonable methodologies and analyses
for determining the impacts of residential and non-residential new growth and
development on the public facilities and determines the cost of acquiring or
constructing the improvements necessary to meet the demands for such public
facilities created by new growth and development.
   J.   The impact fee study uses a calculation methodology that is a net of
credits for the present value of revenues that will be generated by new growth
and development based on historical funding patterns and that are reasonably
anticipated to be available to pay for system improvements including user fees,
debt service payments, taxes, assessments, intergovernmental transfers, and all
other available sources of funding such system, and included consideration of
the following factors:
      1.   The cost of existing system improvements within the service area or
areas;
      2.   The means by which existing system improvements have been financed;
      3.   The extent to which the new development will contribute to the cost
of system improvements through taxation, assessment, or developer or landowner
contributions, or has previously contributed to the cost of system improvements
through developer or landowner contributions.
      4.   The extent to which the new development is required to contribute to
the cost of existing system improvements in the future.
      5.   The extent to which the new development should be credited for
providing system improvements, without charge to other properties within the
service area or areas;
      6.   Extraordinary costs, if any, incurred in serving the new
development;
      7.   The time and price differential inherent in a fair comparison of
fees paid at different times; and
      8.   The availability of other sources of funding system improvements
including, but not limited to, user charges, general tax levies,
intergovernmental transfers, and special taxation.
   K.   The impact fees are based on the impact fee study, and do not exceed
the costs of system improvements for the public facilities to serve new
development that will pay the impact fees.
   L.   The city police facilities included in the calculation of impact fees
in the impact fee study will benefit all new growth and development throughout
the City, and it is therefore appropriate to treat all areas of the City as a
single service area for purposes of calculating, collecting and spending the
impact fees collected.
   M.   There is both a rational nexus and a rough proportionality between the
development impacts created by each type of development covered by this chapter
and the impact fees that such development will be required to pay.
   N.   This chapter creates a system by which impact fees paid by new growth
and development will be used to finance, defray or to provide capital
improvements for the public facilities in ways that benefit the development for
which impact fees were paid.
   O.   This chapter creates a system under which impact fees shall not be used
to correct existing deficiencies in public facilities, or to replace or
rehabilitate existing public facilities, or to pay for routine operation or
maintenance of those public facilities.
   P.   This chapter creates a system under which there shall be no double
payment of impact fees, in accordance with Idaho Code section 67-8204(19).
   Q.   This chapter is consistent with all applicable provisions of title 67,
chapter 82, Idaho Code, concerning impact fee ordinances.
   R.   This chapter shall not be deemed invalid because payment of an impact
fee may result in an incidental benefit to others within the service area other
than the fee payer. (Ord. 643, 11-10-2020)
1-22-2: AUTHORITY, APPLICABILITY, AND EFFECTIVE DATE:
   A.   This chapter is enacted pursuant to the City's general police powers
pursuant to the authority granted to the City by title 50, Idaho Code, and
pursuant to the authority granted to the City by section 67-8201, et seq.,
Idaho Code.
   B.   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all territory within the
limits of the City. (Ord. 643, 11-10-2020)
1-22-3: INTENT:
   A.   The intent of this chapter is to promote the health, safety and general
welfare of the residents of the City and its area of city impact.
   B.   The intent of this chapter is to be consistent with those principles
for allocating a fair and proportionate share of the cost of capital
improvements to public facilities to serve new development in compliance with
the provisions set forth in section 67-8201, et seq., Idaho Code. The
provisions of this chapter shall be interpreted, construed and enforced in
accordance with the provisions set forth in section 67-8201, et seq., Idaho
Code.
   C.   The intent of this chapter is that impact fees should be charged,
collected, and expended for City police capital improvements to increase the
service capacity of those public facilities, which capital improvements are
included in approved capital improvements plans that list the capital
improvements that may be funded with impact fees.
   D.   The intent of this chapter is to ensure that public facilities are
available to serve new development; new development bears a proportionate share
of the cost of city police capital improvements to such public facilities; to
ensure that such proportionate share does not exceed the cost of the capital
improvements to such public facilities required to serve new development; and
to ensure that the funds collected from new development are used for capital
improvements for public facilities that benefit new development.
   E.   It is not the intent of this chapter to collect any monies from new
development in excess of the actual amount necessary to offset new demands for
capital improvements to public facilities created by such new development.
   F.   It is not the intent of this chapter that the impact fees be used to
remedy any deficiency in city police facilities existing on the effective date
of this chapter, or ever be used to replace, rehabilitate, maintain and/or
operate any public facilities.
   G.   It is not the intent of this chapter that any monies collected from an
impact fee deposited in an impact fee fund ever be commingled with monies from
a different fund, or ever be used for capital improvements that are different
from those for which the impact fee was paid.
   H.   It is not the intent of this chapter that impact fees be used for:
      1.   Construction, acquisition or expansion of public facilities other
than capital improvements identified in the Capital Improvements Plan.
      2.   Repair, operation or maintenance of existing or new capital
improvements.
      3.   Upgrading, updating, expanding or replacing existing capital
improvements to serve existing development in order to meet stricter safety,
efficiency, environmental or regulatory standards.
      4.   Upgrading, updating, expanding or replacing existing capital
improvements to serve existing development to provide better service to
existing development.
      5.   Administrative and operating costs of the City unless such costs are
attributable to development of the Capital Improvements Plan used to determine
impact fees by a surcharge imposed by ordinance on the collection of an impact
fee, which surcharge shall not exceed a development's proportionate share of
the cost of preparing the Capital Improvements Plan.
      6.   Principal payments and interest or other finance charges on bonds or
other indebtedness except financial obligations issued by or on behalf of the
City to finance capital improvements identified in the Capital Improvements
Plan. (Ord. 643, 11-10-2020)
1-22-4: IMPOSITION AND COMPUTATION OF IMPACT FEES:
   A.   The development impact fee reflects the need for capital improvements
to public facilities created by new development. Any application for a building
permit enabling the construction and, in the case of construction that does not
require a building permit, any building that takes place on or after the
effective date of this chapter shall be subject to the imposition of impact
fees in the manner and amount set forth in this chapter. The methodology
adopted for the purpose of determining city police impact fees shall be based
upon the assumptions set forth in the impact fee study and pursuant to the
following:
      1.   The development impact fee shall not exceed the proportionate share
of the costs incurred or the costs that will be incurred by the City in the
provision of system improvements to serve new development.
      2.   The proportionate share is the cost attributable to the new
development after consideration by the City of the following factors:
         a.   Any appropriate credit, offset or contribution of money,
dedication of land, or construction of system improvements;
         b.   Payments reasonably anticipated to be made by or as a result of a
new development in the form of user fees and debt service payments;
         c.   That portion of general tax and other revenues allocated by the
jurisdiction to system improvements; and
         d.   All other available sources of funding such system improvements.
      3.   In determining the proportionate share of the cost of system
improvements to be paid by the developer, the following additional factors
shall be considered:
         a.   The cost of existing system improvements within the service area
or areas;
         b.   The means by which existing system improvements have been
financed;
         c.   The extent to which the new development will contribute to the
cost of system improvements through taxation, assessment, or developer or
landowner contributions, or has previously contributed to the cost of system
improvements through developer or landowner contributions.
         d.   The extent to which the new development is required to contribute
to the cost of existing system improvements in the future.
         e.   The extent to which the new development should be credited for
providing system improvements, without charge to other properties within the
service area or areas;
         f.   Extraordinary costs, if any, incurred in serving the new
development;
         g.   The time and price differential inherent in a fair comparison of
fees paid at different times; and
         h.   The availability of other sources of funding system improvements
including, but not limited to, user charges, general tax levies,
intergovernmental transfers, and special taxation. The governmental entity
shall develop a plan for alternative sources of revenue.
      4.   Based upon the foregoing, the current police impact fees for the
City of Middleton are as follows:    
 
New Single Family Residential (per EDU) $337
New Multifamily Residential             $344
Nonresidential (per 1,000 square feet)
 Retail                                $422
 Office                                $163
 Industrial                            $73
Institutional                           $293
 
   B.   Impact fees shall be required as a condition of approval of all
residential and non-residential development in the service area for which a
building permit is required and shall be payable prior to the issuance of any
building permit (or installation permit in the case of a manufactured home) for
a dwelling unit. Except as otherwise provided herein, after the effective date
of this chapter, no building permit shall be issued until the impact fees
described in this chapter have been paid, unless the development for which the
permit is sought is exempted or approved credits are used to cover the impact
fee. The City shall have the authority to withhold a building permit, stop
construction, withhold utility services or impose liens as the case may be,
until the appropriate impact fee has been collected.
   C.   After payment of the development impact fees or execution of an
agreement for payment of development impact fees, additional development impact
fees or increases in fees may not be assessed unless the number of service
units increases or the scope or schedule of the development changes. In the
event of an increase in the number of service units or schedule of the
development changes, the additional development impact fees to be imposed are
limited to the amount attributable to the additional service units or change in
scope of the development.
   D.   A fee payer required to pay an impact fee may choose to have the amount
of such impact fee determined pursuant to either the fee schedule (whereupon
such payment shall be recognized as full and complete payment of the
development's proportionate share of system improvement costs, except as
provided in Idaho Code section 67-8214(3)) or subsections E through G below).
If the fee payer chooses to have the amount of such impact fee determined
pursuant to subsections E through G below, such impact fee shall be subject to
the adjustment described in section 04-05-09, if applicable. If the project is
a mix of those uses listed on the fee schedule, then the impact fees shall be
determined by adding up the impact fees that would be payable for each use as
if it were a freestanding use pursuant to the fee schedule.
   E.   Individual assessment of impact fees is permitted in situations where
the fee payer can demonstrate by clear and convincing evidence that the
established impact fee is inappropriate for the project. Written application
for individual assessment shall be made to the City at any time prior to
receiving building permit(s). Late applications for individual assessment of
impact fees may be considered for a period of sixty (60) days after the receipt
of a building permit only if the fee payer makes a showing that the facts
supporting such application were not known or discoverable prior to receipt of
a building permit and that undue hardship would result if said application is
not considered. Such independent impact fee calculation study for the fee
payer's development shall be prepared at the fee payer's cost by a qualified
professional and contain studies, data and other relevant information and be
submitted to the City for review. Any such study shall be based on the same
methodology and the same level of service standards, improvements and costs
used in the impact fee study, and must document the methodologies and
assumptions used. The City may hire a professional consultant to review any
independent impact fee calculation study on behalf of the City, and may charge
the reasonable costs of such review to the fee payer.
   F.   Any independent impact fee calculation study submitted by a fee payer
may be accepted, rejected or accepted with modifications by the City as the
basis for calculating impact fees. The City shall not be required to accept any
study or documentation the City reasonably deems to be inaccurate or
unreliable, and shall have the authority to request that the fee payer submit
additional or different documentation for consideration in connection with
review of any independent impact fee calculation. If such additional or
different documentation is accepted or accepted with modifications as a more
accurate measure of the impact fees due in connection with fee payer's proposed
development than the applicable Impact fees set forth in subsection the fee
schedule, then the impact fee due under this chapter shall be calculated
according to such documentation.
   G.   The City shall render a written decision establishing the impact fees
in connection with the individual assessment within thirty (30) days of the
date a complete application is submitted. The decision shall include an
explanation of the calculation of the impact fees, shall specify the system
improvement(s) for which the impact fees are intended to be used, and shall
include an explanation of the factors considered pursuant to Idaho Code section
67-8207.
   H.   Certification of the impact fee for a project may be applied for in the
following manner:
      1.   Written application may be made to the City not later than sixty
(60) days after development approval by the City Council. Late applications for
certification of the impact fee will not be considered unless the fee payer
makes a showing that the facts supporting such application were not known or
discoverable until after the time had run and that undue hardship would result
if said application is not considered.
      2.   The City shall provide the fee payer with a written impact fee
certification for the project within thirty (30) days of the date a complete
application is submitted. The certification provided by the City shall
establish the impact fee for the project in question so long as there is no
material change to the project as identified in the certification application
or the impact fee schedule. The certification shall include an explanation of
the calculation of the impact fees, shall specify the system improvement(s) for
which the impact fees are intended to be used, and shall include an explanation
of the factors considered, which factors are identified in subsection G above.
   I.   Appeals of the City's determination of an individual assessment or
certification shall be made to the City as provided further in this chapter.
   J.   There may be circumstances where the anticipated fiscal impacts of a
proposed development are of such magnitude that the City may be unable to
accommodate the development without excessive or unscheduled public
expenditures that exceed the amount of the anticipated impact fees from such
development. If the City determines that a proposed development would create
such an extraordinary impact on the City's police, the City may refuse to
approve the proposed development and/or may recommend to the other affected
government agencies that the project not be approved. In the alternative, the
City may calculate a pro rata share per dwelling unit, or square feet of
nonresidential buildings, of the extraordinary impact and charge a reasonable
extraordinary impact fee that is greater than would ordinarily be charged
pursuant to the fee schedule.
   K.   If the City discovers an error in its impact fee formula that results
in assessment or payment of more than a proportionate share, City shall, at the
time of assessment on a case by case basis, adjust the impact fee to collect no
more than a proportionate share or discontinue the collection of any impact
fees until the error is corrected by ordinance. (Ord. 643, 11-10-2020; amd.
Ord. 686, 11-15-2023)
1-22-5: PAYMENT OF IMPACT FEES:
   A.   After the effective date of this chapter all fee payers shall pay the
impact fees as provided by this chapter to the City following application for a
building permit and prior to the issuance of any building permit.
   B.   All impact fees paid by a fee payer pursuant to this chapter shall be
promptly deposited in the impact fee fund.
   C.   Taxing districts shall be subject to payment of impact fees on all
developments in the City pursuant to the terms of this chapter unless the City
and the taxing district enter into a written agreement that provides otherwise.
(Ord. 643, 11-10-2020)
1-22-6: IMPACT FEE FUNDS; REFUNDS OF IMPACT FEES PAID:
   A.   There is hereby established a City Police Impact Fee Fund into which
shall be deposited all police impact fees for the purpose of ensuring City
police impact fees collected pursuant hereto are designated for the
accommodation of City police capital improvements reasonably necessary to serve
new development that paid the impact fee.
   B.   Each fund shall be an interest-bearing account which shall be accounted
for separately from other impact fee funds and from other City funds. Any
interest or other income earned on monies deposited in a fund shall be credited
to such fund. Expenditures of impact fees shall be made only for the category
of system improvements for which the impact fees were collected and as
identified in the Capital Improvements Plan.
   C.   Except as otherwise provided herein, monies from the fund, including
any accrued interest, shall be limited to the financing of acquisition,
expansion, and/or improvement of capital improvements, or for principal and
interest payments on bonds or other borrowed revenues used to acquire, expand
or improve such capital improvements, necessary to serve new development.
Impact fees in each fund shall be spent within eight (8) years from the date
such impact fees were collected on a first-in/first-out (FIFO) basis. The City
may hold the impact fees longer than the prescribed time period if the City
identifies, in writing: (1) a reasonable cause why the impact fees should be
held longer; and (2) an anticipated date by which the impact fees will be
expended but in no event longer than eleven (11) years from the date the impact
fees were collected.
   D.   The City shall prepare annual reports to be provided to the Advisory
Committee and the City Council, which reports shall: (1) describe the amount of
all impact fees collected, appropriated or spent for system improvements during
the preceding year, as applicable, by category of public facility and service
area; and (2) describe the percentage of tax and revenues other than impact
fees collected, appropriated or spent for system improvements during the
preceding year, as applicable, by category of public facility and service area.
   E.   Funds shall be deemed expended when payment of such funds has been
approved by the City. The fee payer or successor in interest shall be entitled
to a refund of the impact fee if:
      1.   Service is available but never provided;
      2.   A building permit or permit for installation of a manufactured home
is revoked or abandoned;
      3.   The City, after collecting the impact fee when service is not
available, has failed to appropriate and expend the collected impact fees; or
      4.   The fee payer pays an impact fee under protest and a subsequent
review of the impact fee paid or the completion of an individual assessment
determines that the impact fee paid exceeded the proportionate share to which
the City was entitled to receive.
   F.   When the right to a refund exists, within ninety (90) days after the
City determines that a refund is due, the City shall provide written notice of
entitlement to a refund, to the owner of record and the fee payer who paid the
impact fees at the address shown on the application for development approval,
or to a successor in interest who has notified the City of a transfer of the
right or entitlement to a refund and who has provided to the City a mailing
address. When the right to a refund exists, the City shall also publish the
notice of entitlement to a refund within thirty (30) days after the expiration
of the eight (8) year period after the date that the impact fees were
collected. Such published notice shall contain the heading "Notice of
Entitlement to Impact Fee Refund."
   G.   A refund shall include interest at one-half (1/2) the legal rate
provided for in section 28-22-104, Idaho Code, from the date on which the
impact fee was originally paid.
   H.   In order to be eligible for a refund, a fee payer, successor in
interest or owner of record shall file a written application for a refund with
the City within six (6) months of the time such refund becomes payable under
subsection C above, or within six (6) months of publication of the notice of
entitlement to a refund, whichever is later. If a successor in interest claims
a refund of impact fees, the City may require written documentation that such
rights have been transferred to the claimant prior to issuing the requested
refund. Refunds shall be paid within sixty (60) days after the date on which
the City determines that a sufficient proof of claim for a refund has been
made.
   I.   Any person entitled to a refund shall have standing to sue for a refund
under the provisions of this chapter if there has not been a timely payment of
a refund as provided herein.
(Ord. 643, 11-10-2020)
1-22-7: EXEMPTIONS FROM IMPACT FEES:
   A.   The following types of land development shall be exempted from payment
of the impact fees imposed by this chapter:
      1.   Rebuilding the same amount of square feet of a dwelling unit or
nonresidential structure that was destroyed by fire or other catastrophe,
provided that the structure is rebuilt and ready for occupancy within two (2)
years of its destruction.
      2.   Construction of an unoccupied, detached accessory structure, or
addition of uses related to a dwelling unit unless it can be clearly
demonstrated that the use creates a significant impact on the capacity of
system improvements.
      3.   Remodeling or repairing a dwelling unit or a nonresidential
structure in a manner that does not increase the number of service units.
      4.   Replacing a dwelling unit with another dwelling unit on the same
lot, provided that the number of service units does not increase.
      5.   Placing a temporary construction trailer or office on a lot.
      6.   Constructing an addition on a residential structure which does not
increase the number of service units.
      7.   Adding uses that are typically accessory to residential uses, such
as tennis courts or clubhouse, unless it can be clearly demonstrated that the
use creates a significant impact on the capacity of system improvements.
   B.   An impact fee will be assessed for installation of a modular building,
manufactured home or recreational vehicle unless the fee payer can demonstrate
by documentation such as utility bills and tax records, either: (1) that a
modular building, manufactured home or recreational vehicle was legally in
place on the lot or space prior to the effective date of this chapter; or (2)
that an impact fee has been paid previously for the installation of a modular
building, manufactured home or recreational vehicle on that same lot or space.
Lawful storage of a recreational vehicle shall not be deemed installation for
purposes of this chapter.
(Ord. 643, 11-10-2020)
1-22-8: CREDITS; REIMBURSEMENTS:
   A.   No fee payer shall be required to construct, fund or contribute any
capital improvement to meet the same need for city police for which an impact
fee is imposed. All system improvements constructed, funded or contributed over
and above the proportionate share of system improvement costs, including such
system improvements paid for pursuant to a local improvement district, shall
result in either a credit on future impact fees or reimbursement (at the fee
payer's option) for such excess construction, funding or contribution to be
paid from impact fees paid by future development that benefits from such system
improvements constructed, funded or contributed by the fee payer. However, no
credit or reimbursement shall be provided for: (1) project improvements; (2)
any construction, funding or contribution not agreed to in writing by the City
prior to commencement of such construction, funding or contribution; (3) any
construction, funding or contribution of a type of capital improvements not
included in the calculation of the applicable impact fee; and (4) any
improvement required by an agency other than the City for that agency's
development approval.
   B.   In the calculation of an individual assessment of impact fees for a
project, credit shall be given for the present value of all tax and user fee
revenue generated by the fee payer within the service area and used by the City
for system improvements of the category for which the impact fee is being
collected. If the amount of such credit exceeds the impact fee for a project,
the fee payer shall receive a credit on future impact fees. The credit may be
applied by the fee payer as an offset against future impact fees only in the
service area where the credit was generated.
   C.   In the calculation of impact fees for a project, credit or
reimbursement (at the fee payer's option) shall be given for the present value
of any construction of system improvements or contribution of land or money
required by the City from the developer for system improvements of the category
for which the impact fee is being collected, including system improvements paid
for through local improvement district assessments. Credit or reimbursement
shall not be given for project improvement.
   D.   If credit or reimbursement is due to the fee payer, the City and fee
payer shall enter into a written agreement, negotiated in good faith, prior to
the construction, funding or contribution. The written agreement shall include,
without limitation a description of the construction, funding or contribution
of system improvements including, in the case of real property, a legal
description of the real property; description as to how the system improvements
are to be valued; the amount of the credit or the amount, time and form of
reimbursement; instructions as to how the capital improvements should be
provided to the City to ensure full transfer of ownership; and the
circumstances under which the credit or reimbursement is deemed effective. To
assist in such reimbursement, the City shall continue to collect impact fees
from other developers whose proposed developments will benefit from such
construction, funding or contribution, and will promptly transfer such funds to
the fee payer. If a successor in interest claims a reimbursement or credit, the
City may require written documentation that such rights have been conveyed to
the claimant prior to issuing the requested reimbursement or credit.
   E.   Approved credits may be used to reduce the amount of impact fees in
connection with any new development until the amount of the credit is
exhausted. Each time a request to use approved credits is presented to the
City, the City shall reduce the amount of the applicable impact fee otherwise
due from the fee payer and shall note in the City records the amount of credit
remaining, if any. Upon request of the fee payer, the City shall issue a letter
stating the amount of credit available. If the credit has not been exhausted
within eight (8) years of the date of issuance of the first building permit for
which an impact fee was due and payable, or within such other time period as
may be designated in writing by the City, such credit shall lapse, unless a
refund of the remaining credit is applied for.
   F.   Approved credits or reimbursement shall only be used to reduce the
amount of the impact fee of the category for which the impact fee is otherwise
due, and shall not be paid to the fee payer in cash or in credits against any
other monies due from the fee payer to the City.
   G.   Credit for land dedications shall, at the fee payer's option, be valued
at (1) one hundred percent (100%) of the most recent assessed value for such
land as shown in the records of the Canyon County Assessor; or (2) that fair
market value established by a private appraiser reasonably acceptable to the
City in an appraisal paid for by the fee payer. Credit for contribution or
construction of system improvements shall be valued by the City based on
complete engineering drawings, specifications, and construction cost estimates
submitted by the fee payer to the City, which estimates shall be revised as
actual costs become available. The City shall determine the amount of credit
due based on the information submitted, or, if the City determines that such
information is inaccurate or unreliable, then on alternative engineering or
construction costs reasonably acceptable to the City as a more accurate measure
of the value of the offered system improvements to the City.
   H.   Approved credits for land dedications shall become effective when the
land has been conveyed to the City in a form reasonably acceptable to the City
at no cost to the City, and has been accepted by the City. Approved credits for
contribution or construction of system improvements shall generally become
effective when: (1) all required construction has been completed and has been
accepted by the City; and (2) all design, construction, inspection, testing,
bonding, and acceptance procedures have been completed in compliance with all
applicable requirements of the City. Approved credits for the construction of
system improvements may become effective at an earlier date if the fee payer
posts security in the form of a performance bond, irrevocable letter of credit
or escrow agreement in the amount and under terms reasonably acceptable to the
City.
   I.   Credit may only be transferred by a fee payer that has received credit
to such fee payer's successor in interest. The credit may be used only to
offset impact fees for the same category for which the credit was issued.
Credits shall be transferred by any written instrument clearly identifying
which credits are being transferred, the dollar amount of the credit being
transferred, and the system improvements for which the credit was issued. The
instrument of transfer shall be signed by both the transferor and transferee,
and a copy of the document shall be delivered to the City for documentation of
the transfer before the transfer shall be deemed effective.
   J.   Suitability Of Land Offered For Dedication: In the event that a
developer intends to contribute or dedicate an interest in land in lieu of
paying impact fees or a portion thereof, the following procedures and criteria
shall be applied:
      1.   The City with the advice of the appropriate department head and the
City Attorney will determine whether the land proposed for dedication is
acceptable based upon the following considerations:
         a.   Size: The size of the parcel is expressed as a net amount and is
exclusive of street right-of-way, existing and proposed easements, borrow pits,
lakes, and other man-made or natural conditions which restrict or impede the
intended use of such areas.
         b.   Unity: The land to be dedicated shall form a single parcel of
land except where aforesaid review determines that two or more parcels would be
in the best public interest.
         c.   Shape: The configuration of the parcel of land is such as to be
usable for public facilities purposes as determined by the City.
         d.   Location: The land to be dedicated is so located as to serve the
needs of the development, by being within the service area public facilities.
         e.   Access: Appropriate access to the land to be dedicated is
provided by improved public street frontage.
         f.   Utility: Dedicated land should be usable for public facilities
purposes and meet the following criteria prior to its final acceptance by the
City:
            (1)   The property is platted and ready to be developed.
            (2)   All utilities are in place and are at the perimeter of the
site and include roads, walks, curbs, water lines, sewer lines, electric
service lines, and telephone service lines.
            (3)   All utilities are of sufficient quality and quantity to
adequately service the site.
            (4)   The property is filled and compacted to comply with all
appropriate subdivision codes, building and zoning codes, and flood insurance
laws and regulations. The fill and compaction are of sufficient quality to
accept the contemplated improvements.
         g.   Plans: City, regional, and state plans shall be taken into
consideration when evaluating land proposals for dedication.
      2.   Appeals of the City's determination of land suitability shall be
made to the City Council by the filing of an appeal with the city clerk no
later than ten (10) days following the date of the decision of the City.
(Ord. 643, 11-10-2020)
1-22-9: APPEALS:
The decisions of the City may be appealed as provided below:
   A.   Any fee payer who is or may be obligated to pay an impact fee may
appeal a decision made by the City in applying this chapter to the City
Council's designee. Such decisions that may be appealed include:
      1.   The applicability of an impact fee to the development.
      2.   The amount of an impact fee to be paid for the development.
      3.   The availability, amount or application of any credit.
      4.   The amount of any refund, reimbursement or credit.
      5.   Any discretionary action or inaction by or on behalf of the City.
   A fee payer may pay an impact fee under protest in order to obtain a
development approval or building permit(s) and, by paying such impact fee,
shall not be estopped from exercising the right of appeal provided herein, nor
shall the fee payer be estopped from receiving a refund of any amount deemed to
have been illegally collected. Upon final disposition of an appeal, the impact
fee shall be adjusted in accordance with the decision rendered and, if
necessary, a refund paid.
   B.   In order to pursue an appeal, the fee payer shall file a written notice
of appeal with the City Council's designee within fifteen (15) days after the
date of the decision being appealed, or the date on which the fee payer
submitted a payment of impact fees under protest, whichever is later. Such
written application shall include a statement describing why the appellant
believes that the decision was in error; together with copies of any documents
that the appellant believes supports the claim.
   C.   The City Council's designee shall notify the fee payer of the hearing
date on the appeal, which notice shall be given no less than fifteen (15) days
prior to the date of the hearing, and shall hear the appeal within thirty (30)
days after receipt of a written notice of appeal. The appellant shall have a
right to be present and to present evidence in support of the appeal. The City
who made the decision under appeal shall likewise have the right to be present
and to present evidence in support of the decision. The burden of proof in any
such hearing shall be on the fee payer to demonstrate that the amount of the
impact fee, credit, reimbursement or refund was not properly calculated by the
City.
   D.   The criteria to be used by the City Council's designee shall be
whether: (1) the decision or interpretation made by the City; or (2) the
alternative decision or interpretation offered by the appellant, more
accurately reflects the intent of this chapter that new development in the City
pay its proportionate share of the costs of system improvements for public
facilities necessary to serve new growth and development. The City Council's
designee may affirm, reject or revise the decision of the City, providing
written findings of fact and conclusions, within fifteen (15) days after
hearing the appeal. The City Council's designee shall modify the amount of the
impact fee, credit, refund or reimbursement only if there is substantial
evidence in the record that the City erred, based upon the methodologies
contained in the impact fee study, this chapter and/or the Capital Improvements
Plan. The decision of the City Council's designee shall be final.
   E.   Upon voluntary agreement by the fee payer and the City, the fee payer
and the City may enter into mediation with a qualified independent party to
address a disagreement related to the impact fee for proposed development.
Costs for the independent mediation service shall be shared equally by the fee
payer and the City. Mediation may take place at any time during an appeals
process and participation in mediation does not preclude the fee payer from
pursuing other remedies.
(Ord. 643, 11-10-2020)
1-22-10: IMPACT FEE ADVISORY COMMITTEE:
   A.   The City has established an advisory committee. The advisory committee
shall continue to be composed of not fewer than five (5) members appointed by
the City Council. Two (2) or more members of the advisory committee shall be
active in the business of development, building or real estate. The advisory
committee shall serve in an advisory capacity to the City Council and is
established to:
      1.   Assist the City in adopting land use assumptions;
      2.   Review the Capital Improvements Plan, and proposed amendments, and
file written comments;
      3.   Monitor and evaluate implementation of the Capital Improvements
Plan;
      4.   File periodic reports, at least annually, with respect to the
Capital Improvements Plan and report to the City any perceived inequities in
implementing the Capital Improvements Plan or imposing the impact fees; and
      5.   Advise the City of the need to update or revise land use
assumptions, the Capital Improvements Plan, and impact fees.
   B.   The City shall make available to the advisory committee, upon request,
all financial and accounting information, professional reports in relation to
other development and implementation of land use assumptions, the Capital
Improvements Plan and periodic updates of the Capital Improvements Plan.
(Ord. 643, 11-10-2020)
1-22-11: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS:
   A.   As used in this chapter, masculine, feminine or neuter gender and the
singular or plural number shall each be deemed to include the others wherever
and whenever the context so dictates; the word shall, will or must is always
mandatory; the word may is permissive; and the word should indicates that which
is recommended, but not required.
   B.   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to create any additional
right to develop real property or diminish the power of the City in regulating
the orderly development of real property.
   C.   Nothing in this chapter shall limit or modify the rights of any person
to complete any development for which a lawful building permit was issued prior
to the effective date of this chapter.
   D.   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the City from requiring a
developer to construct reasonable project improvements in conjunction with a
project.
   E.   Nothing in this chapter shall limit the ability of the City to enter
into intergovernmental agreements as provided in section 67-8204A, Idaho Code.
   F.   Nothing in this chapter shall obligate the City to approve any
development request that may reasonably be expected to reduce levels of service
below minimum acceptable levels established in the development impact fee
study.
   G.   Nothing in this chapter shall obligate the City to approve development
which results in extraordinary impact.
   H.   Notwithstanding any agreement by the fee payer to pay the proportionate
share of system improvement costs documented by the supplemental study, nothing
in this chapter shall obligate the City to approve development that results in
an extraordinary impact.
   I.   Nothing in this chapter shall work to limit the use by the City of the
power of eminent domain or supersede or conflict with requirements or
procedures authorized in the Idaho Code for local improvement districts or
general obligation bond issues.
   J.   A development impact fee shall not exceed a proportionate share of the
cost of system improvements determined in accordance with section 67-8207,
Idaho Code. Development impact fees shall be based on actual system improvement
costs or reasonable estimates of such costs.
   K.   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent or prohibit
private agreements between developers, the City, the Idaho Transportation
Department, and/or other governmental entities in regard to the construction or
installation of system improvements or providing for credits or reimbursements
for system improvement costs incurred by a developer or fee payer, including
inter-project transfers of credits, or providing for reimbursement for project
improvements that are used or shared by more than one development project. If
it can be shown that a proposed development has a direct impact on a public
facility under the jurisdiction of the Idaho Transportation Department, then
the agreement shall include a provision for the allocation of development
impact fees collected from the developer or fee payer for the improvement of
the public facility by the Idaho Transportation Department.
   L.   Nothing in this chapter shall restrict or diminish the power of the
City (1) to impose reasonable conditions on the annexation of any property to
the City in accordance with Idaho Code, including conditions for recovery of
project or system improvement costs required as a result of such voluntary
annexation; or (2) to negotiate and execute development agreements that may
impose additional conditions on development, including the recovery of project
or system improvement costs, either in connection with a proposed annexation or
in connection with any other development within the City.
   M.   The impact fees described in this chapter, and the administrative
procedures of this chapter shall be reviewed at least once every five (5) years
to ensure that (1) the demand and cost assumptions and other assumptions
underlying such impact fees are still valid; (2) the resulting impact fees do
not exceed the actual costs of providing city police facilities required to
serve new development; (3) the monies collected in any impact fee fund have
been and are expected to be spent for system improvements of the type for which
such impact fees were paid; and (4) such system improvements will benefit those
developments for which the impact fees were paid.
   N.   Violation of this chapter shall be subject to those remedies provided
in this code. Knowingly furnishing false information to any official of the
City charged with the administration of this chapter on any matter relating to
the administration of this chapter including, without limitation, the
furnishing of false information regarding the expected size or use of a
proposed development, shall be a violation of this chapter.
   O.   The captions used in this chapter are for convenience only and shall
not affect the interpretation of any portion of the text of this chapter.
(Ord. 643, 11-10-2020)
1-22-12: FEE SCHEDULE:
See section
1-20-1 of this code for the impact fees enacted by this chapter.
(Ord. 643, 11-10-2020)
CHAPTER 23
FIRE DISTRICT DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEES
SECTION:
1-23-1: Short Title, Applicability, Findings And Purpose
1-23-2: Definitions
1-23-3: Imposition Of Fire District Impact Fee
1-23-4: Collection Of Fire District Impact Fees
1-23-5: Exemptions
1-23-6: Individual Assessment Process
1-23-7: Developer Credits And Reimbursement
1-23-8: Methodology For Calculation Of Fire District Impact Fees
1-23-9: Extraordinary Impacts
1-23-10: Fee Payer Refunds
1-23-11: Establishment Of Fire District Trust Fund And Trust Accounts
1-23-12: Expenditure Of Fire District Impact Fees
1-23-13: Appeals, Protest And Mediation
1-23-14: Periodic Reviews
1-23-15: Audit
1-23-16: Star Fire Development Impact Fee Advisory Standing Committee
1-23-17: Enforcement And Collection
1-23-18: City/Fire District Intergovernmental Agreement
1-23-19: Miscellaneous Provisions
1-23-20: Punishment
1-23-21: Construction Of Intent
1-23-1: SHORT TITLE, APPLICABILITY, FINDINGS AND PURPOSE:
   A.   Short title. This Chapter shall be known and may be cited as the Star
Fire Protection District Development Impact Fee Ordinance.
   B.   Authority. This ordinance is enacted pursuant to the City’s general
police powers, its authority to enact ordinances, and its authority as provided
by the Idaho Development Impact Fee Act codified at Chapter 82 of Title 67,
Idaho Code (the “Act”) and other applicable laws of the state of Idaho to
impose development impact fees; and the City’s and the Fire District’s
Authority to enter into an Intergovernmental Agreement as provided for in Idaho
Code § 67-8204A to impose, collect and expend development impact fees.
   C.   Applicability. Except as otherwise exempted in section
1-23-5 , these provisions shall apply to the Development of property located
within the boundaries of the City of Middleton, Idaho that are also within the
boundaries of the Star Fire Protection District.
   D.   Findings:
      1.   The Star Fire Protection District, (the “Fire District”) is a fire
district organized and existing by virtue of the Fire Protection District Law
Chapter 14 of Title 31, Idaho Code, and its boundaries include areas within the
City limits of the City of Middleton (the “City”) and areas surrounding the
City on the north, east, and the Fire District provides fire and emergency
services within the City; and
      2.   The Fire District’s duty and responsibility is to provide protection
of property against fire and the preservation of life, and enforcement of any
of the fire codes and other rules that are adopted by the state fire marshal;
and
      3.   The City is experiencing considerable growth and Development; and
      4.   The purposes of the Act [Idaho Code § 67-8202] are as follows:
         a.   Ensure that adequate public facilities are available to serve new
growth and Development;
         b.   Promote orderly growth and Development by establishing uniform
standards by which local governments, such as the City and the Fire District,
may require those who benefit from new growth and Development pay [development
impact fees] their proportionate share of the costs of new public facilities
needed to serve that new growth and Development; and
         c.   Establish minimum standards for adoption of development impact
fee ordinances by cities; and
         d.   Ensure that those who benefit from new growth and Development are
required to pay no more than their proportionate share of the cost of public
facilities needed to serve that new growth and Development and to prevent
duplicate and ad hoc development requirements; and
         e.   To empower cities to adopt ordinances to impose development
impact fees.
      5.   The Act:
         a.   does not authorize the Fire District to enact a development
impact fee ordinance; and
         b.   does provide, pursuant to Idaho Code § 67-8204A, in circumstances
where the City and the Fire District are both affected by the considerable
growth and Development as is occurring within the City, that the City and the
Fire District may enter into the Intergovernmental Agreement for the purpose of
agreeing to collect and expend development impact fees for System Improvements
which provides for a new funding mechanism for those System Improvements Costs
incurred by the Fire District to meet the demand and growth occurring within
the City and which promotes and accommodates orderly growth and development and
protects the public health, safety and general welfare of the residences within
the boundaries of the City.
      6.   New residential growth within the City and within the boundaries of
the Fire District imposes and will impose increasing and excessive demands upon
the existing Fire District Capital Facilities.
      7.   The tax revenues generated from new residential Development within
the City and within the boundaries of the Fire District often do not generate
sufficient funds to provide the necessary improvements and expansion of
existing Fire District Capital Facilities to accommodate for that new growth.
      8.   New growth within the City and within the boundaries of the Fire
District is expected to continue, and will place ever-increasing demands on the
Fire District to provide and expand the Fire District’s Capital Facilities to
serve that new growth.
      9.   Section 67-8204A of the Act authorizes the City to adopt an impact
fee system and to enter into the Intergovernmental Agreement with the Fire
District to offset, recoup, or reimburse the portion of the costs of needed
improvements to the Fire District Capital Facilities caused by new growth and
Development in the City and within the boundaries of the Fire District.
      10.   The creation of an equitable impact fee system facilitated by the
Intergovernmental Agreement with the Fire District, will promote the purposes
set forth in the Act, in that it would: (a) ensure that adequate Fire District
Capital Facilities are available to serve new growth and Development; (b)
promote orderly growth and Development by establishing uniform standards by
which the City may require that those who benefit from new growth and
Development pay a proportionate share of the cost of new Fire District Capital
Facilities needed to serve new growth and Development in the City and within
the boundaries of the Fire District; (c) establish minimum standards for the
adoption of Fire District Impact Fees; (d) ensure that those who benefit from
new growth and development are required to pay no more than their proportionate
share of the cost of Fire District Capital Facilities needed to serve new
growth and Development in the City and within the boundaries of the Fire
District; and (e) prevent duplicate and ad hoc Development requirements in the
City.
      11.   The City has formed an Advisory Committee as required by Idaho Code
§ 67-8205, and the Committee has performed the duties required of it pursuant
to Idaho Code §§ 67-8205 and 67-8206(2). The City and the Fire District intend
that the Committee will continue to exist and perform those duties identified
in Idaho Code § 67-8205 that occur following the adoption of this Star Fire
Protection District Development Impact Fee Ordinance.
      12.   The Fire District has planned for the improvement of Fire District
Capital Facilities in the Capital Improvements Plan.
      13.   The creation of an equitable impact fee system would enable the
City to accommodate new development, and would assist the Fire District to
implement the capital improvements element of the Capital Improvements Plan.
      14.   In order to implement an equitable impact fee system for the Fire
District’s fire prevention and life preservation facilities, the City adopted
by resolution and the Fire District adopted by resolution the Capital
Improvement Plan and Development Impact Fee Study Submitted to Star Fire
Protection District August 23, 2023 (the “Capital Improvements Plan”).
TischlerBise was hired by the Fire District to assist the Advisory Committee in
the preparation of the Study.
      15.   The methodology used in the Capital Improvements Plan, as applied
through this Chapter, complies with all applicable provisions of Idaho law,
including those set forth in Idaho Code §§ 67-8204(1), (2), (16) and (23), 67-
8207 and 67-8209. The incorporation of the Capital Improvements Plan by
reference satisfies the requirement in Idaho Code § 67-8204(16) for a detailed
description of the methodology by which the Fire District Impact Fees were
calculated, and the requirement in Idaho Code § 67-8204(24) for a description
of acceptable levels of service for Fire District System Improvements.
      16.   In determining the proportionate share of System Improvements
Costs, the Capital Improvements Plan has considered: (a) the cost of the
existing System Improvements; (b) the means by which the existing System
Improvements have been financed; (c) the extent to which the new Development
will contribute to System Improvements Costs through taxation, assessment, or
developer or landowner contributions, or has previously contributed to System
Improvements Costs through developer or landowner contributions; (d) the extent
to which the new Development is required to contribute to System Improvements
Costs in the future; (e) the extent to which the new Development should be
credited for providing System Improvements, without charge to other properties
within the Service Area or areas; (f) Extraordinary Costs, if any, incurred in
serving the new Development; (g) the time and price differential inherent in a
fair comparison of fees paid at different times; and (h) the availability of
other sources of funding System Improvements including, but not limited to,
user charges, general tax levies, intergovernmental transfers, and special
taxation and includes a plan for alternative sources of revenue.
      17.   The Capital Improvements Plan contains the Capital Improvements
planned by the Fire District during the term of the Capital Improvements Plan,
and such element has been developed in conformance with the requirements in
Chapter 82 of Title 67, Idaho Code.
      18.   The Capital Improvements Plan sets forth reasonable methodologies
and analyses for determining the impacts of various types of new Development on
the Fire District Capital Facilities, and determines the cost of acquiring or
constructing the improvements necessary to meet the demands for such facilities
created by new Development.
      19.   In accordance with Idaho Code, the Capital Improvements Plan was
based on actual System Improvements Costs or reasonable estimates of such
costs. In addition, the Capital Improvements Plan uses a fee calculation
methodology that is net of credits for the present value of revenues that will
be generated by new growth and Development based on historical funding patterns
and that are anticipated to be available to pay for System Improvements,
including taxes, assessments, user fees, and intergovernmental transfers.
      20.   The Fire District Impact Fees established by this Chapter are based
on the Capital Improvements Plan, and do not exceed System Improvements Costs
to serve new Development that will pay the Fire District Impact Fees.
      21.   The Fire District Capital Facilities included in the calculation of
fees in the Capital Improvements Plan will benefit all new residential
Development throughout the City which is also within the boundaries of the Fire
District, and it is therefore appropriate to treat all areas of the City that
are also within the boundaries of the Fire District as a single Service Area
for purposes of calculating, collecting, and spending the Fire District Impact
Fees collected from Developers.
      22.   There is both a rational nexus and a rough proportionality between
Development impacts created by each type of Development covered by this
Chapter, the development impact fees assessment of such Development covered by
this Chapter, and the development impact fees that such Developer will be
required to pay.
      23.   This Chapter creates a system by which development impact fees paid
by Developers will be used to finance, defray, or reimburse a portion of the
costs incurred by the Fire District to construct and/or purchase System
Improvements in ways that benefit the Development for which each development
impact fee was paid within a reasonable period of time after the development
impact fee is paid, and in conformance with Idaho Code § 67-8210.
      24.   This Chapter creates a system under which development impact fees
shall not be used to correct existing deficiencies for any Fire District
Capital Facilities, or to replace or rehabilitate existing Fire District
Capital Facilities, or to pay for routine operation or maintenance of those
facilities.
      25.   This Chapter creates a system under which there shall be no double
payment of development impact fees, in accordance with Idaho Code § 67-8204
(19).
      26.   This Chapter is consistent with all applicable provisions of the
Act concerning development impact fee ordinances.
   E.   Purpose.
      1.   This Chapter is adopted to be consistent with, and to help implement
the Capital Improvements Plan.
      2.   The intent of this Chapter is to ensure that new residential
development bears a proportionate share of the cost of System Improvements; to
ensure that such proportionate share does not exceed the cost of such System
Improvements required to accommodate new Development; and to ensure that funds
collected from new Development are actually used for System Improvements in
accordance with the Act.
      3.   It is the further intent of this Chapter to be consistent with those
principles for allocating a fair share of the cost of System Improvements to
new Development, and for adopting development impact fee ordinances,
established by the Act.
      4.   It is not the intent of this Chapter to collect any money from any
new Development in excess of the actual amount necessary to offset new demands
for System Improvements created by such new Development.
      5.   It is the intent of this Chapter that any monies collected, as an
imposed Fire District Impact Fee, are deposited in the Trust Accounts of the
Trust Fund, are never commingled with monies from a different impact fee
account, are never used for a development impact fee component different from
that for which the fee was paid, are never used to correct current deficiencies
in the Fire District Capital Facilities, and are never used to replace,
rehabilitate, maintain or operate any Fire District Capital Facilities. (Ord.
581, 11-14-2023)
1-23-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter, the following words and terms shall have the following
meanings, unless another meaning is plainly intended and words and terms
appearing in the singular number includes the plural and the plural the
singular:
ACT: The Idaho Development Impact Fee Act as set forth in Chapter 82 of Title
67, Idaho Code.
ADVISORY COMMITTEE: The Middleton/Star Fire Protection District Joint
Development Impact Fee Advisory Standing Committee formed by the City and
staffed by the Fire District pursuant to Idaho Code § 67-8205 to prepare and
recommend the Capital Improvements Plan and any amendments, revisions or
updates of the same.
APPROPRIATE: To legally obligate by contract or otherwise commit to the
expenditure of funds by appropriation or other official act of the Board of
Commissioners.
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS: The Board of Commissioners of the Star Fire Protection
District, which is its governing board.
BUILDING PERMIT: The permit required for foundations, new construction and
additions pursuant to Middleton City Code §
4-1-1.
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS: Improvements with a useful life of ten (10) years or
more, by new construction or other action, which increases the service capacity
of Fire District Capital Facilities.
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS ELEMENT: A component of the Capital Improvements Plan
identified as Capital Improvement Plan and Development Impact Fee Study
submitted to: Star Fire Protection District dated August 23, 2023 adopted by
the Fire District and the City pursuant to Chapters 65 and 82 of Title 67,
Idaho Code, and as amended, which component meets the requirements of the
capital improvements plan required by the Act.
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS PLAN: The Capital Improvement Plan and Development Impact
Fee Study submitted to: Star Fire Protection District dated August 23, 2023
recommended by the Advisory Committee and adopted by the Fire District and the
City pursuant to the Act that identifies Fire District Capital Facilities for
which Fire District Impact Fees may be used as a funding source.
CITY: The City of Middleton.
CITY COUNCIL: The City Council of the City of Middleton.
COUNTY: Canyon County.
DEVELOPER: Any person or legal entity undertaking development including a
Development that seeks an annexation into the City and/or undertakes the
subdivision of property pursuant to Idaho Code §§ 50-1301 through 50-1334, as
amended.
DEVELOPMENT: Any construction or installation of a building or structure, or
any change in use of a building or structure, or any change in the use,
character or appearance of land, which creates additional demand and need for
public facilities or the annexation into the City and/or subdivision of
property that would permit any change in the use, character or appearance of
land.
DEVELOPMENT APPROVAL: Any written duly authorized document from the City which
authorizes the commencement of a Development.
DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENT: A requirement attached to a Developmental approval or
other City governmental action approving or authorizing a particular
Development project including, but not limited to, a rezoning, which
requirement compels the payment, dedication or contribution of goods, services,
land or money as condition of approval.
EXTRAORDINARY COSTS: Those costs incurred as result of an extraordinary impact.
EXTRAORDINARY IMPACT: An impact which is reasonably determined by the Fire
District to: (i) result in the need for Fire District system improvements, the
cost of which will significantly exceed the sum of the development impact fees
to be generated from the project or the sum agreed to be paid pursuant to a
development agreement as allowed by Idaho Code § 67-8214(2), as amended; or
(ii) result in the need for Fire District system improvements which are not
identified in the capital improvements plan.
FEE PAYER: The person who pays or is required to pay a Fire District Impact
Fee. A fee payer may include a developer.
FIRE DISTRICT: The Star Fire Protection District, a fire district organized and
existing by virtue of the Fire Protection District Law, Chapter 14 of Title 31,
Idaho Code.
FIRE DISTRICT ADMINISTRATOR: The Fire District Administrator of the Fire
District or their designee.
FIRE DISTRICT CAPITAL FACILITIES: Fire District stations and equipment which is
identified in the Fire Protection Level of Service and Costs Analysis of the
Capital Improvements Plan, and specifically including those related costs
including System Improvements Costs, but not including maintenance, operations,
or improvements that do not expand their capacity.
FIRE DISTRICT DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEE CAPITAL PROJECTS TRUST FUND (the “TRUST
FUND”): The City of Middleton/Star Fire Protection District Development Impact
Fee Capital Projects Trust Fund established by action of the Board of
Commissioners of the Fire District as set forth in Board of Commissioners’ by
resolution and pursuant to section
1-23-11  of this Chapter and pursuant to Idaho Code § 67-8210(1) into which all
Fire District Impact Fees shall be deposited and maintained by the Fire
District.
FIRE DISTRICT IMPACT FEE: A payment of money imposed as condition of
Development Approval to pay for a proportionate share of the costs of System
Improvements needed to serve the Development. The term does not include the
following:
   1.   A charge or fee to pay the administrative plan review, or inspection
cost associated with permits required for Development;
   2.   Connection or hookup charges;
   3.   Availability charges for drainage, sewer, water or transportation
charges for services provided directly to the development; or
   4.   Amounts collected from a Developer in a transaction in which the Fire
District has incurred expenses in constructing Capital Improvements for the
Development if the owner or developer has agreed to be financially responsible
for the construction or installation of those Capital Improvements, unless a
written agreement is made, pursuant to Idaho Code § 67-8209(3) as amended, for
credit or reimbursement.
INTER-GOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT: The City of Middleton/Star Fire Protection
District Intergovernmental Agreement and Joint Powers Agreement for the
Collection and Expenditure of Development Impact Fees for Fire District Systems
Improvements entered into by and between the City and the Fire District
pursuant to Idaho Code § 67-8204A for the collection and expenditure of Fire
District Impact Fees established pursuant to this Chapter.
LAND USE ASSUMPTIONS: A description of the service area and projections of land
uses, densities, intensities and population in the service area over at least a
ten (10) year period.
LEVEL OF SERVICE: A measure of the relationship between service capacity and
service demand for Public Facilities.
MANUFACTURED/ MOBILE HOME: A structure, constructed according to HUD/FHA mobile
home construction and safety standards, transportable in one (1) or more
sections, which, in the traveling mode, is eight (8) feet or more in width or
is forty (40) body feet or more in length, or when erected on site, is three
hundred twenty (320) or more square feet, and which is built on a permanent
chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent
foundation when connected to required utilities, and includes the plumbing,
heating, air conditioning and electrical systems contained in such structure,
except that such term shall include any structure which meets all the
requirements of this subsection except the size requirements and with respect
to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a certification required by the
secretary of housing and urban development and complies with the standards
established under 42 U.S.C. §§ 5401 et seq.
MODULAR BUILDING: Any building or building component other than a manufactured/
mobile home, which is constructed according to the International Building Code,
as adopted or any amendments thereto, which is of closed construction and is
either entirely or substantially prefabricated or assembled at a place other
than the building site.
PRESENT VALUE: The total current monetary value of past, present or future
payments, contributions or dedications of goods, services, materials,
construction or money.
PROJECT: A particular Development on an identified parcel of land.
PROJECT IMPROVEMENTS, in contrast to System Improvements: Site improvements and
facilities that are planned and designed to provide service for a particular
Development Project and that are necessary for the use and convenience of the
occupants or users of the Project.
PROPORTIONATE SHARE: That portion of System Improvements Costs determined
pursuant to Idaho Code § 67-8207 which reasonably relates to the service
demands and needs of the Project.
PUBLIC FACILITIES: Land, buildings and equipment used for fire protection,
emergency medical and rescue, and water supply production, storage and
distribution facilities which have a useful life of ten (10) years or more.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicular type unit primarily designed as temporary
quarters for recreational, camping, or travel use, which either has its own
motive power or is mounted on or drawn by another vehicle.
SERVICE AREA: Any defined geographic area defined by the Capital Improvements
Plan.
SERVICE UNIT: A standardized measure of consumption, use, generation or
discharge attributable to an individual unit of Development calculated in
accordance with generally accepted engineering or planning standards for a
particular category of Capital Improvements. As specifically used in this
Ordinance, service units include all dwelling units intended for residential
use development.
SYSTEM IMPROVEMENTS, in contrast to Project Improvements: Capital Improvements
to Public Facilities which are designed to provide service to a Service Area.
For the purpose of this Chapter, System Improvements are for Fire District
Capital Facilities.
SYSTEM IMPROVEMENTS COSTS: Costs incurred for construction or reconstruction of
System Improvements, including design, acquisition, engineering and other
costs, and also including, without limitation, the type of costs described in
Idaho Code § 50-1702(h), as amended, to provide additional Public Facilities
needed to service new growth and Development. For clarification, System
Improvements Costs do not include:
   1.   Construction, acquisition or expansion of Public Facilities other than
Capital Improvements identified in the Capital Improvements Plan;
   2.   Improvements, repair, operation or maintenance of existing or new
capital;
   3.   Upgrading, updating, expanding or replacing existing Capital
Improvements to serve existing Development in order to meet stricter safety,
efficiency, environmental or regulatory standards;
   4.   Upgrading, updating, expanding or replacing existing Capital
Improvements to provide better service to existing Development;
   5.   Administrative and operating costs of the Fire District and/or the City
unless such costs are attributable to Development of the Capital Improvements
Plan, as provided in Idaho Code § 67-8208, as amended; and
   6.   Principal payments and interest or other finance charges on bonds or
other indebtedness except financial obligations issued by or on behalf of the
Fire District to finance Capital Improvements identified in the Capital
Improvements Plan.
TRUST ACCOUNTS: Any of one or more interest bearing accounts within the City of
Middleton/Star Fire Protection District Development Impact Fee Capital Projects
Trust Fund established in section
1-23-11  of this Chapter. (Ord. 581, 11-14-2023)
1-23-3: IMPOSITION OF FIRE DISTRICT IMPACT FEE:
   A.   Imposition of Impact Fee. A Fire District Impact Fee is hereby imposed
on all new Development in the area of the City that is also within the
boundaries of the Fire District.
   B.   Fee Schedule. Fire District Impact Fees shall be calculated in
accordance with the fee schedule set forth in Figure 3. Summary of Maximum
Supportable Development Impact tables of the Capital Improvements Plan
providing for standard fees based on the total number of residential dwelling
units or square feet of nonresidential space in the Development, unless (a) the
Fee Payer requests an individual assessment pursuant to section
1-23-6  of this Chapter; or (b) the City and the Fire District find the
Development will have an Extraordinary Impact pursuant to section
1-23-9  of this Chapter. The methodology for determining the costs per service
unit provided for in the fee schedule is set forth in the Capital Improvements
Plan.
   C.   Impact Fee Schedule: The schedule of development impact fees for the
various land uses per unit of development are herein set forth as follows:
 
Residential (per Single Family per Housing Unit)     $2,152.00
Residential (per Multi-Family per Housing Unit)      $1,227.00
Non-Residential (per 1000 retail square feet)        $ 839.00
Non-Residential (per 1000 office square feet)        $ 323.00
Non-Residential (per 1000 industrial square feet)    $ 145.00
Non-Residential (per 1000 Institutional square feet) $ 582.00
 
   D.   Developer’s Election. A Developer shall have the right to elect to pay
a project’s proportionate share of System Improvements Costs by payment of Fire
District Impact Fee according to the fee schedule as full and complete payment
of the Development project’s proportionate share of System Improvements Costs,
except as provided in Idaho Code § 67-8214(3), as amended.
   E.   Procedures:
      1.   Building Permit. Upon submittal of complete building permit plans
for the Development to the City, the City shall calculate the Fire District
Impact Fee for the Development within thirty (30) days of submittal unless the
Fee Payer requests an individual assessment or the City determines that the
Development may have Extraordinary Impact.
      2.   Exemption. An exemption pursuant to section 1-23-5A of this Chapter
must be claimed by the Fee Payer upon application for a Building Permit or
manufactured home installation permit. Any exemption not so claimed shall be
deemed waived by the Fee Payer. (Ord. 581, 11-14-2023)
1-23-4: COLLECTION OF FIRE DISTRICT IMPACT FEES:
   A.   Certification. After the Fire District Impact Fee due for a proposed
Development has been calculated by the City pursuant to the fee schedule
attached to the Capital Improvements Plan or by the Fire District Administrator
using the individual assessment process, the Fee Payer may request from the
City or the Fire District Administrator a certification of the amount of Fire
District Impact Fee due for that Development. Within thirty (30) days after
receiving such request, the City or the Fire District Administrator shall issue
a written certification of the amount of the Fire District Impact Fee due for
the proposed Development. Such certification shall establish the Fire District
Impact Fee so long as there is no material change to the particular Development
as identified in the individual assessment application, or the impact fee
schedule attached to the Capital Improvements Plan. The certification shall
include an explanation of the calculation of the Fire District Impact Fee
including an explanation of factors considered under Idaho Code § 67-8207 and
shall also specify the System Improvement(s) for which the Fire District Impact
Fee is intended to be used. If the Impact Fee is calculated by the City
pursuant to the fee schedule, the City shall provide the certification to the
Fee Payer and the Fire District Administrator. If the Impact Fee is determined
by the Fire District Administrator following an individual assessment of the
fee, the Fire District Administrator shall provide the certification to the Fee
Payer and the City.
   B.   Payment of Fees. The Fire District Impact Fee shall be paid either to
the City or to the Fire District at the following times:
      1.   If a Building Permit or manufactured/mobile home installation permit
is required, then at the time before the permit is issued;
      2.   If no Building Permit or manufactured/mobile home installation
permit is required, then at the time that construction commences; or
      3.   At such other time as the Developer and the Fire District have
agreed upon in writing with notice to the City.
   C.   In the event a Fire District Impact Fee is paid to the Fire District,
then the Fire District Administrator shall immediately notify the City of said
payment.
   D.   All Fire District Impact Fees paid to the City shall then be delivered
to the Fire District Administrator on a once-a-month basis. (Ord. 581, 11-14-
2023)
1-23-5: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Exemptions. The provisions of this Chapter shall not apply to the
following:
      1.    Rebuilding the same amount of floor space of a structure which is
destroyed by fire or other catastrophe, provided the structure is rebuilt and
ready for occupancy within two (2) years of its destruction;
      2.   Remodeling or repairing a structure which does not increase the
number of service units;
      3.   Replacing a residential unit, including a manufactured/mobile home,
with another residential unit on the same lot; provided that, the number of
service units does not increase;
      4.   Placing a temporary construction trailer or office on a lot;
      5.   Constructing an addition on a residential structure which does not
increase the number of service units;
      6.   Adding uses that are typically accessory to residential uses, such
as tennis court or a clubhouse, unless it can be clearly demonstrated that the
use creates a significant impact on the capacity of System Improvements; or
      7.   The installation of a modular building, manufactured/mobile home or
recreational vehicle if the Fee Payer can demonstrate by documentation such as
utility bills and tax records that either: (a) a modular building,
manufactured/mobile home or recreational vehicle was legally in place on the
lot or space prior to the effective date of this Chapter; or (b) a Fire
District Impact Fee has been paid previously for the modular building,
manufactured/mobile home or recreational vehicle on that same lot or space.
      8.   Construction that would otherwise be subject to payment of the
development impact fee pursuant to this chapter if undertaken by a taxing
district, as defined in section 63-201, Idaho Code, or by an authorized public
charter school, as defined in section 33-5202A, Idaho Code, in the course of
carrying out its statutory responsibilities.
   B.    Exemption Claim Process: An exemption from a Fire District Impact Fee
must be claimed on the Application by the Developer (Fee Payer) upon submitting
their application for a Building Permit or manufactured home installation
permit. Any exemption not so claimed shall be deemed waived by the Fee Payer.
Applications for exemption shall be determined by the City within ninety (90)
days of receipt of the claim for exemption. (Ord. 581, 11-14-2023)
1-23-6: INDIVIDUAL ASSESSMENT PROCESS:
   A.   In lieu of calculating the amount of the Fire District Impact Fee using
the impact fee schedules in MCC § 1-20-3 of this chapter, an individual
assessment of Impact Fees is permitted.
      1.   Individual Assessment Process. A Fee Payer may file a written
request for an individual assessment of the Development by the Administrator
prior to the receipt of a building permit or other necessary approvals or
entitlements from the City. A request for an individual assessment process
shall involve consideration of studies, data, and any other relevant
information submitted by the Fee Payer to adjust the amount of the Fire
District Impact Fee.
      2.   Each individual assessment request and supporting documentation
submitted by the Fee Payer shall be based on the same level of service
standards and unit costs for System Improvements used in the applicable Capital
Improvements Plan, shall use an average cost (not a marginal cost) methodology,
and shall document the relevant methodologies and assumptions used.
      3.   Each individual assessment request delivered to the Administrator
may then be accepted, rejected, or accepted with modifications by the
Administrator as the basis for calculating the Fire District Impact Fee. The
criteria for acceptance, rejection or acceptance with modifications shall be
whether the individual assessment is a more accurate measure of demand for
System Improvements element(s) created by the proposed Development, or the
costs of those facilities, than the applicable fee shown in the fee schedule,
based on the standards in Section 67-8207, Idaho Code.
      4.   The Administrator shall issue a written decision within thirty (30)
days following receipt of a completed request for individual assessment
together with all supporting information from the Fee Payer, so as not to
unreasonably delay the Developer’s (Fee Payer’s) subsequent applications to the
City for Building Permits.
      5.   The decision by the Administrator on an application for an
individual assessment shall include an explanation of the calculation of the
Fire District Impact Fee, shall specify the System Improvement(s) for which the
Fire District Impact Fee is intended to be used, and shall include an
explanation of those factors identified in Idaho Code § 67 8207.
      6.   If an individual assessment is accepted or accepted with
modifications by the Administrator, then the Fire District Impact Fee due under
this Article for such Development shall be calculated according to such
individual assessment.
      7.   The Fire District Administrator shall provide notice of final
determination of an individual assessment to the Developer (Fee Payer) and the
City. (Ord. 581, 11-14-2023)
1-23-7: DEVELOPER CREDITS AND REIMBURSEMENT:
   A.   Credits to be Issued. When a Developer or their predecessor in title or
interest has constructed System Improvements of the same category as a Fire
District Capital Improvements Element, or contributed or dedicated land or
money towards the completion of System Improvements of the same category as a
Fire District Capital Improvements Element, and the Fire District has accepted
such construction, contribution or dedication, the Fire District shall issue a
credit against the Fire District Impact Fees otherwise due for the same Fire
District Capital Improvements Element in connection with the proposed
Development, as set forth in this section, credit shall be issued regardless of
whether the contribution or dedication to System Improvements was required by
the Fire District as a condition of Development Approval or was offered by the
Developer and accepted by the Fire District in writing, and regardless of
whether the contribution or dedication was contributed by the Developer or by a
local improvement district controlled by the Developer.
   B.   Limitations. Credits against a Fire District Impact Fee shall not be
given for: (a) Project Improvements; or (b) any construction, contribution or
dedication not agreed to in writing by the Fire District prior to commencement
of the construction, contribution, or dedication. Credits issued for one Fire
District Capital Improvements Element may not be used to reduce Fire District
Impact Fees due for a different capital improvement. No credits shall be issued
for System Improvements contributed or dedicated prior to the effective date of
this Chapter. Prior contributions may only be taken into account pursuant to an
individual assessment.
   C.   Valuation of Credit at Present Value:
      1.   Land. Credit for qualifying land dedications shall, at the Fee
Payer’s option, be valued at the present value of: (a) one hundred percent
(100%) of the most recent assessed value for such land as shown in the records
of the county assessor; or (b) that fair market value established by a private
appraiser acceptable to the Fire District in an appraisal paid for by the Fee
Payer.
      2.   Improvements. Credit for qualifying acquisition or construction of
System Improvements shall be valued by the Fire District at the present value
of such improvements based on complete engineering drawings, specifications,
and construction cost estimates submitted by the Fee Payer to the Fire
District. The Fire District Administrator shall determine the amount of credit
due based on the information submitted, or, if it determines that such
information is inaccurate or unreliable, then on alternative engineering or
construction costs acceptable to the Fire District as a more accurate measure
of the value of the offered System Improvements to the Fire District.
   D.   When Credits Become Effective:
      1.   Land. Approved credits for land dedications shall become effective
when the land has been conveyed to the Fire District in a form acceptable to
the Fire District, at no cost to the Fire District, and has been accepted by
the Fire District. Upon request of the Fee Payer, the Fire District shall issue
a letter stating the amount of credit available.
      2.    Improvements. Approved credits for acquisition or construction of
System Improvements shall generally become effective when (a) all required
construction has been completed and has been accepted by the Fire District, (b)
a suitable maintenance and warranty bond has been received and approved by the
Fire District, and (c) all design, construction, inspection, testing, bonding,
and acceptance procedures have been completed in compliance with all applicable
requirements of the Fire District and the state of Idaho. Upon request of the
Fee Payer, the Fire District shall issue a letter stating the amount of credit
available.
   E.   Credit Request Procedures:
      1.   Request. In order to obtain a credit against a Fire District Impact
Fee otherwise due, a Fee Payer shall submit to the City a written offer of
request to dedicate to the Fire District specific parcels of qualifying land or
a written offer to contribute or construct specific System Improvements to the
Fire District Capital Facilities in accordance with all applicable State or
City design and construction standards, and shall specifically request a credit
against the type of Fire District Impact Fee for which the land dedication or
System Improvements is offered. The City shall then deliver the written offer
of request to the Fire District Administrator.
      2.   Review. After receipt of the written offer of request for credit,
the Fire District Administrator shall review the request and determine whether
the land or System Improvements offered for credit will reduce the costs of
providing Fire District Capital Facilities by an amount at least equal to the
value of the credit. If the Fire District Administrator determines that the
offered credit satisfies that criteria and will be acceptable to the Board of
Commissioners, then the credit shall be issued. The Fire District shall
complete its review and determination of an application within thirty (30) days
after receipt of an application for credit.
      3.   Credits Exceeding Fee Amounts Due. If the credit due to a Fee Payer
pursuant to subsection
1-23-7 D of this Chapter exceeds the Fire District Impact Fee that would
otherwise be due from the Fee Payer pursuant to this Chapter (whether
calculated through the fee schedule attached to the Capital Improvement Plan or
through an individual assessment), the Fee Payer may choose to receive such
credit in the form of either: (a) a credit against future Fire District Impact
Fee due for the same System Improvements; or (b) a reimbursement from Fire
District Impact Fees paid by future Development that impacts the System
Improvements contributed or dedicated by the Fee Payer. Unless otherwise stated
in an agreement with the Fee Payer, the Fire District shall be under no
obligation to use any Fire District funds - other than Fire District Impact
Fees paid by other Development for the same System Improvements - to reimburse
the Fee Payer for any credit in excess of Fire District Impact Fees that are
due.
      4.   Written Agreement Required. If credit or reimbursement is due to the
Fee Payer pursuant to this section, the Fire District shall enter into a
written agreement with the Fee Payer, negotiated in good faith, prior to the
contribution, dedication, or funding of the System Improvements giving rise to
the credit. The agreement shall provide for the amount of credit or the amount,
time and form of reimbursement, and shall have a term not exceeding ten (10)
years.
      5.   The Fire District Administrator’s determination on the written offer
of request for credit shall be provided to the Fee Payer and the City. (Ord.
581, 11-14-2023)
1-23-8: METHODOLOGY FOR THE CALCULATION OF FIRE DISTRICT IMPACT FEES:
   A.   General Provisions.
      1.   Accounting Principles. The calculation of the Fire District Impact
Fee shall be in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A
development impact fee shall not be deemed invalid because payment of the fee
may result in an incidental benefit to owners or Developers within the service
area other than the Fee Payer.
      2.   Levels of Service. The Fire District Impact Fee shall be calculated
on the basis of levels of service for Public Facilities adopted in this Chapter
that are applicable to existing Development as well as new growth and
Development. The construction, improvement, expansion or enlargement of new or
existing Public Facilities for which the Fire District Impact Fee is imposed
must be attributable to the capacity demands generated by the new Development.
   B.   Methodology; Proportionate Methodology. The Fire District Impact Fee
shall not exceed a proportionate share of the cost of the System Improvements
determined in accordance with Idaho Code § 67-8207, as amended. Fire District
Impact Fees shall be based on actual System Improvements Costs or reasonable
estimates of such costs. The amount of the Fire District Impact Fee shall be
calculated using the methodology contained in the Capital Improvements Plan.
   C.   Proportionate Share Determination.
      1.   Fire District Impact Fee shall be based on a reasonable and fair
formula or method under which the Fire District Impact Fee imposed does not
exceed a proportionate share of the costs incurred or to be incurred by the
Fire District in the provision of System Improvements to serve the new
Development. The proportionate share is the costs attributable to the new
Development after the Fire District considers the following:
         a.   Any appropriate credit, offset or contribution of money,
dedication of land or construction of System Improvements;
         b.   Payments reasonably anticipated to be made by or as a result of a
new Development in the form of user fees and debt service payments;
         c.   That portion of general tax or other revenues allocated by the
Fire District to System Improvements; and
         d.   All other available sources of funding such System Improvements.
      2.   In determining the proportionate share of the cost of System
Improvements to be paid by the Developer, the following factors shall be
considered by the Fire District and accounted for in the calculation of the
Fire District Impact Fee:
         a.   The costs of existing System Improvements within the Service
area;
         b.   The means by which existing System Improvements have been
financed;
         c.   The extent to which the new Development will contribute to System
Improvements Costs through taxation, assessments, or developer or landowner
contributions, or has previously contributed to System Improvements Costs
through Developer or landowner contributions;
         d.   The extent to which the new development is required to contribute
to the cost of existing System Improvements in the future;
         e.   The extent to which the new Development should be credited for
providing System Improvements, without charge to other properties within the
Service Area;
         f.   Extraordinary costs, if any, incurred in serving the new
Development;
         g.   The time and price differential inherent in a fair comparison of
fees paid at different times; and
         h.   The availability of other sources of funding System Improvements
including, but not limited to, user charges, general tax levies,
intergovernmental transfers and special taxation. (Ord. 581, 11-14-2023)
1-23-9: EXTRAORDINARY IMPACTS:
   A.   In the event the City makes an initial determination that Development
may impose Extraordinary Impact, the City shall provide the Development
application to the Fire District Administrator along with the City’s initial
determination. The Fire District Administrator shall then review and determine
whether or not the Development application will impose Extraordinary Impact.
   B.   If the Fire District Administrator determines that a proposed
Development generates Extraordinary Impact that will result in extraordinary
Systems Improvements Costs, the Fire District Administrator will notify the Fee
Payer and the City of such Fire District Impact Fee determination within thirty
(30) days after Fire District Administrator’s receipt from the City of the
Development Application and the City’s initial determination. Such notice shall
include a statement that the potential impacts of such Development on System
Improvements are not adequately addressed by the Capital Improvements Plan, and
that a supplemental study, at the Fee Payer’s expense will be required.
   C.   Circumstances that may lead to a determination of Extraordinary Impact
include, but are not limited to: (a) an indication the assumptions used in the
Capital Improvements Plan underestimate the level of activity or impact on Fire
District Capital Facilities from the proposed Development or activity.
   D.   Within thirty (30) days following the designation of a Development with
Extraordinary Impact, the Fire District Administrator shall meet with the Fee
Payer to discuss whether the Fee Payer wants to: (a) pay for the supplemental
study necessary to determine the System Improvements Costs related to the
proposed Development; (b) modify the proposal to avoid generating Extraordinary
Impact; or (c) withdraw the application for certification, Building Permit or
Development approval.
   E.   If the Fee Payer agrees to pay for the supplemental study required to
document the proposed Development’s proportionate share of System Improvements
Costs, then the Fire District and the Fee Payer shall jointly select an
individual or organization acceptable to both to perform such study. The Fee
Payer shall enter into a written agreement with such individual or organization
to pay the costs of such study. Such agreement shall require the supplemental
study to be completed within thirty (30) days of such written agreement, unless
the Fee Payer agrees to a longer time.
   F.   Once the study has been completed, the Fee Payer may choose to: (a) pay
the proportionate share of System Improvements Costs documented by the
supplemental study; or (b) modify the proposed Development to reduce such
costs; or (c) withdraw the application. If the Fee Payer agrees to pay the
System Improvements Costs documented in the supplemental study, that agreement
shall be reduced to writing between the Fire District and the Fee Payer prior
to review and consideration of any application for any Development approval or
Building Permit related to the proposed Development.
   G.   Notwithstanding any agreement by the Fee Payer to pay the proportionate
share of System Improvements Costs documented by the supplemental study,
nothing in this ordinance shall obligate the City to approve Development that
results in an Extraordinary Impact to the Fire District. (Ord. 581, 11-14-2023)
1-23-10: FEE PAYER REFUNDS:
   A.   Duty to Refund:
      1.   Fire District Impact Fees shall be refunded to the Fee Payer, or to
a successor in interest, in the following circumstances:
         a.   Service is available but never provided;
         b.   A Building Permit, or permit for installation of a manufactured
home, is denied by the City or abandoned;
         c.   The Fee Payer pays a Fire District Impact Fee under protest and a
subsequent review of the fee paid or the completion of an individual assessment
determines that the fee paid exceeded the proportionate share to which the Fire
District was entitled to receive;
         d.   The Fire District has collected a Fire District Impact Fee and
the Fire District has failed to Appropriate or expend the collected fees
pursuant to section below; or
         e.   Failure of the Fire District to commence construction or encumber
the fund in the Fire District Development Impact Fee Capital Projects Trust
Fund.
      2.   Any Fire District Impact Fee paid shall be refunded if the Fire
District has failed to commence construction of System Improvements in
accordance with this Chapter, or to appropriate funds for such construction,
within eight (8) years after the date on which such fee was collected by the
Fire District. Any refund due shall be paid to the owner of record of the
parcel for which the Fire District Impact Fee was paid. The Fire District may
hold Fire District Impact Fees for longer than eight (8) years if the Fire
District identifies in writing and in written notice to the owner of record of
the parcel: (a) a reasonable cause why the fees should be held longer than
eight (8) years; and (b) an anticipated date by which the fees will be
expended, but in no event greater than eleven (11) years from the date they
were collected. If the Fire District complies with the previous sentence, then
any Fire District Impact Fees so identified shall be refunded to the Fee Payer
if the Fire District has failed to commence construction of System Improvements
in accordance with the written notice, or to Appropriate Funds for such
construction on or before the date identified in such writing.
      3.   No Refund Due for Subsequent Reduction in Size of Development or
Service Units. After a Fire District Impact Fee has been paid pursuant to this
Chapter and after a certificate of occupancy has been issued by the City, no
refund of any part of such fee shall be made if the project for which the fee
was paid is later demolished, destroyed, or is altered, reconstructed, or
reconfigured so as to reduce the size of the project or the number of units in
the project.
      4.   Interest. Each refund shall include a refund of interest at one-half
the legal rate provided for in Idaho Code § 28-22-104 from the date on which
the fee was originally paid.
      5.   Timing. The Fire District shall make a determination of whether a
refund is due within thirty (30) days after receipt of a written request for a
refund from the owner of record of the property for which the fee was paid.
When the right to a refund exists, the Fire District shall send the refund to
the owner of record within ninety (90) days after the Fire District determines
that a refund is due. (Ord. 581, 11-14-2023)
1-23-11: ESTABLISHMENT OF FIRE DISTRICT TRUST FUND AND TRUST ACCOUNTS:
   A.   The Trust Fund established by the Fire District will be maintained by
the Fire District for the purpose of ensuring that all Fire District Impact
Fees collected, pursuant to this Chapter, are used to address impacts
reasonably attributable to new Development for which the Fire District Impact
Fees are paid. The Trust Fund shall be divided into the Trust Accounts. All
funds in all Trust Accounts in the Trust Fund shall be maintained in an
interest-bearing account. The interest earned on each Trust Account pursuant to
Idaho Code § 67-8210(1) shall not be governed by Idaho Code § 57-127, as
amended, but shall be considered funds of the Trust Accounts and shall be
subject to the same restrictions on uses of funds as the Fire District Impact
Fees on which the interest is generated.
   B.   Deposit of Fire District Impact Fees. All monies paid by a Fee Payer,
pursuant to this Chapter, shall be identified as Fire District Impact Fees and
shall be promptly deposited by the Fire District Administrator in the
appropriate Trust Accounts of the Trust Fund.
      1.   First-in/First-out. Monies in each Trust Account shall be spent in
the order collected, on a first-in/first-out basis.
      2.   Maintenance of Records. The Fire District shall maintain and keep
accurate financial records for each Trust Account that shall show the source
and disbursement of all revenues, that shall account for all monies received,
that shall ensure that the disbursement of funds from each Trust Account shall
be used solely and exclusively for the provisions of projects specified in the
Capital Improvements Plan, and that shall provide an annual accounting for each
Fire District Impact Fee Account showing the source and amount of all funds
collected and the projects that were funded. (Ord. 581, 11-14-2023)
1-23-12: EXPENDITURE OF FIRE DISTRICT IMPACT FEES:
   A.   Expenditures of Fire District Impact Fees collected and deposited in
the Trust Fund shall be made only for System Improvements within the Service
Area for which the Impact Fee was collected in accordance with the Capital
Improvements Plan.
   B.   Capital Improvements Plan Reimbursement; Surcharge. A portion of each
Impact Fee collected shall be designated as a surcharge for reimbursement of
the Fire District for the cost of preparing the Capital Improvements Plan in
accordance with Idaho Code § 67-8208. The surcharge shall not exceed the
Development’s proportionate share of the cost of preparing the Capital
Improvements Plan. (Ord. 581, 11-14-2023)
1-23-13: APPEALS, PROTEST AND MEDIATION:
   A.   Appeals. Any Fee Payer that is or may be obligated to pay a Fire
District Impact Fee, or that claims a right to receive a refund, reimbursement,
exemption or credit under this Chapter, and who is dissatisfied with a decision
made either by the City or by the Fire District Administrator in applying this
Chapter, may appeal such decision as follows:
      1.   in the case of a decision made by the Fire District Administrator to
the Fire District Board of Commissioners; and
      2.   in the case of a decision made by the Fire District Board of
Commissioners to the City Council.
   B.   The Fee Payer shall have the burden on appeal of demonstrating that the
decision was in error.
   C.   In order to pursue the appeal described in this subsection, the Fee
Payer shall file a written notice of the appeal with the City within thirty
(30) days after the date of the City’s or the Fire District Administrator’s
decision, or the date on which the Fee Payer submitted a payment of the Fire
District Impact Fee under protest, whichever is later. Such written application
shall include a statement describing why the Fee Payer believes that the
appealed decision was in error, together with copies of any documents that the
Fee Payer believes support the claim.
   D.   Appeals of the Fire District Administrator’s decisions shall be
delivered by the City to the Fire District Administrator.
   E.   The City Council or the Board of Commissioners, as the case may be,
shall hear the appeal within sixty (60) days after receipt of a written notice
of appeal. The Fee Payer shall have a right to be present and to present
evidence in support of the appeal. The City or Fire District Administrator who
made the decision under appeal or their representative shall likewise have the
right to be present and to present evidence in support of the decision. The
criteria to be used by the City Council or by the Board of Commissioners in
considering the appeal shall be whether: (a) the decision or interpretation
made by the City or Fire District Administrator; or (b) the alternative
decision or interpretation offered by the Fee Payer, more accurately reflects
the intent of this Chapter that new development in the City pay its
proportionate share of the costs of system improvements to Fire District
facilities necessary to serve new development and whether the provisions of
this Chapter has been correctly applied. The City Council or Board of
Commissioners, as the case may be, shall issue a decision upholding, reversing,
or modifying the decision being appealed within thirty (30) days after hearing
the appeal.
   F.   Payment Under Protest. A Fee Payer may pay a Fire District Impact Fee
under protest in order not to delay in the issuance of a Building Permit by the
City. A Fee Payer making a payment under protest shall not be estopped from
exercising the right to appeal provided herein, nor shall such Fee Payer be
estopped from receiving a refund of any amount deemed to have been illegally
collected.
   G.   Mediation.
      1.   Any Fee Payer that has a disagreement with the City or the Fire
District Administrator regarding a Fire District Impact Fee Determination that
is or may be due for a proposed Development pursuant to this Chapter, may enter
into a voluntary agreement with the City or the Fire District, as the case may
be, to subject the disagreement to mediation by a qualified independent party
acceptable to both the Fee Payer and the Fire District.
      2.   Mediation may take place at any time following the filing of a
timely appeal pursuant to section
1-23-13 C of this Chapter, or as an alternative to such appeal, provided that
the request for mediation is filed no later than the last date on which a
timely appeal could be filed pursuant to section
1-23-13 C of this Chapter.
      3.   Participation in mediation does not preclude the Fee Payer from
pursuing other remedies provided for in this section.
      4.   If mediation is requested, any related mediation costs shall be
shared equally by the Fee Payer and the City or the Fire District, as the case
may be, and a written agreement regarding the payment of such costs shall be
executed prior to the commencement of mediation.
      5.   In the event that mediation does not resolve the issues between the
Fire District and the Fee Payer, the Fee Payer retains all rights to seek
relief from a court of competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 581, 11-14-2023)
1-23-14: PERIODIC REVIEWS:
   A.   Review and Modification of Capital Improvements Plan. Unless the Board
of Commissioners deems some other period is appropriate, the Board of
Commissioners shall, at least once every five (5) years, commencing from the
date of the original adoption of the Capital Improvements Plan, review the
Development potential and update the Capital Improvements Plan in cooperation
with the City and in accordance with the procedures set forth in Idaho Code §
67-8206, as amended. Each update shall be prepared by the Fire District
Administrator in consultation with the Advisory Committee.
   B.   Annual review. The Fire District shall annually adopt a capital budget.
(Ord. 581, 11-14-2023)
1-23-15: AUDIT:
As part of its annual audit process, the Fire District shall prepare an annual
report: (a) describing the amount of all Fire District Impact Fees collected,
appropriated or spent during the preceding year by category of Public Facility;
and (b) describing the percentage of taxes and revenues from sources other than
the Fire District Impact Fees collected, appropriated or spent for System
Improvements during the preceding year by Systems Improvements category of Fire
District Capital Facilities. (Ord. 581, 11-14-2023)
1-23-16: STAR FIRE DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEE ADVISORY STANDING COMMITTEE:
   A.   Committee Created: A standing committee of the City Council is
established. [hereinafter in this Chapter referred also as “City of Middleton/
Star Fire Protection District Development Impact Fee Advisory Committee” or
“Committee”].
   B.   Membership: The members on the Committee shall be appointed as provided
in the Intergovernmental Agreement, and there shall not be fewer than five (5)
members of which two (2) or more members shall be active in the business of
development, building or real estate; and all members must reside within the
service area of the adopted and approved Capital Improvements Plan; and at
least two (2) or more members shall not be employees or officials of the City
of Middleton or this Fire District.
   C.   Charge: The Advisory Committee shall serve as an advisory committee to
the City Council and the Board of Commissioners of the Fire District and is
charged with the following responsibilities:
      1.   Assist the City and the Fire District in adopting land use
assumptions; and
      2.   Review the Capital Improvements Plan; and
      3.   Monitor and evaluate implementation of the Capital Improvements
Plan;
      4.   File with the Fire District, Fire District Administrator and the
City Clerk, at least annually, with respect to the Capital Improvements Plan, a
report of any perceived inequities in implementing the Capital Improvements
Plan or imposing the Fire District Impact Fees;
      5.   Advise the City Council and the Board of Commissioners of the Fire
District of the need to update or revise land use assumptions, Capital
Improvements Plan and Fire District Development Impact Fees; and
      6.   The Fire District shall make available to the Advisory Committee,
upon request, all financial and accounting information, professional reports in
relation to other development and implementation of land use assumptions, the
Capital Improvements Plan and periodic updates of the Capital Improvements
Plan.
   E.   Reporting: The Advisory Committee reports directly to the Fire District
Board of Commissioners and to the City Council.
   F.   City Council and Fire District Board of Commissioners Review of
Committee’s Report and Recommendations: The City Council and the Fire District
Board of Commissioners shall each consider the Advisory Committee’s recommended
revision(s) at least once every twelve (12) months. The Advisory Committee’s
recommendations and the City Council’s and Board of Commissioners’ actions are
intended to ensure that the benefits to a Development paying Fire District
Impact Fees are equitable, so that the Fire District Impact Fee charged to the
Development shall not exceed a proportionate share of System Improvements
Costs, and that the procedures for administering Fire District Impact Fees
remain efficient. (Ord. 581, 11-14-2023)
1-23-17: ENFORCEMENT AND COLLECTION:
   A.   When any Fire District Impact Fee is due pursuant to this Chapter, or
pursuant to the terms of any written agreement between a Fee Payer and the Fire
District, and such Fire District Impact Fee has not been paid in a timely
manner, the City, or Fire District Administrator on behalf of the Fire
District, may exercise any or all of the following powers as applicable to
their authority, in any combination, to enforce the collection of the Fire
District Impact Fee:
      1.   Withhold Building Permits, manufactured home installation permits,
or other City Development Approval related to the Development for which the
Fire District Impact Fee is due until all Fire District Impact Fees due have
been paid, and issue stop work orders, and revoke or suspend a Building Permit.
      2.   Withhold utility services from the Development for which the Fire
District Impact Fee is due until all Fire District Impact Fees due have been
paid; and
      3.   Add interest to the Fire District Impact Fee not paid in full at the
legal rate provided for in Idaho Code § 28-22-104, as amended, plus five
percent (5%) beginning on the date at which the payment of the Fire District
Impact Fee was due until paid in full.
      4.   Impose a penalty of five percent (5%) of the total Fire District
Impact Fee (not merely the portion dishonored, late or not paid in full) per
month beginning on the date at which the payment of the Fire District Impact
Fee was due until paid in full.
      5.   Impose a lien pursuant to the authority of Idaho Code § 67-8213(4)
for failure to timely pay a Fire District Impact Fee following the procedures
contained in Idaho Code Title 45, Chapter 5. (Ord. 581, 11-14-2023)
1-23-18: CITY/ FIRE DISTRICT INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT:
   A.   The City is a governmental entity that is empowered by the Act to adopt
development impact fee ordinances and as such is authorized, by Idaho Code §
67-8204A, to enter into the Intergovernmental Agreement with the Fire District
for the purpose of agreement to collect and expend Fire District Impact Fees
for System Improvements as provided in this Chapter.
   B.   The City and the Fire District have entered into the Intergovernmental
Agreement which is in full force and effect.
   C.   The Intergovernmental Agreement complies with this Chapter and requires
the Fire District to be governed by and to fully abide by the provisions of
this Chapter.
   D.   Any amendments of the Intergovernmental Agreement shall be implemented
by corresponding relevant amendments of this Chapter which amendments shall not
apply to any Fire District Impact Fees then not expended and currently held in
the Trust Fund. (Ord. 581, 11-14-2023)
1-23-19: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS:
   A.   Nothing in this Chapter shall prevent the Fire District from requiring
a Developer to construct reasonable Project Improvements, as are required by
the fire codes and other rules that are adopted by the state fire marshal, in
conjunction with a Development.
   B.   Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed to prevent or prohibit
private agreements between property owners or developers, the Idaho
Transportation Department and governmental entities in regard to the
construction or installation of System Improvements or providing for credits or
reimbursements for System Improvements Costs incurred by a Developer including
inter-project transfers of credits or providing for reimbursement for Project
Improvements which are used or shared by more than one (1) Development project.
   C.   Nothing in this Chapter shall obligate the City to approve Development
which results in an Extraordinary Impact.
   D.   Nothing in this Chapter shall obligate the Fire District to approve any
Development request which may reasonably be expected to reduce levels of
service below minimum acceptable levels established in this Chapter.
   E.   Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed to create any additional
right to develop real property or diminish the City in regulating the orderly
development of real property within its boundaries.
   F.   Nothing in this Chapter shall work to limit the use by the City of the
power of eminent domain or supersede or conflict with requirements or
procedures authorized in the Idaho Code for local improvement districts or
general obligation bond issues.
   G.   Nothing herein shall restrict or diminish the power of the City to
annex property into its territorial boundaries or exclude property from its
territorial boundaries upon request of a developer or owner, or to impose
reasonable conditions thereon, including the recovery of Project or System
Improvements Costs required as a result of such voluntary annexation.
   H.   The Fire District shall develop a plan for alternative sources of
revenue, which shall include but not necessarily be limited to plans generated
during the Fire District’s annual budget process, lobbying efforts, tax
increment financing, and implementation of user fees, administrative and
regulatory fees and other forms of revenue.
   I.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this Chapter, that portion of a
Project for which a complete application for a Building Permit has been
received by the City, prior to the effective date of this Chapter, shall not be
subject to the Fire District Impact Fee imposed by this Chapter. If the
resulting Building Permit is later revised or replaced after the effective date
of the ordinance codified in this Chapter, and the new Building Permit(s)
reflects a development density, intensity, development size or number of units
more than ten percent (10%) higher than that reflected in the original Building
Permit, then the Fire District Impact Fee may be charged on the difference in
density, intensity, development size or number of units between the original
and the revised or replacement Building Permit.
   J.   Any monies, including any accrued interest not assigned to specific
System Improvements within such Capital Improvements Plan and not expended
pursuant to section
1-23-12  of this Chapter or refunded pursuant to section
1-23-10  of this Chapter shall be retained in the same account until the next
Fire District fiscal year.
   K.   If the Fire District discovers an error in the Capital Improvements
Plan that results in assessment or payment of more than a proportionate share
of System Improvements Costs on any proposed Development, the Fire District
Administrator shall: (a) adjust the Fire District Impact Fee to collect no more
than a proportionate share; or (b) discontinue the collection of any Fire
District Impact Fees until the error is corrected by ordinance.
   L.   If Fire District Impact Fees are calculated and paid based on a mistake
or misrepresentation, they shall be recalculated. Any amounts overpaid by a Fee
Payer shall be refunded by the Fire District within thirty (30) days after the
Fire District’s acceptance of the recalculated amount, with interest at the
legal rate provided for in Idaho Code § 28-22-104 from the date on which the
fee was paid. Any amounts underpaid by the Fee Payer shall be paid to the Fire
District within thirty (30) days after the Fire District Administrator’s
acceptance of the recalculated amount, with interest at the legal rate provided
for in Idaho Code § 28-22-104 from the date on which the fee was paid. In the
case of an underpayment to the Fire District, the Administrator may request the
City and the City may withhold issuance of the Building Permits or Development
Approval for the project for which the Fire District Impact Fee was paid until
such underpayment is corrected, and if amounts owed to the Fire District are
not paid within such thirty-day (30) period, the Fire District Administrator
may also ask the City to and the City may revoke any Building Permits or
Development Approval issued in reliance on the previous payment of such Fire
District Impact Fee and refund such fee to the Fee Payer.
   M.   The Advisory Committee has been established by the City and has
reviewed and recommended to the City Council the approval of the Capital
Improvements Plan shall continue in existence, and shall by operation of this
Ordinance. (Ord. 581, 11-14-2023)
1-23-20 PUNISHMENT:
Any person who violates any provision of this Chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, punishable by up to one (1) year in the county jail, and/or a one
thousand dollar ($1,000.00) fine, or both. Knowingly furnishing false
information to any official of the City or the Fire District charged with the
administration of this Chapter, including without limitation, the furnishing of
false information regarding the expected size, use or impacts from a proposed
Development, shall be a violation of this Chapter. (Ord. 581, 11-14-2023)
1-23-21: CONSTRUCTION OF INTENT:
All provisions, terms, phrases and expressions contained in this Chapter shall
be liberally construed in order that the true intent and meaning of the Act and
the City Council and the Board of Commissioners may be fully carried out. (Ord.
581, 11-14-2023)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS 1
(Rep. by Ord. 520, 2-5-2014)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 1, chapter 5 of this code.
TITLE 3
BUSINESS REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL BUSINESS REGISTRATION
SECTION:
3-1-1: Unlawful Conduct
3-1-2: Denial Or Revocation After Notice And Hearing
3-1-3: Penalties
3-1-1: UNLAWFUL CONDUCT:
It shall be unlawful for any registrant to engage in any fraudulent, deceptive
or unlawful business practice; make any materially false statement or
representation concerning the nature, quality or durability of any good or
service sold or offered for sale, knowing the same to be false; or make any
materially false or misleading statement on an application for a City business
registration. (Ord. 594, 8-16-2017)
3-1-2: DENIAL OR REVOCATION AFTER NOTICE AND HEARING:
Any registration may be denied or revoked by the City upon specific findings
that the subject business is not in compliance with this chapter or subject
registrant has engaged in unlawful conduct as defined by City, State, or
Federal law. The City shall send written notice to the registrant, by certified
mail, addressed to the address of the business noted on the registration or
registration application, informing the registrant that he may, within fourteen
(14) days of the notice, request in writing a hearing before the City Council.
A registrant who appeals a notice of revocation may continue business until the
appeal has been decided.
Upon receipt of such written request the City Council shall schedule a hearing
within thirty (30) days. The City shall inform the registrant or applicant of
the date, time, and place of the hearing not less than ten (10) days before the
hearing. The registrant or applicant shall have the right to appear personally
and be represented by an attorney, may call witnesses and show cause why the
registration should not be revoked or denied. The City shall record the
hearing. The decision of the City shall be in writing no later than fourteen
(14) days after the hearing stating the reasons for the decision. The decision
shall be mailed by regular and certified mail to the registrant or applicant
who shall immediately cease doing business and/or surrender his registration to
the City. (Ord. 594, 8-16-2017; amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
3-1-3: PENALTIES:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of an
infraction and penalized pursuant to section
1-4-2 of this Code. (Ord. 594, 8-16-2017; amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
CHAPTER 2
ADULT BUSINESS REGULATIONS
SECTION:
3-2-1: Purpose And Intent
3-2-2: Prohibitions
3-2-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The purpose of these regulations is to allow the reasonable location of a
sexually oriented business within the City in a manner which will protect
property values, neighborhoods and residents from the potential adverse
secondary effects of sexually oriented businesses while providing to those who
desire to patronize sexually oriented businesses such opportunity in
appropriate areas within the City. It is not the intent of this chapter to
suppress any speech activities protected by the First Amendment of the United
States Constitution, but to impose content neutral regulations which address
the adverse secondary effects sexually oriented businesses may have on
adjoining properties and the immediate neighborhood.
It has been determined, and reflected in the land use studies of various U.S.
cities, that businesses which have as their primary purpose the selling,
renting or showing of sexually explicit materials have negative secondary
impacts upon surrounding businesses and residences. The experience in other
U.S. cities is that the location of a sexually oriented business significantly
increases the incidence of crimes, especially sex offenses, including rape,
indecent exposure, lewd and lascivious behavior, and child molestation.
It has been determined, and reflected in the land use studies of various U.S.
cities, that the operation of sexually oriented businesses in business
districts which are immediately adjacent to and which serve residential
neighborhoods has a deleterious effect on both the business and the residential
segments of the neighborhood, causing blight and downgrading of property
values.
Under no circumstance shall the issuance of a special use permit be considered
an affirmative defense or consent by the City of Middleton for any activity
that is prohibited by Federal or State law, or any other prohibition not a part
of this chapter. (Ord. 549, 1-21-2015; amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
3-2-2: PROHIBITIONS:
No person shall operate or conduct a sexually oriented business upon any
property or premises unless in conformance with this title. A violation of this
provision may be enforced through administrative, civil and/or criminal
remedies.
In order to approve a special use permit for a sexually oriented business, the
City Council must determine that the following conditions are met:
   A.   Such business shall not be located within two thousand five hundred
feet (2,500') of a public or parochial school or daycare, or playground.
Distance shall be measured as in subsection F of this section.
   B.   Such business shall not be located within one thousand five hundred
feet (1,500') of any boys' club, girls' club, or similar existing youth
organizations, public building, public park or school bus stop. Distance shall
be measured as in subsection F of this section.
   C.   Such business shall not be located within two thousand five hundred
feet (2,500') of a religious institution. Distance shall be measured as in
subsection F of this section.
   D.   Such business shall not be located within one thousand five hundred
feet (1,500') of a bar or tavern or other premises serving alcohol or any other
sexually oriented business. Distance shall be measured as in subsection F of
this section.
   E.   Such business shall not be located on a lot or parcel that is within
one thousand five hundred feet (1,500') of a residential use or zone. Distance
shall be measured as in subsection F of this section.
   F.   Distance shall be measured in a straight line without regard to
intervening structures from the nearest entrance of the sexually oriented
business to the nearest property line or boundary line, or school bus stop.
These standards shall apply regardless of the political jurisdiction in which
schools, parks, or churches or other adult businesses are located.
   G.   The sign package and exterior building design must be submitted with
the special use application for review by the City. Advertisements, displays,
or other promotional materials shall not be shown or exhibited so as to be
visible to the public from the exterior of the building. No advertising signs,
billboards, displays, advertisements, or other promotional materials depicting
specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities or displaying
instruments, devices or paraphernalia designed for use in connection with
specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities shall be shown or
exhibited so as to be visible to the public from the exterior of the building.
   H.   Lobby and entrance areas should be designed so as to minimize
obstruction of sidewalks during operating hours and shall be oriented and
consistent with other commercial activities in the area.
   I.   All building openings, entries, windows, and the like, shall be
located, covered, or screened in such a manner as to prevent a view into the
interior, so that personnel, instruments, devices, paraphernalia, and body
parts, which are associated in any manner with specified anatomical areas or
specified sexual activities, cannot be viewed from roads, sidewalks and
adjacent private properties.
   J.   No loudspeakers or sound equipment shall be used for such businesses
that can be discerned by the public outside the building.
   K.   The disposal of garbage and trash containing sexually explicit
materials must be disposed of in a manner which prevents minors from having
access to the material.
   L.   For purposes of this chapter, the above conditions and standards shall
be applicable in the following circumstances:
      1.   The opening or commencement of any sexually oriented business as a
new business;
      2.   The conversion of an existing business, or any part of any existing
business to any of the sexually oriented businesses regulated herein;
      3.   The addition or expansion of any business to include any of the
sexually oriented businesses regulated herein; or
      4.   The voluntary relocation of any such business.
   M.   Hours of operation are from four o'clock (4:00) P.M. to two o'clock (2:
00) A.M. One security staff is required for each twenty (20) required parking
spaces or fraction thereof. The hours of operation shall be visibly posted on
all entrances and exits.
   N.   On site security must be present during all hours of operation.
   O.   These provisions shall not be construed as permitting any use or act
which is otherwise prohibited or made punishable by law.
   P.   No sexually oriented materials or performances shall be disseminated to
or performed for, by or upon minors. Signs prohibiting minors upon premises
shall be visibly posted on all entrances and exits.
   Q.   All areas of a sexually oriented business shall be illuminated at a
minimum of twenty (20) foot-candles, normally maintained and evenly distributed
at ground level. Except, adult motels shall only be required to be illuminated
at a minimum of twenty (20) foot-candles in public areas. And, adult theaters
and adult cabarets shall only be required to be illuminated at a minimum of
five (5) foot-candles. During performances, adult theaters and adult cabarets
may reduce the lighting to be no less than 1.25 foot-candles.
   R.   An adult motion picture show or adult arcade shall limit the maximum
number of image producing devices to the maximum occupancy load permitted in
any room or partitioned portion of a room in which an image producing device is
located. (Ord. 549, 1-21-2015; amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
CHAPTER 3
HOME OCCUPATION BUSINESSES
SECTION:
3-3-1: Home Occupation
3-3-2: Unlawful Conduct
3-3-3: Denial Or Revocation After Notice And Hearing
3-3-1: HOME OCCUPATION:
   A.   Home Occupation Standards: Home occupation applications shall meet all
of the following home occupation standards to be considered eligible for
approval of a home occupation:
      1.   The home occupation is clearly incidental and secondary to the use
of the lot or parcel for dwelling purposes.
      2.   The home occupation is conducted entirely within the dwelling or its
existing accessory building and is carried on by the inhabitants of the
dwelling. The inhabitants of the dwelling do not need to be the dwelling
owners, but they must be occupying the dwelling and provide the City written
authorization from the property owner.
      3.   No article shall be sold or offered for sale on the premises or
property, except such as is produced by the inhabitant on the premises and
specifically approved by the City or that the sale of an article is not the
essential nature of, but is instead incidental to, the home occupation. For
example, sales of shampoo and other beauty supplies at a home beauty salon may
be considered incidental to the home occupation. However, the home occupation
shall not constitute or resemble a retail store, in terms of traffic,
appearance, and other impacts.
      4.   No mechanical or electrical equipment shall be installed or
maintained other than such as is customarily incidental to domestic use.
Dimensions, power rating or weight of equipment and tools used in the conduct
of the home occupation shall not exceed that of normal household equipment and
tools. No activities shall be allowed which involve the use, storage, repair,
milling or manufacture of highly combustible materials or internal combustion
engines. Hazardous materials shall not be stored in any quantity exceeding a
one day supply and shall comply with International Fire and Building Codes for
residential occupancy.
      5.   No more than one person other than members of the family residing on
the premises shall be engaged in such occupation and shall be required to park
on site.
      6.   The home occupation shall not change the character of the dwelling
or adversely affect the uses permitted in the applicable zoning districts. No
activity shall indicate from the exterior that the dwelling is being used in
whole or in part for any purpose other than that of a dwelling. No equipment or
process shall be used in such home occupation which creates noise, vibration,
glare, fumes, odors, or electrical interference detectable to the normal senses
off the lot. In the case of electrical interference, no equipment or process
shall be used which creates visual or audible interference in any radio or
television receivers off the premises or causes fluctuations in line voltage
off the premises. The premises shall at all times be maintained as residential
in appearance, cleanliness and quietness. The business shall not involve the
use of signs and/or structures other than those permitted in the district of
which it is a part. Any materials used or any item produced or repaired on the
premises shall not be displayed or stored so as to be visible from the exterior
of the building. There shall be no outdoor display of goods or outside storage
of equipment or materials used in the home occupation.
      7.   Any home occupation which causes abnormal automotive or pedestrian
traffic or which is objectionable due to unsightliness or emission of odor,
dust, smoke, noise, glare, heat, vibration or similar disturbances to the
outside of any building containing such home occupation shall be prohibited.
      8.   Not more than one-fourth (1/4) of the gross area of the main floor
of said dwelling shall be used for said home occupation whether said use is
conducted in the dwelling or in an existing accessory building, with the
following stipulation:
         a.   Garages, whether detached or attached, shall not be included in
the calculation of the gross area of the main floor, they shall not count as
the one-fourth (1/4) area that may be used for the home occupation.
         b.   A family daycare home shall be excluded from this requirement.
      9.   A business that would normally require additional off street parking
spaces is prohibited as a home occupation.
      10.   There shall be no commodities sold, or services rendered, that
require receipt and delivery of merchandise, goods, or equipment by anything
other than a passenger vehicle or mail delivery vehicles.
      11.   Instruction in music, crafts or dance studios shall be limited to
no more than six (6) students at one time. Home beauty salons or barbershops
shall be limited to one chair and nail table or one chair or nail table, which
are commonly referred to as stations.
      12.   All applicable City, State and Federal codes and regulations shall
be met to operate a home occupation. (Ord. 587, 1-18-2017; amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-
2018)
3-3-2: UNLAWFUL CONDUCT:
It shall be unlawful conduct for any person to engage in any fraudulent,
deceptive or unlawful business practice; make any materially false statement or
representation concerning the nature, quality or durability of any goods,
wares, merchandise or services sold or offered for sale, knowing the same to be
false; or make any materially false or misleading statement on an application
for a home occupation hereunder. Any violation of this chapter shall be
punished as an infraction as provided under section
1-4-2 of this Code. (Ord. 549, 1-21-2015; amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
3-3-3: DENIAL OR REVOCATION AFTER NOTICE AND HEARING:
   A.   Permission to operate a home occupation may be denied or revoked by the
City Council after providing written notice and an opportunity for a hearing to
the business owner, upon specific findings by the Council that the subject
business is not in compliance with this chapter, becomes a public nuisance or
has engaged in unlawful conduct as defined by City, State, or Federal law.
Written notice shall be sent to the business owner, by certified mail,
addressed to the address of the business noted on the home occupation
application, informing the business owner that he may request in writing a
hearing before the City Council. Upon receipt of such written request the City
Council shall schedule a hearing within thirty one (31) days after notice to
the applicant of the denial or revocation. If the City does not receive a
request for a hearing, the City's denial of an application is deemed final. In
regard to revocation, if a request for hearing is not received, the City may
forthwith revoke its permission to operate the home occupation. If a hearing is
requested, the City shall inform the business owner of the date, time, and
place of the hearing not less than ten (10) days before the hearing. The
business owner shall have the right to appear personally and be represented by
an attorney, may call witnesses and show cause why the permission to operate
the home occupation should not be revoked or denied. The City shall make a
recording of the hearing. The decision of the City Council shall be rendered in
writing no later than fifteen (15) days after the hearing, signed by the Mayor,
stating the reasons for its decision. A decision revoking the permission to
operate a home occupation shall be mailed by certified mail to the business
owner by the City. Upon receipt of an order of revocation, the business owner
shall immediately cease doing business in the City.
   B.   All home occupations, including those in existence prior to and upon
the effective date hereof, shall be subject to standards set forth herein.
(Ord. 549, 1-21-2015; amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
TITLE 4
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODES
SECTION:
4-1-1: General Requirements
4-1-2: Building Codes Adopted
4-1-3: Required Inspections
4-1-1: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Building Permit Required; Exceptions: No structure or accessory
structure over two hundred (200) square feet shall be constructed, remodeled,
renovated, or added-to within the City of Middleton without first obtaining a
building permit and paying the established fees.
      1.   Exceptions:
         a.   Replacing or upgrading exterior glass, without changing the
frame.
         b.   Removal of asphalt shingles and replacing with same roofing type
without altering or repairing of existing sheeting.
         c.   Adding a second layer of asphalt shingles over an original layer
of asphalt shingles.
         d.   Repairing and replacing individual shingles and/or roofing tiles.
         e.   Residential fencing that complies with this Code.
         f.   Replacing cabinets without changing plumbing or electrical.
         g.   Repairing, but not replacing, existing plumbing fixtures.
         h.   Contact City building official for other exemptions.
   B.   Certificate Of Occupancy: The building official shall not issue a
certificate of occupancy for a building until all necessary subdivision
infrastructure improvements have been constructed and accepted by the City, and
debris has been removed from subdivision vacant lots. A certificate of
occupancy shall not be issued until any damage to public improvements or
property by a contractor, subcontractor, owner, or builder has been repaired at
the expense thereof. A contractor shall be responsible for damage caused by
said contractor’s subcontractor. A building/property owner shall be responsible
for damage caused by said building/property owner’s contractor.
   C.   Stamped Plans: All plans for public, commercial, industrial and multi-
family buildings exceeding four (4) dwelling units must be stamped by a
licensed architect and/or a licensed engineer.
   D.   Subdivided Lot: No residence or commercial building shall be erected or
moved onto any lot unless said lot has been legally subdivided and has thirty
feet (30') of frontage on a public right-of-way and meets all the requirements
of title 5 of this Code.
   E.   Traffic Impact Analysis: The City may require an applicant, at the
applicant's expense, to conduct a traffic impact analysis for any commercial or
industrial use requiring a building permit.
   F.   Address Numbering: All residential, commercial and industrial buildings
within the City shall be numbered with an address assigned by the City. Numbers
on residential buildings shall be a minimum of four inches (4") in height.
Numbers on commercial and industrial buildings shall be a minimum of twelve
inches (12") in height. Number colors should contrast with the building color
so that they are plainly visible.
   G.   Sewer Connection: When a new connection is made to the sewer main, a
cast iron hub shall be used unless an alternate connector is approved by the
City.
   H.   Driveways: All lots shall front upon a public road unless otherwise
approved by the City. Residences having a garage shall have a hard surface of
concrete or asphalt driveway and approach with a width at least equal to the
garage width that extends from the garage to the abutting public road.
Driveways from garages not facing the street shall be a minimum twelve feet
(12') wide between the garage and publicly maintained roads.
   I.   Private Lanes/Alleys: Private lanes/alleys may be constructed to access
single family, single family attached, and/or apartment residences. Private
lanes will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis and must be specifically
approved by the city.
   J.   Agricultural Buildings: Agricultural buildings are exempt from the
Building Codes adopted herein but shall remain subject to zoning regulations.
   K.   Tiny Houses: A building permit is required, and either certification by
the RV or mobile home manufacturer associations or on a foundation following
the International Residential Code.
   L.   Minimum Room Count: A dwelling unit shall contain at least three (3)
rooms, which shall include a kitchen (with appliances for cooking food, a sink
and storage) and bathroom (with a sink, toilet and tub or shower), separate
from each other and all other rooms.
   M.   Mobile Units: No recreational vehicle, camper, camp trailer, tent or
other portable or mobile structure or unit may be used as a residence.
   N.   Demolition Permit: A demolition permit is required from the City if a
portion of a non-agricultural structure is to be demolished. No permit is
required if an entire structure is to be demolished.
   O.   Street Frontage: If a building permit changes the use of a parcel,
building or structure, or if it increases the intensity of the use, building,
or structure, then frontage improvements for the road(s) bordering the project
parcel will be required unless an exemption is granted pursuant to subsection
“1" below. All required frontage improvements shall be in compliance with City
codes and standards and the City’s Supplement to the ISPWC in effect at the
time of building permit issuance. (Ord. 587, 1-18-2017; amd. Ord. 594, 8-16-
2017; Ord. 609, 7-3-2018; Ord. 642, 11-18-2020; Ord. 657, 11-3-2021; Ord. 679,
8-16-2023)
4-1-2: BUILDING CODES ADOPTED:
   A.   Codes Adopted: The following nationally recognized codes, including
successive versions, as adopted by the State of Idaho or the Idaho Building
Code Board, are adopted as the official Building Codes of the City of
Middleton:
      1.   International Building Code, including all rules promulgated by the
board to provide equivalency with the provisions of the Americans With
Disabilities Act accessibility guidelines and the Federal Fair Housing Act
accessibility guidelines.
      2.   International Residential Code, parts I - IV and IX.
      3.   International Energy Conservation Code.
      4.   National Electrical Code.
      5.   Uniform Plumbing Code.
      6.   International Mechanical Code.
      7.   International Fuel and Gas Code.
The City Council shall establish building fees by resolution.
   B.   Supplemental Documents: Due to the complexities of the construction
industry, the International Residential Code and the International Building
Code make reference to additional documents to provide clarification of intent
and potential options for code compliance. When this occurs, the referenced
documents shall be treated as an integral part of the prevailing Building Code.
Should a conflict occur between the Building Code and a referenced document,
the most stringent regulation of the two shall apply. Documents approved by
testing agencies (American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM),
International Code Council (ICC), Underwriters Laboratories (UL), etc.) and
installation instructions from material manufacturers are examples of sources
referenced to define approved construction practices. Before using any material
or methods of application not specifically mentioned in the International
Residential Code or the International Building Code, the building official
should be contacted.
   C.   Tests: The building official has the authority to require tests to
substantiate the claim that an alternative material or method of application is
equivalent and meets the intent of the international codes. Any tests must be
in compliance with those standards specified in the international codes or
other recognized standards approved by the building official. The costs of any
test will be borne by the proponent seeking the approval of the alternative
material or method of application. Testing will be conducted by an agency
approved by the building official or by the building official, in the building
official's sole discretion.
   D.   Electrical Code:
      1.   General Wiring Methods: Any of the general wiring methods of chapter
3 of the National Electrical Code, so classified by the article itself as a
general wiring method, shall be allowed as the wiring method for buildings and
premises in the City of Middleton, subject only to the limitations,
restrictions and prohibited uses contained in the article itself or as amended:
         a.   Commercial, Educational, Institutional And Industrial Wiring:
Commercial, educational, institutional and industrial electrical shall be wired
as follows: wiring to be in metal raceway, armored cable or approved by
Inspection Department.
         b.   Suspended Ceiling Luminaire: Suspended ceiling luminaires are to
be supported by independent support wires from structure to fixture, including
wiring boxes for smaller luminaires such as exit signs. Luminaires over one
foot (1') square to have two (2) supports, one on each diagonal corner.
         c.   Bell Ringing Transformers: Bell ringing transformers shall be
located to be accessible and shall not be located in an attic.
         d.   Smoke Detectors: Smoke detectors in residences to be wired to a
general wiring circuit.
      2.   Adopting Primary Grounding Electrode: Concrete encased electrode
shall be the primary grounding electrode for the City of Middleton, Idaho, when
it is installed as per articles 250.50 and 250.52(A)(3), provided all of the
following conditions are met:
         a.   The grounding electrode must be inspected by either the building
inspector or the electrical inspector before concrete is poured.
         b.   When copper electrode is used, the end of copper is anchored to
steel rebar with approved clamp and tied with tie wire every four feet (4') to
existing rebar.
      3.   Additional Amendments: The city adopts the following amendments to
the national electrical code, consistent with the amendments adopted by the
Idaho division of building safety:
         a.   Article 210.8(A)(7) Sinks. Delete article 210.8(A)(7) and replace
with the following:
Sinks located in areas other than kitchens where receptacles are installed
within one and eight tenths (1.8) meters (six (6) feet) of the outside edge of
the sink.
         b.   Article 210.8(A)(10). Delete article 210.8(A)(10).
         c.   Article 210.8(D). Delete article 210.8(D).
         d.   Article 210.52(E)(3). Delete article 210.52(E)(3) and replace
with the following:
Balconies, Decks, And Porches. Balconies, decks, and porches having an overall
area of twenty (20) square feet or more that are accessible from inside the
dwelling unit shall have at least one (1) receptacle outlet installed within
the perimeter of the balcony, deck, or porch. The receptacle shall not be
located more than two (2.0) meters (six and one half (61/2) feet) above the
balcony, deck, or porch surface.
         e.   Where the height of a crawl space does not exceed one and four
tenths (1.4) meters or four and one half (4.5) feet it shall be permissible to
secure NM cables, that run at angles with joist, to the bottom edge of joist.
NM cables that run within two and one tenth (2.1) meters or seven (7) feet of
crawl space access shall comply with article 320.23.
         f.   Article 675.8(B). Compliance with article 675.8(B) will include
the additional requirement that a disconnecting means always be provided at the
point of service from the utility no matter where the disconnecting means for
the machine is located.
         g.   Article 550.32(B). Compliance with article 550.32(B) shall limit
installation of a service on a manufactured home to those homes manufactured
after January 1, 1992.
         h.   Poles used as lighting standards that are forty (40) feet or less
in nominal height and that support no more than four (4) luminaires operating
at a nominal voltage of three hundred (300) volts or less, shall not be
considered to constitute a structure as that term is defined by the national
electrical code (NEC). The disconnecting means shall not be mounted to the
pole. The disconnecting means may be permitted elsewhere in accordance with
NEC, article 225.32, exception 3. SEC special purpose fuseable connectors
(model SEC 1791-DF or model SEC 1791-SF) or equivalent shall be installed in a
listed handhole (underground) enclosure. The enclosure shall be appropriately
grounded and bonded per the requirements of the NEC applicable to article 230-
Services. Overcurrent protection shall be provided by a (fast-acting - minimum
- 100K RMS amps 600 VAC) rated fuse. Wiring within the pole for the luminaires
shall be protected by supplementary overcurrent device (time-delay - minimum -
10K RMS amps 600 VAC) in break-a-away fuse holder accessible from the hand
hole. Any poles supporting or incorporating utilization equipment or exceeding
the prescribed number of luminaires, or in excess of forty (40) feet, shall be
considered structures, and an appropriate service disconnecting means shall be
required per the NEC. All luminaire-supporting poles shall be appropriately
grounded and bonded per the NEC.
         i.   Compliance with article 210.12 Arc-Fault Circuit-Interrupter
Protection.
            (1)   Definition. Arc-fault circuit-interrupter is a device
intended to provide protection from the effects of arc faults by recognizing
characteristics unique to arcing and by functioning to de-energize the circuit
when an arc fault is detected.
            (2)   Dwelling Unit Bedrooms. All one hundred twenty (120)-volt,
single phase, fifteen (15)-ampere and twenty (20)-ampere branch circuits
supplying outlets installed in dwelling unit bedrooms shall be protected by a
listed arc-fault circuit interrupter, combination type installed to provide
protection of the branch circuit.
(Ord. 587, 1-18-2017)
4-1-3: REQUIRED INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Required: The following inspections are required by the City:
      1.   Foundation footings.
      2.   Underfloor framing - before decking is applied.
      3.   Shear - exterior and interior brace walls, can be included with
framing inspection.
      4.   Exterior flat work - call in day of pour for next-day inspection.
      5.   Plumbing, electrical and mechanical.
      6.   Framing - includes truss installation, exhaust vents, stairs,
flashing for penetrations, and hose bib locations.
      7.   Energy - includes insulation, vapor barriers, and baffles.
      8.   Siding - siding, flashing, gaps and caulking.
      9.   Lath - for water resistant barrier, stucco or masonry veneer.
      10.   Attic venting - call in day of shingle installation for next- day
inspection.
      11.   Final - includes paint under bottom side panel, and exterior
grading.
   B.   Inspections: Building and building related inspections shall be
conducted by the inspectors authorized by the City of Middleton.
   C.   Lath: All installations for lath used as a base for stucco and
manufactured masonry veneer shall comply with American Society for Testing and
Materials - ASTM international (ASTM) C926 for concrete mix and C1063 for metal
bases or manufacturer's specifications, whichever is most stringent, and shall
include the following minimum standards:
      1.   Weep screed is to be installed at the base perimeter. The flange
shall overlap below the top of the foundation one inch (1"). Weep screed to be
installed under the weather resistant barrier (WRB). Northwest Wall and Ceiling
Bureau.
      2.   Lath will be a minimum of 17-gauge woven wire or two and one- half
(2.5) pound expanded metal mesh, stapled or nailed per ASTM C1063 (minimum 11/
2 inch), staple length applied vertically no more than six inches (6") on
center on the framing members only. Staples in the "field" are prohibited.
Horizontal and vertical laps, between structural members, shall be wired.
Northwest Wall and Ceiling Bureau.
      3.   Plant ons, also known as "pop ups", and other architectural add-ons
shall be made of expanded polystyrene (EPS) foam and adhered to the browncoat
as a standard EIFS assembly (reinforcing mesh, basecoat and acrylic finish
coat). Northwest Wall and Ceiling Bureau.
   D.   Roofing: Delete from the 2012 International Residential Code article
R317.1(5) relating to roofing standards. (Ord. 602, 1-3-2018)
CHAPTER 2
FIRE CODE
SECTION:
4-2-1: Fire Code Adopted
4-2-2: Definitions
4-2-1: FIRE CODE ADOPTED:
The City hereby adopts the current edition of the International Fire Code as
adopted by the State of Idaho including any revisions thereto as may
periodically be adopted by the State of Idaho, and including all applicable
appendix chapters and standards contained therein, published by the
International Code Council, a copy of which is on file in the office of the
city clerk, in accordance with Idaho Code section 50-901. Transportation-
related provisions and standards of Middleton City Code, Idaho Standards for
Public Works Construction (ISPWC) and the Middleton Supplement to the ISPWC
shall prevail if there is a conflict between them and the International Fire
Code.
(Ord. 609, 7-3-2018; amd. Ord. 623, 8-7-2019)
4-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   Whenever the word "jurisdiction" is used in the International Fire
Code, it is the City of Middleton.
   B.   Where the party responsible for the enforcement of the International
Fire Code is given the title of "Fire Marshal", add the following definition:
   FIRE MARSHAL: The Chief of the Middleton Rural Fire District or his
designee. (Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
CHAPTER 3
FLOOD CONTROL REGULATIONS
SECTION:
4-3-1: Statutory Authorization, Findings Of Fact And Purpose
4-3-2: Methods Of Accomplishing Purpose
4-3-3: Interpretation And Application Of Provisions
4-3-4: Compliance With Provisions
4-3-5: Rules And Definitions
4-3-6: Basis For Area Of Special Flood Hazard
4-3-7: Flood Damage Reduction Provisions
4-3-7-1: General Building Requirements
4-3-7-2: Anchoring
4-3-7-3: Water And Sewer Systems
4-3-7-4: Subdivisions And Development
4-3-7-5: Specific Standards
4-3-8: Duties Of Floodplain Administrator
4-3-9: Variances
4-3-10: Schedule Of Fees, Charges And Expenses
4-3-11: Disclaimer Of Liability
4-3-1: STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT AND PURPOSE:
   A.   Statutory Authorization: The legislature of the State of Idaho has in
Idaho Code sections 46-1010 through 46-1024, delegated the responsibility to
local governmental units to adopt regulations designed to promote the public
health, safety and general welfare of its citizenry. Therefore, the City hereby
adopts the provisions set forth in this chapter.
   B.   Findings Of Fact:
      1.   The flood hazard areas of the City are subject to periodic
inundation which may result in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
      2.   Flood losses may be by manmade or natural causes, and/or by the
cumulative effect of structures located in areas of special flood hazards which
increase flood heights and velocities and can damage property. Uses that are
inadequately floodproofed, elevated, anchored or otherwise protected from flood
damage may also contribute to the flood loss.
   C.   Purpose: It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public
health, safety and general welfare, and to minimize public and private losses
due to flood conditions in specific areas by provisions designed:
      1.   To protect human life and health;
      2.   To minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
      3.   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
      4.   To minimize prolonged business interruptions;
      5.   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, roads and bridges located
in areas of special flood hazard; and
      6.   To help maintain a stable tax base by encouraging development of
areas not known to be subject to special flood hazard. (Ord. 531, 4-2-2014)
4-3-2: METHODS OF ACCOMPLISHING PURPOSE:
In order to accomplish its purposes, this chapter includes methods and
provisions for:
   A.   Restricting or prohibiting uses which are dangerous to health, safety
and property due to water or erosion hazards, or which result in damaging
increases in erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
   B.   Requiring that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be constructed to prevent or minimize flood damage at the time
of initial construction;
   C.   Controlling the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers which help accommodate or channel floodwaters;
   D.   Controlling filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase flood damage; and
   E.   Preventing or regulating the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards in other
areas. (Ord. 531, 4-2-2014)
4-3-3: INTERPRETATION AND APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Jurisdiction And Interpretation: This chapter shall apply to all areas
of special flood hazards within the jurisdiction of the City. In the
interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall be:
      1.   Considered as minimum requirements;
      2.   Liberally construed in favor of the City; and
      3.   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
provisions of the Idaho Code.
   B.   Conflicting Laws: This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate or
impair any existing applicable laws, ordinances, regulations, easements,
covenants or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and other law,
ordinance, regulation, easement, covenant or deed restriction conflict or
overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail. (Ord.
531, 4-2-2014)
4-3-4: COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS:
No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted or altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and
other applicable regulations. (Ord. 531, 4-2-2014)
4-3-5: RULES AND DEFINITIONS:
See section
1-3-1 of this Code for flood terms. (Ord. 531, 4-2-2014)
4-3-6: BASIS FOR AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD:
The special flood hazard areas identified by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency in its "Flood Insurance Study (FIS) for Canyon County, Idaho and
Incorporated Areas", dated May 24, 2011, with accompanying flood insurance rate
maps (FIRM) or digital flood insurance rate maps (DFIRM), and other supporting
data, are adopted by reference and declared a part of this chapter. The FIS and
the FIRM are on file at the Office of the Middleton City Hall, 6 North Dewey
Avenue, Middleton, Idaho. (Ord. 531, 4-2-2014)
4-3-7: FLOOD DAMAGE REDUCTION PROVISIONS:
In all areas of special flood hazard the standards as set forth in this chapter
shall be required. (Ord. 531, 4-2-2014; amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
4-3-7-1: GENERAL BUILDING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Review Of Building Permits: Applications for building permits shall be
reviewed to verify that the base flood elevations have been determined and that
the proposed construction complies with the specific standards of this chapter.
   B.   Construction Materials And Methods: All new construction and
substantial improvements shall be constructed with materials and utility
equipment resistant to flood damage and using methods and practices that
minimize flood damage.
   C.   Design, Location Of Certain Equipment: Electrical, heating,
ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning equipment and other service
facilities, shall be designed and/or otherwise elevated or located so as to
prevent water from entering or accumulating within the components during
conditions of flooding. (Ord. 531, 4-2-2014; amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
4-3-7-2: ANCHORING:
   A.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
   B.   All manufactured homes must be elevated on a permanent foundation or be
securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to prevent
flotation, collapse or lateral movement, and shall be installed using methods
and practices that minimize flood damage. Anchoring methods may include, but
are not limited to, use of over the top or frame ties to ground anchors
(reference FEMA's "Manufactured Home Installation in Flood Hazard Areas"
guidebook for additional techniques).
(Ord. 531, 4-2-2014; amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018; Ord. 618, 6-5-2019)
4-3-7-3: WATER AND SEWER SYSTEMS:
   A.   All new and replacement water supply systems and sanitary sewage
systems shall be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters
into the systems and/or discharge from the systems into floodwaters. Onsite
waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to them or
contamination from them during flooding.
   B.   All sewer and water systems shall be approved by the District Health
Department or the Idaho Department of Environmental Quality.
Ord. 531, 4-2-2014; amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018; Ord. 618, 6-5-2019)
4-3-7-4: SUBDIVISIONS AND DEVELOPMENT:
   A.   Subdivision and development proposals shall be consistent with the need
to minimize flood damage;
   B.   Subdivision and development proposals shall have public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and
constructed to minimize flood damage;
   C.   Subdivision and development proposals shall have adequate drainage
provided to reduce exposure to flood damage;
   D.   Subdivision and development proposals shall include easements and
design features adequate for river maintenance vehicles and equipment,
emergency vehicles, and sportsman and recreation access or egress; and
   E.   Base flood elevation data shall be provided by the applicant for all
subdivision and development proposals, including manufactured home parks
located within any area of special flood hazard and the cost of such shall be
the sole responsibility of the applicant. (Ord. 531, 4-2-2014; amd. Ord. 609,
7-3-2018)
4-3-7-5: SPECIFIC STANDARDS:
In all special flood hazards areas where base flood elevation data is
established, the provisions of this section shall be required:
   A.   Residential Construction:
      1.   Connection to a central sewage treatment system shall be required.
Residential development within the regulatory floodplain may be clustered
(through approval of the City) to facilitate the economics of the sewage
infrastructure.
      2.   New construction, including installed manufactured homes, and
substantial improvement of any residential structure shall have:
         a.   The lowest finished floor elevation a minimum of one foot (1')
above the base flood elevation;
         b.   The lowest floor elevation at least one foot (1') above the base
flood elevation;
         c.   All building utility systems, including electrical, heating,
ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning, ductwork and other facilities elevated
at least one foot (1') above the base flood elevation.
   B.   Nonresidential Construction: New construction and substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure
shall either have the lowest floor elevation at least two feet (2') above the
base flood elevation; or, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, shall:
      1.   Be floodproofed to a point two feet (2') above the base flood
elevation so that the structure is watertight with walls substantially
impermeable to the passage of water;
      2.   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy; and
      3.   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect that
the design and methods of construction are in accordance with accepted
standards of practice for meeting provisions of this subsection based on their
development and/or review of the structural design, specifications and plans.
Such certifications shall be provided to the official as set forth in
subsection 4-3-8A of this chapter.
      4.   Applicants floodproofing nonresidential buildings shall be notified
that flood insurance premiums will be based on rates that are one foot (1')
below the floodproofed level (e.g., a building constructed to the base flood
elevation will be rated as 1 foot below that level).
   C.   For new and substantially improved structures, fully enclosed areas
below the lowest floor that are usable solely for parking vehicles, building
access, or storage in an area other than a basement or crawl space and that are
subject to flooding shall be elevated according to the requirements of this
chapter or shall be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces
on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters. Designs
for this requirement must either be certified by a registered professional
engineer or architect, or must meet or exceed the following minimum criteria:
      1.   A minimum of two (2) openings, having a total net area of at least
one (1) square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding,
shall be provided.
      2.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot (1')
above adjacent grade.
      3.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or other coverings
or devices, provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
   D.   Elevation Certificates: Elevation certificates shall be required for
all structures in the SFHA, special flood hazard area, or on land formerly in
the SFHA, regardless of any LOMR-F, letter of map revision based on fill,
issued by FEMA, the Federal Emergency Management Agency and shall comply with
all standards set forth in this chapter. When completing elevation certificates
on properties removed from SFHA, use base flood elevation data prior to removal
from SFHA.
   E.   Setback: All buildings shall be set back a minimum of fifty feet (50')
from the floodway line except that when the area of special flood hazard
boundary is fifty feet (50') or less from the floodway line, the boundary line
shall be the setback line.
   F.   Floodways: Located within areas of special flood hazard are areas
designated as floodways. Since the floodway is an extremely hazardous area due
to the velocity of floodwaters which carry debris, potential projectiles and
erosion potential, the following provisions apply:
      1.   No Rise: Encroachments, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements and other development within the adopted regulatory
floodway are prohibited unless it has been demonstrated through hydrologic and
hydraulic analyses performed according to standard engineering practice that
the proposed encroachment would not result in any increase in flood levels
within the community during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.
      2.   Parks And Open Spaces: In the design of public and private parks and
open space areas, fixed structures or equipment that would impede floodwaters
shall not be permitted within the floodway.
      3.   Access: Any nonfloodway area surrounded by floodway shall be
accessed by at least one road with suitable structures or culverts to pass
floodwaters. If a bridge is required, it shall be elevated one foot (1') above
the base flood elevation, have scour resistant footings extending to five feet
(5') below the bottom of the channel and be capable of supporting an H-15 load
as defined by the American Association of State Highway and Transportation
Officials (AASHTO). Construction of bridges or culverts in floodways shall
comply with the “no-rise” certification provisions of this chapter or, prior to
construction, a Conditional Letter of Map Revision and follow-up Letter of May
Revision, if needed, shall have been submitted to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency for review and acknowledgment.
   G.   Map And Narrative Required: All subdivision proposals and development
permit applications shall provide a map and detailed narrative describing any
abutting or on site manmade topographic features, current or proposed, that
increase flood damage potential above the natural level, including road fills
and other manmade embankments, prior stream channelization, existing and/or
proposed landscaping features, and evident agricultural land leveling that has
altered the floodplain from its original topography.
   H.   Fill Requirements: For fill placed in the regulatory special flood
hazard area:
      1.   The slope of fill adjacent to the floodway line, hereinafter called
the floodway boundary slope, shall not be steeper than five horizontal to one
vertical (5:1). Where a five to one (5:1) slope is not feasible due to lot
dimensions, compensating measures to protect against floodway encroachment
through erosion shall be constructed as designed and certified by a
professional engineer, architect, or landscape architect.
      2.   The floodway boundary slope shall be maintained with adequate ground
cover to prevent erosion.
   I.   Roadways And Manholes: Roadways and manholes within the regulatory
floodplain shall be a minimum of one-half foot (0.5') above base flood
elevation at centerline and manhole ring respectively.
   J.   Flow Paths Maintained: New roads built above the base flood elevation
shall not block or restrict conveyance of floodwater into sections of the
floodplain that may be cut off by the proposed road and shall have culverts or
bridges for flood conveyance paths.
   K.   Open Areas: Except for required berms, open areas such as parks, golf
courses, greenbelt areas, parking lots, etc., within the area of special flood
hazard shall be designed and operated so that they may flood and maintain
existing natural flood paths for waters during the base flood event.
   L.   Flood Study: When a new flood study is provided by the developer:
      1.   The study shall be performed using the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Hydrologic Engineering Center's HEC-2, HEC-RAS (river analysis system), or
equivalent FEMA-approved programs to calculate water surface elevations.
      2.   Describe methods to detain drainage contribution to the base flood
event discharge.
      3.   The study report shall include field survey data and relevant bench
marks used as bases of calculations as cross sections, stream profile and plan
showing cross section locations.
      4.   The study report shall attach HEC-2, HEC-RAS, or equivalent input
and output reports as an appendix.
      5.   Any modification of a FEMA-established base flood elevation,
floodway or regulatory floodplain shall not be effective until approved by
FEMA.
      6.   The study shall include a reach of stream extending beyond the
property boundaries of the development upstream and downstream as required to
comply with FEMA guidelines.
      7.   Demonstrate that the cumulative effect of any proposed development,
when combined with all other existing and anticipated development, shall not
increase the water surface elevation of the base flood more than one foot (1')
at any point.
   M.   Critical Facilities: Critical facilities shall not be allowed within
any special flood hazard area, including areas designated as subject to
inundation by the 0.2 percent annual chance flood event, also known as the 500-
year flood and shown as shaded Zone X areas on FIRM maps.
   N.   Recreational vehicles shall be either on-site fewer than one hundred
eighty (180) consecutive days and be fully licensed and ready for highway use
or in compliance with the elevation and anchoring requirements for
manufacturers homes. A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is
on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick-
disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently attached
additions.
(Ord. 531, 4-2-2014; amd. Ord. 568, 12-21-2015; Ord. 609, 7-3-2018; Ord. 618,
6-5-2019)
4-3-8: DUTIES OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR:
The Mayor shall appoint a Floodplain Administrator who is responsible for
administering and implementing the provisions of this chapter. The duties of
the Floodplain Administrator shall include, but not be limited to:
   A.   Permit Review:
      1.   Review of all floodplain development permit applications, including
subdivision and manufactured home park proposals, to determine whether such
development will be reasonably safe from flooding and that the permit
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied.
      2.   Review of all floodplain development permit applications to
determine that all necessary permits have been obtained from those Federal,
State or local governmental agencies from which prior approval is required.
      3.   Review of floodplain development permit applications to determine if
the proposed development is located in the floodway. If located in the
floodway, assure that the encroachment provisions of subsection
4-3-7-5F of this chapter are met.
   B.   Alteration Of Watercourses:
      1.   Notify adjacent communities and the Idaho Department of Water
Resources prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse and submit
evidence of such notification to the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
      2.   Require that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse so that the flood carrying capacity is not
diminished.
   C.   Information To Be Obtained And Maintained:
      1.   When base flood elevation data has not been provided, obtain,
review, and reasonably utilize any base flood elevation and flooding data
available from a Federal, State or other source, in order to administer section
4-3-7-5 of this chapter.
      2.   Where base flood elevation data is provided through the flood
insurance study, or required as in the preceding subsection, obtain and record
the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the lowest habitable
floor (including basement) of all new or substantially improved structures, and
whether or not the structure contains a basement.
      3.   For all new or substantially improved floodproofed structures:
         a.   Obtain the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to
which the structure was floodproofed.
         b.   Maintain the floodproofing certifications required in subsection
4-3-7-5B3 of this chapter.
         c.   Maintain for public inspection all records pertaining to the
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 531, 4-2-2014; amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
4-3-9: VARIANCES:
   A.   Application For Variance: A variance from the terms of this chapter
shall not be considered until a written application for a variance containing
the data required by section
1-14-2 of this Code and a narrative statement, demonstrating the requested
variance has mitigated items contained in subsection B of this section, is
filed with the zoning official for submission to the City Planning and Zoning
Commission and the City Council. (Ord. 594, 8-16-2017; amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
   B.   Procedure For Approval Of Variance:
      1.   Upon receipt of a complete variance application from the Zoning
Administrator, the City Planning and Zoning Commission and the City Council
shall follow the notice and hearing procedures outlined in section
1-14-2 of this Code.
      2.   The City Planning and Zoning Commission may recommend to the City
Council that the City Council approve, disapprove, or approve conditionally a
requested variance. After receipt of the commission's recommendation and
compliance with section
1-14-2 of this Code, the City Council may approve, disapprove or approve
conditionally, by attaching such conditions to the granting of a variance as is
deemed necessary to further the purposes of this chapter, a requested variance.
In making a decision, the City Planning and Zoning Commission and the City
Council shall consider all technical evaluations and all relevant factors and
standards specified in other sections of this chapter and:
         a.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other land to the
injury of others;
         b.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion
damage;
         c.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its content to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
         d.   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility
to the community;
         e.   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
         f.   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed uses
which are not subject to flooding and erosion damage;
         g.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and
anticipated development;
         h.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan
and the floodplain management program for that area;
         i.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
         j.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
         k.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, and roads and
bridges.
   C.   Standards And Conditions Of Variance:
      1.   Generally, variances may be issued for new construction and
substantial improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half (1/2) acre or less
in size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures
constructed below the base flood level, providing the items contained in
subsection
1-15-10B of this Code have been fully considered. As the lot size increases
beyond the one-half (1/2) acre size, the technical justification required for
issuing the variance increases.
      2.   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
      3.   Variances may be issued if not expanding the footprint for the
reconstruction, rehabilitation or restoration of structures listed on the
National Register of Historic Places or the State Inventory of Historic Places,
without regard to the procedures set forth in the remainder of this section.
      4.   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      5.   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         a.   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         b.   A determination that failure to grant the variances would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         c.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood hazard, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public
as identified in items contained in subsection B of this section, or conflict
with existing local laws or ordinances.
      6.   Variances as interpreted in the national flood insurance program are
based on the general zoning law principle that they pertain to a physical piece
of property; they are not personal in nature and do not pertain to the
structure, its inhabitants, economic or financial circumstances. They primarily
address small lots in densely populated residential neighborhoods. As such,
variances from the flood elevations should be quite rare.
      7.   Variances may be issued for nonresidential buildings in very limited
circumstances to allow a lesser degree of floodproofing than watertight or dry
floodproofing, where it can be determined that such action will have low damage
potential, complies with all other variance criteria, and otherwise complies
with the general standards.
      8.   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with a lowest floor
elevation below the base flood elevation and that the cost of flood insurance
will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the reduced lowest
floor elevation.
   D.   Records And Reports: The Zoning Administrator shall maintain the
records of all variances and report any variances to the United States
Department of Housing and Urban Development, Federal Insurance Administration
upon request. (Ord. 531, 4-2-2014; amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
4-3-10: SCHEDULE OF FEES, CHARGES AND EXPENSES:
The City Council, by resolution, shall establish a schedule of fees, charges
and expenses and a collection procedure for development permits, amendments,
appeals, variances, plan approvals and other matters pertaining to the
administration and enforcement of this chapter requiring investigation,
inspection, legal advertising, postage and other expenses. (Ord. 531, 4-2-2014;
amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
4-3-11: DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
consideration. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter
does not imply that land inside the area of special flood hazard or uses
permitted within such areas in accordance with the requirements of this chapter
will be protected from flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall not create
liability on the part of the City, any officer or employee thereof for any
flood damages that result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative
decision lawfully made hereunder. (Ord. 531, 4-2-2014; amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
CHAPTER 4
FENCES
SECTION:
4-4-1: Fences, Walls, Berms, Hedges
4-4-2: Fencing
4-4-1: FENCES, WALLS, BERMS, HEDGES:
   A.   Residential: Fences, walls, berms, and hedges are allowed and shall not
exceed a height of six feet (6') and shall not obstruct the vision triangle.
Front setbacks for a six foot (6') fence shall be the same as the setbacks for
buildings. The side-street setback for a six foot (6') fence shall be ten feet
(10'). A three foot (3') high privacy fence or four foot (4') high chainlink or
other see through type fence shall be allowed in the front and side street
setback.
   B.   Prohibited: Electric fences and barbed wire fences are prohibited
within the corporate limits of the City, except when containing animals or in
an industrial zone.
   C.   Commercial And Industrial Zones:
      1.   Fences, walls, berms and hedges, shall not exceed eight feet (8') in
height and shall not obstruct the vision triangle.
      2.   Security fences in industrial zones: When a barbed wire top section
is desired, the eight foot (8') maximum height limitation may be extended by up
to thirty inches (30") solely and exclusively by the barbed wire security top
section. Barbed wire, six (6) horizontal strands maximum, is permitted in
industrial zones when used as the top section for security fences and shall be
a minimum of seventy two inches (72") above grade. Concertina wire may be
permitted in industrial zones when used as the top section for security fences
subject to approval of the City and shall be a minimum of eighty four inches
(84") above grade.
      3.   No fence or wall shall be constructed or installed in a commercial
or industrial zone without a fence permit. A nonrefundable fee as established
by resolution of the City Council shall be paid at the time the permit is
requested, after the City has issued a design review permit for the fence.
      4.   Commercial, industrial, mixed use and multi-family parking, outdoor
storage, loading and unloading zones and garbage/recycling areas shall be
effectively screened on any side adjoining property in a residential zone by a
wall, fence or hedge to a height of six feet (6') except for the front yard
setback area of the adjoining residential property, in which case the maximum
height shall be three feet (3').
   D.   Sidewalk Areas: No fence shall be permitted in the sidewalk area or in
a location that will impair the construction or use of sidewalks.
(Ord. 587, 1-18-2017; amd. Ord. 594, 8-16-2017; Ord. 605, 2-21-2018; Ord. 619,
7-17-2019)
4-4-2: FENCING:
All fences constructed within the City shall comply with the specifications set
forth on the following diagrams:
   A.   Inside Lot:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/68bccd5b14185b94a8a75570386ba587e13cc586/
IMAGES/0-0-0-677.png]
 
   B.   Inside Lot With Easement:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/68bccd5b14185b94a8a75570386ba587e13cc586/
IMAGES/0-0-0-679.png]
 
   C.   Corner Lot:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/68bccd5b14185b94a8a75570386ba587e13cc586/
IMAGES/0-0-0-681.png]
 
(Ord. 498, 12-19-2012; amd. Ord. 528, 2-19-2014; Ord. 619, 7-17-2019)
CHAPTER 5
OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
4-5-1: Increase In Intensity Of Use
4-5-2: Change Of Use
4-5-3: Parking Lot Approach
4-5-4: Fractional Numbers
4-5-5: Uses Not Mentioned
4-5-6: Mixed Uses
4-5-7: Hard Surfacing
4-5-8: Lighting
4-5-9: Parking Screening
4-5-10: Dwellings
4-5-11: Required Parking And Loading Spaces
4-5-1: INCREASE IN INTENSITY OF USE:
When the intensity of any use is increased in any building, structure or lot,
parking and loading facilities as required herein shall be provided for such
increase in intensity of use. (Ord. 550, 3-4-2015)
4-5-2: CHANGE OF USE:
Whenever the existing use of a building or structure changes to a new use,
parking, driveway and loading facilities shall be as required for such new use.
(Ord. 587, 1-18-2017)
4-5-3: PARKING LOT APPROACH:
An approach to a parking lot or other off-street parking from a public road
(curb-cut) shall be between twenty feet (20') and thirty two feet (32') wide
for residential use, and shall be between twenty feet (20') and forty feet
(40') wide for a commercial, industrial, mixed, or other non-residential use.
(Ord. 594, 8-16-2017)
4-5-4: FRACTIONAL NUMBERS:
When the calculation of the required number of spaces called for herein results
in a fractional number, fractions equal to or greater than one-half (1/2),
shall be adjusted to the next higher whole number of spaces. (Ord. 550, 3-4-
2015)
4-5-5: USES NOT MENTIONED:
Parking space requirements for a use not specifically mentioned shall be the
same as for a use specified which has similar traffic generating
characteristics. (Ord. 550, 3-4-2015)
4-5-6: MIXED USES:
Except as required for single-family dwellings, off street parking may be
provided collectively for several buildings or uses in close proximity;
provided, that the total number of spaces so located together shall be at least
the sum of the separate requirements for each of the buildings or uses. (Ord.
550, 3-4-2015)
4-5-7: HARD SURFACING:
Off street parking areas, driveways and private roads shall be hard surfaced
with concrete or asphalt paving and shall have on site stormwater treatment
facilities designed per the City’s stormwater management policy and ordinance.
(Ord. 587, 1-18-2017; amd. Ord. 673, 1-4-2023)
4-5-8: LIGHTING:
Lighting used to illuminate off street parking areas shall be downward facing
and shielded from neighboring properties. (Ord. 550, 3-4-2015)
4-5-9: PARKING SCREENING:
Commercial, industrial, mixed use and multi-family parking areas shall be
screened on any side adjoining property in a residential zone by a wall, fence
or hedge to a height of six feet (6') except for the front yard setback area of
the adjoining residential property, in which case the maximum height shall be
three feet (3'). (Ord. 550, 3-4-2015)
4-5-10: DWELLINGS:
Off street parking for dwellings shall be upon the same lot as the dwelling,
and no parking space shall be located in any required front yard setback,
except within driveways. (Ord. 550, 3-4-2015)
4-5-11: REQUIRED PARKING AND LOADING SPACES:
   A.   Space Dimensions:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/68bccd5b14185b94a8a75570386ba587e13cc586/
IMAGES/0-0-0-683.png]
 
   B.   Number Of Spaces: Off street parking and loading spaces shall be
provided as hereinafter set forth; provided, that a greater number of spaces
may be required in any case where a special use permit is involved:
            PARKING SPACES
For each dwelling unit                  3 parking spaces
For each dwelling unit in a single      2.5 parking spaces if not designated
family dwelling, attached               for a particular unit. 3 parking spaces
                                        if designated for a particular unit
For each dwelling unit in a multi-      3 parking spaces per particular unit
family building
For each guest bedroom in a hotel,
motel, club, lodging house, fraternity  1.5 parking spaces
or sorority house
For each 4 beds in a convalescent,      1 parking space, plus 1 parking space
nursing or rest home, sanatorium or     for each doctor assigned full time to
home for the care of children or the    staff, plus 1 parking space for each
aged                                    employee
                                        1 parking space for each 1,200 square
Hospital                                feet of gross floor area, plus 1
                                        parking space for each 2 regular
                                        employees
Daycare without overnight facilities    1 parking space for each 4 children,
                                        plus 1 parking space for each employee
Church, auditorium, theater or sports   1 parking space for each 3 seats in the
arena                                   principal assembly room or area
                                        1 parking space for each 80 square feet
                                        of gross floor space, except for
For floor space used by a restaurant,   restaurants. For restaurants, 1 parking
recreational, amusement or other        space for each 50 square feet of dining
similar facility                        area (rounded up to the next whole
                                        number) and 1 space for each employee
                                        at work
Business offices, not otherwise
specified; medical or dental office or  1 parking space for each 300 square
clinic; retail stores, banks and shops  feet of gross floor area
not otherwise specified
Retail sales establishments handling
only durable goods or bulky merchandise 1 parking space for each 720 square
such as machinery, furniture or         feet of gross floor area
vehicles, personal service and repair
shops, wholesale stores
                                        1 parking space for each employee,
Manufacturing businesses                based on the greatest number of
                                        employees at any one time; 1 parking
                                        space for each 3 visitors
Flex space/building                     1 stall per 350 square feet of gross
                                        floor space.
Swimming pools                          1 parking space for each 4 swimmers/
                                        observers
                                        1 parking space for each 1.5 employees,
For each industrial use                 plus 3 additional visitors parking
                                        spaces
 
            LOADING SPACES
 
For every building hereafter erected
containing more than 15,000 square feet 1 loading space at least 30 feet in
in area and which is designed to be     length and 12 feet in width, exclusive
occupied by any use requiring regular   of access platforms and maneuvering
receipt or dispatch of merchandise by   areas, plus 1 parking space for each
truck, there shall be provided and      employee, based on the greatest number
maintained with adequate design to      of employees at any one time
provide safe and efficient means of
access and maneuvering
 
(Ord. 569, 12-21-2015; amd. Ord. 579, 5-4-2016; Ord. 594, 8-16-2017; Ord. 609,
7-3-2018; Ord. 646, 1-6-2021; Ord. 673, 1-4-2023)
CHAPTER 6
COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENTS
(Rep. by Ord. 587, 1-18-2017)
CHAPTER 7
MANUFACTURED HOME REGULATIONS
SECTION:
4-7-1: Development Standards
4-7-2: Application
4-7-3: Nonconforming Manufactured Homes
4-7-1: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
The use of a manufactured home as a permanent residential dwelling on a parcel
of land is allowed in any zoning district of this title which permits a single-
family site built dwelling, except for lands falling within an area defined as
a "historic district" under Idaho Code section 67-4607, provided the following
standards are met:
   A.   The manufactured home is multisectional with a minimum width of twenty
feet (20') and a minimum enclosed floor space of not less than one thousand
(1,000) square feet.
   B.   The manufactured home is placed on an excavated and backfilled
foundation.
   C.   Manufactured homes shall have pitched roofs with a minimum slope of a
nominal three feet (3') in height for each twelve feet (12') in width, and a
minimum one foot (1') overhanging eaves.
   D.   The manufactured home has exterior siding and roofing materials which
in color, material and appearance are generally similar to the exterior siding
and roofing material commonly used on residential dwellings within the
community, or which are comparable to the predominant materials used on
surrounding dwellings, whichever standard is higher.
   E.   The manufactured home shall have a foundation fascia which is
aesthetically compatible with the manufactured housing and has the appearance
of site built construction. This means the fascia shall be an extension of the
siding or be of materials having the appearance of site built foundations such
as brick, concrete or concrete block. (Ord. 550, 3-4-2015)
4-7-2: APPLICATION:
Application shall be made to the city as required in section 4-1-4 of this
title. (Ord. 550, 3-4-2015)
4-7-3: NONCONFORMING MANUFACTURED HOMES:
   A.   Relocation: A manufactured home which has been placed and maintained
upon an individual lot prior to the effective date hereof shall be a legal
nonconforming use. Such manufactured homes shall not be relocated within the
city without conforming to all applicable provisions contained herein. (Ord.
550, 3-4-2015)
TITLE 5
ZONING AND SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
ZONING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
5-1-1: Short Title
5-1-2: General Requirements
5-1-3: Nonconforming Uses
5-1-4: Zoning Districts Established
5-1-5: Zoning Districts
5-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This title shall be known as the ZONING ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF MIDDLETON.
(Ord. 567, 12-21-2015)
5-1-2: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Lots shall be used only in conformity with the regulations herein set
forth for the use districts in which such lots are located.
   B.   Lots shall abut a publicly maintained road unless otherwise approved by
the City. (Ord. 588, 3-1-2017)
5-1-3: NONCONFORMING USES:
   A.    Continuation Allowed: Any lawful use of a building or land that
becomes a use that does not conform to the regulations for the district in
which it is located shall be deemed to be a nonconforming use and may be
continued.
   B.   Space/Building: No space or building wholly or partially occupied by a
nonconforming use shall be altered in such a way to permit the enlargement or
expansion of the space or building occupied by such nonconforming use.
Maintenance and minor repairs necessary to keep a nonconforming use are
allowed. Nonconforming uses may not be expanded or enlarged, but may be
intensified.
   C.   Parking: No use in a lawfully existing building shall be deemed to be a
nonconforming use solely because of the lack of required parking spaces.
Provided, that spaces being used for off street parking or loading shall not be
reduced in area or capacity.
   D.   Destruction/Restoration: Except for residential real property, which
may be rebuilt using the same foundation/footprint regardless of the amount of
damage or decreased property value; any nonconforming building destroyed by
fire or other calamity to an extent of fifty percent (50%) or more of the value
immediately prior to such destruction may not be restored unless such
restoration shall make the building a conforming building and any intended use
shall be a conforming use; provided however, that nothing in this title shall
be construed to prevent the restoration and the resumption of former lawful use
of any building that is damaged or partially destroyed by fire, or other
calamity, to the extent of less than fifty percent (50%); provided, that such
restoration is started within one calendar year and diligently pursued to
completion.
   E.   Discontinuance Of Use: Whenever a nonconforming use of land or building
has been discontinued for a period of at least one year, or whenever there is
evidence of a clear intent to abandon a nonconforming use, such use shall not
thereafter be reestablished, and the uses thereafter shall conform with the
regulations of the use district.
(Ord. 567, 12-21-2015; amd. Ord. 621, 6-19-2019)
5-1-4: ZONING DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED:
   A.   Districts Established: For the purpose of promoting health, safety, and
general welfare, the City hereby adopts the following zoning districts:
A-R Agricultural Residential
C-1 Neighborhood Commercial
C-2 Light Commercial
C-3 Heavy Commercial
M-1 Light Industrial
M-2 Heavy Industrial
R-1 Estate Residential
R-2 Large Lot Residential
R-3 Single-Family Residential
M-F Multiple-Family Residential
M-U Mixed Use
 
   B.   Boundaries Established: The boundaries of the use districts shall be
established and clearly indicated upon the zoning map adopted and amended by
the City Council.
   C.   Boundary Interpretation: Whenever any uncertainty exists as to the
boundary of any district shown on the zoning map, the following rules shall
apply:
      1.   Where any such boundary line is indicated as following a road, alley
or public way, it shall be construed as following the centerline thereof.
      2.   Where a boundary line is indicated as approximately following a lot
line, such lot line shall be construed to be such boundary line.
(Ord. 600, 12-20-2017; amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018; Ord. 659, 1-19-2022)
5-1-5: ZONING DISTRICTS:
The following zoning districts and related purpose statements are hereby
established:
A-R (Agricultural Residential): The purpose of the A-R (Agricultural
Residential) Zone is to accommodate land areas that are being used
predominantly for agricultural uses, i.e., crops, livestock and related uses.
C-1 (Neighborhood Commercial): The purpose of the C-1 (Neighborhood Commercial)
Zone is to accommodate local commercial service needs and to restrict
incompatible uses which are better located in the community or service oriented
shopping areas due to traffic, the size of the shopping center, location within
the community, residential neighborhood areas being served and other factors.
C-2 (Light Commercial): The purpose of the C-2 (Light Commercial) Zone is to
accommodate general shopping retail needs.
C-3 (Heavy Commercial): The purpose of the C-3 (Heavy Commercial) Zone is to
accommodate commerce which is more intensive in character (noise, odor, light,
vibration, dust, traffic, etc.) than in other commercial zones and which may be
semi-industrial in character.
M-1 (Light Industrial): The purpose of the M-1 (Light Industrial) Zone is to
accommodate less intense industrial and manufacturing uses.
M-2 (Heavy Industrial): The purpose of the M-2 (Heavy Industrial) Zone is to
accommodate more intense industrial and-manufacturing uses, mini-warehouse
storage and recreational vehicle (RV) parks.
R-1 (Estate Residential): The purpose of the R-1 (Estate Residential) Zone is
to accommodate larger, estate type lots.
R-2 (Large Lot Residential): The purpose of the R-2 (Large Lot Residential)
Zone is to accommodate larger lots and big yards.
R-3 (Single-Family Residential): The purpose of the R-3 (Single-Family
Residential) Zone is to accommodate single- family lots.
M-F (Multiple-Family Residential): The purpose of the M-F (Multiple- Family
Residential) Zone is to accommodate multi-family residential (apartment)
development. This type of zoning pattern is intended to provide transition or
buffer areas between residential zones and commercial/industrial uses.
M-U (Mixed Use): The purpose of the M-U (Mixed Use) Zone is to accommodate
areas for a variety and mixture of medium and high density residential and
commercial uses.
(Ord. 600, 12-20-2017; amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018; Ord. 633, 9-16-2020; Ord. 644,
1-6-2021; Ord. 659, 1-19-2022)
CHAPTER 2
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS
SECTION:
5-2-1: Creation
5-2-2: Form
5-2-3: Approval
5-2-4: Recording
5-2-5: Modification
5-2-6: Termination
5-2-1: CREATION:
   A.   Method Of Creation: A development agreement may be created by the
property owner or by the City as part of a rezone application.
   B.   Commission Determination: In the event of a determination by the
commission that a development agreement should be entered into, the commission
shall retain jurisdiction of the matter, defer consideration of the rezone
requested and set a time limit for submittal of the development agreement.
   C.   Council Determination: In the event of a determination by the Council
that a development agreement should be entered into, the Council shall remand
the rezone matter back to the commission for consideration of the development
agreement. The Council may direct the commission on remand of the matter to the
commission. (Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
5-2-2: FORM:
A development agreement shall be in the form required by the City and according
to Idaho Code section 67-6511A. (Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
5-2-3: APPROVAL:
   A.   Development agreements may be approved by the Council only after a
public hearing. The public hearing shall follow the notice and hearing
provisions of Idaho Code section 67-6509.
   B.   The Council may add conditions, terms, duties or obligations to the
development agreement recommended by the commission. (Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
5-2-4: RECORDING:
Following approval of a development agreement by the City Council, the City
shall record the development agreement. (Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
5-2-5: MODIFICATION:
A development agreement may be modified by agreement of the parties after
complying with the notice and public hearing provisions of Idaho Code section
67-6509. (Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
5-2-6: TERMINATION:
A development agreement may be terminated for cause or by agreement of the
parties after complying with the notice and public hearing provisions of Idaho
Code section 67-6509, according to the terms and conditions identified by the
City Council in its decision and according to the provisions in Idaho Code
section 67-6511A. (Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
CHAPTER 3
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
SECTION:
5-3-1: Application Of Provisions; Exceptions
5-3-2: Fees
5-3-3: Licenses And Permits
5-3-4: Conflicting Provisions
5-3-1: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS; EXCEPTIONS:
These regulations shall apply to the subdivision, and improvement, of land
within the corporate limits of the City and shall include the following:
   A.   Subdivision: The subdivision of land into two (2) or more lots. Any
subdivision of said land will require the filing of a plat in accordance with
the provisions of this title and Idaho Code, and shall include all of the
original land. All lots created pursuant to this title shall front upon a
public road unless otherwise approved by the City.
   B.   Dedication Of Rights-Of-Way: The dedication of any road or other right-
of-way through or along any lot.
   C.   Resubdivision: The resubdivision of a lot into two (2) or more lots.
   D.   Exceptions: Exceptions to the regulations of this chapter shall include
the following:
      1.   Administrative lot splits and boundary line adjustments in
conformance with section
5-4-9 of this title.
      2.   An allocation of land in the settlement of an estate or a court
decree for the distribution of property.
      3.   The unwilling sale of land as a result of legal condemnation as
defined and allowed in Idaho Code and when the dedication of a right-of-way for
public purposes is initiated by a public entity.
      4.   The acquisition of rights-of-way by the City. (Ord. 568, 12-21-2015;
amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
5-3-2: FEES:
Fees shall be as established by resolution of the City Council. (Ord. 568, 12-
21-2015; amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
5-3-3: LICENSES AND PERMITS:
Any license or permit issued for the use of any land or the construction or
alteration of any building or structure on a lot in conflict with this title
shall be void. (Ord. 568, 12-21-2015; amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
5-3-4: CONFLICTING PROVISIONS:
It is not intended by this title to impair or interfere with other regulations
of State or local law, or with private restrictions on the use of land,
improvements and structures. Where this title imposes greater restriction than
that imposed by other law or private restrictions, this title shall prevail.
(Ord. 568, 12-21-2015; amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
CHAPTER 4
STANDARDS
SECTION:
5-4-1: Land Use, Setback And Area Tables
5-4-2: Accessory Structures
5-4-3: Traffic Impact Analysis
5-4-4: Preliminary Plat
5-4-5: Construction Drawings
5-4-6: As-Built Construction Drawings
5-4-7: Final Plat
5-4-8: Combining Preliminary And Final Plats
5-4-9: Administrative Lot Splits And Boundary Line Adjustments By Record Of
Survey
5-4-10: Design And Development Standards
5-4-10-1: General
5-4-10-2: Roads
5-4-10-3: Block Requirements
5-4-10-4: Lot Requirements
5-4-10-5: Easements
5-4-10-6: Traffic Buffer Requirements
5-4-10-7: Landscape Buffers
5-4-10-8: Pathways And Parks
5-4-10-9: Stormwater Management
5-4-10-10: Open Space And Amenities
5-4-11: Required Road And Utility Improvement Requirements
5-4-11-1: General
5-4-11-2: Required Improvements
5-4-12: Plat Recording, Building Permits And Certificates Of Occupancy
5-4-13: Special Developments
5-4-13-1: Hillsides
5-4-13-2: Subdivision Within Floodplain
5-4-13-3: Recreational Vehicle Parks
5-4-14: Cross Connections, Water Supply
5-4-14-1: Cross Connections
5-4-14-2: Use Of Backflow Prevention Devices
5-4-14-3: Cross Connection Inspection
5-4-14-4: Installation Permits
5-4-14-5: Additional Remedies
5-4-15: Clean Air
5-4-15-1: Air Quality Designations And Alert Criteria
5-4-15-2: Burning Solid Fuel Or Refuse
5-4-15-3: Permitted Open Burning
5-4-15-4: Exemptions From Restrictions
5-4-1: LAND USE, SETBACK AND AREA TABLES:
The regulations in the following tables shall apply to zoning districts:
TABLE 1
LAND USE SCHEDULE
 
A = Allowed uses S = Special uses
 
Use1,2 A-R C-1 C-2 C-3 M-1 M-2 R-1 R-2 R-3 M-F M-U
Use1,2                              A-R C-1 C-2 C-3 M-1 M-2 R-1 R-2 R-3 M-F M-U
Agricultural, general3              A            A   A   S             
Agricultural, residential4          A            A   A   S             
Amusement center (indoor)              S   A   A                     S
Amusement center (outdoor)                   S   S                   
Animal grooming (small animal pets     A   A   A   A   A               A
only)
Animals3,6 (see section             A   A   A   A   A   A   A   A   A   A   A
8-1-17 of this Code)
Asphalt plant                                   S   S                
Assisted living                        A   A   A         S   S   S   A   A
Auction, indoor                              A   A   A                
Auction, outdoor                             A   A   A                
Auto lube shop, emission testing          A   A   A   A               A
Auto sale, repairs, rental                A   A   A   A               S
Auto, RV and boat storage                       A   A                
Bakery or bakery goods store           A   A   A   A   A               A
Bank, savings and loan, credit         A   A   A   A                  A
union
Bar                                       S   S   S                   
Barber, beauty shop, spa               A   A   A   A               S   A
Bed and breakfast                   A   A   A   A         S   S      A   A
Beverage bottling plant                      A   A   A                
Broadcasting                              A   A   A   A                
Building supply outlet                       A   A   A                
Business park/office park              A   A   A                     A
Cabinet shop                              A   A   A   A               A
Car wash                                     A   A   A               S
Cement/clay products manufacturing           S   A   A                
Cemetery                            A                  A   A   A      A
Chemical storage and manufacturing           S   S   A                
Church or place of religious        A   A   A   A         S   S   S   A   A
worship
Club or lodge                          S   A   A   A                  S
Community, youth, or activity          A   A   A                  A   A
center
Concrete batch plant                               S                
Contractor's shop/storage yard               A   A   A               S
Convalescent/nursing home              A   A   A         S   S   S   S   S
Daycare center (13 or more             A   A   A   A      A   S   S   A   A
children)
Daycare, facility (7 or more           A   A   A   A      A   S   S   A   A
children unrelated to provider)
Daycare, family (6 or fewer            A   A   A   A      A   A   A   A   A
children)
Daycare, group (7 - 12 children)       A   A   A   A      A   S   S   A   A
Drugstore/pharmacy                     A   A   A   A                  A
Dry cleaning                           A   A   A   A                  A
Equipment rental; equipment sales      S   A   A   A   A               S
yard
Espresso/pastry shop                   A   A   A   A   A               A
Farm equipment sales and service          A   A   A   A                
Feed supply store                      S   A   A   A   A               S
Fitness center (indoor)                A   A   A   A   A               A
Flea market                                  S   S   S                
Flex space                                A   A   A   A               S
Furniture manufacturer                       A   A   A                
Gas station/convenience store          S   A   A   A   A               S
Golf course/driving range           A   A   A   A   A   A   A   A   A   A   A
Government and public utility          A   A   A   A   A   S   S   S   S   A
buildings
Grocery store/food                     A   A   A                     A
Home occupation                     A                  A   A   A   A   A
Hospital                                     A                     S
Hotel/motel/inn                           A   A   A                  S
Industrial park                                 A   A                
Junkyard                                           A                
Kennel                                          S   A                
Laundromat                             A   A   A   A   A               A
Laundry, commercial plant                       A   A                
Lockers (for example: for personal                                 
belongings, bicycles, etc.)
Lumberyard                                   S   A   A                
Machine shop                                 S   A   A                
Manufactured home and trailer                S   A   A                
manufacturing
Manufactured home and trailer sales          S   A   A               S
and service
Manufactured home for elderly or                      S   S   S   S   S
ill relative
Manufacturing                                   A   A                
Mini-self storage                               A   A                
Mining/mineral extraction           S   S   S   S   S   S   S   S   S   S   S
Mobile food truck service9          A   A   A   A   A   A               A
Monument works                               S   A   A                
Mortuary                                  A   A   A                  S
Motorcycle/motocross track                      S   A                
Multi-family dwelling (exceeding 2
dwelling units per building)                                   S    
(apartments)
Nursery, vegetation                 A7                              
Office or laboratory, medical,         A   A   A   A                  A
dental, vision, professional
Outdoor display of merchandise
(except vehicles requiring titles      S   S   S   S   S               S
and nursery vegetation)
Park                                A   A   A   A   A   A   A   A   A   A   A
Parking lot, garage or facility as     S   A   A   A   A            S   S
a business
Pawnbrokerage                             A   A   A   A               A
Payday/money/title loan                         A   A                
Petroleum storage                               S   A                
Photography studio                     A   A   A                     A
Poles (over 55 feet tall from       S   S   S   S   S   S   S   S   S   S   S
adjacent ground)
Poles (up to 55 feet tall from      A   A   A   A   A   A   A   A   A   A   A
adjacent ground)
Printing and blueprinting              A   A   A   A   A               A
Processing plant (for example meat,                A                
dairy, sugar beets, hops, etc.)
Real estate sales/rental/management    A   A   A   A   A   S   S   S   A   A
office
Recreational vehicle (RV) park                     S                
Recycling operation                             S   A                
Restaurant                             A   A   A   A   A               A
Retail stores and services          A7  A   A   A   A   A               A
Retirement home                        A   A   A            S   S   A   A
Salvage yards                                   S   A                
School                                 S   S   S   S   S   S   S   S   S   S
Second dwelling unit5                                 A   A   A      A
Secondhand/thrift stores                  A   A   A                   
Security residence (manufactured             S   S   S               S
home)
Sexually oriented business                         S                
Sign shop                              S   A   A   A   A               A
Single-family dwelling, attached                               S   S
Single-family dwelling/group        A                  A   A   A   A   A
residence per Idaho Code 67-6532
Staging area                           S   A   A   A   A               S
Studio, dance, music, voice            A   A   A   A   A   S   S   S   S   A
(indoor)
Tattoo and/or piercing parlor                      A                
Taxidermy                                    A   A   A                
Terminal yard, trucking                         A   A                
Tire shop                                 A   A   A   A               S
Tobacco, smoke and vaping                          A                
(electronic cigarettes)
Utility line (buried)               A   A   A   A   A   A   A   A   A   A   A
Utility substation or service                A   A   A               S
facility
Veterinary hospital or clinic          A   A   A   A   A               A
Veterinary (small animal only)                                     
Warehousing, wholesaling                     A   A   A                
Wastewater treatment plant                      S   A                
Wood processing plant                              A                
Wrecking yard                                      A                
 
Notes:
   1.    Accessory uses are permitted if constructed either at the same time or
subsequent to the main building; they are prohibited from being constructed
before the main building.
   2.    If a specific use is not found in this table, the Planning and Zoning
Administrator may determine a similar use that is listed and those appropriate
district regulations shall apply.
   3.    Agriculture or horticulture, including the raising of fowl, poultry
and animals, except hogs, billygoats and roosters, not exceeding a total of 4
on any lot or acre. Further provided that no horse, cow, emu or usual large
farm animal shall be maintained on any lot less than one-half (1/2) acre in
size; and providing that buildings and enclosures housing such large farm
animals shall be not less than 30 feet from any property line; and at least 50
feet from all residential structures.
   4.    Residences constructed on a two-acre or larger lot may use individual
domestic well and septic systems unless the public water and/or sanitary system
is within 1,000 feet of the property. Residences on a lot less than two acres
are required to connect to the City's domestic water and sanitary sewer
systems.
   5.    Second dwelling units are allowed on lots having a minimum 14,000
square feet and where utilities are connected through the primary residence,
the second unit is detached from the main dwelling unit, and uses the same
driveway approach and address as the main dwelling unit and does not exceed
1,000 square feet.
   6.    See Section
5-4-11-2 A. of this Code.
   7.   Allowed only if solely agricultural products or services.
   8.   Each single family dwelling, attached structure (“Townhome/Condominium”
structure) may not contain more than six (6) individual dwelling units.
   9.   A Mobile Food Truck in the Mixed-Use (M-U) Zone cannot be parked closer
than 250' to the nearest residential unit. Mobile Food Truck Service is an
allowed use at any school or public park located within any Residential Zone
when tied to a specific event at the school or park.
TABLE 2
HEIGHT, SETBACK AND COVERAGE SCHEDULE
         Maximum                         Minimum     Minimum     Minimum     Minimum
         Density Maximum Minimum Front   Rear        Interior    Side Street Interior Minimum Maximum
District (Units/ Height8 Setback3,4,5,6, Setback4,6, Side        Setback3,4, Lot Area Lot     Lot
         Gross           7               7           Setback4,6, 6,7         (Sq.     Width1  Coverage2
         Acre)                                       7                       Ft.)
                                                                             87,120
A-R      0.5     40'     30'             30'         30'         30'         (2       150'    50%
                                                                             acres)
         Maximum                         Minimum     Minimum     Minimum     Minimum
         Density Maximum Minimum Front   Rear        Interior    Side Street Interior Minimum Maximum
District (Units/ Height8 Setback3,4,5,6, Setback4,6, Side        Setback3,4, Lot Area Lot     Lot
         Gross           7               7           Setback4,6, 6,7         (Sq.     Width1  Coverage2
         Acre)                                       7                       Ft.)
                                                                             87,120
A-R      0.5     40'     30'             30'         30'         30'         (2       150'    50%
                                                                             acres)
C-1              55'     10'             0'          0'          10'         0                90%
C-2              55'     10'             0'          0'          10'         0                90%
C-3              55'     10'             0'          0'          10'         0                90%
M-1              75'     10'             0'          0'          10'         0                90%
M-2              75'     10'             0'          0'          10'         0                90%
R-19     1.0     40'     30'             30'         30'         30'         43,560   100'    50%
R-29     2.0     35'     25'             25'         25'         25'         21,780   90'     50%
R-39     3.0     30'     25'             20'         10'         20'         8,000    75'     60%
M-F10,   12.0    35’   20'             20'         12'         20'         10,000   75’   75%
11
M-U8, 10 12.0    55'     20'             20'         12'         20'         6,000    50'     75%
 
Notes:
   1.    Minimum lot width is measured at the building setback line.
   2.    Limits of impervious surface on each lot are set to aid aquifer
recharge by on-site stormwater filtration.
   3.    Minimum front and side street setbacks are 0 feet for commercial zones
in the "downtown district", which is the land abutting State Highway 44 from S.
Middleton Road to Hartley Ln.
   4.    See Section
5-4-10-7 regarding landscape buffers required between commercial/industrial
uses and residential uses.
   5.    The minimum front setback for living space may be reduced to 20 feet
if the garage setback is at least 25 feet.
   6.    Cornices, canopies, eaves or other similar items that do not increase
the enclosed building area shall not project into any required setback more
than 2 feet.
      Unenclosed exterior stairs shall not project into any required setback
more than 3 feet.
      Unenclosed covered patios and porches shall not project into any required
setback more than 10 feet.
   7.    All structures shall be set back at least 50 feet from section and
quarter section lines, unless otherwise approved by the City.
   8.    In a Mixed-Use Zone, the maximum height for a commercial structure is
55 feet, for a multi-family structure is 45 feet, and for a single-family
structure is 35 feet.
   9.   See section
5-4-11-2 of this code.
   10.   Single-family dwelling, attached:
Maximum Height:    35’
Setbacks:           
Front:             20’
                   10' if alley-loaded
Rear:              15’
                   5’ if alley-loaded
Interior Side:     12’
Minimum Lot Size:  1,600 SF
Maximum Coverage:  N/a
Minimum Lot Width: 20’
 
   11.   Minimum 1,000 square feet per dwelling unit.
   12.    An in-ground swimming pool may be located in only the rear and side
yards of any residential lot. The in-ground pool may also be located within the
rear setback up to thirteen feet (13') from the rear boundary line.
(Ord. 600, 12-20-2017; amd. Ord. 604, 2-21-2018; Ord. 609, 7-3-2018; Ord. 620,
- -2019; Ord. 633, 9-16-2020; Ord. 641, 11-18-2020; Ord. 644, 1-6-2021; Ord.
659, 1-19-2022; Ord. 673, 1-4-2023; Ord. 710, 7-2-2025)
5-4-2: ACCESSORY STRUCTURES:
No building permit is required for any detached structure two hundred (200)
square feet and under. A building permit is required for all other accessory
structures. All accessory structures must meet the following standards.
MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS FOR ACCESSORY STRUCTURES
 
                Rear Interior Side Side Street Maximum Size (Sq. Maximum Height
                                               Ft.)
Structures over Shall comply with requirements in section
200 sq. ft.     5-4-1, table 2 of this chapter
Structures 200
sq. ft. and     10'  5'            20'         200 sq. ft.       15'
under
 
Notes:
Accessory structures in public utility easements are prohibited.
Accessory structures on permanent foundations in a setback area are prohibited.
   Accessory structures shall be set back further from a publicly maintained
street than the front or side setback for the primary structure.
   Accessory structures shall not exceed 25 percent of the gross square footage
of the primary structure or 30 percent of the square footage of the rear yard,
whichever is greater.
   Accessory structures larger than 200 square feet shall be constructed of
materials and colors that match the primary structure.
   Any eaves or overhangs of an accessory structure are subject to the same
setback requirements as provided herein.
(Ord. 567, 12-21-2015; amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018; Ord. 620, - -2019)
5-4-3: TRAFFIC IMPACT ANALYSIS:
   A.   All subdivisions containing more than twenty five (25) equivalent
dwelling units shall require a traffic impact analysis, prepared and stamped by
a licensed traffic engineer. The traffic impact analysis shall be submitted
with the preliminary plat application. A traffic impact analysis may be waived
if traffic impacts are mitigated through provisions identified in a development
agreement. The analysis shall be reviewed and approved by the city.
   B.   A traffic impact analysis may also be required on a case-by-case basis
for any application for improvement or development, including a building permit
application, if so decided administratively by at least two (2) city officials.
   C.   Applicant shall pay its pro rata share of traffic improvements
recommended by a city approved traffic impact analysis before city council
approves final plat for phase one of the subdivision or City issues a building
permit.
(Ord. 568, 12-21-2015; amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018; Ord. 620, - -2019; Ord. 633, 9-
16-2020; Ord. 638, 10-7-2020; Ord. 659, 1-19-2022)
5-4-4: PRELIMINARY PLAT:
   A.   Application: In addition to the application requirements in subsection
1-14-2(B) of this Code, an applicant shall file with the City: a copy of the
complete application, fees, one (1) electronic full-size PDF copy, two (2)
full-sized copies of the preliminary plat with data as required in this
section, and a title report or commitment for title insurance, including
schedule B, indicating the nature of the applicant’s ownership of land included
in the preliminary plat. The City, at least fifteen (15) calendar days before
the initial public hearing, shall mail to landowners within five hundred feet
(500') of the external boundaries of the lands to be subdivided a notice that
the City received an application, the number of acres and proposed number of
residential, non-residential, and total lots, proposed land uses, and the dates
and times that the application can be reviewed at City offices. After all City
comments are addressed by the applicant, and prior to any public hearing on the
plat, the applicant shall submit one (1) electronic full-size PDF copy to the
City.
      1.   Form Of Presentation: The information hereinafter required as part
of the preliminary plat submitted shall be shown graphically or by note on
plans and may comprise several sheets showing various elements or required
data. All mapped data for the same plat shall be drawn at the same standard
engineering scale, having not more than one hundred feet to an inch (1" =
100'). Whenever practical, scales shall be adjusted to produce an overall
drawing measuring twenty four inches by thirty six inches (24" x 36"), but not
exceeding forty two inches by sixty inches (42" x 60").
      2.   Identification And Descriptive Data: The following existing and
proposed information shall be shown on the preliminary plat or submitted
separately:
         a.   Proposed name of subdivision and its location by section,
township and range, centered at the top, if possible; reference by dimension
and bearing to a section corner, quarter section corner, or recorded monument.
         b.   The following information constituting the name block shall be
listed along the right edge, if possible: subdivision name, revision data,
name, address and phone number of property owner(s), subdivider, engineer or
surveyor who prepared the plat.
         c.   If the subdivision is to be developed in phases, phase lines,
numbers and development data per phase shall be shown on the plat. If changed
during development, the subdivider shall obtain City approval of an amended
preliminary plat prior to filing an application for final plat.
         d.   Scale, north arrow and date of preparation including dates of any
subsequent revisions.
         e.   Vicinity map drawn to a maximum scale of one inch equals one
thousand feet (1" = 1,000'), clearly showing proposed subdivision configuration
in relationship to adjacent subdivisions, roads, parks, schools, waterways,
etc.
         f.   Topography based on current USGS datum shown on the same map as
the proposed subdivision layout. Contour lines shown at two foot (2')
intervals, referenced to an established bench mark, including location and
elevation.
         g.   Location of water wells, streams, canals, irrigation laterals,
private ditches, drains, washes, lakes or other water features; direction of
flow; and the regulatory floodplain and floodway boundaries.
         h.   Location, widths and names of all existing and proposed: platted
roads, easements, alleys and bicycle/pedestrian pathways, arrows indicating
direction of slopes, type of surface, curb, gutter and/or sidewalks,
connections to adjoining lots, and other important features such as railroads,
utility rights-of-way and easements of public record, public areas, and
permanent structures such as water wells, septic systems and drainfields.
         i.   Name of any recorded adjacent subdivision, and owner of land not
in a subdivision, having a common boundary with the lot.
         j.   By note, the existing zoning classification of the lot and
adjacent land. If the plat includes land for which multi-family, commercial or
industrial use is proposed, such areas shall be clearly designated together
with existing zoning classification.
         k.   By note: the total acreage of the subdivision; the total number
of lots, cumulative and by phase; the total number of buildable lots by phase;
and the total number of common area lots by phase.
         l.   The subdivision boundary shall be based on an actual field survey
including professional stamp. Boundary problems shall be resolved and
nonbuildable remnant parcels are prohibited. Show any public dedications of
rights-of-way or easements.
         m.   Names of all property owners adjacent to the exterior boundary of
the proposed subdivision.
         n.   Location and type of utility systems, such as: stormwater, sewer,
water, streetlights, fiber and fire hydrants.
         o.   Typical lot dimensions to scale; dimensions of all corner lots
and lots of curvilinear sections of roads; each lot, block and phase numbered
consecutively and individually.
         p.   Designation of all land to be dedicated for public use with
purpose indicated. Designation of all land to be used for a common purpose and
designate the purpose, including the intended beneficiary and person or entity
responsible to maintain the property.
         q.   Identify any special development area as defined in section
 5-4-13 of this chapter.
         r.   Applicant is responsible to review comprehensive plan maps
(including transportation, schools and recreation maps) and include on the
preliminary plat respective transportation, school and recreation improvements.
Applicant shall pay its prorata share of any improvements recommended by a City
approved traffic impact analysis before the City approves the final plat or
final plat of the first phase.
      3.   Proposed Utility Methods:
         a.   Sewage Disposal: The subdivider shall furnish the subdivision
design flows and any special operation of the sanitary sewage facilities
proposed. A preliminary layout and statement as to the type of facilities
proposed shall appear on the preliminary plat.
         b.   Water Supply: The subdivider shall furnish the design, operation,
volume and quality of the water supply requested and facilities proposed. A
preliminary layout and statement as to the type of facilities proposed shall
appear on the preliminary plat.
         c.   Stormwater Disposal: The subdivider shall furnish the design and
operation of the stormwater disposal system. A statement as to the type of
facilities proposed and an indication of the area to be used for treatment/
disposal shall appear on the preliminary plat. All stormwater is to be managed
on site.
         d.   Irrigation System: A statement describing the proposed irrigation
system, point of delivery, and preliminary layout shall appear on the
preliminary plat.
         e.   School Capacity: A signed statement from any school district in
which the subdivision is located verifying that the proposed subdivision, upon
completion, shall not cause or contribute to the Total Service Obligation of
any public school that will be serving the subdivision to exceed one hundred
and ten percent (110%) Capacity of such school, except as follows:
            (1)   Small Developments: The foregoing capacity verification shall
not be required for subdivisions where the total number of lots is fewer than
five (5). A developer shall not be permitted to avoid the obligations of this
Subsection (e) by artificially partitioning a large development into smaller
developments.
            (2)   Infill Developments: The foregoing capacity verification
shall not be required for subdivision where the total number of lots is fewer
than ten (10), and such subdivision is an infill subdivision, which shall mean
any proposed subdivision that is immediately adjacent, on at least three sides,
to the municipal boundaries of the City of Middleton, and which is also
entirely within the municipal boundary of the City of Middleton.
            As used in this subsection e., each school’s “Capacity” shall be
determined based upon the total of the actual capacity of such primary school
facility added to the actual capacity of any permanent structures used to house
students at said school facility. Actual capacity of common areas (restrooms,
lunchrooms, libraries, and similar spaces) shall be taken into account when
determining the actual capacity of additional permanent structures used to
house students at a school facility.
            As used in this subsection e., Total Service Obligation shall be
calculated by adding the total number of built and buildable lots (including
lots in all phases of any subdivision that has obtained preliminary plat
approval) within the area served by such school together with the total number
of buildable lots located within the proposed subdivision, and multiplying said
number by the Student-Per-EDU-Number.
            As used in this subsection e., Student-Per-EDU-Number means that
number, calculated annually by the school districts and acknowledged by the
City Council, which is the average number of students expected from each
residential dwelling unit built or existing within said school district. There
shall be a Student-Per-EDU-Number calculated for each category of students
(elementary students, middle school students, and high school students). School
districts shall use a reasonable and substantiated method for determining the
Student-Per-EDU-Number.
   B.   Compliance: Subdividers shall comply with the neighborhood meeting,
application and public hearing provisions as described in
title 1, chapter 14 of this Code.
   C.   Off-Site Road Improvements: All off-site transportation improvements
must be completed as part of the first phase of subdivision construction,
unless otherwise approved by city council.
   D.   Additional Standards: The subdivider shall follow the “Idaho Standards
for Public Works Construction” and the Middleton Supplement thereto in effect
at the time the final plat application is accepted by the City.
   E.   Amended Preliminary Plats: If phase lines, numbers and/or development
data change during development, the subdivider shall obtain City approval of an
amended preliminary plat prior to filing an application for final plat.
   F.   Time Limitations:
      1.   Two year limit. A preliminary plat is valid for two (2) years.
Approval of a preliminary plat shall become null and void if the applicant
fails to obtain the city engineer’s signature on the final plat for the
subdivision or final plat for phase one (1) of the subdivision within two (2)
years of the approval of the preliminary plat.
      2.   Phased development. If the preliminary plat will be developed in
phases, the final plat applications shall be submitted in consecutive order.
Applicant must obtain the city engineer’s signature on the final plat for each
phase within successive intervals of two years.
      3.   Authorized extension. Upon written request by the applicant prior to
the termination of the time periods noted in subsections (1) and (2) of this
section, the Planning & Zoning Official may authorize a single extension of
time, not to exceed one (1) year, to obtain the city engineer’s signature on a
final plat. City Council may approve an additional time extension of one (1)
year if developer submits a written request for extension prior to the
expiration of the previous extension period.
      4.   Failure to meet timetable. If the above timetable is not met and the
applicant does not receive a time extension, applicant must complete the
platting process again in order to continue developing the property.
   G.   Standards for Approval/Denial of Preliminary Plats:
      1.   The planning and zoning commission shall make recommendations
regarding, and the city council shall approve, conditionally approve, or deny,
preliminary plat applications based upon the following (and shall make written
findings based upon the same):
         a.   The plat is in compliance with the Middleton City Code and
standards;
         b.   The plat is consistent with the city comprehensive plan;
         c.   City services and utilities, including water and sewer capacity,
are available and adequate to accommodate the proposed subdivision;
         d.   The plat is consistent with the city transportation master plan;
and
         e.   The subdivision preserves natural, scenic or historic features,
if applicable.
      The availability and adequacy of City services and utilities (water and
sewer) shall be based upon the reasonable calculation of the City Engineer and
City Public Works Director, based upon generally accepted methodologies.
Utility availability shall be determined based upon City water system and City
sewer system capacity, current facility use, and all previously approved
development or other allocation of facility capacity. (Ord. 609, 7-3-2018; Ord.
620, - -2019; Ord. 633, 9-16-2020; Ord. 659, 1-19-2022; Ord. 673, 1-4-2023;
Ord. 689, 3-6-2024; Ord. 693, 4-17-2024)
5-4-5: CONSTRUCTION DRAWINGS:
   A.   Application:
      1.   An applicant shall file with the City: a copy of a complete
construction drawing application, fees, and two (2) paper copies of the
construction drawings with data as required in this section. After the City
approves the construction drawings, the applicant shall provide three (3) full-
size paper copies of the approved construction drawings to the City. The
applicant may proceed with the construction of infrastructure.
      2.   As a condition precedent to the approval of any final plat, the
subdivider shall construct City required improvements according to the "Idaho
Standards for Public Works Construction" and the Middleton supplement to the
"Idaho Standards for Public Works Construction" in effect at the time the final
plat application is accepted by the City. (Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
      3.   Plans for the improvements herein required shall be prepared by an
engineer registered in the State of Idaho and shall be approved by the City
prior to filing an application for final plat. (Ord. 588, 3-1-2017; amd. Ord.
609, 7-3-2018)
      4.   The City may accept an irrevocable letter of credit, cashier's check
or other guarantee in the amount of one hundred fifty percent (150%) of the
estimated costs to ensure completion of only landscaping and irrigation system
improvements in the event that inclement weather precludes the successful
installation of landscaping and irrigation.
   B.   Method And Medium Of Presentation:
      1.   All drawings to be offered for Council consideration, and recording,
shall be prepared according to Idaho Code title 50, chapter 13, and this Code.
      2.   Copies of the record drawing shall be reproduced in the form of
black line prints on a white background.
      3.   The drawing shall be drawn to an accurate scale having not more than
one hundred feet to an inch (1" = 100') unless otherwise approved as to scale.
   C.   Content Of Construction Drawing:
      1.   A title which includes the name of the subdivision and its location
by number of section, township, range and county.
      2.   Name, address and official seal of the registered professional land
surveyor preparing the drawing.
      3.   Scale, north arrow and date of the plat preparation.
   D.   Survey Data Required:
      1.   Boundaries of the lot to be subdivided fully balanced and closed,
showing all bearings and distances, determined by an accurate survey in the
field. All dimensions shall be expressed in feet and decimals thereof.
      2.   Any excepted parcel(s) within the drawing boundaries shall show all
bearings and distances, determined by an accurate survey in the field. All
dimensions shall be expressed in feet and decimals. Out parcels are not
allowed.
      3.   Show basis of bearing on the drawing with a minimum of two (2)
government corners with all corner perpetuation and filing information.
   E.   Descriptive Data Required:
      1.   Name, rights-of-way lines, courses, lengths and widths of all public
roads, and bicycle/pedestrian pathways, and utility and utility access
easements; all linear curves for road centerlines and property lines shall
include the following information:
         a.   Radii.
         b.   Central angle.
         c.   Arc length.
         d.   Long chord, length and bearing.
         e.   Spiral curves should have essentially the same information except
for radii and tangent length.
      2.   All easements of record shall be shown and reference the instrument
number.
      3.   Each lot and block shall be numbered consecutively and individually
throughout the drawing.
      4.   Location, dimensions, bearings, radii, arcs and central angles of
all sites to be dedicated to the public will be clearly indicated and the
intended use specified.
      5.   A note indicating that no structures shall be constructed or
installed in an easement and that any fences, landscaping or any other
structures constructed or installed in an easement may be removed by the City
and utility companies, and replaced at the landowner's expense. (Ord. 609, 7-3-
2018)
5-4-6: AS-BUILT CONSTRUCTION DRAWINGS:
An applicant shall file with the City a 24 x 36 copy, in PDF format, of the
complete as-built construction drawings prior to or simultaneously with
submitting an application for a final plat. (Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
5-4-7: FINAL PLAT:
   A.   Application:
      1.   An applicant shall file with the City: a copy of the complete final
plat application, fees, and one (1) electronic full-size PDF copy, and three
full-sized copies of the final plat with data as required in this section.
After all City comments are addressed by the applicant, and prior to any
Council consideration of the plat, the applicant shall submit one (1)
electronic full-size PDF copy and three full-sized copies to the City.
      2.   As conditions precedent to accepting a final plat application, the
subdivider shall: 1) construct City required improvements according to the
"Idaho Standards for Public Works Construction" and the Middleton Supplement to
the Idaho Standards for Public Works Construction in effect at the time the
application to construct infrastructure is accepted by the City, and 2) the
City accepts the completion packet described in the Middleton Supplement. A
final walk through to verify infrastructure improvements were constructed to
standards may be scheduled after the City accepts the completion packet, but
not before.
   3.   The City Council may accept an irrevocable letter of credit, cashier’s
check or other bond guarantee in the amount of two hundred percent (200%) of
the estimated costs to ensure completion of only landscaping, irrigation
system, and fencing improvements in the event that inclement weather precludes
the successful installation of said improvements. A bonded improvement must be
completed within twelve (12) months of the approval of the final plat, and the
bond will not be released until the improvement is completed and approved by
the City. Failure to complete the improvement within said time frame shall give
the City the authority, at its sole discretion, to exercise the bond and
complete the improvement with funds derived therefrom. The City Council may
grant an extension to a developer to accommodate unavoidable delays impacting
the developer, but only if the developer requests such an extension at least
sixty (60) days prior to the date on which the improvement is required to be
completed.
   B.   Method And Medium Of Presentation:
      1.   All plats to be offered for Council consideration, and recording,
shall be prepared according to Idaho Code title 50, chapter 13, and this Code.
      2.   Copies of the record plat shall be reproduced in the form of black
line prints on a white background.
      3.   The plat shall be drawn to an accurate scale having not more than
one hundred feet to an inch (1" = 100') unless otherwise approved as to scale.
   C.   Content Of Final Plat:
      1.   A title which includes the name of the subdivision and its location
by number of section, township, range and county.
      2.   Name, address and official seal of the registered professional land
surveyor preparing the plat.
      3.   Scale, north arrow and date of the plat preparation.
   D.   Survey Data Required:
      1.   Boundaries of the lot to be subdivided fully balanced and closed,
showing all bearings and distances, determined by an accurate survey in the
field. All dimensions shall be expressed in feet and decimals thereof.
      2.   Any excepted parcel(s) within the plat boundaries shall show all
bearings and distances, determined by an accurate survey in the field. All
dimensions shall be expressed in feet and decimals. Out parcels are not
allowed.
      3.   Show basis of bearing on the plat with a minimum of two (2)
government corners with all corner perpetuation and filing information.
   E.   Descriptive Data Required:
      1.   Name, rights-of-way lines, courses, lengths and widths of all public
roads, and bicycle/pedestrian pathways, and utility and utility access
easements; all linear curves for road centerlines and property lines shall
include the following information:
         a.   Radii.
         b.   Central angle.
         c.   Arc length.
         d.   Long chord, length and bearing.
         e.   Spiral curves should have essentially the same information except
for radii and tangent length.
      2.   All easements of record shall be shown and reference the instrument
number.
      3.   Each lot and block shall be numbered consecutively and individually
throughout the plat, and include the size of the lot by square feet shown on
the face of the plat, not in a table.
      4.   Location, dimensions, bearings, radii, arcs and central angles of
all sites to be dedicated to the public will be clearly indicated and the
intended use specified.
      5.   A note indicating that no structures shall be constructed or
installed in an easement and that any fences, landscaping or any other
structures constructed or installed in an easement may be removed by the City
and utility companies, and replaced at the landowner's expense.
   F.   Dedication And Acknowledgment:
      1.   Dedication: Statement of dedication of all roads, alleys,
drainageways, bicycle/pedestrian pathways, and easements for public use by the
person holding title of record, and a statement that affirms that all lands and
other easements to be dedicated are free and clear of all encumbrances.
      2.   Acknowledgment Of Dedication: Execution of dedication acknowledged
and certified by a notary public.
   G.   Required Certifications:
      1.   Certification by the registered professional land surveyor stating
on the plat that the plat is correct and accurate, and that the monuments
described in it have been located as described.
      2.   Certification by the City Engineer.
      3.   Certification by the City.
      4.   Certification by the County surveyor.
      5.   Certification by the County Treasurer.
   H.   Council Action: Upon acceptance of a complete final plat application,
the Council shall consider the plat and determine if it meets the requirements
of this title, Idaho Code, and substantially conforms to the approved
preliminary plat. If so, the Council shall approve said plat.
   I.   Recording Of Final Plat: The subdivider shall record the City approved
final plat. At the time of recording of the final plat, the City is deemed to
have accepted the dedications shown. After recording, the subdivider shall
deliver to the City one (1) electronic PDF copy and two full sized and two
eleven by seventeen (11” x 17”), showing recording information.
(Ord. 568, 12-21-2015; amd. Ord. 600, 12-20-2017; Ord. 609, 7-3-2018; Ord. 620,
- -2019; Ord. 624, 9 - -2019; Ord. 633, 9-16-2020; Ord. 673, 1-4-2023)
5-4-8: COMBINING PRELIMINARY AND FINAL PLATS:
   A.   The applicant may request that a subdivision application be processed
as both a preliminary and final plat when the proposed subdivision has five (5)
or fewer lots and meets the following conditions:
      1.   No required utility extensions or road improvements are involved.
      2.   No special development standards are involved.
      3.   All required information for both preliminary and final plat are
complete. (Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
5-4-9: ADMINISTRATIVE LOT SPLITS AND BOUNDARY LINE ADJUSTMENTS BY RECORD OF
SURVEY:
Any person desiring to divide one lot into two (2) buildable lots that conform
with this Code (lot split), or adjust a property line to establish buildable
parcels with boundaries which differ from existing buildable parcels (lot line
adjustment), or combine lots to reduce density (i.e., the number of buildable
lots is reduced from two (2) to one (1)) may submit an application for an
administrative lot split, boundary line adjustment or density reduction.
   A.   Any lot is eligible for a one-time administrative lot split provided
the parcel of land was created prior to August 10, 1976, and all other
requirements of this Code are met. The Applicant has the burden of proving that
the parcel existed prior to said date. Any lot is eligible for a density
reduction or an administrative boundary line adjustment, which may occur more
than one time, provided all other requirements of this Code are met.
   B.   The application for a boundary line adjustment, density reduction or a
one-time administrative lot split shall be submitted to the City, along with:
      1.   The appropriate fee,
      2.   A copy of the record of survey drawn to the standards set forth
herein.
      3.   Legal descriptions for the original parcel and all revised or newly
created parcels.
      4.   The record of survey shall conform to Idaho Code, Title 55, Chapter
19 and contain the following information:
         a.   Correct road names and right of way widths.
         b.   All recorded easements.
         c.   All existing lot lines of record.
         d.   Adjusted or new lot lines matching the new descriptions.
         e.   The area in square feet of each lot shown on the record of
survey.
         f.   A depiction of all existing structures, labeled with existing
use, with either: (i) the distances from the structure to any lot line shown on
the record of survey; or (ii) a note that the structures are to be removed at
the time of remodeling or new construction.
         g.   Any other information required by the application.
   C.   After receiving the application, the City shall determine if the
application is complete, the property descriptions are correct, and the record
of survey is drawn to the required specifications and if each of the parcels
shown on the record of survey and property descriptions meet the requirements
of this section. The City shall then either:
      1.   Approve the application; or
      2.   Advise the applicant in writing of all respects wherein the
application and the record of survey do not comply with this section.
      The City may withhold approving the application until finding is made
that all parcels shown on the record of survey and deeds are buildable parcels.
   D.    Every application for administrative approval must meet the following
conditions:
      1.   Resultant parcels shall meet the minimum requirements for area,
frontage and width for the existing zone.
      2.   All existing buildings to remain shall meet all applicable zoning
requirements regarding allowed uses and parking and shall comply with the
setback requirements of the existing zone as measured from any parcel boundary
being created by this process.
         a.   Any setback that was legally nonconforming prior to the division
remains as a legal nonconforming setback, provided the legal nonconforming
setback is not altered by the application.
         b.   Any building not meeting the required setback that is to be
partially or completely demolished shall be demolished prior to the approval of
the application.
      3.   The relocation of the lot lines, or creation of the new lots, will
not change or move any existing roads or easements, platted subdivision
boundaries, zoning district boundaries, or areas already dedicated to the
public.
      4.   The application will not require dedication of new public right-of-
way or the construction of roads or private lanes, or the creation of access
easements, in order to create access to a lot that is landlocked.
      5.   For a reduction in density application, a record of survey is
necessary to allow construction over platted lot lines of multiple whole lots.
      6.   The application will not require the creation of easements across
one (1) or more parcels to extend water or sewer service to another parcel that
will be created.
      7.   The proposed application will not adversely impact adjoining
property interests.
      8.   If platted or recorded easements exist within any lot, the easements
must be vacated prior to any construction within the easement area.
   E.   Prior to approval of any application for lot split, lot line
adjustment, or lot density reduction, Owner shall dedicate, at no cost to the
City, public right-of-way in accordance with City's transportation Code and
Comprehensive Plan Transportation Maps as identified by City Engineer. The
portion of property dedicated to the City will not be considered part of the
lot split application.
   F.   If the City Engineer determines that a proposed lot split is too
complicated for the administrative procedure set forth in this Section, or if
City Engineer determines that the Owner must make utility or roadway
improvements to support the creation of a parcel(s) that complies with the
Middleton City Code and Standards, then the Owner must use the subdivision
process in Middleton City Code to create a parcel or change the lot lines in
any way.
   G.   If parcels have been created or the boundary lines of any lot have been
adjusted without completing the application process set forth herein or without
completing the subdivision process found in Title 5, then the lot will not be
eligible for a building permit.
(Ord. 609, 7-3-2018; amd. Ord. 641, 11-18-2020; Ord. 708, 6-4-2025)
5-4-10: DESIGN AND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
5-4-10-1: GENERAL:
   A.   Specifications Adopted: The City of Middleton hereby adopts
specifications and details of the most current edition of the "Idaho Standards
for Public Works Construction" as standards for construction within the impact
area and City limits. These standards are augmented by general addenda,
approved by resolution of the Council as necessary, to ensure uniform material
selection and construction practice for those items specific to the City of
Middleton. (Ord. 568, 12-21-2015; amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
5-4-10-2: ROADS:
   A.   Road Design Requirements: Roads, including collectors as designated by
the City of Middleton, shall be designed incorporating the principles of
balanced blocks, curvilinear layout, City approved access points, minimization
of cul-de-sacs, and connectivity throughout the development and to adjacent
properties.
   B.   Frontage Roads: Where a subdivision/development abuts or contains an
existing or proposed arterial road, railroad or limited access highway, the
City may require frontage roads, or such other treatment for the appropriate
use of the lot.
   C.   Adjacent Streets:
      1.   The developer is responsible for improving all street frontages
adjacent to the development site or internal to the development as required
below, regardless of whether access is taken to all of the adjacent streets.
      2.   All utility relocation costs, including irrigation relocation costs,
associated with improving street frontages adjacent to the site shall be borne
by the developer.
      3.   Developer/Owner shall dedicate, without compensation, additional
right-of-way to provide the right-of-way width required by City code and
standards.
      4.   In a phased project, adjacent streets shall be improved and
dedicated on a phase-by-phase basis up to phase three (3). Any adjacent street
improvements for phases four (4) and above shall be constructed and dedicated
no later than phase three (3) final plat approval unless otherwise approved by
City Council. City Council may, at its discretion, require improvement and
dedication of all adjacent streets by Phase one (1) final plat approval.
      5.   Required Improvements:
         a.   Adjacent Streets (Existing or New):
            (1)   Required improvements to an adjacent street shall consist of
pavement widening to one-half the required width, including curb, gutter and
sidewalk (minimum eight (8') foot detached or five (5') foot attached), plus
twelve (12') feet of additional pavement widening beyond the centerline
established for the street to provide an adequate roadway surface. City Council
may approve an amount less than twelve (12) foot for pavement widening past
centerline if the one-half road design does not require all of the twelve (12)
foot pavement allotment to create an adequate roadway surface, but the roadway
travel surface may not be less than 20ft of pavement. Pavement shall be crowned
at the ultimate centerline. A three (3') foot wide gravel shoulder and a borrow
ditch sized to accommodate the roadway storm runoff shall be constructed on the
unimproved side. The shoulder and borrow on the unimproved side may be
eliminated if ownership or site conditions prevent or unreasonably impede
construction of the same.
            (2)   Minor improvements to existing streets adjacent to a proposed
development project may be required. These improvements are to correct
deficiencies or replace deteriorated facilities. Included are sidewalk
construction or replacement; curb and gutter construction or replacement;
replacement of unused driveways with curb, gutter and sidewalk; installation or
reconstruction of pedestrian ramps; pavement repairs; signs; traffic control
devices; and other similar items.
         b.   Off-Site Streets: If the proposed development is not served by a
public street that is fully improved to City standards (curb, gutter, sidewalk)
or with a minimum of thirty (30) feet of pavement, then prior to final plat of
phase one (1), the developer shall provide thirty (30) feet of pavement with
three (3) foot gravel shoulders from the site to a public street specified by
the City; or the developer shall provide twenty four (24) feet of pavement with
three (3) foot gravel shoulders and a minimum six (6) foot wide detached
asphalt/concrete paved pedestrian facility, from the site to a public street
specified by the City.
   D.   Rights-Of-Way Width:
      1.   Road right-of-way width is to be measured from property line to
property line (total road right-of-way) and property line to centerline (half
road right-of-way). The minimum rights-of-way for the following roads shall be:
Arterials And Collectors Half Road    Total Road
                         Right-Of-Way Right-Of-Way
Arterials And Collectors            Half Road    Total Road
                                    Right-Of-Way Right-Of-Way
Blessinger Road                     50 feet      100 feet
Can-Ada Road                        50 feet      100 feet
Canyon Lane                         50 feet      100 feet
Cemetery Road                       50 feet      100 feet
Concord Street east of Hartley Lane 30 feet      60 feet
Concord Street west of Hartley Lane 40 feet      80 feet
Cornell Street                      50 feet      100 feet
Douglas Avenue                      50 feet      100 feet
Duff Lane                           50 feet      100 feet
El Paso Road                        50 feet      100 feet
Ember Road                          50 feet      100 feet
Emmett Road                         50 feet      100 feet
Foothills Road                      50 feet      100 feet
Freezeout Road                      50 feet      100 feet
Hall Avenue                         50 feet      100 feet
Hartley Lane                        50 feet      100 feet
Harvard Street                      50 feet      100 feet
Kingsbury Road                      50 feet      100 feet
Landruff Lane                       50 feet      100 feet
Lansing Lane                        50 feet      100 feet
Lee Avenue                          50 feet      100 feet
Meadow Park Street                  50 feet      100 feet
Middleton Road                      50 feet      100 feet
Peel Street                         50 feet      100 feet
Purple Sage Road                    50 feet      100 feet
Sawtooth Lake Street                50 feet      100 feet
Willis Road                         50 feet      100 feet
Wood Avenue                         50 feet      100 feet
9th Street                          50 feet      100 feet
 
Additional right-of-way may be required, especially at intersections or
waterway crossings, as determined by the City.
      2.   All other roads in the City are considered local roads and shall
have a half road width of twenty five feet (25') and a total right-of-way width
of fifty feet (50') or as determined by the City, provided that a ten foot
(10') permanent utility easement is given along each side of the right-of-way
line. Roads with fifty foot (50') rights-of-way shall have a right-of-way
allowance for a minimum of twenty foot (20') curb radii and pedestrian ramps at
the intersections.
   E.   Cul-De-Sac Roads: Cul-de-sac roads shall terminate in a circular
turnaround with a right-of-way radius of at least fifty feet (50'). The City
may approve an equally convenient form of turning space where extreme
conditions justify. The maximum length shall be six hundred feet (600') from
the entrance to the center of a turnaround.
   F.   Dead End Roads: Dead end roads will not be approved except in locations
designated by the City as necessary to future extensions in development of
adjacent lands. In any case, a dead end road serving more than four (4) lots
shall provide by easement a temporary turning circle with a fifty foot (50')
radius or other acceptable design to accomplish adequate access. Turnaround to
be improved with an all weather surface meeting the requirements of the
International Fire Code.
   G.   Loop Roads: Loop roads shall be limited to a maximum length of three
thousand two hundred feet (3,200') measured along the centerline of the road
from the centerline intersection to centerline intersection.
   H.   Road Intersections And Alignments:
      1.   Roads shall be planned to intersect as nearly as possible at right
angles, but in no event at less than seventy degrees (70°).
      2.   Where any road deflects at an angle of ten degrees (10°) or more, a
connecting curve shall be required having a minimum centerline radius of three
hundred feet (300') for arterial and collector roads and ninety feet (90') for
local roads. City may approve, on a case-by-case basis, a smaller turning
radius if a knuckle or other mitigating feature is designed into the curve.
      3.   Minimum spacing between centerline of roads on the same side of a
roadway shall be two hundred fifty feet (250'). Minimum spacing between
centerline of roads on the opposite side of a roadway shall be one hundred
twenty five feet (125').
      4.   A tangent at least one hundred fifty feet to two hundred feet (150'
- 200') long shall be provided between reverse curves on arterial and collector
roads.
      5.   Road intersections with more than four (4) legs and Y-type
intersections where legs meet at acute angles shall be avoided.
      6.   Access for any use along section and quarter section line roads
shall be limited by the City to maximize traffic efficiency and may be limited
to one access per one thousand three hundred twenty feet (1,320').
   I.   Road Grades And Widths: Road grades shall not exceed six percent (6%)
nor less than four-tenths of one percent (0.4%) on local and collector roads.
The grades for all other roads shall be as approved based on individual
conditions and safe engineering practices. Minimum road width for a local road
shall be thirty eight feet (38'), back to back of curbs. All other road width
shall be determined by traffic use and volume.
   J.   Road Names: The naming of roads shall conform to the following:
      1.   Road names shall not duplicate any existing road name except where a
new road is a continuation of an existing road; road names that may be spelled
differently but sound the same as existing roads are prohibited.
      2.   All new roads shall be named as follows: roads having a
predominantly north-south direction shall be avenues; roads having a
predominantly east-west direction shall be streets; and cul-de-sacs shall be
courts.
      3.   Road-name direction references shall be based on the historic center
of town: Hawthorne Ave. intersection with Main Street (aka State Highway 44):
         a.   Streets continuous on both sides of Hawthorne Ave. shall have a
“W” prefix for the portion west of Hawthorne Ave. and an “E” prefix for the
portion east side of Hawthorne Ave.; and
         b.   Avenues continuous on both sides of Main Street shall have a “N”
prefix if on the north side of Main Street and a “S” prefix if on the south
side of Main Street.
   K.   Maximum Traffic On One Access For Local Or Collector Roads: Where a
proposed development has only one access to a public road, or where it proposes
to extend public roads from existing development with only one local or
collector road access to the public road system, the equivalent dwelling units
to be allowed on the local road access is fifty (50).
   L.   Location Of Irrigation Lines: All irrigation and drainage structures
and lines, except piping for stormwater management shall be located and/or
relocated out of the road right-of-way.
(Ord. 588, 3-1-2017; amd. Ord. 600, 12-20-2017; Ord. 609, 7-3-2018; Ord. 620, -
-2019; Ord. 624, 9- -2019; Ord. 659, 1-19-2022; Ord. 673, 1-4-2023)
5-4-10-3: BLOCK REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Block Lengths And Design:
      1.   Block lengths shall not exceed one thousand one hundred feet
(1,100') as measured along the road centerline from centerline intersection to
centerline intersection.
      2.   Interior block design shall provide for two (2) tiers of lots,
unless otherwise approved.
   B.   Pathways: Right-of-way widths for pathways of ten feet (10') or greater
may be required by the City where essential for circulation or access to
schools, playgrounds, shopping centers, transportation and other community
facilities. (Ord. 568, 12-21-2015; amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
5-4-10-4: LOT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Lot Design: The lot size, width, depth, shape and orientation and
minimum setback lines shall comply with the minimum requirements of the zoning
regulations of the City as shown in section
 5-4-1, Table 2 of this chapter. Lot lines shall be at right angles from the
front, side and back property lines, unless otherwise approved as part of a
preliminary plat.
   B.   Buffers: Lots along the roads identified in subsection
 5-4-10-2D of this chapter shall conform to the traffic buffer requirements
(see section
5-4-10-6 of this chapter).
   C.   Lot Access: All lots shall front on paved public roads, and no lots
shall have direct access to collectors, boulevards, or arterials, unless
otherwise approved by the City.
   D.   Flag Lots: Flag lots are prohibited unless allowed by the city as part
of a preliminary plat. When a flag lot is allowed, the minimum lot frontage to
a public road shall be twenty feet (20'), and the minimum lot width and
setbacks are measured from where the lot widens for a building.
(Ord. 588, 3-1-2017; amd. Ord. 600, 12-20-2017; Ord. 609, 7-3-2018; Ord. 620, -
-2019)
5-4-10-5: EASEMENTS:
   A.   A general utility and access easement of not less than ten feet (10')
in width shall be dedicated along all front lot lines.
   B.   Where alleys are not provided, easements of not less than ten feet
(10') in width shall be dedicated on each side of all rear lot lines and five
feet (5') on each side of side lot lines where necessary for proper utility
maintenance or construction.
   C.   Easements for pathways shall be a minimum of fifteen feet (15') in
width. (Ord. 568, 12-21-2015; amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
5-4-10-6: TRAFFIC BUFFER REQUIREMENTS:
The purpose of a traffic buffer is to reduce the visual impact of collector and
arterial roadways on a residential area. A combination of the following shall
be used: a) solid fence or wall; b) berm; and c) landscaping.
   A.   Buffer Dimensions: Traffic buffers shall be accomplished by a
combination of berm (varying height: minimum 3 feet, maximum 5 feet; 2.5:1 side
slopes) and fence (varying height) to a total height of not less than nine feet
(9') or greater than eleven feet (11') in a twenty four foot (24') (minimum)
easement dedicated for traffic buffer area. Traffic buffers shall be harmonious
with adjacent screening techniques, materials, and colors.
   B.   Landscape Design: For each portion of three hundred thirty feet (330')
along right-of-way, breaks featuring landscaped cutouts (200 square feet) may
be employed to alter linear visual effects.
   C.   Vehicular Access: Unless Council grants a waiver, no vehicular gate or
access shall be permitted onto a collector or arterial road from the side or
rear yard of a lot.
   D.   Rear Setbacks: Rear setbacks on lots backing up to a traffic buffer may
be reduced to fifteen feet (15'). (Ord. 588, 3-1-2017; amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
5-4-10-7: LANDSCAPE BUFFERS:
   A.   When a commercial land use that is listed as an allowed use or special
use in the C-1 Zone (Neighborhood Commercial) directly abuts a residential use,
a twenty foot (20') wide landscaped buffer shall be installed between the uses.
If deemed necessary, the City may require the commercial parcel to include a
privacy fence and/or berm.
   B.   When a commercial land use that is listed as an allowed or special use
in the C-2 or C-3 zones or when any industrial use directly abuts a residential
use, a twenty five foot (25') landscape buffer shall be installed between the
uses. If deemed necessary, the City may require the commercial parcel to
include a privacy fence and/or berm.
(Ord. 588, 3-1-2017; amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018; Ord. 659, 1-19-2022; Ord. 673, 1-
4-2023)
5-4-10-8: PATHWAYS AND PARKS:
   A.   Pathways:
      1.   Pathways are required as indicated on the Middleton Comprehensive
Plan Transportation, Schools and Recreation Map. Pathways that are not along a
road shall be on a twelve foot (12') wide public access easement or dedicated
to the City and shall be constructed of asphalt, eight feet (8') wide.
Developer, its assigns and/or Homeowners Association shall be responsible for
installing, repairing and maintaining the pathways.
      2.   In addition to the pathways identified on the Middleton
Comprehensive Plan Transportation, Schools and Recreation Map, City may require
developers to construct sidewalks and pathways designed to connect
neighborhoods with schools, parks and downtown, and such pathways shall be on a
public access easement twelve feet (12') wide or dedicated to the City.
Developer, its assigns and/or Homeowners Association shall be responsible for
repairing and maintaining the pathways.
   B.   Parks: Parks locations are required as indicated on the Middleton
Comprehensive Plan Transportation, Schools and Recreation Map. Such parks shall
be dedicated to the City for future maintenance.
(Ord. 588, 3-1-2017; amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018; Ord. 620, - -2019; Ord. 659, 1-
19-2022)
5-4-10-9: STORMWATER MANAGEMENT:
A stormwater management plan shall be prepared addressing both construction and
postconstruction control of stormwater. The introductory comments, general
stormwater requirements, control method requirements, stormwater Best
Management Practices and plans to improve stormwater quality shall be detailed.
   A.   When possible, retention and detention facilities should be designed as
open surface facilities for multiuse. (Ord. 568, 12-21-2015; amd. Ord. 609, 7-
3-2018)
   B.   A plan for operation, maintenance, repair and replacement of the
facility shall be prepared and submitted to the City for approval. Grease and
sediment traps and catch basin inserts shall not be used alone to treat
stormwater runoff, but rather in combination with other BMPs to improve water
quality. For grease and sediment traps, sand filters and other maintenance
intensive facilities, a life cycle cost, including cost of replacement, shall
be submitted and will be considered by the City as a part of the process of
deciding on acceptance or nonacceptance of that option. Generally, for
facilities requiring City maintenance, an option with least postconstruction
life cycle cost is preferred by the City. (Ord. 600, 12-20-2017; amd. Ord. 609,
7-3-2018)
   C.   Retention facilities which incorporate absorption trenches and
subsurface infiltration elements for stormwater management shall conform to
Idaho Code title 42, chapter 39, and to the Idaho Department of Water Resources
Rules for Waste Disposal and Injection Wells.
   D.   Preconstruction erosion and sedimentation control methods must be
installed or otherwise in effect prior to any site disturbance. (Ord. 568, 12-
21-2015; amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
5-4-10-10: OPEN SPACE AND AMENITIES:
   A.   For residential developments five acres or larger that do not include
parks as shown on the Middleton Transportation, Schools & Recreation Map,
developers shall include five percent (5%) open space in a concentrated
location(s), agreed to with the City, that is aesthetically pleasing and
sufficiently large to accommodate group and/or recreational activities.
   B.   Open Space is defined as areas that are accessible to all residents and
used for social gathering and/or passive or active recreation. Such areas may
include parks, playgrounds, sport courts, plazas, community center/clubhouse,
swimming pool, pocket parks, picnic areas, lakes and/or ponds, water features,
pathways that are 8' or wider located within a public access easement or
dedicated to the City, and large landscaped common lots, including detention
pond areas that are landscaped with sod and over 10,000 sf in size. Open space
does not include small landscaped strips, common lots along roadways, or
landscape buffers unless the landscape buffer is sized above minimum standards
and contains a pathway at least eight (8) feet wide.
   C.   Single family residential developments that include more than seventy
five (75) dwelling units and multi-family subdivisions containing more than
seventy five (75) dwelling units shall provide one or more amenities in the
form of a park with play equipment, picnic area with tables and shade
structure, one or more sport courts, community center/club house, swimming
pool, recreational pond/lake, or other similar amenity.
(Ord. 609, 7-3-2018; amd. Ord. 659, 1-19-2022)
5-4-11: REQUIRED ROAD AND UTILITY IMPROVEMENT REQUIREMENTS:
5-4-11-1: GENERAL:
   A.   Responsibility Of Subdivider/Developer:
      1.   Construction and installation of all improvements such as roads,
curb, gutter, bioswales, sidewalks, pathways, alleys, irrigation, water and
sewer utilities, easements and other facilities intended to be conveyed to the
City for future maintenance shall be constructed by the subdivider/developer
according to the Idaho Standards for Public Works Construction and City
supplemental standards.
      2.   All roads and utilities shall be constructed to and through.
   B.   Irrigation Supply And Distribution Systems: Prior to the time of
recording the final plat, the subdivider shall file with the City evidence that
the irrigation water appurtenant to the land within the plat to be recorded has
had an adequate system designed and assurance of the necessary improvements
provided, including, but not limited to, the following:
      1.   Copies of the plans of the proposed distribution system for the lots
and areas to be served in the proposed development. Said distribution system
must be a closed system.
      2.   All irrigation shall be moved outside the right-of-way (see section
5-4-10-2 of this chapter), and existing irrigation shall be relocated outside
the right-of-way.
   C.   Approach Permits: Prior to the construction, modification or repair of
any access or driveway onto City right-of-way, the owner shall apply for
permission to construct said approach and pay the appropriate fee established
by the City Council. All applications for permits must be made in writing upon
the proper forms prepared by the City, and signed by the owner or his
authorized agent, and when it is required by the City, the application shall be
accompanied by a plan showing the entire approach which is to be constructed
and such other information as may be required for the proper direction of the
work. (Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
5-4-11-2: MINIMUM REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Minimum Improvements: The owner or subdivider shall construct the
following improvements for the subdivision/development according to the
Middleton Comprehensive Plan Transportation, Schools and Recreation map, Idaho
Standards for Public Works Construction, (ISPWC) and the Middleton supplement
to the ISPWC.
      1.   Subdivisions in an R-1 Zone: Local roadway, sidewalks, and street
lighting are not required. A minimum of three-car garage is required on each
residential lot.
      2.   Subdivisions in an R-2 Zone: Local roadway sidewalks and street
lighting are not required, if all residential lots are at least one-half (½)
acre in size. A minimum three-car garage is required on each residential lot.
      3.   Subdivisions in an R-3 Zone: Curb, gutter, sidewalks, and
streetlights are required. A minimum two-car garage is required on each
residential lot.
      4.   Roads, Curbs And Gutters: Roads and portions of roads constructed to
finished grade with approved centerline monuments to be set to the road surface
by a registered professional land surveyor; improved with asphalt plant mix and
combination of concrete curb and gutter, or alternate road section as approved
by the City. Roads, rights-of-way and associated improvements shall be extended
to the property boundary providing connectivity and orderly growth as directed
by the City
      5.   Sidewalks, Pathways, Bicycle Lanes, 2and Greenbelt:
         a.   Five-foot (5') wide concrete sidewalks abutting the curb on both
sides of the road, unless otherwise approved by the City;
         b.   For pathways not located along a road, the pathway shall be
eight-foot (8') wide asphalt and situated on a twelve foot (12') wide public
access easement or dedicated to the City if part of the Transportation, Schools
& Recreation Map, unless otherwise approved by the City;
         c.   Six-foot (6') wide bicycle lanes on both sides of the road,
unless otherwise approved by the City; and
         d.   If a greenbelt pathway, the pathway shall be a twelve-foot (12')
wide asphalt pathway, located on a minimum twenty foot (20') wide common lot
subject to a public access easement, or dedicated to the city for public
access.
      6.   Stormwater Disposal: The management of stormwater shall conform with
the City stormwater management policy (section
5-4-10-9 of this chapter).
      7.   Utilities: The extension of utilities, including power distribution
lines, shall be underground and at the developer’s expense, and shall have the
capacity and placement necessary to serve land located beyond the project site.
Developer is responsible for construction of utilities to and through
Developer’s project site as determined by the City.
      8.   Sanitary Sewer System: Connection to City sewer is required.
Approval of the subdivision shall be based on treatment capabilities, such as
density requirements, the need for entirely new systems and other treatment
possibilities that are in harmony with officially recognized practices of the
City.
      9.   Domestic Water System:
         a.   Connection to City water is required. Water hookups shall be
allowed only within the City limits unless approved by the Council upon
recommendation of the City Engineer.
         b.   If the City requires a larger water main to accommodate future
development than the size of line required by the City for the subdivision/
development, the developer shall install the larger line size required by the
City.
         c.   Four inch (4") blowoffs for water lines shall be required at the
terminus of all dead end main lines unless a standard fire hydrant is available
at the terminus.
      10.   Monuments: Monuments shall be set in accordance with Idaho Code
section 50-1303. For each subdivision phase or development, any portion of
which is located within a regulated floodplain, one elevation monument setting
forth the elevation and datum shall be located within a monument box, as well
as identified on the record drawings. The location of the monument shall be
approved by the City Engineer.
      11.   Fire Hydrants: Fire hydrants shall be installed by the subdivider
in locations specified by the City, every six hundred feet (600'), or as
determined by the Fire Code and the Middleton Rural Fire District.
      12.   Road Name Signs: Road name signs shall be installed in the
appropriate locations at each road intersection. Cost of road signs shall be
the responsibility of the developer and the signs shall be installed to City
specifications.
      13.   Streetlights: Streetlights shall be required to be installed by the
subdivider/developer at the intersections, cul-de-sacs, at approximately every
four hundred feet (400'), and where the City deems necessary throughout the
subdivision/development. All costs to install streetlights and poles shall be
borne by the developer.
      14.   Service Connections: All service connections for sanitary sewer and
domestic water shall be installed to the property line before placing base
gravel for the road.
      15.   Irrigation Improvements: A pressure irrigation system shall be
provided. All irrigation structures, lines and drain lines except mains used
for stormwater management shall be located or relocated out of the road right-
of- way. City water may not be used for irrigation supply unless specifically
approved by the City.
      16.   Perimeter Fence: Developers of residential subdivisions shall
install a six-foot (6') fence along the perimeter of each phase of the
subdivision by the time the City signs the final plat for that phase.
      17.   Monument Signs at Entrances: Obtain a sign permit from the City and
construct a monument-type sign at subdivision entrances from public roads.
      18.   On Site And Off Site Improvements: On-site and off-site
improvements of any of the above are required where it is deemed necessary to
properly serve the proposed development or protect the integrity of the
usefulness of existing off-site improvements or utilities.
   B.   Inspections:
      1.   Appropriate agencies, departments, the City and/or others shall
inspect or cause to be inspected improvements such as buildings, public
utilities and infrastructure, in the course of construction, installation or
repair. Excavations shall not be covered or backfilled until such installations
have been inspected. If any such installation is covered before being inspected
and approved, it shall be uncovered after notice to uncover has been issued by
the City to the responsible person.
      2.   The owner and/or subdivider shall retain a full time licensed
professional engineer or licensed construction manager who shall supervise the
construction inspection, certify that all improvements were constructed in
accordance with the approved improvement drawings and City standards and
furnish the City two (2) hard copies and one electronic PDF copy of the
certified as built improvement drawings and construction logs complete with
ties to all water valves and service connections.
      3.   The City shall be notified when construction begins on any of the
improvements listed and prior to performing utility line pressure tests. Any
improvements deemed unsatisfactory by the City Engineer shall be corrected at
the subdivider's expense.
(Ord. 609, 7-3-2018; amd. Ord. 620, - -2019; Ord. 633, 9-16-2020; Ord. 659, 1-
19-2022)
5-4-12: PLAT RECORDING, BUILDING PERMITS AND CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY:
Construction of all required improvements for the subdivision or phase of
development shall be completed and accepted by the City prior to the issuance
of a certificate of occupancy within the subdivision or phase. The owner/
subdivider shall guarantee all improvements within the public right-of-way and
any other public dedication for a one year period following the date of final
inspection and acceptance by the City. Any defects, repairs or maintenance
during the one year guarantee period due to faulty workmanship or materials
shall be corrected at the expense of the owner/subdivider.
(Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
5-4-13: SPECIAL DEVELOPMENTS:
5-4-13-1: HILLSIDES:
   A.   Appearance And Preservation: In order to preserve, enhance and promote
the existing and future appearance and resources of hillsides, maximum
retention of natural topographic features and qualities of the following shall
be considered in subdivision review processes:
      1.   Skyline and ridge tops.
      2.   Rolling grassy landforms, including knolls, ridges and meadows.
      3.   Tree and shrub masses, grass, wildflowers and topsoil.
      4.   Rock outcroppings.
      5.   Streambeds, draws and drainage swales, especially where tree and
plant formations occur.
      6.   Characteristic vistas and scenic panoramas.
   B.   Hillside Development Evaluation:
      1.   All hillside development proposals shall take into account current
application of desirable land use planning, soil mechanics, engineering
geology, hydrology, civil engineering, environmental and civic design,
architecture and landscape architecture. Such current application includes, but
is not limited to:
         a.   Planning of development to fit the topography, soils, geology,
hydrology and other conditions existing on the proposed site.
         b.   Orienting development to the site so that grading and other site
preparation is kept to a minimum.
         c.   Shaping of essential grading to complement the natural landforms
and to minimize padding and terracing of building sites.
         d.   Division of large lots into smaller workable units on which
construction can be completed within one construction season so that large
acreages are not left bare and exposed during the winter/spring runoff period.
         e.   Completion of paving as rapidly as possible after grading.
         f.   Allocation of areas not well suited for development because of
soil, geology or hydrology limitations for open space and recreation uses.
         g.   Minimizing disruption of existing plant and animal life.
         h.   Consideration of the view from and of the hills.
      2.   Areas having soil, geology or hydrology hazards shall not be
developed unless it is shown that their limitations can be overcome; that
hazard to life or property will not exist; that the safety, use or stability of
a public way or drainage channel is not jeopardized; and that the natural
environment is not subjected to undue impact.
   C.   Required Data: The developer shall retain professional expertise to
obtain the following information when requested by the commission, and all of
the following reports shall identify the specified area of building location:
      1.   Soil Reports: For any proposed hillside development a soil report
shall be submitted with the preliminary plat. The report shall include data
regarding the nature, distribution and strength of existing soil, conclusions
and recommendations for grading procedures, design criteria for corrective
measures and opinions and recommendations covering the adequacy of sites to be
developed.
      2.   Geology Report: For any proposed hillside development, a geology
report shall be submitted with the preliminary plat. This report shall include
an adequate description of site geology and an evaluation of the relationship
between the proposed development and the underlying geology and recommendations
for remedial actions.
      3.   Hydrology Report:
         a.   For any proposed hillside development, a hydrology report shall
be submitted with the preliminary plat. This report shall include an adequate
description of the hydrology, conclusions and recommendations regarding the
effect of hydrologic conditions on the proposed development, and opinions and
recommendations covering the adequacy of sites to be developed.
         b.   Flood frequency information shall be provided for the area
proposed for development.
   D.   Grading Plan:
      1.   A preliminary grading plan shall be submitted with each hillside
preliminary plat proposal and shall include the following information:
         a.   Approximate limiting dimensions, elevations or finish contours to
be achieved by the grading, including all cut and fill slopes, proposed
drainage channels and related construction.
         b.   Preliminary plans and approximate locations of all surface and
subsurface drainage devices, walls, dams, sediment basins, storage reservoirs
and other protective devices to be constructed.
         c.   A description of methods to be employed in disposing of soil and
other material that are removed from the grading site, including the location
of the disposal site.
      2.   A final grading plat shall be submitted with each final plat and
shall include the following information:
         a.   Limiting dimensions, elevations or finish contours to be achieved
by the grading, including all proposed cut and fill slopes and proposed
drainage channels and related construction.
         b.   Detailed plans and locations of all surface and subsurface
drainage devices, walls, dams, sediment basins, storage reservoirs and other
protective devices to be constructed.
         c.   A schedule showing when each stage of the project will be
completed, including the total area of soil surface which is to be disturbed
during each stage together with estimated starting and completion dates. In no
event shall the existing ("natural") vegetative ground cover be destroyed,
removed or disturbed more than fifteen (15) days prior to grading.
   E.   Development Standards:
      1.   Roadways:
         a.   Road alignments should follow natural terrain and no unnecessary
cuts or fills shall be allowed.
         b.   One-way roads shall be permitted and encouraged where appropriate
for the terrain and when public safety would not be jeopardized.
         c.   The width of the graded section shall extend three feet (3')
beyond the curb back or edge of pavement on both the cut and fill sides of the
roadway. If sidewalk is to be installed parallel to the roadway, the graded
section shall be increased by the width of the sidewalk plus one foot (1').
         d.   Standard concrete curb and gutter may be installed along both
sides of paved roadways.
      2.   Driveways And Parking: Combinations of collective private driveways,
cluster parking areas and on street parallel parking ways shall be used to
attempt to optimize the objectives of minimum soil disturbance, minimum
impervious cover, excellence of design and aesthetic sensitivity.
   F.   Vegetation And Revegetation:
      1.   The subdivider shall submit a slope stabilization and revegetation
plan which shall include a complete description of the existing vegetation, the
vegetation to be removed and the method of disposal, the vegetation to be
planted and slope stabilization measures to be installed. The plan shall
include an analysis of the environmental effects of such operations, including
the effects it may have on slope stability, soil erosion, water quality and
fish and wildlife.
      2.   Vegetation sufficient to stabilize the soil shall be established on
all disturbed areas as each stage of grading is completed. Areas not contained
with lot boundaries shall be protected with perennial vegetal cover after all
construction is completed. Efforts shall be made to plant those species that
tend to recover from fire damage and do not contribute to a rapid rate of fire
spread.
      3.   The subdivider shall be fully responsible for any destruction of
native vegetation proposed and approved for retention. He shall carry the
responsibility both for his own employees and for all subcontractors from the
first day of construction until the notice of completion is filed. The
subdivider shall be responsible for replacing such destroyed vegetation in kind
or its equivalent.
   G.   Maintenance: The owner of any private property on which grading or
other work has been performed pursuant to a grading plan approved or a building
permit granted under the provisions of this title shall continuously maintain
and repair all graded surfaces and erosion prevention devices, retaining walls,
drainage structures or means, and other protective devices, plantings and
ground cover installed or completed.
   H.   Utilities: All new service utilities shall be placed underground. (Ord.
568, 12-21-2015; amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
5-4-13-2: SUBDIVISION WITHIN FLOODPLAIN:
   A.   Flood Areas:
      1.   For any proposed subdivision that is located within a floodplain,
the subdivider shall provide the commission with a development plan of adequate
scale and supporting documentation that will show and explain at least the
following:
         a.   Location of all planned improvements.
         b.   The location of floodways and base flood elevation cross section
lines in the floodway fringe in accordance with sound engineering practices.
         c.   The location of the present water channel.
         d.   Any planned rerouting of waterways.
         e.   All major drainageways.
         f.   Areas of frequent flooding.
         g.   Means of floodproofing buildings.
         h.   Means of insuring loans for improvements within the floodplain.
         i.   Provide permanent elevation bench marks.
      2.   To give additional guidance in approving any proposed subdivisions
within a floodplain, the City shall review proposed developments considering
that new construction and substantial improvements of residential structures
within the floodplain shall have the finish floor elevation of the lowest
floor, including basement and crawl space, elevated to a minimum of one foot
(1') above the base flood elevation; and, for new construction or substantial
improvements of nonresidential structures, the finish floor elevation of the
lowest floor, including basement and crawl space, elevated to a minimum of two
feet (2') above the base flood elevation, or, together with attendant utility
and sanitary facilities, shall be floodproofed to a point two feet (2') above
the base flood elevation so that the structure is watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water.
   B.   Justification For Development: Upon determination that buildings are
planned within the floodplain or that alterations of any kind are anticipated
within the floodplain area that will alter the flow of water, the subdivider
shall demonstrate conclusively that such development will not present a hazard
to life or limb, hazard to property, adverse effects on the safety, use or
stability of a public way or drainage channel and not have an adverse impact on
the natural environment.
   C.   Appropriateness Of Subdivision:
      1.   In determining the appropriateness of subdivision for land located
within a floodplain, the commission and City shall consider the objectives of
this title, and at least the following:
         a.   The danger to life and property due to the increased flood
heights or velocities caused by subdivision fill, roads and intended uses.
         b.   The danger that intended uses may be swept onto other lands or
downstream to the injury of others.
         c.   The adequacy of proposed water supply and sanitation systems and
the ability of these systems to prevent disease, contamination and unsanitary
conditions under flood conditions.
         d.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damages and the effect of such damage on the individual owner.
         e.   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility
to the community.
         f.   The requirements of the subdivision for a waterfront location.
         g.   The availability of alternative locations not subject to flooding
for the proposed subdivision and land uses.
         h.   The compatibility of the proposed uses with existing development
and development anticipated in the foreseeable future.
         i.   The relationship of the proposed subdivision to the comprehensive
plan and any floodplain management program for the area.
         j.   The safety of access to the property for emergency vehicles in
times of flood.
         k.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the floodwaters expected at the site.
         l.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, and roads and
bridges.
      2.   No subdivision or part thereof shall be approved if levees, fills,
structures or other features within the proposed subdivision will individually
or collectively significantly increase flood flows, heights or damages. If only
part of a proposed subdivision can be safely developed, development shall be
limited to that part and the Council shall require development to proceed
consistent with the determination.
   D.   Floodproofing Plans: Floodproofing plans must be individually approved
by the City upon recommendation from the commission before such uses are
constructed. Floodproofing may include, but not be limited to, the following:
      1.   Anchorage to resist flotation and lateral movement.
      2.   Installation of watertight doors, bulkheads and shutters or similar
methods of closure.
      3.   Reinforcement of walls to resist water pressure.
      4.   Use of paints, membranes or mortars to reduce seepage of water
through walls.
      5.   Addition of mass or weight to structures to resist flotation.
      6.   Installation of pumps to lower water levels in structures.
      7.   Construction of water supply and waste treatment systems so as to
prevent the entrance of floodwaters.
      8.   Installation of pumps or comparable facilities for subsurface
drainage systems to relieve external foundation wall and basement flood
pressures.
      9.   Building design and construction to resist rupture or collapse
caused by water pressure or floating debris, including, but not limited to, the
provision of engineered flood openings.
      10.   Installation of valves or controls on sanitary and storm drains
which permit the drains to be closed to prevent backup of sewage and
stormwaters into buildings or structures.
      11.   Location and installation of all electrical equipment, circuits and
electrical appliances so that they are protected from inundation by the
regulatory flood.
      12.   Location of storage facilities for chemicals, explosives, buoyant
materials, flammable liquids or other toxic materials which could be hazardous
to public health, safety and welfare at elevations above the height associated
with the regulatory protection elevation; or design of such facilities to
prevent flotation of storage containers, or damage to storage containers which
could result in the escape of toxic materials into floodwaters. (Ord. 568, 12-
21-2015; amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
5-4-13-3: RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKS:
   A.   Zoning: Recreational vehicle parks are allowed in the zones shown in
section
5-4-1, table 1 of this chapter.
   B.   Application For Permit: To obtain a permit for construction of a
recreational vehicle park, the applicant shall:
      1.    Submit an application with three (3) sets of plans and
specifications to the City for review by the building official and other
departments to check compliance with applicable laws or ordinances. If a
special use permit is required, the application will be accompanied by a
nonrefundable fee to be established by resolution of the City Council and the
matter scheduled before the Planning and Zoning Commission for public hearing.
      2.    The material submitted shall include a plot plan and building plans
and specifications for all buildings, improvements and facilities, such as
electrical, plumbing, gas and sewerage system to be constructed within the
park. If the building official is satisfied that the proposal, as submitted, or
subject to corrections, meets the requirements as set forth in this chapter, he
shall then issue the permit to the applicant based upon the true valuation of
construction.
      3.    A permit issued under the provisions of this chapter may be revoked
or suspended whenever the permit is issued on the basis of incorrect
information supplied or in violation of any ordinance or regulation or any of
the provisions of this chapter. Said suspension or revocation shall be in
writing and the permit may be reinstated upon correction of the problem within
an established period of time.
   C.   Development Standards: The following minimum standards shall apply to
the development of a recreational vehicle park:
      1.   Landscaping And Screening: The park boundaries shall be reasonably
screened whether by barriers of ornamental fences, walls, trees, shrubs, or
open spaces, to assure reasonable integration with adjoining land usages and to
assure health, safety and quiet enjoyment of the area.
      2.   Play Areas: Recreation and children's play area shall be provided in
a ratio of two hundred (200) square feet per space and consist of a well-kept
lawn with shade trees.
      3.   Occupant Improvements: Any space occupant shall not be permitted to
erect, install or place any structure or facility upon the space.
      4.   Waste Disposal: Waste disposal facilities for recreational vehicles
shall be provided in an isolated, screened service area in a manner and method
acceptable to the building official and/or Health Officer.
      5.   Access: All spaces shall abut upon a roadway not less than thirty
feet (30') in width which shall have unobstructed access to a public road or
highway. Dead end roadways shall provide adequate vehicle turning space or a
cul-de-sac with not less than a forty-foot (40') radius, exclusive of parking.
Roads to service areas shall be not less than twenty feet (20') wide.
      6.   Utilities: All utilities shall be underground.
      7.   RV Spaces: Minimum requirements for each RV space:
         a.   Dimensions: Twenty-five feet (25') wide and fifty feet (50')
long.
         b.   Parking Area: One off street, paved parking area not less than
nine feet by twenty feet (9' x 20') or, in lieu of off-street parking, a thirty
four foot (34') paved roadway.
         c.   Minimum Yards: Front, ten feet (10'); side and rear, five feet
(5').
         d.   Patio: Masonry or concrete patio one hundred (100) square feet.
         e.   Hydrant: One frost proof exterior culinary water supply hydrant.
      8.   Central Facilities:
         a.   Laundry facilities shall be provided.
         b.   Connection to City water is required and not less than one water
outlet for each recreational vehicle. There shall be no common drinking vessel.
An abundant supply of hot water for bathing, washing and laundry facilities
is    to be provided at all times.
         c.   Flush toilets in conveniently located buildings, well lighted,
ventilated with screened openings and constructed of moisture proof materials
permitting satisfactory cleaning. Floors of concrete or similar material,
slightly pitched to floor drain.
      9.   Each RV space is equal to one-half (1/2) an equivalent dwelling
unit. City fees and other assessments will be based on this standard.
   D.   Fees and Charges.
   Utility - Water and Wastewater Charges
   Parks Impact Fees
   Transportation Impact Fees
   Rending and Future Impact Fees
      1.   Water rates: All sites that receive the benefit of the city's
municipal water system shall pay the water user rate and water base rate per
equivalent dwelling unit. See also Middleton City Code
7-1-5.
      2.   Sanitary sewer rates: All sites that receive the benefit of the
city's municipal sanitary sewer system shall pay the wastewater user rate and
wastewater base rate per equivalent dwelling unit. See also Middleton City Code
7-2-5.
      3.   The water and wastewater rates shall be paid for all on-site spaces
per month.
      4.   Transportation impact fees will be imposed in accordance with a
city-approved traffic impact analysis.
      5.   All other development impact fees and charges will be imposed per
equivalent dwelling unit, fee assessment per area or other determinations.
(Ord. 568, 12-21-2015; amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018; Ord. 620, - -2019; Ord. 638,
10-7-2020)
5-4-14: CROSS CONNECTIONS, WATER SUPPLY:
5-4-14-1: CROSS CONNECTIONS:
No water service connection to any premises shall be installed or continued in
use unless the water supply is protected by backflow prevention devices as may
be required by this section
 5-4-14. The installation or maintenance of a cross connection which will
endanger the water quality of the potable water supply of the City shall be
unlawful and is prohibited. Any such cross connection now existing or hereafter
installed is hereby declared to be a public nuisance and the same shall be
abated. The control or elimination of cross connections shall be in accordance
with this section
5-4-14 together with the latest editions of appropriate manuals of standard
practice pertaining to the cross connections control approved by the State of
Idaho. (Ord. 554, 3-18-2015; amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
5-4-14-2: USE OF BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES:
   A.   Premises Requiring Devices: Backflow prevention devices shall be
installed at the ties on the premises, or the materials used in connecting with
service connection, or within any premises, where, in the judgment of the City
and/or Health Officer, the nature and extent of the activities, or materials
stored on the premises, would present an immediate and dangerous hazard to
health and/or be deleterious to the quality of the water should a cross
connection occur; even though such cross connection does exist at the time, the
backflow prevention devices shall be installed, under circumstances including,
but not limited to, the following:
      1.   Premises having an auxiliary water supply.
      2.   Premises having internal cross connections that are not correctable,
or intricate plumbing arrangements which make it impractical to ascertain
whether or not cross connections exist.
      3.   Premises where entry is restricted so that inspections for cross
connections cannot be made with sufficient frequency or at sufficiently short
notice to assure that cross connections do not exist.
      4.   Premises having a repeated history of cross connections being
established or reestablished.
      5.   Premises on which any substance is handled under pressure so as to
permit entry into the public water supply, or where a cross connection could
reasonably be expected to occur. This shall include the handling of process
waters and cooling waters.
      6.   Premises where materials of a toxic or hazardous nature are handled
in such a way that, if back siphonage should occur, a serious health hazard
might result.
      7.   The following types of facilities will fall into one of the above
categories where a backflow prevention device is required to protect the public
water supply. A backflow prevention device shall be installed at these
facilities:
         a.   Hospitals, mortuaries, clinics.
         b.   Laboratories.
         c.   Metal plating industries.
         d.   Sewage treatment plants.
         e.   Food or beverage processing plants.
         f.   Chemical plants using a water process.
         g.   Petroleum processing or storage plants.
         h.   Radioactive material processing plants or nuclear reactors.
         i.   Others specified by the State of Idaho.
      8.   Other premises, as specified by the City, where backflow prevention
devices are required to protect the public water supply.
   B.   Criteria To Determine Type: The type of protective device required
shall depend on the degree of hazard which exists.
      1.   An air gap separation or reduced pressure principle backflow
prevention device shall be installed where the public water supply may be
contaminated with sewage, industrial waste of a toxic nature, or other
contaminant which could cause a health or system hazard.
      2.   In the case of a substance which may be objectionable but not
hazardous to health, a double check valve assembly, air gap separation, or a
reduced pressure principle backflow prevention device shall be installed.
   C.   Location: Backflow prevention devices required by this section
5-4-14 shall be installed at the meter, at the property line of the premises
when meters are not used, or at a location designated by the City. The device
shall be located so as to be readily accessible for maintenance and testing,
and furthermore, where no part of the device will be submerged.
   D.   Installation Supervised: Backflow prevention devices required by this
section
5-4-14 shall be installed under the supervision of and with the approval of the
City.
   E.   Device Model Approved; Cost: Any protective device required by this
section
5-4-14 shall be a model approved by the City. A double check valve assembly or
a reduced pressure principle backflow prevention device will be approved if it
has successfully passed performance tests of the State of Idaho or other
testing laboratories satisfactory to the State of Idaho and the City. These
devices shall be furnished and installed by and at the expense of the customer.
   F.   Tests/Inspections Annual: Backflow prevention devices installed
pursuant to this section
5-4-14, except atmospheric vacuum breakers, shall be inspected and tested
annually, or more often if necessary. Inspections, tests and maintenance shall
be at the customer's expense. Whenever the devices are found to be defective,
they shall be repaired, overhauled or replaced at the customer's expense.
Inspections, tests, repairs and records thereof shall be accomplished under the
City's supervision by the certified testers.
   G.   Water For Irrigation: No underground sprinkling device will be
installed without adequate backflow prevention devices at the point from which
the water for irrigation is taken from the public water supply.
   H.   Adherence To Provisions Required: Failure of the customer to cooperate
in the installation, maintenance, testing or inspection of backflow prevention
devices required by this section
5-4-14 shall be grounds for terminating water service to the premises or, in
the alternative, the installation of an air gap separation at the customer's
expense. (Ord. 554, 3-18-2015; amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
5-4-14-3: CROSS CONNECTION INSPECTION:
   A.   Safety Predetermined: No water shall be delivered to any structure
hereafter built within the City or within areas served by City water until the
same shall have been inspected by the City for possible cross connection and
approved as being free of same.
   B.   Extra Protection Justified: Any construction for industrial or other
purposes which is classified as a hazardous facility pursuant to subsection
5-4-14-2A7 of this chapter, where it is reasonable to anticipate intermittent
cross connections, or as determined by the City, shall be protected by the
installation of one or more backflow prevention devices at the point of service
from the public water supply or any other location designated by the City.
   C.   Periodic Inspection: Inspections shall be made periodically of all
buildings, structures or improvements of any nature now receiving water through
the City's system, for the purpose of ascertaining whether cross connections
exist. Such inspections shall be made by the City. (Ord. 554, 3-18-2015; amd.
Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
5-4-14-4: INSTALLATION PERMITS:
If cross connection control device(s) are found to be necessary, the owner of
the property served must apply to the City for a specific installation permit.
(Ord. 554, 3-18-2015; amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
5-4-14-5: ADDITIONAL REMEDIES:
In the event an improper cross connection is not corrected within the time
limit set by the City, or in the event the City is refused access to any
property for the purpose of determining whether or not cross connections exist,
delivery of water to the property shall cease until the deficiency is corrected
to the City's satisfaction. In addition, the City may make the necessary
repairs or modifications at the expense of the property owner and refuse
delivery of water to the property until the cost thereof shall have been paid.
(Ord. 554, 3-18-2015; amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
5-4-15: CLEAN AIR:
5-4-15-1: AIR QUALITY DESIGNATIONS AND ALERT CRITERIA:
   A.   The quality of the City's air shall be determined by monitoring
pollutant levels in and/or around the City with equipment and methods approved
by the Idaho Department of Environmental Quality (IDEQ).
   B.   The quality of the City's air shall be designated according to IDEQ's
Air Quality Index (AQI).
   C.   All wood burning, including, but not limited to, within a solid fuel
heating appliance designed for wood fuel (commonly known as a "wood stove") or
open fireplace, is prohibited whenever the IDEQ issues an order of prohibition.
      1.   No person shall cause or allow, after a three (3) hour "burn down",
the operation of a solid fuel heating appliance or open fireplace, unless an
exemption has been granted by the City and/or the Middleton Rural Fire
District.
      2.   No person shall cause or allow the operation of a solid waste
incinerator.
      3.   No person shall build, ignite, or maintain any outdoor fire of any
kind or character, or for any purpose whatsoever, except as provided within
this section
5-4-15. (Ord. 554, 3-18-2015; amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
5-4-15-2: BURNING SOLID FUEL OR REFUSE:
   A.   No person shall cause or allow refuse or coal to be burned in a solid
fuel heating appliance designed for wood fuel.
   B.   No person shall cause or allow refuse to be burned in a fireplace.
   C.   No person shall cause or allow a refuse incinerator or solid fuel
heating appliance to be operated contrary to the design, specifications, and
manufacturer's instructions. (Ord. 569, 12-21-2015; amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
5-4-15-3: PERMITTED OPEN BURNING:
   A.   Open burning of the following is permitted only in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter and does not require a permit:
      1.   Fires used by organized firefighting personnel for the purpose of
combating fire or training.
      2.   Barbecues or other fires used in the preparation of food, provided
however, that the fire does not exceed three feet (3') in diameter and two feet
(2') in height. (Ord. 554, 3-18-2015; amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
   B.   Open burning of the following is permitted only in accordance with the
provisions of this section
 5-4-15 and after notifying the Middleton Rural Fire District: (Ord. 569, 12-
21-2015; amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
      1.   Fires used to keep irrigation ditches and fencerows clear of plant
and weed growth.
      2.   Fires used to dispose of or reduce dry vegetative waste materials,
such as, but not limited to, tree branches, gardening waste, weeds, or other
dry vegetation, where mulching or other types of disposal are impractical.
(Ord. 554, 3-18-2015; amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
      3.   Fires shall be ignited and attended between the hours of one- half
(1/2) hour before sunrise and extinguished no later than one-half (1/2) hour
after sunset.
   C.   Open burning for the purposes of agricultural activities requires a
burn permit from the Middleton Rural Fire District prior to the ignition of any
fire. (Ord. 569, 12-21-2015; amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
5-4-15-4: EXEMPTIONS FROM RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   The City shall grant exemptions from this section
 5-4-15 if it is determined that:
      1.   A solid fuel heating appliance is the sole source of heat for the
residence in which it is situated; or
      2.   Using alternative heating would cause an unreasonable economic
hardship; or
      3.   The solid fuel heating appliance is listed as a clean burning
appliance meeting the requirements of the Environmental Protection Agency; or
      4.   A Fire Department or district is burning a facility as part of a
training exercise. (Ord. 594, 8-16-2017; amd. Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
   B.   Any person denied an exemption under this section
 5-4-15 shall be provided, at the option of the applicant for the exemption, an
appeal hearing before the City Council. (Ord. 554, 3-18-2015; amd. Ord. 609, 7-
3-2018)
TITLE 6
RESERVED
(Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC FACILITIES
CHAPTER 1
WATER REGULATIONS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Connection Required
7-1-2: Application; Record Of Connections
7-1-3: Water Connection Fee
7-1-4: Water Connection Requirements, Charges And Construction
7-1-5: Water Rates
7-1-6: Delinquent Bills
7-1-7: Water Fund
7-1-8: Operations
7-1-9: Meters, Ownership, Responsibility And Clear Space
7-1-1: CONNECTION REQUIRED:
   A.   Connection: The owner of any building, whether occupied or not which is
within three hundred feet (300') of the City water system shall install a water
service and connect with the City water mains as provided in this chapter. The
City shall give notice to the owner and allow thirty (30) days to comply with
the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Permit: It shall be unlawful for any person to make or cause to be made
any connection with the City water mains unless a permit has been issued by the
City.
   C.   Prohibited Action: It shall be unlawful for any person to use or tamper
with any hydrant, pipe connection, meter or any property of the waterworks
system of the City.
   D.   Connection To City Water System Outside City Limits: All extensions of
water service outside the City limits shall be approved by the City Council on
a case by case basis upon receipt of an application for such service. Said
extensions of service shall be granted only when in the best interest of the
City. The extension of service is a privilege and not a right. In determining
whether to allow an extension of water service, all of the following criteria
shall be met:
      1.   Water connection fees paid.
      2.   The connection will not create an adverse impact upon existing water
system facilities nor create economic burdens for future operation and
maintenance of the water system.
      3.   The applicant will extend water mains at no cost to the City. Water
mains shall be adequately sized for future growth, as determined by the City.
No credit will be allowed for additional costs associated with oversized mains
required by the City either within the proposed development or in the extension
of City water lines, unless an agreement for reimbursement by additional,
subsequent users is entered into between the City and applicant.
      4.   The water system has adequate capacity to serve existing development
and the proposed development for which the extension is requested and all
probable development within the City and between the City and the proposed
development outside the City limits.
      5.   The owner of the proposed development consents to annex into the
City limits automatically when contiguous.
      6.   Any agreement to extend services beyond the City limits is binding
on the owner, heirs, successors and assigns and runs with the land. (Ord. 587,
1-18-2017)
7-1-2: APPLICATION; RECORD OF CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Application: Prior to connecting to the City water system, the owner
shall apply for permission to connect and pay the connection fee established by
the City Council. At the time of application for water service, each property
owner must sign an agreement provided by the City agreeing to allow City to
place a lien against the property for nonpayment. Property owners refusing to
sign the application and agreement may not be granted service. The application
shall be merely a written request for service and does not bind the City to
provide service.
   B.   The City To Keep Record: The City will make and keep a complete and
accurate account of all connections made with the water mains, and of all
quantities of water delivered through each connection, along with the names of
the owners and address of the premises having connection to the City water
mains. (Ord. 587, 1-18-2017)
7-1-3: WATER CONNECTION FEE:
   A.   A fee determined and set by the City Council shall be charged and
collected by the City for each water connection. The Council shall determine
and set, by resolution, the amount of the connection fee from time to time.
   B.   The water connection fee shall be paid with the building permit fee,
unless no building permit is required then the fee shall be paid upon
application. (Ord. 587, 1-18-2017)
7-1-4: WATER CONNECTION REQUIREMENTS, CHARGES AND CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Authorization: Upon payment of a hookup charge and receipt of a proper
permit in writing from the City, it shall be the duty of the owner or his
representative to make all connections with and from the water mains and to
provide all materials and labor required for the same. All materials and
construction shall be furnished and installed in accordance with the "Idaho
Standards for Public Works Construction" (ISPWC), Plumbing Code, and City of
Middleton supplemental standards. All work shall be inspected by the City and
shall, together with all fixtures thereof including meters, be the property of
the City upon City written acceptance.
   B.   Disapproved Materials Or Workmanship: The City may reject any materials
or workmanship at the discretion of the City Engineer or the Public Works
Department and upon such, the rejected material shall be removed and replaced
with approved material. Disapproved workmanship shall cause the removal and
replacement of all materials involved, including appurtenances such as
excavations, backfilling and other work items, at the sole cost of the
applicant or property owner. (Ord. 553, 3-18-2015)
7-1-5: WATER RATES:
   A.   Water Fees And Rates:
      1.   All fees and rates for the water system shall be established by
resolution of the City Council.
      2.   All owners who receive the benefit of the Municipal water system
shall pay monthly user fees. While an owner may elect to have the monthly user
fees billed directly to its tenant, such election does not release the owner
from responsibility for payment of fees.
      3.   All improved property in the City to which the Municipal water
system is connected, but is not used by the owner or occupier of said lot, are
still subject to a base rate to cover system operation and maintenance costs.
      4.   Occupants of nonowner occupied dwellings are required to pay a
deposit in an amount established by the City before domestic water is delivered
or turned on. This deposit shall be refunded, or applied to any outstanding
charges at the time the customer requests the water turned off.
   B.   Industrial Water Users: Upon the industrial user's written request,
monthly water service rates may be based on a contractual arrangement with the
City. The contractual arrangement shall set the rate schedule to be used and
may be reviewed at intervals set forth in the agreement. No water from the
Municipal water system shall be provided to an industrial user without a
contractual arrangement being in effect, unless the industrial user is paying
the rates established by the City. (Ord. 553, 3-18-2015)
7-1-6: DELINQUENT BILLS:
   A.   When Due And Payable: All water base and volume fees become due and
payable at the City on the twentieth day of each month. (Ord. 553, 3-18-2015)
   B.   When Delinquent: If water fees are not paid by the twentieth of the
month, a late fee shall be assessed. If water fees are still not paid by the
twenty sixth of the month, the right to water shall terminate and a delinquent
fee shall be assessed and the City may suspend water service. The delinquent
water fees shall be paid before service is resumed. An additional after hours
fee will be assessed if water service is resumed outside of regular business
hours. All payments must be received by eleven fifty nine o'clock (11:59) P.M.
local time on the date due. Failure to pay water fees when due is an
infraction, punishable pursuant to section
1-4-2 of this Code. (Ord. 598, 10-18-2017)
   C.   Lien Imposed: In addition to other civil and criminal remedies as
provided by this chapter and/or allowed by law, failure to pay charges and
additional penalties within the prescribed time lines shall result in the
placement of a lien against and upon the property or premises against which
such charge or fee is levied or assessed; and the City Clerk shall, at the time
of certifying the City taxes, certify such delinquencies together with all
penalties to the tax collector of Canyon County, and when so certified, the
same shall be a lien upon the property and shall be recoverable, together with
all costs as provided by law, for the foreclosure of liens. Unanimous consent
of the council will be required before the city initiates foreclosure of real
property. (Ord. 553, 3-18-2015)
7-1-7: WATER FUND:
There is hereby created a proprietary fund to be known and designated as the
water fund. All fees received pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, and
all connection charges received and collected pursuant to the provisions of
this chapter shall be deposited to the credit of the water fund. Water fund
revenue shall be spent on capital projects, maintenance, operation,
replacement, and repair of the water system. (Ord. 553, 3-18-2015)
7-1-8: OPERATIONS:
The following are hereby adopted to secure an efficient and economical
operation and distribution of the water system of the city:
   A.   There shall be no connection with the city water system or alterations
in any conduit, pipe or other fixture connecting therewith, or connection of
pipes when they have been disconnected, or to turn water supply off or on any
premises without the permission and the appropriate permit from the city.
   B.   Applications for permits for making connections with the city water
mains must be made by the owner of the premises or his agent upon printed forms
at the city. No connection with the city water mains shall be made, and no
water shall be introduced in any connection, unless a permit shall be first
issued by the city.
   C.   Should a water user desire to discontinue the use of water supply to
the premises for a period of at least thirty (30) days, the user shall give the
city notice in writing and payment in full of all arrearage (if any). The water
will be turned off and on again without charge. No suspension of charges will
be made for a period of less than thirty (30) days. The water user shall still
pay the water base rate even if water service and use is suspended.
   D.   Every building or structure with water main lines located within three
hundred feet (300') of its closest boundary shall be separately and
independently connected by a separate metered connection to the city water
system. No more than one housing unit, commercial space or industrial user may
be connected to a single service unless specifically approved by the city,
which approval shall be an exception not a rule and only based on clear and
convincing evidence that: 1) such a connection is the only practical method by
which the buildings can be connected to the system; and 2) the ownership of the
combined service is clearly designated; and 3) the appropriate easements exist
establishing the right of all buildings to be connected and to use the
connection; and 4) allowing the connection will not impede the city's ability
to collect fees for the services; and 5) does not impede the city's ability to
apply all applicable ordinances and resolutions regarding providing water
service.
   E.   Bulk water fees will be based on metered quantity actually used. Bulk
water is to be delivered from the system only at locations specified by the
city.
   F.   Water may at any time be shut off without notice for repairs,
extensions or other necessary purposes, and persons having boilers supplied by
direct pressure from the mains are cautioned against damage from collapse. The
city will not be responsible for the safety of boilers on the premises of any
water consumer.
   G.   If a leak is discovered by the city, the water may be shut off by the
city until the leak is repaired. Water will be shut off from the premises by
the city when occupants or owners allow it to run to waste and will not be
turned on again until waste is stopped and the wasted water paid for.
   H.   In a time of water shortage, the city may limit the use of water to
domestic drinking and hygiene purposes.
   I.   The owner or occupant, at his expense, shall keep the service lines
from the city main line to the premises and within the premises in good repair
and protected from freezing. The owner or occupant, is responsible for all
damages to the service and main lines resulting from freezing, leaks or breaks.
   J.   The city, by and through its authorized representatives bearing proper
credentials and identification, shall be permitted at proper and reasonable
hours of the day to enter all properties, premises or buildings connected to
the water system to test, construct, inspect, observe, repair, maintain, and/or
replace any appurtenances or undertake any other task necessary for the proper
operation and administration of the water system in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter. The city, through its authorized representatives
bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the City holds an easement to test, inspect,
observe, repair, maintain, and/or replace any appurtenances or undertake any
other task necessary for the proper operation and administration of the water
system lying within said easements in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter.
   K.   The City shall not be liable under any circumstances for a deficiency
or a failure in the supply of water, whether by the shutting off of water to
make repairs or connections or for any cause whatsoever.
   L.   No person shall make or permit the cross connection of any private
water supply, well or other line intended to carry water to a water line that
is connected or served by the Municipal water system. Backflow prevention
devices shall be installed by the property owner and/or occupant, with
inspection by the City, and shall be annually inspected. The owner and/or
occupant shall submit the annual inspection results to the City.
   M.   The installation of a private fire service connection shall comply with
the requirements for a City water service line and the owner, or his agent,
will be required to pay all costs for connection and extension of the facility
from the Municipal water system. The construction of a fire service connection
shall be made in accordance with International Fire Code and Plumbing Code, and
"Idaho Standards for Public Works Construction". The fire service connection
must include a backflow prevention device and check valve, said backflow
preventer and valving installation location, housing size shall be the
responsibility and the expense of the customer and to be approved by the
department. (Ord. 553, 3-18-2015)
7-1-9: METERS, OWNERSHIP, RESPONSIBILITY AND CLEAR SPACE:
   A.   Ownership, Replacement And Repairs: All water service connections,
meters and housings installed by the City or conveyed to the City, shall remain
at all times the property of the City and shall be maintained, repaired and
renewed by the City when rendered unserviceable through reasonable use. Where
replacement, repairs or adjustments are rendered necessary by the act,
negligence or carelessness of someone other than the City, any expense caused
to the City thereby shall be charged and collected from the customer. No rent
or charge will be paid by the City where such facilities are located on the
customer's premises.
Whenever the accuracy of a water meter is questioned, the customer may request
the meter be examined and tested by the City. In the event the meter is faulty
and failing to register, the meter shall be replaced by the City within three
(3) days and the consumer shall be charged the average daily consumption, as
shown by the City records of the meter during the last three (3) months that
the meter was in order.
   B.   Maintenance Responsibility: The City is responsible to maintain only
from the point of connection at the water main to the point of connection of
the private water service line to the meter setter. The owner or user is
responsible to maintain a private water service line.
   C.   Clear Space: All water users shall provide and maintain a four foot
wide by four foot long by eight foot high (4' x 4' x 8') clear access, centered
on the water meter lid, to the water meter serving their improved property.
Minimum four feet by four feet (4' x 4') clear access shall also be maintained
around hydrants, valves and flush points. No person, prior to written approval
from the City, shall be allowed to dig into the public right-of- way, easement,
road or sidewalk for the purpose of laying, removing or repairing any service
pipe. (Ord. 553, 3-18-2015)
CHAPTER 2
SEWER REGULATIONS
SECTION:
7-2-1: Connections Required
7-2-2: Application For Permit
7-2-3: Sewer Connection Fee
7-2-4: Sewer Connection Requirements, Charges And Construction
7-2-5: Service Charges And Fees
7-2-6: Delinquent Bills
7-2-7: Sewer Fund
7-2-8: Size Of Drains
7-2-9: Cesspools, Septic Tanks Prohibited; Care Of Service Lines
7-2-10:    User Responsibilities For Service Lines
7-2-1: CONNECTIONS REQUIRED:
   A.   Connection: The owner of any building, whether occupied or not, and
which is within three hundred feet (300') of the City sewer system shall
install a sewer service line and connect with the City sewer as provided in
this chapter. The City shall give notice to the owner and allow thirty (30)
days to comply with the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Permit: It shall be unlawful for any person to make or cause to be made
any connection with the City sewer system unless a permit has been issued by
the City.
   C.   Prohibited Action: It shall be unlawful for any person to use or tamper
with any property of the City's sewer system.
   D.   Connection To City Sewer System Outside City Limits: All extensions of
sewer service outside the City limits shall be recommended by the City Engineer
and approved by the City Council on a case by case basis upon receipt of an
application for such service. Said extensions of service shall be granted only
when in the best interest of the City. The extension of service is a privilege
and not a right. In determining whether to allow an extension of sewer service,
all of the following criteria shall be considered:
      1.   Whether sewer hookup fees in place at the time the City Council
approves the application for service will be paid.
      2.   Whether sewer connection would create an adverse impact upon
existing sewer system facilities and sewer system and/or create economic
burdens for future operation and maintenance of the sewer system.
      3.   Whether the applicant will extend sewer collection mains at no cost
to the City. Sewer collection mains shall be adequately sized for future
growth, as determined by the City Engineer. No credit will be allowed for
additional costs associated with oversized mains required by the City either
within the proposed development or in the extension of City sewer lines unless
an agreement for reimbursement by additional, subsequent users is entered into
with the City.
      4.   Whether the sewer system has adequate capacity to serve existing
development and the proposed development for which the extension is requested
and all probable development within the City and between the City and the
proposed development outside the City limits.
      5.   Whether the owner of the proposed development consents to annex into
the City limits at the City's sole option and convenience. This agreement will
be binding on the owner, heirs, successors and assigns and run with the land.
(Ord. 553, 3-18-2015)
7-2-2: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
   A.   Application: Prior to the construction, modification or repair of any
sewer service line, the owner shall apply for permission to connect and pay the
connection fee established by the City Council. All applications for permits
must be made in writing upon the proper blanks for that purpose, and signed by
the owner or his authorized agent, and when it is required by the City, they
shall be accompanied by a plan showing the whole course of the service which is
to be constructed, together with the size of the same, the location of all
branches, depth below the floor of the building, and such other information as
may be required for the proper direction of the work.
   B.   Denial Of Application: The public works department may deny an
application when the capacity of the city's sewer system might be impaired or
there are slope and/or other design issues based upon reasonable engineering
standards and practices regarding such installation as it pertains to
maintenance, materials used, diameter of the line, the providing of cleanouts,
and the relationship of the buildings to the sewer system. (Ord. 553, 3-18-
2015)
7-2-3: SEWER CONNECTION FEE:
   A.   A fee determined and set by the city council shall be charged and
collected by the city for each sewer connection. The council shall determine
and set, by resolution, the amount of the connection fee from time to time.
   B.   The sewer connection fee shall be paid with the building permit fee.
(Ord. 553, 3-18-2015)
7-2-4: SEWER CONNECTION REQUIREMENTS, CHARGES AND CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Sewer Line Connection; Construction Requirements And Inspection
Required: Upon payment of a connection fee and receipt of a proper permit from
the city, it shall be the duty of the owner or his representative to make all
connections with and from the city sewer system and to provide all materials
and labor required for the same. All materials and construction shall be
furnished and installed in accordance with the "Idaho Standards For Public
Works Construction", plumbing code and city of Middleton supplemental
standards. All work shall be inspected by the city and shall, together with all
fixtures thereof, be the property of the city upon city written acceptance.
   B.   Disapproved Materials Or Workmanship: The city may reject any materials
or workmanship at its discretion and upon rejection the rejected material shall
be removed and replaced with approved material. Disapproved workmanship shall
cause the removal and replacement of all materials involved, including
appurtenances such as excavations, backfilling and other work items, at the
sole cost of the applicant or property owner. (Ord. 553, 3-18-2015)
7-2-5: SERVICE CHARGES AND FEES:
There is hereby established a system of periodic service charges and fees for
the use of, and for service available and rendered by, the sewer system and
sewage disposal facilities of the city, which said service charges and fees
shall be based upon the service available and the volume and content of liquid
effluent discharged into the sewer system of the city, and which charges and
fees shall be uniform as to the different classes of property served by the
sewer system and sewage disposal facilities, and each user of the system shall
pay his proportionate share of the cost of the system under the laws of the
city. The rates, charges and fees provided by this chapter are hereby levied
and assessed against each lot having any connection with the sewer system of
the city or intercepting sewers, or otherwise discharging sanitary sewage,
industrial wastewater or other liquids, directly or indirectly, into the sewer
system of the city, which charges and fees shall be set by resolution of the
city council.
   A.   Domestic Users:
      1.   The monthly sewer customer fee shall be based on: a) the volume and
content of effluent discharged into the sewer system; and b) the costs and
expenses of operation, maintenance, repair and replacement of the sewer system,
such charges having been determined to be the benefit derived by each building,
structure or customer being charged. All domestic users served by the city
sewer system shall be obligated to pay their proportionate share of the cost of
maintaining said system.
      2.   A "domestic user" is also known as "equivalent dwelling unit" or EDU
and defined as any single-family dwelling or each unit of a multiple-family
dwelling and each apartment or mobile home.
   B.   Industrial Users Fees And Rates: Upon the industrial user's request,
monthly sewer service rates may be based on a contractual arrangement between
the industry and the city, which shall be designated as an industrial user's
rate agreement. The contract shall set the discharge limits, waste strength and
rate schedule for the industry and may be reviewed at intervals specified in
the contract. No industrial discharge shall be accepted into the sewer system
without an industrial user's rate agreement being in effect.
   C.   Commercial Users: All commercial sewer users shall be obligated to pay
their proportion of the cost for sewer service based on the quantity (volume)
and quality of the sewage discharged into the sewer system, which volume shall
be determined by the type, the type of user, water connection size, and volume
of water used per month, which shall form the basis of the Council setting the
rates by resolution.
   D.   Other Sewer Users: Owners or occupants of all premises now served by
sanitary sewer of the City and all premises to be furnished sewer service by
the sewage collection system shall pay the rates specified by the City and set
by resolution. The monthly charges for sewer service shall be as follows:
      1.   The minimum charge for all sewer users shall be the same as charged
domestic users.
      2.   The charge for all sewer users not specifically covered herein shall
be based on: a) the volume and content of effluent discharged into the sewer
system; and b) the costs and expenses of operation, maintenance, repair and
replacement of the sewer system, such charges having been determined to be the
benefit derived by each building, structure or customer being charged and shall
be set by resolution.
(Ord. 553, 3-18-2015; amd. Ord. 703, 10-16-2024)
7-2-6: DELINQUENT BILLS:
   A.   When Due And Payable; Charges Questioned: All sewer base and volume
fees become due and payable on the twentieth day of each month. (Ord. 587, 1-
18-2017)
   B.   When Delinquent: If the sewer fees are not paid before the twentieth
day of the month, delinquent late fee shall be assessed. If the sewer fees are
still not paid by the twenty sixth of the month, the right to water, sewer and
other utility service shall terminate and a delinquent fee shall be assessed.
The delinquent sewer fees shall be paid before service is resumed. An
additional after hours fee will be assessed if sewer service is resumed outside
of regular City business hours. All payments must be received by eleven fifty
nine o'clock (11:59) P.M. local time on the date due. Failure to pay sewer fees
when due is an infraction, punishable pursuant to section
1-4-2 of this Code. (Ord. 598, 10-18-2017)
   C.   Lien Imposed: In addition to other civil and criminal remedies as
provided by this chapter and/or allowed by law, failure to pay charges and
additional penalties within the prescribed time lines shall result in the
placement of a lien against and upon the property or premises against which
such charge or fee is levied or assessed; and the City Clerk shall, at the time
of certifying the City taxes, certify such delinquencies together with all
penalties to the Tax Collector of Canyon County, and when so certified, the
same shall be a lien upon the property and shall be recoverable, together with
all costs as provided by law, for the foreclosure of liens. Unanimous consent
of the Council will be required before the City initiates foreclosure of real
property. (Ord. 587, 1-18-2017)
7-2-7: SEWER FUND:
There is hereby created a proprietary fund to be known and designated as the
Sewer Fund. All fees received pursuant to the provisions of this chapter and
all connection charges received and collected pursuant to the provisions of
this chapter shall be deposited to the credit of the Sewer Fund. Sewer Fund
revenue shall be spent on capital projects, maintenance, operation,
replacement, and repair of the sewer works. (Ord. 553, 3-18-2015)
7-2-8: SIZE OF DRAINS:
No sewer service line or pipe shall be less than four inches (4") internal
diameter, and all sewer services and drains shall be of sufficient size and
slope to accommodate the property they are intended to serve. If a lateral line
serves more than one unit, the unit shall have an internal diameter of not less
than eight inches (8"). (Ord. 587, 1-18-2017)
7-2-9: CESSPOOLS, SEPTIC TANKS PROHIBITED; CARE OF SERVICE LINES:
   A.   Cesspools and septic tanks shall not be constructed upon property
within three hundred feet (300') of any sanitary sewer line and old cesspools
and septic tanks shall be discontinued and abandoned per health district
specifications.
   B.   Privies, also known as outhouses, are expressly prohibited within the
corporate limits of the City.
C.   All service lines connected to the public sewer shall be maintained in
good condition. The City shall have reasonable access for inspection to
determine compliance with this provision. Upon notice of noncompliance, the
legal owner of the premises concerned shall have one week to correct the
deficiency, unless an extension is granted by the City.
(Ord. 553, 3-18-2015; amd. Ord. 658, 11-3-2021)
7-2-10: USER RESPONSIBILITIES FOR SERVICE LINES:
   A.   Installation: The owner of any property connecting to the City sewer
system is responsible for the installation, expense and risk associated with
the construction and operation of the private service line. The private service
line extends from the City owned sewer main line to and through the service
line limits. The owner is also responsible for the installation, expense and
risk of all other wastewater pipes, machinery, plumbing fixtures and apparatus
within the property, which may be required for collecting, treating and
discharging wastewater from the premises.
      1.   All work in the public right of way is to be done by a public works
licensed contractor.
      2.   The homeowner must secure a right of way permit from the City before
any work in the public right of way.
   B.   Maintenance:
      1.   The owner shall be responsible, at owner’s expense, for:
         a.   The cleaning, unstopping, maintenance and repair of the private
service line, and shall keep the service line, as well as all pipes, fixtures,
appliances and apparatus on the property, watertight and in good working order
to prevent discharge of combined wastewater or prohibited substances into the
public sewer;
         b.   The replacement of any portion of the private service line which,
in the opinion of the City Engineer, has become so damaged or disintegrated as
to be unfit for further use, or is in such condition as to permit infiltration
into the wastewater system or exfiltration of wastewater into the surrounding
soil; and
         c.   The cleaning, unstopping and maintenance of the private service
line to remove rocks, roots and debris that originated from private property
and settled into the private service line or the City sewer main line.
      2.   All repairs shall be completed within thirty (30) days after the
need for repair is known or written notification from the City. If the owner
fails or refuses to complete repairs required by the department, the department
may cause the repairs to be completed and charge the owner for the costs of
such repairs. If the costs of the repairs are not paid by the owner they may be
treated as any other delinquent service fees owed to the City.
   C.   Liability: The City is not responsible for any loss or damage caused by
negligence or want of care on the part of the owner, or the contractor of the
owner, in installing, maintaining, using or operating private service lines,
wastewater pipes, fixtures, appliances and apparatus. The owner shall hold the
City harmless from any loss or damage that may be directly, or indirectly,
occasioned by the installation or malfunction of any private service line or
private appurtenances.
   D.   Compliance: All users shall comply with the limitations and
prohibitions placed on the discharge of wastewater from their premises by
standards set by, or incorporated by reference in, this chapter, as well as all
other requirements of this chapter. No user shall make, or permit another
person to make, a connection to such user’s private service line which would
allow the discharge of wastewater from property not otherwise served by the
City sewer system.
   E.   Inspections and Authority: The City may inspect the equipment and
facilities of any users at any reasonable time to ascertain compliance with
applicable ordinances, rules and regulations. Persons or occupants of premises
where wastewater is created or discharged shall allow department personnel
ready access to the premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling, records
examination and copying, and performance of their duties. The department shall
have the right to set upon the user’s property such devices as are necessary to
conduct sampling, inspection, compliance monitoring and/or metering operations.
Where a user has security measures in force which would require proper
identification and clearance before entry into its premises, the user shall
make the necessary arrangements with the security guards so that, upon
presentation of suitable identification, department personnel will be permitted
to enter without delay for the purposes of performing their specific
responsibilities. While performing the necessary work on private property,
department personnel shall observe all security and safety rules applicable to
the premises, as established by the user.
   F.   Refusal To Admit: If a duly authorized representative of the City is
refused admission to a user’s premises, the department may discontinue sewer
service to the premises until the department has been afforded reasonable
access to the premises and private sewer system, so as to accomplish the
inspection or sampling.
(Ord. 658, 11-3-2021)
CHAPTER 3
PUBLIC PARKS
SECTION:
7-3-1: Permits; Prohibited Acts
7-3-2: Enforcement
7-3-3: Hours
7-3-4: Emergency Closure
7-3-5: Park Reservations
7-3-6: Admission Fees For Special Events
7-3-7: Special Provisions For Animals In Public Parks/Pathways
7-3-1: PERMITS; PROHIBITED ACTS:
The following are prohibited in all public parks, unless a permit is first
obtained from the government entity which owns such park, whether that be the
City of Middleton or Greater Middleton Parks and Recreation District:
   A.   Unauthorized motor vehicles. This rule shall not prohibit the use of
ADA compliant wheelchairs that are motorized and other similar accessibility
enhancing devices by disabled individuals.
   B.   Overnight parking and parking or displaying "for sale" vehicles.
   C.   Alcoholic beverages.
   D.   Selling any goods, food or food products of any kind.
   E.   Conducting business in or at a City park or facility, except in an area
designated for a farmer's market or as part of events with a special events
permit issued by the City.
   F.   Camping day or night.
   G.   Hunting, shooting at targets, lighting fireworks, golfing, or
participating in any activity involving objects that can cause great bodily
harm, for example throwing or slinging rocks or stones, flinging sharp-ended
arrows, knives, hatches, guns, paintball guns, javelins, swords or spears.
   H.   Bicycle riding and skateboarding on ball fields and courts.
   I.   Glass containers.
   J.   Signs, except team name and sponsor banners during contests.
   K.   Metal detecting/worm gathering.
   L.   Fire; except in a grill attended at all times. All fires which are
properly maintained shall be extinguished before leaving the park.
   M.   Smoking and vaping.
   N.   Despoiling, littering, defacing, or creating an unsanitary condition in
the park including a restroom or washroom.
   O.   No person shall use the park restrooms and washrooms designated for the
opposite sex unless under six (6) years old and accompanied by a parent.
   P.   Constructing or erecting any building or structure of whatever kind,
whether permanent or temporary in character, or running or stringing any
utility line onto, upon or across any park or public lands.
   Q.   Destruction of vegetation. Damaging, cutting, carving, marking,
defacing, transplanting, or removing any tree or plant, or injuring the bark,
or picking the flowers, fruit or seeds of any tree or plant. Attaching any
rope, wire or other contrivance to any tree or plant. Climbing on, hanging from
or bending trunks or branches of any tree or plant. Digging in or otherwise
disturbing grass areas or in any other way injuring or impairing the natural
beauty or usefulness of any area.
   R.   Destruction of park property. Marking, defacing, disfiguring, injuring,
tampering with, displacing or removing any buildings, bridges, tables, benches,
fireplaces, railings, playground equipment, paving or paving material, water
lines or other public utilities or parts or appurtenances whatsoever, either
real or personal, or have in his possession any of the foregoing things or
objects, or any part thereof.
   S.   Disturbing the peace. Engaging in any conduct that interferes with
another person's reasonable use and quiet enjoyment of any park. While in a
public park, using obscene, abusive or threatening language; using or
threatening any act of violence; using a radio, loudspeaker, CD player, tape
player, or any other amplification device which can be heard at a distance of
more than fifty feet (50') from the source of the amplified sound; engaging in
riotous or disorderly conduct; removing or damaging any structure, any item of
park equipment, any plant or natural feature; riding a bicycle, skateboard or
other wheeled implement, except on paved paths, or in such a manner as
threatens other park users; and littering.
   T.   Refusal to leave park. No person shall refuse to leave a park when
directed to do so by a police officer or City official.
(Ord. 594, 8-16-2017; amd. Ord. 625, 11-20-2019; Ord. 661, 4-6-2022)
7-3-2: ENFORCEMENT:
A City official has the authority to eject from the park any person who
violates any portion of this chapter. Any person ejected from the park shall
leave promptly and peaceably and shall not return to the park for any reason on
the same calendar day of his ejection. (Ord. 569, 12-21-2015)
7-3-3: HOURS:
City parks shall be open to the public daily from sunrise to sunset. Except as
provided herein, persons and vehicles shall be excluded from the parks during
the hours of closure. Any person who refuses to leave a public park or who
returns to a public park before sunrise the next day after having been
requested to leave by a City official, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord.
553, 3-18-2015)
7-3-4: EMERGENCY CLOSURE:
The City has the authority to temporarily close a park or any portion thereof
at any time. (Ord. 553, 3-18-2015)
7-3-5: PARK RESERVATIONS:
Use of park facilities is on a first come, first served basis, except shelters
and pavilions may be reserved through the City. (Ord. 553, 3-18-2015)
7-3-6: ADMISSION FEES FOR SPECIAL EVENTS:
No group or event shall be allowed to charge fees of any sort to the public for
events held within public parks without first obtaining approval of the City.
Said approval may be conditioned upon applying for a special events permit
which would require a fee, receipt of proof of adequate insurance coverage,
release of liability of the City for the event or gathering and the procurement
of any other required permits or licenses. (Ord. 553, 3-18-2015)
7-3-7: SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR ANIMALS IN PUBLIC PARKS/PATHWAYS:
   A.   Individual Responsibility: Any person who owns, harbors or has in his
control any animal in any public park in the City, is liable for the actions of
the animal.
   B.   Animals Prohibited Within Specified Locations: Animals are prohibited
in any area designated as a playing field for any organized athletic or
sporting event such as soccer, football, baseball, softball, basketball or
volleyball. These prohibitions shall not apply to certified service animals.
   C.   Cleaning After Animals: No person owning, harboring, controlling or
keeping any animal shall permit the animal to deposit fecal matter on any
public property without the owner or custodian immediately bagging and removing
the material and disposing of it in proper trash receptacles. (Ord. 553, 3-18-
2015)
CHAPTER 4
NONSUBDIVISION DEDICATIONS AND VACATIONS OF RIGHT OF WAY
(Rep. by Ord. 569, 12-21-2015)
CHAPTER 5
RIGHT OF WAY EXCAVATIONS
SECTION:
7-5-1: Permit Required
7-5-2: Revocation Of Permit
7-5-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any individual or entity to excavate or perform
infrastructure or utility work within public easements and rights of way within
the City, without complying with the following requirements:
   A.   A permit application shall be filed with the City on a form approved by
the City. No excavation, work, or on-site preparation therefore shall commence
until and unless said permit application is approved and a permit is issued by
the City.
   B.   The permit application fee shall accompany said application. Said
application fee shall be in an amount as approved by resolution of the City
Council, and may be adjusted from time to time, at the discretion of the City
Council.
   C.   The City shall require a refundable deposit to accompany the permit
application to offset any damage to the right of way that may be caused by the
individual or entity performing such work, and/or their subcontractors and
employees. The City shall hold said deposit, upon which no interest shall
accrue, until the work in the right of way is completed and inspected by the
City. Said deposit shall be in an amount as approved by resolution of the City
Council, and may be adjusted from time to time, at the discretion of the City
Council. In the event damage caused to the right of way exceeds said deposit,
the applicant shall be responsible for the additional costs associated with
repairing the same. Any unused amount of the deposit shall be returned to the
individual or entity upon completion of the work and final inspection by the
City. Inspection by the City shall not relieve the individual or entity of
responsibility for any damage done to the right of way, whether it is
discovered before or after said final inspection.
   D.   The applicant shall provide proof of general commercial liability
insurance, covering the activities contemplated to be undertaken in the right
of way, in the amount of at least $500,000 Personal Injury and $1,000,000
General Aggregate. In more sensitive locations, higher limits may be requested
by the Public Works Director. Said insurance policies shall name the City as an
additional insured.
   E.   The applicant shall provide a traffic control plan that is compliant
with requirements of the Idaho Standards for Public Works Construction (ISPWC)
and the Middleton Supplement to the ISPWC.
   F.   All projects utilizing directional drilling techniques within public
right of way shall provide to the City a post-construction video inspection of
sewer mains and laterals within the construction area documenting that the
sewer system was not damaged by construction activities.
The City’s Public Works Director may adopt additional requirements by
incorporating the same into the City’s application document which are
reasonably related to protecting the persons and property of the City and the
Public.
The requirements contained in B through G above may be waived, at the sole
discretion of the Public Works Director of the City of Middleton, if, in his or
her reasonably judgment, compliance therewith is unnecessary or overly
burdensome under the circumstances. (Ord. 569, 12-21-2015; amd. Ord. 677, 6-7-
2023)
7-5-2: REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
If the permittee is not conducting business according to the terms of the
permit, the city may revoke the permit and order the permittee to cease work in
the right of way and ensure the job site is safe for vehicular and pedestrian
traffic. The permittee may appeal the revocation to the city council. If the
permittee makes the necessary and appropriate corrections, the permittee may
reapply for a permit under the provisions of this chapter. If the city
determines it must repair or complete the work, the cost to do so shall be paid
by the permittee. (Ord. 569, 12-21-2015)
CHAPTER 6
SIDEWALK MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR
SECTION:
7-6-1: Sidewalks
7-6-1: SIDEWALKS:
   A.   Duty Of Owners: Property owners shall maintain sidewalks and pathways
on or in public right of way adjacent to their property.
   B.   No Obstructions In Public Rights Of Way: Property owners shall not
obstruct or allow others to obstruct sidewalks or pathways on or adjacent to
their property.
   C.   Trees: No trees shall be planted within fifteen feet (15') of a public
right of way unless approved in writing by the city.
   D.   Clear Surface: A property owner shall clear sidewalks, curbs and
gutters, pathways, alleys, and parking within curbing; on private property or
in public right of way abutting their property from snow, ice, rubbish, weeds,
grass, grass clippings, leaves, tree limbs and roots, shrubbery or other
vegetation. Property owners shall also clear sidewalks of snow and ice.
   E.   Repairs:
      1.   Council-Directed Repairs: The City Council may by resolution passed
by a two-thirds (2/3) majority of all the members elected to the Council deem
any sidewalk or pathway in public right of way or dedicated for public travel
as unsafe or dangerous, order such sidewalk or pathway replaced or repaired,
and assess the cost of replacing or repairing same against the property in
front of which the same shall be constructed, repaired, or laid.
      2.   Notice Required: Notice to repair or replace any sidewalk or pathway
shall be given to the property owners in front of or on which property the
sidewalk or pathway has been ordered replaced or repaired via certified mail.
Said property owner shall commence replacement or repair of the sidewalk or
pathway within sixty (60) days following the date of notice. Repairs shall be
completed within thirty (30) days of commencement, unless approval of an
extension is granted by the City.
      3.   When City Makes Repairs: Whenever a sidewalk, pathway, or any
portion thereof which has been ordered replaced or repaired shall not be
repaired or replaced within the time specified, then the City shall construct,
replace, or repair the same by contract and assess the cost and expense thereof
in the manner provided by this article. Nothing herein contained shall be
construed so as to prevent giving any notice required to be given by this
article.
(Ord. 553, 3-18-2015; amd. Ord. 569, 12-21-2015; Ord. 665, 8-3-2022)
CHAPTER 7
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT AND DISCHARGE CONTROL
SECTION:
7-7-1: Applicability And Regulatory Consistency
7-7-2: Stormwater Management Fee
7-7-3: Delinquent Bills
7-7-4: Stormwater Management Plans And Comprehensive Drainage Plans
7-7-5: Discharge Regulations And Requirements
7-7-6: Inspection And Enforcement
7-7-7: Violations Deemed A Public Nuisance
7-7-1: APPLICABILITY AND REGULATORY CONSISTENCY:
   A.   Applicability: This chapter shall apply to all activities which may
affect permanent and temporary stormwater systems.
   B.   Regulatory Consistency: This chapter shall be construed to assure
consistency with the requirements of the federal clean water act and acts
amendatory thereof or supplementary thereto, applicable implementing
regulations, and the municipal NPDES permit and any amendments, revisions or
reissuance thereof. No permit or approval issued pursuant to this chapter shall
relieve a person of the responsibility to secure permits and approvals required
for activities regulated by any other applicable rule, code, act, permit or
ordinance. (Ord. 553, 3-18-2015)
7-7-2: STORMWATER MANAGEMENT FEE:
A stormwater management fee, set from time to time by the city council, is
imposed upon all improved premises or properties that affect the stormwater
system or are subject to the city's municipal NPDES permit.
The city council may establish credits to the fee established by this chapter.
(Ord. 553, 3-18-2015)
7-7-3: DELINQUENT BILLS:
   A.   When Due And Payable; Charges Questioned: All fees become due and
payable on the twentieth day of each month by the owner or the person
responsible for the same at the office of the clerk. If the responsible party
feels there is a discrepancy in the fee charged, the user may appeal to the
city clerk for an adjustment up to the twentieth day of the month.
   B.   When Delinquent: If the fee is not paid by the twentieth of the month
late fees shall be assessed. If the bill is not paid in full by the twenty
sixth, a delinquent charge, as established by the council, shall be assessed.
   C.   Lien: In addition to other civil and criminal remedies as provided in
this chapter, failure to pay charges and additional penalties within the
prescribed time lines shall result in the placement of a lien against such
property in favor of the city, and shall be recoverable, together with all
costs as provided by law, for the foreclosure of liens. (Ord. 553, 3-18-2015)
7-7-4: STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PLANS AND COMPREHENSIVE DRAINAGE PLANS:
   A.   Requirements: To minimize the discharge and transport of pollutants to
storm drains and prevent the deterioration of water quality, certain new
developments and redevelopment projects will be required to submit for approval
a stormwater management plan or a comprehensive drainage plan to control the
quality, volume and rate of stormwater runoff. The Idaho department of
environmental quality and common engineering practice establishes standards and
guidelines for implementing BMPs and stormwater management plans and is
incorporated by reference and made part of this chapter.
      1.   Stormwater management plans or comprehensive drainage plans are
required for industrial, commercial, and institutional developments which
require a building permit and all residential developments, as well as
subdivision projects that have private access, which also require a building
permit.
      2.   Redevelopment projects may be required to submit complete stormwater
management plans or operation and maintenance plans if required by the city of
Middleton.
      3.   Stormwater management plans and comprehensive drainage plans shall
be developed in accordance with commonly accepted engineering practices and
shall be stamped by a licensed professional engineer. All stormwater shall be
managed on site unless an alternate discharge plan is approved by the city.
   B.   Submission And Review Process:
      1.   Stormwater management plans and comprehensive drainage plans shall
be submitted at the time construction plans and/or building plans are
submitted. The plans shall be submitted to the city as part of the building
permit or plat application. In those instances where stormwater management
plans and comprehensive drainage plans are required, but no building permit is
required, said plans shall be submitted as part of the development plan. The
plans shall be reviewed by the city for their compliance with local, state and
federal rules and regulations.
         a.   All stormwater shall be managed to support water quality. No plan
shall be approved that increases the level of stormwater runoff from impervious
areas.
         b.   No development or use of land which requires a stormwater
management plan or comprehensive drainage plan as per this section shall be
permitted without the city approval of such plan.
         c.   No building permit or final certificate of occupancy shall be
issued without an approved stormwater management plan if required under this
section. Before final occupancy is granted, the design engineer shall certify
the stormwater system was constructed in substantial conformance with the
approved plans, and best management practices are in place and functional.
      2.   The city shall be notified of the commencement of any development
covered by a comprehensive drainage plan and the owner shall be required to
provide engineering certification that the development is in conformity with
the previously approved comprehensive drainage plan.
      3.   All modifications to comprehensive drainage plans shall be submitted
to the city for approval.
      4.   Approval of the stormwater management plan or comprehensive drainage
plan does not relieve the owner or responsible party from the duty to ensure
the systems and their safety measures function as designed.
      5.   Approval may be suspended or revoked at any time if conditions are
not as stated or shown in the approved application or implementation of the
plan is not proceeding in the approved manner.
      6.   Approval of any plans by the city shall not create a liability on
the part of or cause of action against the city.
   C.   Maintenance Of Stormwater Facilities:
      1.   Stormwater facilities shall be maintained by the facility owner.
      2.   Disposal of waste from maintenance of facilities shall be conducted
in accordance with applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations.
      3.   Records of installation and maintenance and repair shall be retained
by the owner for a period of five (5) years and shall be made available to the
city upon request. (Ord. 587, 1-18-2017)
7-7-5: DISCHARGE REGULATIONS AND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Violation: Any illicit discharge (meaning the direct or indirect
pumping or pouring of a pollutant) to any storm drain, including both the MS4
and private storm drains, is a violation of this chapter unless exempted by
other provisions.
   B.   Parking Lots And Similar Structures: Persons owning or operating a
paved parking lot, gas station pavement, paved private road, or similar
structure or conducting routine building wash downs, shall clean and maintain
those structures consistent with the Idaho department of environmental quality
disposal best management practices. Direct discharge to a storm drain is not
allowed.
   C.   Construction Sites: Any person performing construction work in the city
shall comply with the provisions of this chapter.
   D.   Discharge Pursuant To NPDES Permit: The prohibition of discharges shall
not apply to any discharge regulated under an NPDES permit issued and
administered by the EPA, provided that the discharger is in full compliance
with all requirements of the permit and other applicable laws or regulations.
   E.   Compliance With NPDES Permits: Any discharge that would cause a
violation of a municipal NPDES permit and any amendments, revisions or
reissuance thereof, either separately considered or when combined with other
discharges, is prohibited.
All persons in charge of a facility are to comply with applicable federal and
state laws including facility personnel, training, training record maintenance,
training records, maintenance of notification procedures, and implementation of
notification requirements for spill response to assure containment, cleanup,
and immediate notification to the city of Middleton.
Individuals responsible for spills are to comply with applicable state and
federal notification requirements to assure containment, cleanup, and immediate
notification to the city of Middleton. (Ord. 553, 3-18-2015)
7-7-6: INSPECTION AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Inspections: Stormwater systems shall be inspected by the city during
and after construction to assure consistency with the approved stormwater
management plan.
   B.   Testing And Monitoring: Whenever the city determines that any person
engaged in any activity and/or owning or operating any facility may cause or
contribute to an illicit discharge to the stormwater system, the city may, by
written notice, order that such person undertake such monitoring activities
and/or analyses and furnish such reports as the city may recommend. The written
notice shall be served either in person or by certified or registered mail,
return receipt requested, and shall set forth the basis for such order and
shall particularly describe the monitoring activities and/or analyses and
reports required. The burden to be borne by the owner or operator, including
costs of these activities, analyses and reports, shall bear a reasonable
relationship to the need for the monitoring, analyses and reports and the
benefits to be obtained. The recipient of such order shall undertake and
provide the monitoring, analyses and reports within the time frames set forth
in the order.
   C.   Disclaimer Of Liability: The degree of protection required by this
chapter is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on
scientific, engineering and other relevant technical considerations. The
standards set forth herein are minimum standards and this chapter does not
imply that compliance will ensure that there will be no unauthorized discharge
of pollutants into the waters of the United States. This chapter shall not
create liability on the part of the city, any agent or employee thereof for any
damages that result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative
decision lawfully made thereunder. (Ord. 553, 3-18-2015)
7-7-7: VIOLATIONS DEEMED A PUBLIC NUISANCE:
Any condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter shall be considered a public nuisance and a threat
to the public health, safety, and welfare of the residents of the city of
Middleton. (Ord. 553, 3-18-2015)
TITLE 8
NUISANCES
CHAPTER 1
NUISANCE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-1-1: State Nuisance Regulations Adopted
8-1-2: Nuisance Conditions Prohibited; Responsible Party
8-1-3: Refuse
8-1-4: Garbage And Rubbish
8-1-5: Noise, Odor, Light, Vibration, Dust
8-1-6: Graffiti
8-1-7: Expectorating
8-1-8: Roads And Sidewalks
8-1-9: Vagrancy
8-1-10: Truancy/Failure To Supervise A Child
8-1-11: Unlawful Fireworks
8-1-12: Abatable Nuisances; Procedures
8-1-13: Hindering Authorized Person
8-1-14: Smoking
8-1-15: Salvage
8-1-16: Abandoned Motor Vehicles
8-1-17: Animals
8-1-18: Camping
8-1-19: Illicit Discharge
8-1-20: Improper Use of System
8-1-21: Public Swales
8-1-22: Disorderly Conduct
8-1-23: Firearms, Weapons
8-1-24: Penalties
8-1-1: STATE NUISANCE REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
There are hereby adopted Idaho Code sections 52-101 et seq., 52-201 et seq.,
52-301 et seq., and 52-401 et seq., regarding nuisances. Said provisions are
incorporated by reference as if fully set forth at length herein. (Ord. 554, 3-
18-2015)
8-1-2: NUISANCE CONDITIONS PROHIBITED; RESPONSIBLE PARTY:
   A.   Nuisance Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any owner, occupant,
user, or person in charge or control of any property to create, cause, commit,
maintain, or allow the existence of any nuisance on such property (front, side
or rear yards), or upon any road, sidewalk or public right-of-way abutting such
property including the area behind curbs, sidewalks, parking areas, and
property to the center of alleys and ditches. Further, it shall be unlawful for
any person to create, cause, allow, or commit any nuisance upon any public
property, right-of-way, or infrastructure, including sidewalks, roads, gutters,
or storm drains.
   B.   Prohibited Nuisances: Prohibited nuisances shall specifically include,
but shall not be limited to, the following conditions and/or matter and as
further described in this chapter:
      1.   The proliferation and/or growth of weeds that:
         a.   Are over twelve inches (12") in height;
         b.   By reason of size, manner of growth, location, or dryness,
constitute a safety, health, or fire hazard to any person, building,
improvement, crop, or other real or personal property; or
         c.   Are designated as noxious weeds by the State of Idaho.
      2.   The growth of trees and shrubs that interfere with vehicular and/or
pedestrian traffic, including Municipal vehicles (e.g., street sweepers). At a
minimum, trees and shrubs should be trimmed to a height of eleven feet (11') at
a distance of five feet (5') from edge of pavement.
      3.   Graffiti, on any surface.
      4.   Nuisance materials on the ground, whether leaked, drained, seeped,
dripped, sprayed, or dumped, except that this shall not include the incidental
leakage of nuisance materials from registered vehicles lawfully moving or
parked upon a public right-of-way; the lawful application of pesticides or
herbicides for purposes of controlling pests or weeds; or activity otherwise
specifically allowed by law or by written permit issued by the City or other
governing authority.
      5.   Snow or ice on any public sidewalk.
      6.   Personal property on any portion of a public sidewalk, except as
specifically allowed by law or by written permit issued by the City or other
governing authority.
      7.   One or more junk vehicle(s), where such junk vehicle is not enclosed
in any structure or otherwise concealed from public view, except as to junk
vehicles stored or parked pursuant to the operation of a lawfully conducted
business, industry or commercial enterprise.
      8.   Stagnant or impure water that causes or creates an offensive,
unhealthy, or unsanitary condition.
      9.   Refuse, any decaying substance, garbage, feces or filth of any kind
that is exposed to the elements and which causes or creates an offensive,
unhealthy, or unsanitary condition.
      10.   Matter which has no substantial market value, is exposed to the
elements, and is not enclosed in any structure or otherwise concealed from
public view, including, but not limited to: rubble, litter, asphalt, concrete,
plaster, tile, cardboard, paper, scrap wood, scrap metal, tires, broken glass,
and/or other dilapidated or deteriorating personal property.
      11.   The accumulation of and/or failure to lawfully dispose of solid
waste.
      12.   Any building or structure that is so dilapidated or is in such
condition as to menace the public health or the safety of persons or property
on account of increased fire hazard or otherwise.
      13.   The raising of fowl, poultry and animals exceeding a total of four
(4) on any lot or acre. The maintenance of any horse, cow or usual farm animal
on any lot which is less than one-half (1/2) acre. The raising of hogs, billy
goats and roosters.
      14.   The use of city water for irrigation unless specifically approved
by the city.
      15.   Any storage containers, shall be set back further from a publicly
maintained street than the rear of the primary structure, shall be no larger
than two hundred (200) square feet, and surrounded by at least an eight-foot
privacy fence, unless it is located within an area zoned for industrial use.
Containers shall not be used as an inhabitable structure A building permit is
required for all containers and must meet setback requirements.
   C.   Responsible Party: Where a nuisance exists upon property that is
vacant, abandoned, and/or uninhabited, the owner of record, as reflected on the
most recent assessment roll, shall be presumed to be responsible for creating,
causing, committing, maintaining, and/or allowing such nuisance. Such owner of
record shall be subject to any and all penalties imposed as set forth herein,
and shall be responsible for payment of any and all costs incurred in abating
the nuisance. The owner of record shall bear the burden of rebutting this
presumption. (Ord. 587, 1-18-2017; amd. Ord. 588, 3-1-2017; Ord. 2020-628, 1-2-
2020; Ord. 628, 7-15- 2020)
8-1-3: REFUSE:
   A.   Refuse Prohibited: Every person residing, doing business, owning,
managing, renting, or leasing property within the city limits shall be required
to keep that property free from any accumulation or scattering of refuse (see
definition of "refuse", section
1-3-1 of this code). This includes all refuse on private property and any
refuse blown or scattered from private property.
   B.   Abatement By City; Assessment Of Cost: Every person owning, managing,
occupying, renting, leasing or using property within the city limits shall keep
that property continuously free of refuse. The mayor or city council, after
five (5) days' notice, may cause the removal and disposal of refuse as often as
necessary on lots, lands, or premises not in compliance. The expense of such
work shall be billed to the property owner involved, and, if not paid within
thirty (30) days, assessed against the property involved as general taxes and
collectible as other state, county and municipal taxes. (Ord. 554, 3-18-2015)
8-1-4: GARBAGE AND RUBBISH:
No owner or occupant of premises covered by this chapter shall permit any
accumulation of garbage, refuse or rubbish on such premises. Except as provided
in this chapter, it shall be unlawful for any person to place any grass
trimmings, garbage or rubbish upon any road, alley, sidewalk, public place or
open lot in the city.
   A.   Garbage And Refuse Storage Regulations:
      1.   Receptacle Requirements: Each such householder, head of a family,
tenant or proprietor or operator shall obtain a city approved receptacle and
deposit all "garbage", "refuse" and "rubbish", as defined in section
1-3-1 of this code, accumulating upon such premises in such receptacles as fast
as the same accumulates.
      2.   Placement Of Receptacles: Except within twenty four (24) hours
before or after the scheduled pick up, it shall be unlawful for any person to
place any receptacle upon any road, alley, sidewalk, or public property in the
city.
   B.   Franchise Required: No person shall engage in the business of
collecting, gathering, hauling, conveying, or transporting garbage or rubbish
upon the roads or alleys of the city without first obtaining a franchise
therefor from the city.
   C.   Franchise Period And Fees: A franchise shall be granted for a period of
up to seven (7) years. The city and the franchisee shall agree on a schedule of
rates for garbage collection and disposal service, which shall include an
administrative fee for the city. Rates and fees shall be established from time
to time by resolution of the city council. Licensed franchisees under the
provisions of this chapter may have to pay the city a franchise fee to be
determined, of the gross revenues collected within the city limits. The license
fee shall be payable quarterly or as otherwise provided.
   D.   Franchise Conditions:
      1.   Garbage And Rubbish Disposal: A franchisee shall perform all
services incident to and in connection with collecting, gathering, hauling,
conveying, transporting and disposing garbage, refuse or rubbish in an orderly
and timely manner. Garbage and rubbish shall be disposed of at state approved
solid waste disposal sites only.
      2.   Vehicle Construction And Condition: All vehicles used in collecting,
gathering, hauling, conveying, transporting and disposing garbage, refuse or
rubbish shall be constructed in a manner that will prevent any portion of the
garbage, refuse or rubbish from leaking, spilling, falling, or blowing out of
said vehicles onto any highway, road, alley, or other public or private place.
All vehicles shall be equipped with watertight, leakproof bodies and provided
with tightfitting covers, which shall remain closed at all times except when
actually depositing garbage or rubbish in the conveyance or removing garbage or
rubbish from it. All vehicles shall be kept in a clean and sanitary condition
at all times and shall be disinfected at regular intervals of not less than
once every two (2) weeks.
      3.   Collection And Fee Schedules: A franchisee shall collect and dispose
of garbage and rubbish from each customer at least once a week or more often as
may be agreed to.
      4.   Terms Of Franchise: In addition to the requirements of this chapter,
the city and any franchisee may, by agreement approved by such parties, set
forth any additional terms and conditions the city and franchisee deem
appropriate.
   E.   Revocation Of Franchise: The city council may revoke a franchise if the
franchisee fails to comply with the franchise conditions set forth in this
chapter and the franchise agreement. (Ord. 554, 3-18-2015)
8-1-5: NOISE, ODOR, LIGHT, VIBRATION, DUST:
   A.   Public Disturbance Prohibited:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person or business to make or cause
loud or offensive noise by means of voice, musical instrument, horn, radio,
loudspeaker, automobile, machinery, other sound amplifying equipment, or any
other means which disturbs the peace, quiet, and comfort of any reasonable
person of normal sensitivity residing in the area. "Loud or offensive noise" is
that which is plainly audible within any residence or business other than the
source of the sound, or upon a public right of way or road at a distance of one
hundred feet (100') or more from the source of such sound. This subsection (A)
(1) shall only be applicable to noise generated by the normal operation of
business establishments during the following times: Sunday through Thursday
between the hours of ten (10:00) P.M. one day and seven (7:00) A.M. the next
day; Friday, Saturday and Federal Holidays between the hours of twelve (12:00)
A.M. one day and seven (7:00) A.M. the same day.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate, or permit the
operation of, any loud amplification device upon or within a motor vehicle in
such a manner that the sound therefrom is plainly audible upon a public right
of way or road at a distance of fifty feet (50') or more from the source of
sound.
      3.   The following sounds are exempted from the provisions of this
chapter:
         a.   Sounds caused by any emergency vehicle or personnel when
responding to an emergency call or acting in time of an emergency.
         b.   Airplanes and other FAA regulated aircraft.
         c.   Sounds caused by activities upon any outdoor city or school owned
property, provided that such activities have been authorized by the owner of
such property.
         d.   Sounds caused by parades or any other event for which a permit
for that type of activity is required and has been obtained from the authorized
governmental entity within such hours as may be imposed as a condition for the
issuance of said permit.
         e.   Sounds caused by locomotives or other railroad equipment.
         f.   Sounds caused by alarms or other safety warning devices that are
not in violation of this code.
         g.   Sounds caused by fireworks between the hours of seven o'clock (7:
00) A.M. and twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight from June 23 to July 5 and
December 26 through January 1.
         h.   Due to extreme heat during the summer months of June, July and
August, construction and landscape maintenance noise may begin at seven o'clock
(7:00) A.M. and must end by ten o'clock (10:00) P.M.
   B.   Light, Vibration, Odor And Dust: It shall be unlawful for any person or
business to make or cause offensive light, vibration, odor and/or dust by any
means that disturbs the peace, quiet, and comfort of any reasonable person of
normal sensitivity. "Offensive" means that which is plainly discernible from
any property other than the source of the light, vibration, odor or dust.
(Ord. 587, 1-18-2017; amd. Ord. 704, 10-16-2024)
8-1-6: GRAFFITI:
   A.   Prohibited Acts:
      1.   Defacement: It is unlawful for any person to deface or place or put,
by any means, graffiti on any exterior surface. Design review approval is
required prior to display of any public art. The City does not deem graffiti to
be public art.
      2.   Possession Of Graffiti Implements: It shall be unlawful for any
person to possess any graffiti implement while in or upon any public facility
or while in or within fifty feet (50') of an underpass, bridge abutment, storm
drain, or similar types of infrastructure unless otherwise authorized by the
City.
   B.   Graffiti Removal Required:
      1.   Removal By Perpetrator: Any person found to be in violation of this
chapter shall be required to remove or cause to be removed the graffiti from
the surface on which it was placed within twenty four (24) hours after notice
by the City or private owner of the property involved. Such removal shall be
done in a manner prescribed by the City. Any person applying graffiti shall be
responsible for the removal or for the payment of the removal. Failure of any
person to remove graffiti or pay for its removal shall constitute an additional
violation of this chapter subject to general misdemeanor penalties. Where
graffiti is applied by an unemancipated minor, the parents or legal guardian
shall also be responsible for such removal or payment of such removal.
      2.   Property Owner Responsibility: If graffiti is not removed by the
perpetrator according to subsection B1 of this section, or inasmuch as it is
often not possible to determine the identity of the person who applied the
graffiti, it shall be the duty of the owner or person in control of the
premises on which the graffiti has been applied to promptly remove the graffiti
within ten (10) days after notice as hereinafter set forth is provided. If,
after notice as hereinafter provided, the graffiti nuisance is not abated, the
owner or person in control of the premises shall be in violation of this
section subject to misdemeanor penalties. Additionally, the City shall proceed
to abate the graffiti nuisance and the costs of same shall be assessable
against the property.
(Ord. 554, 3-18-2015; amd. Ord. 619, 7-17-2019)
8-1-7: EXPECTORATING:
It shall be unlawful for any person to spit or expectorate or mark upon any
window or any store, shop or other building or upon any City property, such as
roads, sidewalks, parks, buildings, parking lots, facilities, etc. (Ord. 554,
3-18-2015)
8-1-8: ROADS AND SIDEWALKS:
   A.   No person shall obstruct, allow others to obstruct or cause to be
obstructed any sidewalk, road or alley in the City without the written
permission of the City, which shall specify the time such obstruction may
continue.
   B.   Property owners shall maintain sidewalks on their properties.
   C.   No trees shall be planted within fifteen feet (15') of a public
sidewalk unless approved in writing by the City.
   D.   A property owner shall clear sidewalks, curbs and gutters, and roads
abutting his/her property from grass clippings, leaves, trees limbs and roots,
shrubbery or other vegetation. Property owners shall also clear sidewalks of
snow and ice. (Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
8-1-9: VAGRANCY:
It shall be unlawful for any person to be a vagrant. Residents shall reside in
a house, duplex, triplex, apartment, condominium, townhouse, or manufactured
home certified by the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development
(HUD) or International Residential Code adopted in section
4-1-2 of this Code. Residents shall not reside in a storage unit, accessory
structure, camper, trailer, RV, bus or other vehicle, tent, tepee, igloo, box,
sleeping bag, or other shelter.
(Ord. 570, 1-20-2016; amd. Ord. 619, 7-17-2019)
8-1-10: TRUANCY/FAILURE TO SUPERVISE A CHILD:
It shall be unlawful for any child to be a truant, as defined by Idaho Code
section 33-206, and it shall be unlawful for any parent or guardian to fail or
refuse to cause their child to be instructed as provided by Idaho Code section
33-202. (Ord. 573, 2-3-2016)
8-1-11: UNLAWFUL FIREWORKS:
The unlawful sale, purchase, possession or use of fireworks within the City of
Middleton is prohibited. (Ord. 554, 3-18-2015; amd. Ord. 573, 2-3-2016)
8-1-12: ABATABLE NUISANCES; PROCEDURES:
   A.   Applicability: The procedures set forth in this section shall apply to
"abatable nuisances", as that term is defined in this Code.
   B.   Notice And Order To Abate: If it is determined by a Code Enforcement
Officer that an abatable nuisance exists, the Code Enforcement Officer shall
cause a notice of violation and order to abate to be issued to the owner,
occupier, and/or person in control of such property. Such notice and order
shall contain the street address and parcel number of the property, describe
the nuisance existing thereon, order the abatement of the nuisance, establish
the time period for abatement, specify the penalty for noncompliance, and
describe the opportunity and time for appeal. The Code Enforcement Officer
shall issue such notice and order to the owner, occupier, or person in control
of the property on which the nuisance exists in one of the following ways:
      1.   By personal service upon such owner, occupier, or person in charge
or control of the property; or
      2.   By regular mail to such owner, occupier, or person in charge or
control of the property, at the address shown on the last available assessment
roll, or as otherwise known; or
      3.   By posting such notice and order at a conspicuous place on the
property and publishing one notice in the official newspaper of the City that
the property has been posted in accordance with this chapter and ordering the
owner, occupier, or person in charge or control of the property to abate the
nuisance.
   C.   Time Period For Abatement: It shall be the duty of the owner, occupier,
or person in charge or control of any property where any abatable nuisance
exists, to abate such nuisance within five (5) calendar days from the date of
personal service, mailing, or publication, except that the Code Enforcement
Officer may require summary abatement of an abatable nuisance where such
condition presents an imminent or ongoing threat to or impairment of human
health or safety. Abatement of graffiti shall meet the following standards:
      1.   The removal of such graffiti shall not follow the pattern of the
graffiti such that the inscription, work, figure, symbol, drawing, mark, or
design of such graffiti remains apparent.
      2.   The removal of such graffiti by painting over it shall be reasonably
similar or identical to the original color of the surface upon which such
graffiti was applied.
      3.   If the surface is heavily covered with graffiti, the entire surface
shall be repainted.
   D.   Appeal: Within five (5) calendar days from the date of service,
mailing, or publication of the notice of violation and order to abate, the
owner, occupier, and/or person in charge or control of the subject property may
appeal to the City Council by filing a written appeal with the City Clerk,
which appeal shall enumerate the grounds for appeal. The City Clerk may
schedule such appeal for hearing at the next regular meeting of City Council.
City Council shall consider written and oral testimony from the appellant and
shall affirm, withdraw, or modify the order to abate. The decision of the City
Council shall be final. If City Council affirms the order, the appellant shall
have five (5) calendar days from the date of such affirmation to abate the
nuisance as ordered.
   E.   Abatement; Administrative Procedures: In addition to pursuing criminal
and/or civil penalties, and notwithstanding the imposition of any civil or
criminal fine, penalty or imprisonment, the Code Enforcement Officer, after
providing notice and hearing as provided herein, may abate or cause the
abatement of any abatable nuisance where the owner, occupant, agent or person
in control of property does not comply in all respects with an order to abate.
The owner, occupier, and/or person in charge or control of the subject property
shall be billed, assessed, and/or held responsible for any and all actual
expenses of such work, and any related charges, including fees and fines,
pursuant to the following procedures:
      1.   Recovery Of Abatement Costs And Fees: Within thirty (30) days of
abatement of the nuisance, the City shall send to the owner, occupier, and/or
person in charge or control of the subject property, by regular mail, a billing
statement requiring payment to City for the costs of abating the nuisance and
administrative fee as established by fee schedule.
      2.   Nonpayment Of Abatement Costs: If full payment is not made to City
within fifteen (15) days of the mailing of the billing statement requiring
payment of abatement costs and fees, the City may:
         a.   Attempt to recover such amount through the City bill collection
procedures; and/or
         b.   Levy a special assessment against the subject property pursuant
to Idaho Code sections 50-1008 and 50-334 and/or any subsequently adopted or
otherwise applicable laws. Notice of the special assessment shall be sent by
regular mail to the owner of the subject property, and shall state the address
and parcel number of the subject property, date of abatement action taken, and
state the amount to be assessed, including any applicable administrative and/or
late fees, and shall state that if the assessment is not paid within thirty
(30) days, the assessment will be placed on the Real Property Tax rolls and
will become a lien against such property. If payment to the City Clerk is not
made within thirty (30) days after mailing the notice of special assessment,
the assessment shall be declared delinquent and shall be certified, including a
ten percent (10%) late fee, to the Ada County Assessor by the City Clerk, not
later than August 1 of each year. Upon such certification, the assessment shall
be placed upon the tax roll and shall thereafter become a lien against the
property described in the notice and shall be collected in the same manner and
subject to the same penalties as other City taxes. Upon payment of the
assessment, fees and penalties in full, the City Clerk shall file a release of
lien with the Ada County Assessor.
   F.   Summary Abatement: Nothing contained herein shall prevent a Code
Enforcement Officer, peace officer, or Fire Marshal from requiring,
undertaking, or causing summary abatement of an abatable nuisance where such
condition presents an imminent or ongoing threat to or impairment of human
health, safety or welfare. (Ord. 587, 1-18-2017)
8-1-13: HINDERING AUTHORIZED PERSON:
It shall be unlawful to interfere with, hinder or refuse to allow any
authorized City official or employee to enter upon private or public property
to enforce the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 554, 3-18-2015; amd. Ord. 573,
2-3-2016)
8-1-14: SMOKING:
It shall be unlawful for any person to smoke in public buildings, facilities
and parks. (Ord. 554, 3-18-2015; amd. Ord. 573, 2-3-2016)
8-1-15: SALVAGE:
Salvage is prohibited on any land not properly zoned and permitted for such. It
is not a violation of this section for the owner(s) of junk vehicles to store
those vehicles in an enclosed building or to store the vehicles in such a
manner that they are screened from view of the road and any neighbors. (Ord.
554, 3-18-2015; amd. Ord. 573, 2-3-2016)
8-1-16: ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES:
No person shall abandon a vehicle upon public or private property without the
express or implied consent of the owner or person in lawful possession or
control of the property nor shall any person abandon a vehicle upon any
highway, road, alley, roadway, or right-of-way thereof. Abandoned motor
vehicles shall be abated pursuant to Idaho Code title 49, chapter 18, as
amended. (Ord. 554, 3-18-2015; amd. Ord. 573, 2-3-2016)
8-1-17: ANIMALS:
Four (4) animals, other than those prohibited, are allowed on a lot or acre.
The maintenance of any horse, cow, emu or usual farm animal is prohibited on
any lot which is less than one-half (1/2) acre. Possessing or controlling hogs,
billy goats and roosters is prohibited. (Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
8-1-18: CAMPING:
It shall be unlawful for any person to use any of the streets, sidewalks, parks
or other publicly owned places as a camping place at any time, or to cause or
permit any vehicle to remain in any of said places to the detriment of public
travel or convenience; or to cause or permit any livestock of any description
to be herded into any of said places during any hours of the day or night. The
term "camp" or "camping" shall mean the use of public property as a temporary
or permanent place of dwelling, lodging or residence, or as a living
accommodation at any time between sunset and sunrise, or as a sojourn. Indicia
of camping may include, but are not limited to, storage of personal belongings,
carrying on cooking activities or making a fire in an unauthorized area, or any
of these activities in combination with one another or in combination with
either sleeping or making preparations to sleep (including the laying down of
bedding for the purpose of sleeping). (Ord. 587, 1-18-2017)
8-1-19: ILLICIT DISCHARGE:
   A.   Drain Water Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to
discharge irrigation water or roof or surface drain water or ground drainage
into the sanitary sewer system.
   B.   Objectionable Waste Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to
place or deposit in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within
the City, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the City, any wastewater,
human or animal excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
   C.   Discharge Of Sewage To Natural Outlet: It shall be unlawful to
discharge to any natural outlet or drop inlet within the City, or in any area
under the jurisdiction of the City, any wastewater or other polluted waters.
(Ord. 553, 3-18-2015; amd. Ord. 619, 7- 17-2019)
8-1-20: IMPROPER USE OF SYSTEM:
   A.   Entrance to the manhole or opening the same for any purpose whatsoever,
except by the City or other persons duly authorized, is strictly prohibited. No
one shall throw or deposit or cause to be thrown or deposited in any vessel or
receptacle connected with the public sewer, garbage, hair, ashes, fruit,
vegetables, peelings, refuse, rags, sticks, cinders or any other matter or
thing whatever, except human excrement, urine, the necessary paper products,
household sewage and drainage of such character.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for unauthorized persons to loiter, trespass,
swim, trap, hunt, fish, boat, ice skate or skip rocks in, on or around the City
sewer lagoon.
(Ord. 553, 3-18-2015; amd. Ord. 619, 7-17-2019)
8-1-21: PUBLIC SWALES:
It shall be unlawful to drive through, stack or pile material in, fill-in,
modify or otherwise damage swales that were engineered for stormwater treatment
purposes.
(Ord. 619, 7-17-2019)
8-1-22: DISORDERLY CONDUCT:
   A.   Disorderly Conduct: Every person shall be guilty of disorderly conduct
when he or she exhibits violent, noisy, riotous or uses profane, abusive or
obscene language, or in any way commits a breach of the peace, or does anything
that shall be offensive to the senses or dangerous to the peace of the
inhabitants of the city or,
      1.   After being verbally warned once by the presiding member of the
governing body, engages in or solicits anyone to engage in disorderly,
disruptive, chaotic, lewd or dissolute speech or conduct in any public meeting,
public place or in any place open to the public or exposed to public view or
viewing. For example: continued or repetitious speaking without being
recognized by the individual conducting a meeting; talking or directing
comments to the audience instead of the governing body; blurting; yelling;
interrupting or talking over the individual conducting; talking while someone
recognized to speak is speaking; without first being recognized, engaging in
dialogue with someone recognized to speak; talking louder than the person
recognized to speak, or arguing with someone recognized to speak.
      2.   Accosts another person in any place open to the public.
      3.   Loiters, prowls, remains or wanders in a public or private place,
without lawful business or apparent or legitimate reason, at a time or in a
manner not usual for law abiding individuals. Among the circumstances that may
be considered are whether the actor takes flight upon appearance of a police
officer, refuses to identify himself or manifestly endeavors or by deliberate
furtive action attempts to conceal himself or any object.
      4.   Has upon his person or in his possession any instrument, tool or
other implement for picking locks or pockets or any implement that is usually
employed or that reasonably may be inferred to have been designed to be
employed in the commission of any felony, misdemeanor or the violation of any
ordinance, and who shall fail to account for the possession of same.
      5.   Occupies, lodges or sleeps in any building, structure or place,
whether public or private, or any automobile, truck, railroad car or other
similar vehicle or equipment without the permission of the owner or person
entitled to the possession or in control thereof.
      6.   Is found in any public place or in any place open to the public or
exposed to public view under the influence of intoxicating liquor or any drug
or any substance defined as a controlled substance and regulated as a
controlled substance, pursuant to the provisions of Idaho Code title 37,
chapter 27, or under the influence of any combination of any intoxicating
liquor, drug or substances, in such a condition that he is unable to exercise
care for his own safety or the safety of others, or by reason of his being
under the influence of intoxicating liquor, or any drug or the influence of any
substance as defined and regulated by Idaho Code title 37, chapter 27, or under
the influence of any combination of any intoxicating liquor, drug or any such
substance, interferes with or obstructs the free use of any road, sidewalk or
other public way or any place open to the public or exposed to public view.
   B.   Violators of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, which shall
be punished in accordance with section
1-4-1 of this code.
(Ord. 556, 3-18-2015; amd. Ord. 619, 7-17- 2019)
8-1-23: FIREARMS, WEAPONS:
   A.   Discharging Firearms, Weapons: Any person who recklessly discharges any
firearms or weapons within the limits of the city shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor. For purposes of this section, "recklessly" shall be defined as
conduct which shows a wilful and wanton disregard for the safety or property of
others and which may cause bodily injury or death to persons or domestic
animals or damage to the property of others.
   B.   Exceptions:
      1.   The prohibitions of this section shall not apply to:
         a.   A police officer acting in the course and scope of his or her
duties;
         b.   A person acting in the lawful defense of person, persons or
property;
         c.   A person discharging a starter pistol or other instrument
designed and operated as a noisemaker only;
         d.   A person participating in a lawfully permitted paintball shooting
facility or sport shooting range;
         e.   A person discharging a firearm for ceremonial purposes, where
such person is expressly authorized in writing by the sheriff or his designee
and is acting within the time, place and manner as specified in such written
authorization.
      2.   Nothing in this section shall be construed to modify or affect state
laws or city ordinances governing the discharge of fireworks.
   C.   Violators of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, which shall
be punished in accordance with section
1-4-1 of this code.
(Ord. 556, 3-18-2015; amd. Ord. 619, 7-17- 2019)
8-1-24: PENALTIES:
   A.   Criminal Penalties: Nuisances are infractions and shall be punished in
accordance with section
1-4-2 of this Code; however, graffiti offenses shall be punished as a
misdemeanor on the second and subsequent infractions.
   B.   Civil Remedies: All nuisances identified in this chapter are abatable.
In addition to any other penalties described herein, the City may also take
civil action to obtain an order mandating the abatement of such nuisances and
ongoing maintenance of such property free from nuisance and/or to recover any
and all costs of enforcement, collection, litigation and/or prosecution
including, but not limited to, attorney fees and court costs.
(Ord. 587, 1-18-2017; amd. Ord. 619, 7-17-2019)
TITLE 9
RESERVED
(Ord. 609, 7-3-2018)
TITLE 10
POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
10-1-1: Title
10-1-2: Department Created
10-1-3: Chief Of Police To Coordinate And Report To Mayor
10-1-4: Duties And Responsibilities
10-1-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the POLICE DEPARTMENT ORDINANCE. (Ord. 545, 11-
5-2014)
10-1-2: DEPARTMENT CREATED:
There is hereby created a police department. The executive and administrative
power of the police department shall vest in the chief of police who shall be
appointed and serve at the pleasure of the mayor upon confirmation of the city
council. (Ord. 545, 11-5-2014)
10-1-3: CHIEF OF POLICE TO COORDINATE AND REPORT TO MAYOR:
In carrying out of the powers, duties and responsibilities of the chief of the
police department as set out in this chapter, the chief of police shall report
to and coordinate with the mayor. (Ord. 545, 11-5-2014)
10-1-4: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
   A.   The chief of police shall exercise all of the powers and duties
necessary to carry out the proper administration of the police department and
may delegate duties to employees and officers of the police department. (Ord.
545, 11-5-2014)
   B.   The police department shall have the power to enforce all penal and
regulatory laws of the state and the city, and to preserve order and exercise
any and all powers, duties and authority of any sheriff or other peace officer
anywhere in the state within the limits of the boundaries of the city, in the
same manner and with like authority as the sheriff of any county of the state;
said police department may employ, from time to time as authorized by the mayor
and city council, such officers as may be deemed necessary to carry out these
duties and powers, which officers shall be under the direction of the chief of
police as the head of the department, in accordance with the established policy
of the city as duly authorized by the city council. (Ord. 569, 12-21-2015)
CHAPTER 2
GENERAL OFFENSES 1
(Rep. by Ord. 619, 7-17-2019)
 
Notes
1 1. See Sections 8-1-22 and 8-1-23 of this Code.
CHAPTER 3
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
10-3-1: Sterilization Required
10-3-2: Collar And Tag Requirements
10-3-3: Animals Running At Large Prohibited
10-3-4: Biting Prohibited
10-3-5: Rabies, Contagious Diseases; Quarantine
10-3-6: Disturbing The Peace
10-3-7: Nuisance Animals
10-3-8: Impounding Of Animals
10-3-9: Control Of Vicious Animals
10-3-10: Uniform Citation; Fines
10-3-1: STERILIZATION REQUIRED:
   A.   Applicability: It shall be unlawful for any person to own, harbor, keep
or possess an unsterilized canine more than three (3) months of age within the
city.
   B.   Exceptions: The provisions of this section shall not apply in the
following instances:
      1.   A person visiting in the city for a period not exceeding thirty (30)
days and owning or possessing a canine, if such canine is currently licensed or
bearing a license issued by another municipality or other licensing authority,
or if such person is a permanent resident where no such license is required; or
      2.   A licensed veterinarian states, in writing, that the canine is unfit
to undergo the required surgical procedure because of a health condition. Age
of a canine does not automatically constitute a prohibitive health condition
for purposes of this subsection. The veterinarian must describe the physical
condition or symptoms of the canine making it unfit to undergo the required
surgery.
   C.   Nonsterilization Provisions Nullified: Upon the third impound of the
same unsterilized canine, the canine shall be sterilized before it is returned
to the owner. The owner shall be responsible for the cost of sterilization and
other fees associated with the impoundment of their canine. (Ord. 556, 3-18-
2015)
10-3-2: COLLAR AND TAG REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Collar Required: Every canine and feline shall at all times wear a
substantial and durable collar to which shall be securely attached a required
identification tag containing the name, address and phone number of the owner.
(Ord. 556, 3-18-2015)
10-3-3: ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED:
   A.   Applicability: It shall be unlawful for any person to allow any animal
which he/she owns, keeps, or harbors to be at large upon the roads or alleys of
the city or in any park, public place of the city or upon any premises other
than his own. This provision applies regardless of whether the animal is
licensed or not.
   B.   Driving Livestock: It shall be unlawful for anyone to herd or drive any
animal through the city without having said animal under control by means of a
rope, strap or other device by which it may be led, unless such animal is being
driven in harness or hauled. Provided, that this chapter does not prohibit
livestock owners from driving herds through the city when necessary to transfer
them from one pasture to another or for the purpose of shipping, but such
livestock owners shall be liable to property owners for all damages done to
their property by such stock while being driven through the city, whether or
not such damage is caused by the negligence of the said livestock owners or
their agents. Such stock shall be driven through the city in as short a time as
possible.
   C.   Animals In Estrus: It shall be unlawful for the owner, keeper or
possessor of a female animal in the estrus state (in heat) to negligently fail,
neglect or refuse to confine such animals indoors or in a type of enclosure
preventing nuisance or undesired fertilization by male animals unless
restrained by the owner or possessor and under the immediate control of the
owner or possessor (e.g., in their accompaniment if off the property).
   D.   Duty Of Officer: It is hereby made and shall be the duty of any animal
control officer of the city to seize and impound any and all horses, mules,
donkeys, burros, cattle, sheep, goats, llamas, buffalo, or pigs found running
at large within the city. (Ord. 556, 3-18-2015)
10-3-4: BITING PROHIBITED:
The owner shall be liable for any animal which, when not physically provoked,
physically attacks, wounds, bites or otherwise injures a person or another
animal who is not trespassing. Violators of this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, which shall be punished in accordance with section
1-4-1 of this code. For a second or subsequent violation of this section, the
court may, in the interest of public safety, order the owner to have the animal
destroyed or may direct the appropriate authorities to destroy the animal.
(Ord. 569, 12-21-2015)
10-3-5: RABIES, CONTAGIOUS DISEASES; QUARANTINE:
   A.   Unlawful To Harbor: It is unlawful for a person other than a
veterinarian, or the animal shelter, to own, keep or harbor any animal
afflicted with rabies.
   B.   Owner Responsibility:
      1.   It is the duty of every owner of an animal showing symptoms of
rabies, or for which the owner has no proof of current rabies vaccination, or
which has bitten any person causing an abrasion of the skin, to surrender the
animal for confinement and isolation at the animal shelter or to a licensed
veterinarian for a period not to exceed fifteen (15) days.
      2.   If such animal shall be determined free of rabies, it shall be
returned to the owner upon payment of the regular fee for keeping such animal
impounded. If such fee is not paid, the animal shall be subject to disposal as
provided in this chapter.
   C.   Contagious Disease: Any animal which has a contagious disease shall not
be shipped or removed from the premises of the owner of such animal except
under the supervision of the animal control officer or licensed veterinarian.
   D.   Proof Of Vaccination Required; Exception:
      1.   It is unlawful to keep or harbor any animal over the age of three
(3) months in the city unless such animal has been inoculated against rabies by
a licensed veterinarian within the preceding three (3) years. (Ord. 556, 3-18-
2015)
10-3-6: DISTURBING THE PEACE:
It is unlawful for any owner of any animal to fail to exercise the reasonably
necessary proper care and control of his/her animal in order to prevent it from
disturbing the peace and quiet of the neighborhood by barking, whining or
making loud or unusual noises, or by running through or across cultivated
gardens or lawns not the property of the owner. (Ord. 556, 3-18-2015)
10-3-7: NUISANCE ANIMALS:
   A.   Restricted Presence In Public Places:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person to permit, allow, keep or carry any
animal in, upon or within a public transportation facility, or any other public
building or facility, particularly a building or facility in which food or
drink is prepared or stored, except that a blind or partially blind person, a
person with impaired hearing, or any severely disabled person who requires a
guide canine shall not be denied the use of any common carrier or public
transportation facility or admittance to any other public building or place
within the city by reason of his being accompanied by a seeing eye or guide
canine specially trained for such purpose.
      2.   It is the intent of this chapter to permit and authorize a blind
person or partially blind person, a person with impaired hearing or any
severely disabled person who requires a guide canine to have a seeing eye or
guide canine with him in such place and while using such facilities without
being required to pay any additional charges for the canine, but such blind
person shall be liable for any damage or disturbances caused by such canine.
   B.   Parks, Golf Courses, Cemeteries; Owner Responsibility: No animal of any
kind shall be allowed within any public park, golf course, or cemetery within
the city. Notwithstanding the foregoing provision, a canine may be allowed
within a public park so long as the canine is restrained and under the
immediate control of its owner, keeper or possessor. The owner, keeper or
possessor of the canine is also responsible for all sanitary cleanup as
necessitated by the canine. (Ord. 556, 3-18-2015)
10-3-8: IMPOUNDING OF ANIMALS:
   A.   Animals At Large; Disturbing The Peace:
      1.   If any animals shall be found running at large contrary to the
provisions of this chapter, the animal control officer or any other peace
officer of the city may take up and confine the same in the county animal
shelter or livestock yard.
      2.   In the case of an animal disturbing the peace, there shall be made
an attempt to contact the owner at his home and a warning issued. If the owner
is not present or does not heed the warning, the animal may be impounded in
accordance with this chapter. Such animal taken up and confined shall not be
released until the owner or person entitled to have possession thereof shall
pay all fees including all expenses incurred in boarding such animal so
impounded.
   B.   Redemption: Any animal impounded because it was found running at large
may be redeemed by the owner prior to the sale or destruction of such animal.
The animal control shelter is entitled to charge a boarding fee, an impound fee
and any hauling fee applicable for the keeping of any animal, which fees shall
be retained by the animal shelter as payment toward the costs and expense
incurred in the transporting and keeping of such animal. The fees which may be
charged by the animal shelter for impounding and keeping of any animal are to
be paid upon redemption of such animal. (Ord. 556, 3-18-2015)
10-3-9: CONTROL OF VICIOUS ANIMALS:
   A.   Enclosure Required: All vicious animals shall be confined in an
enclosure. It is unlawful for any owner to maintain a vicious animal upon any
premises which does not have a locked enclosure.
   B.   Confinement/Control At All Times: It is unlawful for any owner to allow
any vicious animal to be outside of the dwelling of the owner or outside of the
enclosure unless it is necessary for the owner to obtain veterinary care for
the vicious animal or to sell or give away the vicious animal or to comply with
command or directions of the animal control officer with respect to the vicious
animal. In such event, the vicious animal shall be securely muzzled and
restrained with a chain having a minimum tensile strength of three hundred
(300) pounds and not exceeding three feet (3') in length, and shall be under
the direct control and supervision of the owner of the vicious animal.
   C.   Unlawful Acts Prohibited: No person shall own, harbor or breed any
animal for the purpose of animal fighting, or train, torment, badger, bait or
use any animal for the purpose of causing or encouraging said animal to make
unprovoked attacks upon human beings or domestic animals. (Ord. 556, 3-18-2015)
10-3-10: UNIFORM CITATION; FINES:
   A.   Citation: The Idaho uniform citation shall be used by the animal
control officer or peace officer in the enforcement of this chapter.
   B.   Fine: The fine for violation of section
10-3-3 and subsection
10-3-5D of this chapter shall be established by resolution of the council, plus
court costs, for each offense and may be paid to the court or as provided by
rule 14 of the misdemeanor criminal rules. (Ord. 556, 3-18-2015)
CHAPTER 4
CURFEW REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-4-1: Curfew Violation Unlawful
10-4-2: Parental Responsibility
10-4-3: Violation; Penalty
10-4-1: CURFEW VIOLATION UNLAWFUL:
   A.   Generally: It is unlawful for any juvenile who is under sixteen (16)
years of age to remain upon any highway, road, alley, park, playground or other
public places, or buildings or places of amusement, eating establishments,
vacant lots and/or any other place, without being accompanied by an adult
having custodial rights or an adult person designated by the adult having
custodial rights of said child between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M.
and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. of the following day; provided, that the provisions
of this section shall not apply in the instances noted in subsection D of this
section.
   B.   Weekdays: It is unlawful for any juvenile, being an individual who is
between sixteen (16) and eighteen (18) years of age, to remain upon any
highway, road, alley, park, playground or other public places, or buildings or
places of amusement, eating establishments, vacant lots and/or any other place,
without being accompanied by an adult having custodial rights, or an adult
person designated by the adult having custodial rights of said child, during
the weekdays, specifically Sunday through Thursday, between the hours of eleven
o'clock (11:00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. of the following day;
provided, that the provisions of this section shall not apply in the instances
noted in subsection D of this section.
   C.   Weekends: It is unlawful for any juvenile, being an individual who is
between sixteen (16) and eighteen (18) years of age, to remain upon any
highway, road, alley, park, playground or other public places, or buildings or
places of amusement, eating establishments, vacant lots and/or any other place,
without being accompanied by an adult having custodial rights, or an adult
person designated by the adult having custodial rights of said child, during
the weekends, specifically Friday and Saturday, between the hours of twelve
o'clock (12:00) midnight and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. of the following day;
provided, that the provisions of this section shall not apply in the instances
noted in subsection D of this section.
   D.   Exceptions: Subsections A through C of this section shall not apply in
the following instances:
      1.   When the child is on an emergency errand directed by his or her
parent or guardian or other adult person having the lawful care and custody of
such juvenile.
      2.   When the child is returning directly home from a school activity,
school entertainment, school or recreational activity or school dance.
      3.   When the child is either going to or going from his place of
residence to lawful employment and/or is working at the child's place of
employment.
      4.   When the child is attending or traveling directly to or from an
activity involving the lawful exercise of first amendment rights of free
speech, freedom of assembly or free exercise of religion.
      5.   When the child is in a motor vehicle with parental consent for
normal travel with interstate travel through the city. (Ord. 525, 2-5-2014;
amd. Ord. 545, 11-5-2014)
10-4-2: PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY:
It shall be unlawful for the parent, guardian or other person having legal
custody of a child, or any adult person designated by the person having legal
custody of a child, under the age of eighteen (18) years, to knowingly permit
or allow said child to be upon any public highways, roads, alleys, parks,
playgrounds or other public grounds, places, buildings, places of amusement,
eating places, vacant lots, or other locations in violation of the provisions
of subsections
10-4-1A through C of this chapter, without having designated an adult person or
said parent, guardian or other legal custodian to be with and supervise said
juvenile, except in the circumstances set forth in subsection
10-4-1D of this chapter. (Ord. 525, 2-5-2014; amd. Ord. 545, 11-5-2014)
10-4-3: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
A violation of any of the provisions of this chapter is punishable pursuant to
Idaho Code, section 20-549, as amended. (Ord. 525, 2-5-2014; amd. Ord. 545, 11-
5-2014)
TITLE 11
TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
TRAFFIC CODE
SECTION:
11-1-1: Speed Restrictions
11-1-2: Use Of Air Compression Brakes Prohibited
11-1-1: SPEED RESTRICTIONS:
No person shall drive a vehicle on a highway or street at a speed greater than
that which is reasonable and prudent under the conditions and with regard to
actual potential hazards then existing. The limits specified in this section,
or established as posted, shall be maximum lawful speeds, and no person shall
drive a vehicle at a speed in excess of such limits. A violation of this
section shall be an infraction.
   Specific Speed Limits:
   A.   Parks, alleys, and unimproved roads. In any public park, or in any
alley, fifteen (15) miles per hour. The term “alley” shall mean a minor public
way providing secondary access at the back or side of a property for vehicle or
pedestrian traffic.
   B.   Subdivision street. Local streets within subdivisions shall have a
speed limit of twenty (20) miles per hour.
   C.   City streets. On all other streets in Middleton, twenty-five (25) miles
per hour, unless otherwise posted.
   D.   School zones. Twenty (20) miles per hour when any of the following
exist:
      1.   A school speed limit sign with flashing lights attached and the
words “when flashing” posted and the lights are activated; or
      2.   A school speed limit sign with “when children are present” included
thereon, and there is a child or children present; or
      3.   A school zone speed limit sign with designated time frames included
thereon.
   Any person that violates this subsection D shall be guilty of an infraction
and shall be assessed a fixed penalty of $100.00 excluding court costs and
fees.
(Ord. 662, 4-20-2022)
11-1-2: USE OF AIR COMPRESSION BRAKES PROHIBITED:
The use of air compression brakes (also known as "jake brakes") by vehicles or
trucks within the city is hereby prohibited and shall be unlawful, except under
emergency circumstances where the use of air compression brakes is necessary to
prevent an accident or injury to persons or property. (Ord. 557, 3-18-2015)
CHAPTER 2
STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING
SECTION:
11-2-1: Manner Of Parking
11-2-2: Stopping, Standing Or Parking Prohibited
11-2-3: Restricted Parking Of Trucks, Campers, Motor Homes And Trailers
11-2-4: Recreational Vehicle Visitor Parking Permits
11-2-1: MANNER OF PARKING:
It shall be unlawful for any person to stand or park a vehicle in a roadway
other than parallel with the edge of the roadway headed in the direction of
lawful traffic movement, unless otherwise marked. The curbside wheels of such
vehicle shall be within eighteen inches (18") of the curb or edge of the
property.
Any vehicle parked within a parking or loading zone shall be parked entirely
within markings designating one parking space; and in case of diagonal parking,
shall be parked so that the front of the vehicle is nearest the curb.
No person shall stop, park or leave standing any vehicle, whether attended or
unattended, upon a road or highway in such a manner or under such conditions as
to leave available less than twelve feet (12') of such roadway for the free
movement of vehicular traffic. (Ord. 557, 3-18-2015)
11-2-2: STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING PROHIBITED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop, stand or park a vehicle,
trailer, camper, truck trailer, etc., except when necessary to avoid conflict
with other traffic or in compliance with law or the direction of a law
enforcement officer or traffic control device in any of the following places or
circumstances, unless otherwise approved by the city:
      1.   On a sidewalk.
      2.   Within twenty feet (20') of a public or private driveway, except the
vehicle owner's driveway.
      3.   Within forty feet (40') of a crosswalk or an intersection.
      4.   Within fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant.
      5.   On a crosswalk.
      6.   Within thirty feet (30') upon the approach to any flashing beacon,
stop sign or traffic control signal.
      7.   Within twenty feet (20') of the driveway entrance to any fire
station and on the side of a road opposite the entrance to any fire station
within seventy five feet (75') of said entrance when properly signposted.
      8.   Alongside or opposite any road obstruction or excavation when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic.
      9.   On a roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of a road.
      10.   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or
within a highway tunnel.
      11.   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping.
      12.   Within an alley in such a manner or under such condition as to
leave available less than ten feet (10') of the width of the roadway for the
free movement of vehicular traffic, and it shall be unlawful for a person to
stop, stand or park a vehicle within an alley in such a position as to block
the driveway entrance to any abutting property.
      13.   On a residential lot, unless parking of said vehicles is
accomplished completely off public right of way and entirely on private
property, that the vehicles are unladen, and that the parking thereof is not in
violation of any other ordinance of the city.
      14.   In such a manner or under conditions that would prohibit the safe,
free movement and unobstructed view of other vehicular traffic.
      15.   For the purpose of changing oil, greasing or repairing such vehicle
except for repairs necessitated by any emergency.
      16.   On any public road Monday through Friday from eight o'clock (8:00)
A.M. to five o'clock (5:00) P.M. November 1 to November 30, each year.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to move a vehicle not lawfully
under his control into any such prohibited area or away from a curb such
distance as is unlawful. (Ord. 587, 1-18-2017)
11-2-3: RESTRICTED PARKING OF TRUCKS, CAMPERS, MOTOR HOMES AND TRAILERS:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to stop, stand, or park a camper, motor
home, recreational vehicle, storage pod, trailer, truck or truck-tractor on any
road, alley, or easement in the City for more than forty eight (48) hours.
However, between April 1 and October 31, campers, motor homes and recreational
vehicles or similar vehicles may park on any public road in the City for up to
seventy two (72) hours to load or unload. (Ord. 608, 7-3-2018)
   B.   No vehicle or trailer with surfaces injurious to pavement shall be
operated, parked, or otherwise permitted upon the public roads of the City
unless the operator of such vehicle first planks such roads. Any damage caused
by failure to comply with this subsection shall be the responsibility of the
owner of the vehicle causing the damage.
   C.   No person shall stop, stand or park a commercial truck tractor, semi-
truck or trailer on any road, public easement or alley within the City, other
than for the purpose of loading or unloading cargo in an expeditious manner.
(Ord. 587, 1-18-2017)
11-2-4: RECREATIONAL VEHICLE VISITOR PARKING PERMITS:
Visitors to the City of Middleton are allowed to park their recreational
vehicle, trailer or other like vehicle curbside for up to fourteen (14) total
days in a twelve (12) month period, upon the acquisition of a permit from the
City. Permits shall be administratively approved by the Mayor or his/her
designee. The permit fee shall be set by the Council. (Ord. 557, 3-18-2015)
 
