MINIDOKA COUNTY, ID
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Code current through:
Ord. 2024-12-2, passed 12-2-2024
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
   This county code of Minidoka County, as supplemented, contains ordinances up
to and including ordinance 2024-12-2, passed December 2, 2024. Ordinances of
the county adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code
to the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the
county office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the
code has been amended, superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they have not been incorporated into
the code and they may not show the original ordinances in their entirety.
Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions concerning
the ordinances listed.
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 2016-10-17
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE COMPILED ORDINANCES ENACTED BY THE MINIDOKA COUNTY
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS AS THE MINIDOKA COUNTY CODE, PROVIDING FOR PERPETUAL
CODIFICATION IN THE FUTURE, PROHIBITING UNAUTHORIZED MODIFICATION OF THE COUNTY
CODE, SUPERSEDING PRIOR MINIDOKA COUNTY ORDINANCES OF A GENERAL NATURE THE
SUBSTANCE OF WHICH IS INCORPORATED HEREIN, AND PROVIDING THAT THE MINIDOKA
COUNTY CODE SHALL BE EFFECTIVE UPON THE DATE OF PUBLICATION OF A SUMMARY OF
THIS ORDINANCE IN THE OFFICIAL NEWSPAPER OF MINIDOKA COUNTY.
BE IT ORDAINED by the board of commissioners of Minidoka County, Idaho as
follows:
   Section 1: From and after the date of passage of this ordinance, the county
code of Minidoka County, Idaho, prepared by Sterling Codifiers, containing the
compilation of all ordinances of a general nature together with the changes
made to said ordinances, under the direction of the governing body of the
county, shall be accepted in all courts as provided by law as the official code
and law of Minidoka County as enacted by the county commissioners.
   Section 2: There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification,
the loose-leaf type of binding together with the continuous supplement service,
provided by Sterling Codifiers, whereby each newly adopted ordinance of a
general and permanent nature amending, altering, adding or deleting provisions
of the official county code is identified by the proper catchline and is
inserted in the proper place in each of the official copies, one copy of which
shall be maintained in the office of the county clerk, certified as to
correctness and available for inspection at any and all times that said office
is regularly open.
   Section 3: All ordinances of a general nature included in this official
county code shall be considered as a continuation of said ordinance provision
and the fact that some provisions have been deliberately eliminated by the
governing body shall not serve to cause any interruption in the continuous
effectiveness of ordinances included in said official county code. All
ordinances of a special nature, such as tax levy ordinances, bond ordinances,
franchises, ordinances addressing particular described or mapped lands or
vacating ordinances shall continue in full force and effect unless specifically
repealed or amended by a provision of the county code. Such ordinances of
special nature are not intended to be included in the official county code.
   Section 4: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of such code, or
to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such
code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the county to be
misrepresented thereby.
   Section 5: All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith, are,
to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
   Section 6: This ordinance shall be recorded and the code adopted hereby
shall be retained by the Minidoka County clerk and shall be in full force and
effect from and after its passage, approval and publication in book form as
provided by law.
PASSED by the board of county commissioners on the 17 day of October, 2016 by a
roll call vote reflected in the minutes.
          
   Chair of the Board
ATTEST:
          
   Minidoka County Clerk
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
MINIDOKA COUNTY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon adoption by the board of county commissioners, this code is hereby
declared to be and shall hereafter constitute the official county code of
Minidoka County. This code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the
MINIDOKA COUNTY CODE and is hereby published by authority of the county
commissioners and shall be supplemented to incorporate the most recent
legislation of the county as provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this code by title in any legal documents. (2016 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of the county of general and permanent effect, except
the excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2016 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this code shall set forth the title, chapter and section
number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall constitute
sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to the
amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this code. Each such replacement page shall be
properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of this code.
(2016 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Said code, while in
actual possession of officials and other interested persons, shall be and
remain the property of the county and shall be returned to the office of the
county clerk when directed so to do by order of the county commissioners. (2016
Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Court Proceedings
1-2-3: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
   A.   Ordinances Repealed And Ordinances Saved From Repeal: All general
ordinances of the county passed prior to the adoption of this code are hereby
repealed, except such as are included in this code or are by necessary
implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving clauses
contained in the following sections), and excluding the following ordinances
which are not hereby repealed:
      1.   Tax levy ordinances.
      2.   Appropriation ordinances.
      3.   Ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations.
      4.   Franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to
persons or corporations.
      5.   Contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants.
      6.   Salary ordinances.
      7.   Ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, public ways or
other public places in the county.
      8.   Local improvement districts.
      9.   Bond ordinances.
      10.   Ordinances relating to elections.
      11.   Ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by
or from the county.
      12.   All special ordinances.
   B.   Limitations On Repeal: The repeal of the ordinances, as provided in
subsection A of this section, shall not affect any debt or fee which is
accrued, any duty imposed, any penalty incurred, nor any action or proceeding
commenced under or by virtue of the ordinances repealed or the term of office
of any person holding office at the time these ordinances take effect; nor
shall the repeal of any ordinance have the effect of reviving any ordinance
heretofore repealed or superseded. (2016 Code)
1-2-2: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as
to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done,
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or
claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   Extend To All Repeals: This section shall extend to all repeals, either
by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making
any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Current And Pending Actions: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the county herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the county under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this code. (2016 Code)
1-2-3: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this code,
or any part hereof, or any portion adopted by reference or any codes or
portions of codes adopted herein is for any reason held to be unconstitutional
or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision
shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of the remaining portions of
this code, or any part hereof, or any portion adopted by reference or any codes
or portions of codes adopted herein. The board of county commissioners hereby
declares that it would have passed each section, subsection, paragraph,
sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or
more sections, subsections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases be
declared unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (2016 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: General Rules Of Interpretation
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: GENERAL RULES OF INTERPRETATION:
   A.   Liberal Construction: All general provisions, terms, phrases and
expressions contained in this code shall be liberally construed in order that
the true intent and meaning of the board of county commissioners may be fully
carried out.
   B.   Minimum Requirements: In the interpretation and application of any
provision of this code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted
for the promotion of the public health, safety and general welfare.
   C.   Computation Of Time: Whenever a notice is required to be given or an
act to be done in a certain length of time before any proceeding shall be had,
the day on which such notice is given or such act is done shall not be counted
in computing the time, but the day on which such proceeding is to be held shall
be counted.
   D.   Delegation Of Authority: Whenever a provision appears requiring the
head of a department or some other county officer to do some act or perform
some duty, it shall be construed to authorize the head of the department or
other officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the
required act or perform the duty unless the terms of the provision or section
specify otherwise.
   E.   Gender: The use of any gender based pronoun should not be construed to
be gender biased, but is only used for grammatical simplicity.
   F.   Joint Authority: All words giving a joint authority to three (3) or
more persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a
majority of such persons or officers.
   G.   May/Shall: The word "may" is permissive; the word "shall" is mandatory.
   H.   Nontechnical And Technical Words: Words and phrases shall be construed
according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words
and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
   I.   Number: A word importing the singular number only may extend and be
applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing.
   J.   Officers And Employees Generally: Whenever any officer or employee is
referred to by title only, such reference shall be construed as if followed by
the words "of Minidoka County".
   K.   Tense: Words used in the past or present tense include the future as
well as the past and present.
   L.   Ordinance: The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the
county has been changed in the content of this code to "title", "chapter",
"section" and/or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and
clarification purposes only. Such change to the county's ordinances is not
meant to amend passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (2016
Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
The following words and phrases, whenever used in the ordinances of the county,
and this code, shall be construed as defined in this section unless from the
context a different meaning is intended or unless a different meaning is
specifically defined and more particularly directed to the use of such words or
phrases:
   COUNTY: The county of Minidoka, state of Idaho.
   COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OR BOARD: The board of county commissioners of Minidoka
County, Idaho.
   IC: Idaho Code.
   LAW: Denotes applicable federal law, the constitution and statutes of the
state of Idaho, the ordinances of the county of Minidoka, and, when
appropriate, any and all rules and regulations which may be promulgated
thereunder.
   PERSON: Includes a natural person, joint venture, joint stock company,
partnership, association, club, company, corporation, business, trust,
organization, or the manager, lessee, agent, servant, officer or employee of
any of them.
   STATE: The state of Idaho. (2016 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
section of this code, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted. (2016 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY:
Any person convicted of a violation of any section or provision of this code,
where no other penalty is set forth, shall be punished by a fine not to exceed
one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or by imprisonment not to exceed six (6)
months, or by both such fine and imprisonment, for each offense; or by a fine
not to exceed three hundred dollars ($300.00) with no imprisonment, when the
offense is designated as an infraction by state law or by any section or
provision of this code. (2016 Code)
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Application Of Penalty:
      1.   The penalty provided in this chapter shall be applicable to every
section of this code the same as though it were a part of each and every
separate section. Any person convicted of a violation of any section of this
code where any duty is prescribed or obligation imposed or where any action
which is of a continuing nature is forbidden or is declared to be unlawful
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor unless otherwise provided. A separate
offense shall be deemed committed upon each day such duty or obligation remains
unperformed or such act continues unless otherwise specifically provided in
this code.
      2.   Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act
constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this code, and there shall
be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of
this chapter shall apply.
   B.   Imposition Of Penalty: In all cases where the same offense is made
punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of this code, the
prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed; but not more than one
recovery shall be had against the same person for the same offense; provided,
that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be considered a recovery
or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
   C.   Breach Of Provisions: Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to
do any act constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this code and
there shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the
provisions of this chapter shall apply. (2016 Code)
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty unless the intention of
the board of county commissioners to impose such fine or penalty on such
officer or employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the section
creating the duty. (2016 Code)
CHAPTER 5
NONDISCRIMINATION POLICY
SECTION:
1-5-1: Accessibility To Programs And Activities
1-5-1: ACCESSIBILITY TO PROGRAMS AND ACTIVITIES:
   A.   It is the policy of the county that all programs and activities shall
be accessible to, and usable by, qualified persons with disabilities.
   B.   The county shall undertake an evaluation, conducted in consultation
with citizen groups involving persons with disabilities, of its programs,
policies, procedures and facilities in order to determine those areas where
discrimination may occur.
   C.   The county shall, upon completion of said evaluation, make such
revisions, modifications, or other changes so as to fully comply with the
letter and intent of section 504 of federal rehabilitation act of 1973.
   D.   The county shall, where building modifications are required, develop
and implement a transition plan for the timely elimination of structural
barriers to citizens with disabilities. (Ord. 95-4, 6-12-1995)
CHAPTER 6
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
SECTION:
1-6-1: Definitions
1-6-2: Corporation Created, Name
1-6-3: Issuance Of Charter
1-6-4: Board Of Directors
1-6-5: Powers Of Corporation
1-6-6: Rights Of Indemnification
1-6-7: Net Earnings To County
1-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words shall have the following meanings:
   ACT: Chapter 27, title 50, Idaho Code.
   BOARD OF DIRECTORS: The board of directors of the public corporation.
   CORPORATION: The industrial development corporation of the board of county
commissioners, Minidoka County, Idaho.
   COUNTY: The county of Minidoka, Idaho.
   FACILITIES: Land, rights in land, buildings, structures, docks, wharves,
machinery, transmission equipment, landscaping, utilities, approaches, roadways
and parking, handling and storage areas, and similar ancillary facilities.
   INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT FACILITY OR INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT FACILITIES:
Manufacturing, processing, production, assembly, warehousing, transportation,
pollution control, solid waste disposal, and energy facilities. (Ord. 98-4, 6-
8-1998)
1-6-2: CORPORATION CREATED, NAME:
   A.   The county hereby creates a public corporation to carry out the purpose
of chapter 27, title 50, Idaho Code (the "act"), as that law may from time to
time hereinafter be amended.
   B.   The name of the public corporation shall be "The Industrial Development
Corporation Of The County of Minidoka, Idaho" (the "corporation"). (Ord. 98-4,
6-8-1998)
1-6-3: ISSUANCE OF CHARTER:
A charter shall be issued to the corporation by the county, which shall grant
to the corporation authority to act pursuant to the act. A copy of the initial
charter to be issued is attached as exhibit A to the ordinance codified herein.
Said charter may be amended from time to time by the county and shall contain
the limitations set forth in the act. (Ord. 98-4, 6-8-1998)
1-6-4: BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
   A.   Appointment; Quorum: The board of directors of the corporation shall be
designated and appointed by the board of county commissioners. A majority of
the members of the board of directors shall constitute a quorum.
   B.   Organization; Compensation:
      1.   The affairs of the corporation shall be conducted and carried out by
the board of directors. The board shall elect from among its own members, its
president, a vice president, a treasurer and a secretary, one of whom shall be
eligible to hold two (2) offices. The board of directors shall adopt bylaws
(rules and regulations) governing the conduct of the corporation.
      2.   Members of the board of directors shall serve with such compensation
as may be provided in the bylaws to be adopted by the board of directors.
   C.   Conflict Of Interest: No director, officer, agent or employee of the
corporation shall have, directly or indirectly, any financial interest in any
property to be included in, or any contract for, property, service or materials
to be furnished or used in connection with the industrial development
facilities financed through the corporation. (Ord. 98-4, 6-8-1998)
1-6-5: POWERS OF CORPORATION:
   A.   General Powers And Limitations: The corporation shall have all the
powers and be subject to all the limitations and provisions contained in the
act, as that law may hereinafter from time to time be amended.
   B.   Powers Enumerated: The corporation shall have all the powers granted
by, as well as limited by, the act, and shall include the following:
      1.   To construct and maintain one or more industrial development
facilities.
      2.   To lease to a lessee all or any part of any industrial development
facility for such rentals and upon such terms and conditions, including options
to purchase, as its board of directors considers advisable and not in conflict
with the act.
      3.   To sell by installment contract or otherwise and convey all or any
part of any industrial development facility for such purchase price and upon
such terms and conditions as its board of directors considers advisable, which
are not in conflict with the act.
      4.   To make loans for the purpose of providing temporary or permanent
financing or refinancing of all or part of the project cost of any industrial
development facility, including the refunding of any outstanding obligations,
mortgages, or advances issued, made, or given by any person for the project
costs; and to charge and collect interest on the loans for the loan payment
upon such terms and conditions as its board of directors considers advisable
which are not in conflict with the act.
      5.   To issue revenue bonds for the purpose of financing all or part of
the project cost of any industrial development facility and to secure the
payment of the revenue bonds as provided by the act.
      6.   As security for the payment of the principal of and interest on any
revenue bonds issued and any agreements made in connection therewith, to
mortgage, pledge, or otherwise encumber any or all of its industrial
development facilities or any part or parts thereof, whether then owned or
thereafter acquired, and to assign any lease or mortgage and repledge any
security conveyed to the corporation, and to pledge the revenues and receipts
therefrom.
      7.   To sue and be sued, complain, and defend in its corporate name.
      8.   To make contracts and to execute all instruments necessary or
convenient for the carrying out of its business.
      9.   To have a corporate seal and to use the same by causing it, or a
facsimile thereof, to be impressed or affixed or in any other manner
reproduced.
      10.   Subject to the limitations of Idaho Code section 50-2706, to borrow
money, accept grants from, or contract with, any local, state, or federal
governmental agency or with any financial public or private corporation.
      11.   To make and alter bylaws not inconsistent with its charter for the
administration and regulation of the affairs of the corporation.
      12.   To collect fees or charges from users or prospective users of
industrial development facilities to recover actual or anticipated
administrative costs.
      13.   To execute financing incidental to the powers enumerated in this
subsection.
      14.   The corporation created under this chapter may not operate any
industrial development facilities as a business other than as lessor, seller,
or lender. The other security interests and contracting for any servicing
thereof is not considered the operation of an industrial development facility.
      15.   The corporation created by this chapter may not exercise any of the
powers authorized in this section or issue any revenue bonds with respect to
any industrial development facility unless the industrial development facility
is located wholly within the boundaries of the county.
      16.   The county may not give or lend any money or property nor exercise
its power of eminent domain in aid of the corporation. This provision shall not
preclude the county from dealing with the corporation on an arms length basis.
      17.   The corporation may not issue revenue obligations, except upon
approval of the county within whose planning jurisdiction the proposed
industrial development facility lies. (Ord. 98-4, 6-8-1998)
1-6-6: RIGHTS OF INDEMNIFICATION:
Every person who was or is a party, or is threatened to be made a party to, or
is involved in, any action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal,
administrative or investigative, by reason of the fact that he or a person of
whom he is the legal representative is or was a director or officer of the
corporation, or is or was serving at the request of the corporation as a
director or officer of another corporation, or as its representative in a
partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, shall be indemnified and
held harmless to the fullest extent legally permissible under the law of the
state of Idaho from time to time against all expenses, liability and loss
(including attorney fees, judgments, fines and amounts paid or to be paid in
settlement), reasonably incurred or suffered by him in connection therewith.
Such rights of indemnification shall be a contract right which may be enforced
in any manner desired by such person. Such right of indemnification shall not
be exclusive of any other right which such directors, officers, or
representatives may have or hereafter acquire, and without limiting the
generality of such statement, they shall be entitled to their respective rights
of indemnification under any bylaw, agreement, vote of stockholders, provision
of law, or otherwise, as well as their rights under this section. The board of
directors may adopt bylaws from time to time with respect to indemnification to
provide at all times the fullest indemnification permitted by the laws of the
state of Idaho, and may cause the corporation to purchase and maintain
insurance on behalf of any person who is or was a director or officer of the
corporation as a director or officer of another corporation, or as its
representative in a partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise,
against any liability asserted against such person and incurred in any such
capacity or arising out of such status, whether or not the corporation would
have the power to indemnify such person. (Ord. 98-4, 6-8-1998)
1-6-7: NET EARNINGS TO COUNTY:
Any net earnings of the corporation, beyond those necessary for retirement of
indebtedness incurred by it, shall inure to the county and not for the benefit
of any other person. Alteration of the charter of, or dissolution of or audits
of, the corporation shall be as provided by the act and by subsequent
resolutions of the county. Upon dissolution of the corporation, title to all
property owned by the corporation shall vest in the county. (Ord. 98-4, 6-8-
1998)
CHAPTER 7
MINI-CASSIA COMMERCE AUTHORITY
SECTION:
1-7-1: Joint Powers Agreement Approval
1-7-1: JOINT POWERS AGREEMENT APPROVAL:
   A.   The board of county commissioners for Minidoka County, having reviewed
the joint powers agreement between Minidoka County, Idaho, and Cassia County,
Idaho, for formation and authorization of a joint intermodal commerce
authority, hereby approves said joint powers agreement, and the terms and
conditions thereof on behalf of Minidoka County 1 .
   B.   The chairman of the board of county commissioners and clerk are hereby
authorized to execute and attest respectively said agreement for Minidoka
County.
   C.   This section shall take effect and be in force from and after its
passage and approval and publication as by law provided, and contingent upon
Cassia County's passage of an ordinance providing for the same approvals and
terms as this section. (Ord. 05-01, 4-12-2005)
 
Notes
  1. The full and complete text of the joint powers agreement is, and shall be
1 kept, on file in the offices of the county clerks of Minidoka County and
  Cassia County.
CHAPTER 8
FINANCIAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
1-8-1: Fees For Issuance Of Warrants Of Distraint
1-8-2: Landline And Cellular Telephone Service Fee
1-8-1: FEES FOR ISSUANCE OF WARRANTS OF DISTRAINT:
   A.   Authority: This section is adopted pursuant to the provisions of Idaho
Code section 63-1013(2), effective July 1, 2010.
   B.   Purpose: All warrants of distraint issued by the tax collector shall be
served and executed by the sheriff in the manner provided by law for the
services of executions by levy upon personal property.
   C.   Fees:
      1.   Fees allowed for issuing warrants of distraint, collection, levy and
return of the same shall be set by ordinance by the board of county
commissioners.
      2.   Minidoka County shall charge a fee of twenty dollars ($20.00) for a
warrant of distraint issued by the tax collector. (Ord. 2016-09-13-A, 9-13-
2016)
1-8-2: LANDLINE AND CELLULAR TELEPHONE SERVICE FEE:
   A.   The board of county commissioners shall assess a fee of one dollar
($1.00), beginning on October 1, 2002, to be collected by all service providers
operating within Minidoka County, for all telephone service connections, both
landline and cellular, in use within Minidoka County.
   B.   The administration of service fees shall be overseen by the Minidoka
County emergency services administrator.
   C.   All telephone service connections owned by Minidoka County shall be
exempt from the payment of the fee. (Ord. 02-03, 8-26-2002)
CHAPTER 9
GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION SYSTEM (GIS)
SECTION:
1-9-1: Notice Of Copyright
1-9-2: Paper Maps
1-9-3: Online Services
1-9-4: GIS Data
1-9-5: GIS Data Owned By Third Parties
1-9-6: Use Of Data For Emergency Response
1-9-7: Penalties
1-9-1: NOTICE OF COPYRIGHT:
All data and maps assembled, created, maintained or published by Minidoka
County are copyrighted by the same and all rights thereto are reserved by
Minidoka County. Reproduction, conveyance, or other means of duplication
without express written permission is strictly prohibited. (Ord. 2016-02-01, 2-
1-2016)
1-9-2: PAPER MAPS:
Paper maps created using the county GIS for sale to the public shall be subject
to fees as adopted by resolution by the Minidoka County board of county
commissioners. (Ord. 2016-02-01, 2-1-2016)
1-9-3: ONLINE SERVICES:
In order to enhance public accessibility to the county's geographic data, the
county may, but it is not required to, make certain GIS datasets, parcel data
and other information is available on the internet. These online services shall
be subject to fees as adopted by resolution by the Minidoka County board of
county commissioners. (Ord. 2016-02-01, 2-1-2016)
1-9-4: GIS DATA:
   A.   Requests For Data; Costs And Agreement: All requests for GIS data shall
be submitted to Minidoka County and shall be subject to fees as adopted by
resolution by the Minidoka County board of county commissioners. Such requests
are further subject to a "computerized mapping data products license agreement"
(hereinafter referred to as "license agreement") to be executed in each
instance in a form substantially similar to exhibit A attached to the ordinance
codified herein in the office of the Minidoka County clerk. The Minidoka County
assessor is hereby authorized to accept and fulfill such license agreements on
behalf of Minidoka County.
   B.   Exemption From Costs: Persons, organizations or agencies may request to
be exempt from the required fees to acquire Minidoka County's GIS data by
submitting said proposal in writing to the Minidoka County assessor, who shall
forward a recommendation to the board of county commissioners. This may be
approved if the board has determined the following:
      1.   Minidoka County will receive GIS data from the requester, or
services related to the same, that is of comparable or equal value to that
which is to be provided by the county.
      2.   The requester ensures that the data will be protected from improper
or illegal use.
      3.   The benefits to the county and the public outweigh the revenue loss
from the fee waiver. (Ord. 2016-02-01, 2-1-2016)
1-9-5: GIS DATA OWNED BY THIRD PARTIES:
Data stored by the county that is copyrighted by third parties shall not be
conveyed to the public or other agencies without express written permission of
the copyright holder. (Ord. 2016-02-01, 2-1-2016)
1-9-6: USE OF DATA FOR EMERGENCY RESPONSE:
County employees may, without a license agreement or fee, under the direction
of an elected county official or department head, release GIS data to agencies
and personnel engaged in legitimate law enforcement activity or response to
floods, wildfires, acts of terrorism or other emergencies to prevent imminent
peril to life or property. The employee(s) releasing the GIS data shall include
written notification with the released GIS data that its use is limited to
emergency response actions and all other use is strictly prohibited without
appropriate approval in accordance with this chapter. (Ord. 2016-02-01, 2-1-
2016)
1-9-7: PENALTIES:
In addition to any and all remedies available at law or in equity, each
violation of the provisions of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor punishable
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this title. (Ord. 2016-02-01, 2-1-2016; amd. 2016 Code)
TITLE 2
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
LIQUOR, BEER AND WINE
SECTION:
2-1-1: Title
2-1-2: Authority And Purpose
2-1-3: Licenses Required
2-1-4: Application For License
2-1-5: License Fees
2-1-6: Revocation Of License
2-1-7: Hours Of Sale
2-1-8: Penalties
2-1-1: TITLE:
This ordinance shall be known as the Minidoka County Liquor, Beer, and Wine
Ordinance, and all other ordinances and parts of ordinances and resolutions in
conflict herewith are hereby repealed upon the effective date of this
ordinance. (Ord. 2016-09-13-B, 9-13-2016; amd. 2016 Code; Ord. 2024-08-12, 8-
12-2024)
2-1-2: AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE:
   A.   This ordinance is adopted pursuant to the authority granted to counties
to regulate the sale of liquor, wine, and beer as provided in the Idaho Code,
and the Constitution of the State of Idaho.
   B.   The purpose of this chapter is to establish consolidated rules and
regulations governing the regulation and sale of liquor, wine, and beer. (Ord.
2016-09-13-B, 9-13-2016; amd. Ord. 2024-08-12, 8-12-2024)
2-1-3: LICENSES REQUIRED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell liquor, beer, or wine at
retail or by the drink within the boundaries of Minidoka County without having
first procured a license for the sale of the same from the State of Idaho.
   B.   It shall further be unlawful for any person to sell beer or wine at
retail or by the drink within the boundaries of Minidoka County without having
first procured a County license for the sale of beer or wine. (Ord. 2016-09-13-
B, 9-13-2016; amd. Ord. 2024-08-12, 8-12-2024)
2-1-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Application for license shall be in writing, signed and sworn to by the
applicant upon forms furnished by the County Clerk. Such application shall be
filed by the Clerk and presented to the Board of County Commissioners at the
next regular meeting for approval or rejection, or further consideration.
   B.   All applicants for issuance of a beer license shall be governed by the
provisions of Title 23, Chapter 10 of the Idaho Code in effect as of the date
of this ordinance, or as hereafter amended.
   C.   All applicants for issuance of a wine license shall be governed by the
provisions of Title 23, Chapter 13 of the Idaho Code in effect as of the date
of this ordinance, or as hereafter amended.
   D.   In addition to the statutory requirements of the State of ldaho for
application for a Retail Liquor License issued by the State of ldaho, all
applicants are required to provide the Minidoka County Clerk with a copy of
said license governed by the provisions of Title 23, Chapter 9. Applicants
providing said license will be considered in compliance with the license
documentation requirements of Minidoka County.
   E.   The Board of County Commissioners shall act upon an application for a
retail liquor, beer, or wine license, a transfer, or a renewal thereof within
fourteen (14) days from receipt of said application by the Board of County
Commissioners.
(Ord. 2016-09-13-B, 9-13-2016; amd. Ord. 2024-08-12, 8-12-2024)
2-1-5: LICENSE FEES:
   A.   Pursuant to the provisions of ldaho Code§ 23-916, § 23-1015, § 23-1315,
§ 23-1317, § 23-1005A.
   B.   The license fees shall be collected on a calendar year basis, running
from 1:00 o'clock a.m. July 31st through 12:59 o'clock a.m. of the following
July 30th.
(Ord. 2016-09-13-B, 9-13-2016; amd. Ord. 2024-08-12, 8-12-2024)
2-1-6: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
The right shall remain at all time vested in the Board of County Commissioners
to revoke or cancel any license for fraud or misrepresentation in its
procurement, for violation of any provisions of this ordinance, for violation
of any state statute regulating the sale and distribution of liquor, wine and
beer, or for conduct or act of the licensee or his employees, or any conduct or
act permitted by him or them on the premises where such business in conducted
tending to render such business or such premises as a public nuisance or menace
to the health, peace, safety or general welfare of the County; provided
further, that revocation or suspension of the state license for sale of liquor,
wine, or beer shall be deemed a prima facie evidence for revocation of
suspension of any license issued by the County as provided herein. (Ord. 2016-
09-13-B, 9-13-2016; amd. Ord. 2024-08-12, 8-12-2024)
2-1-7: HOURS OF SALE:
   A.   No beer or wine shall be sold, offered for sale, or given away upon any
licensed premises between the hour of 1:00 o'clock a.m. until 7:00 o'clock a.m.
   B.   No liquor shall be sold, offered for sale, or given away upon any
licensed premises between the hour of 1:00 o'clock a.m. until 10:00 o'clock
a.m. on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday and Sunday.
   C.   No liquor shall be sold, offered for sale, or given away upon any
licensed premises on Christmas from 1:00 o'clock a.m. to 10:00 o'clock a.m. the
following day. The sale of liquor by the drink, subject to the other
restrictions on hours as set forth in this ordinance, is hereby allowed on
Sundays, Memorial Day and Thanksgiving Day pursuant to the provisions of ldaho
Code Idaho Code § 23-927(1)(2).
   D.   The regulation of hours for sale of liquor as provided in Idaho Code §
23-927 shall apply in addition to the regulations set forth in this ordinance.
(Ord. 2024-08-12, 8-12-2024)
2-1-8: PENALTIES:
Any person violating the provisions of this ordinance shall be punished by a
fine not exceeding Three Hundred and 00/100 Dollars ($300.00), imprisonment in
the county jail for a period not to exceed six (6) months, or by both such fine
and imprisonment. (Ord. 2016-09-13-B, 9-13-2016; amd. 2016 Code; Ord. 2024-08-
12, 8-12-2024)
CHAPTER 2
PAWNBROKERS
SECTION:
2-2-1: Definition
2-2-2: License Required
2-2-3: Application For License; Deposit
2-2-4: Issuance Of License
2-2-5: License Requirements
2-2-6: Investigation By Sheriff
2-2-7: Conditions For Transfer Of License
2-2-8: Posting Of License
2-2-9: Memorandum Of Entry
2-2-10: Receipt For Payment; Pawn Ticket
2-2-11: Record Of Transactions
2-2-12: Reports Available To Law Enforcement
2-2-13: Taking Pawn From Certain Persons Prohibited
2-2-14: Acts Of Employees
2-2-15: Restrictions On Charges
2-2-16: Location Of Business
2-2-17: Revocation Of License
2-2-18: Violation A Misdemeanor
2-2-1: DEFINITION:
Any person within the county who loans money on deposit of personal property or
deals in the selling of the same back again to the pledger or depositor, or who
mortgages security thereon, and takes or receives such personal property into
his possession, is hereby declared to be a "pawnbroker". (Ord. 97-2, 12-8-1997)
2-2-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct or transact a pawnbroker
business or pawnshop in the county without first having procured a license
therefor as hereinafter provided. (Ord. 97-2, 12-8-1997)
2-2-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; DEPOSIT:
   A.   Information On Application: The application for a pawnbroker's license
shall state the name of the person, and, in case of a firm or corporation, the
names of all the partners in such firm, or of all of the directors, officers
and stockholders of such corporation. The application shall also state the
place, street and number where such business is to be carried out. (Ord. 97-2,
12-8-1997; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Deposit: At the time of filing such petition, the applicant shall
deposit fifty dollars ($50.00) for one-fourth (1/4) of a year's fee with the
treasurer of the county for the application to be complete. This sum of money
shall be refunded to the applicant if the license petitioned for is not
granted. If the license is granted, the remaining balance of fees for the year,
one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00), may be paid in full, or the fees may be
paid in quarterly installments. (Ord. 97-2, 12-8-1997)
2-2-4: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
No such license shall be issued to any person, corporation, or association
other than the real and actual proprietor of the business and place of business
for which it is issued. (Ord. 97-2, 12-8-1997)
2-2-5: LICENSE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Contents Of License: The license issued under this chapter shall state
the name of the person to whom issued, the place of business and street number
where such business is located.
   B.   Term: Such license shall entitle the person receiving it to do business
at the place designated in the license for one year from the date of the
license.
   C.   Renewal: The holder of the license may apply to have the license
renewed one month prior to the end of the previous license. (Ord. 97-2, 12-8-
1997)
2-2-6: INVESTIGATION BY SHERIFF:
All applications for a pawnbroker license, or renewal thereof, shall be
presented to the county treasurer. No application shall be acted upon until a
recommendation by the county sheriff to the county treasurer for or against the
application is made. Such recommendation shall be made within thirty (30) days
of the filing of the application. If the sheriff's recommendation is against
granting the license, the sheriff must include reasons for the decision with
the negative recommendation to the county treasurer. The county treasurer shall
not be bound by the sheriff's recommendation. Any adverse finding is appealable
to the county commissioners. (Ord. 97-2, 12-8-1997)
2-2-7: CONDITIONS FOR TRANSFER OF LICENSE:
   A.   Pawnbrokers' licenses are not transferable to any other person, except
by a majority vote of the county commissioners, and the filing of an
application by the person to whom such license is, or may be, transferred or
assigned.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to do business, or attempt to do
business, under a license transferred to him without such approval of the
county commissioners. (Ord. 97-2, 12-8-1997)
2-2-8: POSTING OF LICENSE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct or transact a pawnbroker
business in the county unless he shall keep posted in a conspicuous place in
the place of business the license certificate therefor. (Ord. 97-2, 12-8-1997)
2-2-9: MEMORANDUM OF ENTRY:
Every pawnbroker shall, at the time of each loan, deliver to the person pawning
or pledging any goods, articles or things, a ticket or receipt containing the
substance of the entry required to be made by him in such record book, the
amount of the pledge; and no charge shall be made or received by any pawnbroker
for any such entry, memorandum or note. (Ord. 97-2, 12-8-1997)
2-2-10: RECEIPT FOR PAYMENT; PAWN TICKET:
   A.   Receipt: At the time of the redemption of any pledge, the pawnbroker
shall furnish to the pledger, at his request, a written signed receipt
indicating the exact amount paid to redeem the pledge. The receipt shall be
printed or stamped with the name of the pawnbroker and the address, and shall
be legibly written so that the figures thereon are clearly discernible.
   B.   Pawn Ticket: Every pawnbroker shall prepare and deliver to the pledger
at the time of the pledge a pawn ticket listing the property pledged. (Ord. 97-
2, 12-8-1997)
2-2-11: RECORD OF TRANSACTIONS:
   A.   Information Required: Every pawnbroker shall keep either a record book
or a computer record of transactions. At the time of each loan or receipt of
personal property, an entry shall be made, including the following:
      1.   An accurate account and description of the goods, articles or things
pawned, or received;
      2.   The amount of money loaned or advanced thereon;
      3.   The number of the pawn ticket given to the pledger;
      4.   The time of pawning or receiving such goods, articles or things,
both day and hour; and
      5.   The name, address, social security number, driver's license or
identification number and gender of the person pawning or delivering the goods,
articles or things.
   B.   Deleting Entries: No entry made shall be erased, deleted, obliterated
or defaced.
   C.   Computer Disk Backup: If a computer record is kept, the records must be
copied on a computer disk as a backup record.
   D.   Records Open For Inspection: The book or computer record, as well as
every article or thing pawned, pledged or deposited, shall at all reasonable
times be open to inspection and copying by law enforcement or any officer
directed by the sheriff. (Ord. 97-2, 12-8-1997)
2-2-12: REPORTS AVAILABLE TO LAW ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Availability Of Records And Tickets: Every pawnbroker or pawnshop
keeper in the county must, if requested, make available to law enforcement
full, true and detailed copies of all pawn tickets and the current pages of the
record book, computer printout or computer disk containing the current records.
These records must set forth an exact description of each article or thing
pawned or received by such pawnbroker or pawnshop keeper during the period
since the last such report. Said tickets and records shall be full, detailed
and correct copies of all entries in the book or computer required to be kept
in section
2-2-11 of this chapter. If no article or thing has been pawned or received, a
report must be made to that effect. Investigative reports from law enforcement
agencies will be available upon request.
   B.   Filing Of Reports; Inspection: Law enforcement shall, upon receipt of
such reports, file them securely in the law enforcement building. The reports
shall be open to inspection only by law enforcement or any officer directed by
law enforcement, or upon any order of the court. (Ord. 97-2, 12-8-1997)
2-2-13: TAKING PAWN FROM CERTAIN PERSONS PROHIBITED:
   A.   Persons Restricted: It shall be unlawful for any pawnbroker, pawnshop
keeper, his servant or employee to receive any goods, articles or things in
pawn or pledge from a person who is obviously either under the influence of
drugs or is mentally challenged, or from a person who is under the age of
eighteen (18) years. (Ord. 97-2, 12-8-1997; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Identification: It shall be unlawful to take a pledge from any person
who does not produce a means of identification bearing a photograph of the
person, unless that person is known to the pawnbroker or the person accepting
the pledge. It shall be unlawful for the pawnbroker to accept a pledge from a
person presenting such identification without comparing the identification to
the person presenting it and assuring that the person presenting the
photographic identification is the person pictured thereon. (Ord. 97-2, 12-8-
1997)
2-2-14: ACTS OF EMPLOYEES:
The holder of a pawnbroker's license shall be responsible for any and all acts
of his employees, and for a violation by such employees of the provisions of
this chapter, unless the employee is clearly acting outside the scope of his
employment at the time of such act. (Ord. 97-2, 12-8-1997)
2-2-15: RESTRICTIONS ON CHARGES:
No charges shall be made for restoring stolen property to its rightful owner.
Restitution may be available, however, in cases involving criminal prosecution.
Failure to prosecute shall allow the contract rights to be returned to the
licenser. (Ord. 97-2, 12-8-1997)
2-2-16: LOCATION OF BUSINESS:
No pawnbroker's license shall be issued in any location in which such business
is not permitted by the zoning ordinances of the county or applicable city
ordinance. (Ord. 97-2, 12-8-1997)
2-2-17: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
The county commissioners may revoke any pawnbroker's license for repeated or
serious violations of the provisions of this chapter. Any licensee shall have
the opportunity for a hearing before such revocation. (Ord. 97-2, 12-8-1997)
2-2-18: VIOLATION A MISDEMEANOR:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on
each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 97-2, 12-8-
1997)
TITLE 3
HEALTH, SANITATION AND ENVIRONMENT
CHAPTER 1
SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL SYSTEM
SECTION:
3-1-1: Purpose
3-1-2: Definitions
3-1-3: Disposal Of Waste At Places Other Than Waste Disposal System Sites
Prohibited
3-1-4: Disposal Only During Regular Hours Of Operation
3-1-5: Prohibited Discharges Or Deposits
3-1-6: Examination Or Testing Required
3-1-7: Method Of Disposal
3-1-8: Transportation Of Solid Waste
3-1-9: User Fee Established
3-1-10: Collection Of Fees
3-1-11: Delinquency Charges
3-1-12: Procedure On Appeal
3-1-13: Hardship Exemption
3-1-14: Unoccupied Building Exemption
3-1-15: Penalties
3-1-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter is established pursuant to Idaho Code Title 31, Chapter 44 to
establish a Solid Waste Disposal System in Minidoka County, Idaho:
   A.   For the purpose of reducing the threat to health posed by uncollected
garbage, refuse, and scrap;
   B.   For the purpose of maintaining the natural and aesthetic setting of the
land, water and air resources of Minidoka County, Idaho;
   C.   For the purpose of promoting the cultural, social, economic, and
sanitary needs of the citizens of Minidoka County as may be necessary from time
to time in establishing a solid waste disposal system;
   D.   In fulfilling the duty of the Board of County Commissioners, pursuant
to Idaho Code Section 31-4403, in maintaining and operating sites and
facilities for the management of solid waste; and
   E.   For providing an adequate means to fund said operations. (Ord. 2016-10-
03, 10-3-2016; amd. Ord. 2021-09-13, 9-13-2021; Ord. 2022-10-17, - - 2022)
3-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and phrases will have the
following meanings unless the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
COMMERCIAL USER: A person who is the owner of a parcel, a building or an
identifiable business or enterprise located on the parcel which is used for
commercial purposes, as determined by the records of the Minidoka County
Assessor, and which is identified by such records in the following
classifications:
   Category 35 - Improvements - Commercial in nature, located on Category 13.
   Category 38 - Improvements - Commercial in nature, located on Category 16.
   Category 40 - Improvements - Commercial in nature, located on Category 18.
   Category 42 - Improvements - Commercial in nature, located on Category 21.
   Category 60 - Improvements on Railroad Rights-of-Way - Improvements located
on railroad rights-of-way under separate ownership.
   Category 61 - Improvements by Lessee Other Than Category 62 - Improvements
made by the tenant or lessee to landlord’s property.
   Category 62 - Improvements on Exempt or Public Land - Taxable improvements
which are owned separately from exempt or public land on which they are
located.
A person shall be considered a separate “commercial user” for each individual
property or building owned or operated by such person. Any of the above
Categories which are directly used in a farming operation shall be excluded
from the definition of “commercial user.”
COUNTY: The County of Minidoka, a political subdivision in the State of Idaho.
HAZARDOUS WASTE: Solid waste which is subject to regulation as hazardous waste
by the Environmental Protection Agency, and as defined in Title 40, Code of
Federal Regulations Section 261.
HEAVY USER: A person who is the owner of a parcel, a building or an
identifiable business or enterprise located on the parcel which is used for
commercial purposes and is used as a hotel, motel, large retail, grocery or
wholesale enterprise as determined by the records of the Minidoka County
Assessor, and which is identified by such records in the following
classifications:
   Category 21 - Improvements - Commercial in nature, located on Category 42.
   Category 35 - Improvements - Commercial in nature, located on Category 13.
   Category 38 - Improvements - Commercial in nature, located on Category 16.
INDUSTRIAL USER: A person who is the owner of a parcel, a building or
identifiable business or enterprise located on the parcel which is used for
industrial purposes (manufacturing, processing, assembling, packaging and
storing) as determined by the records of the Minidoka County Assessor, and
which is identified by such records in the following classifications:
   Category 36 - Improvements - Industrial in nature, located on Category 14.
   Category 39 - Improvements - Industrial in nature, located on Category 17.
   Category 43 - Improvements - Industrial in nature, located on Category 22.
LANDFILL: Any sanitary landfill constructed by the County, dedicated to the
County; or leased, operated or maintained by the County, or in conjunction with
other counties as from time to time designated by the Board of Commissioners.
NON-CONFORMING USER: A person who is the owner of a parcel, a building or
dwelling which has multiple solid waste users as herein defined in this
chapter. When the Minidoka County Assessor, after a physical inspection of the
property, determines different solid waste users occupy the same space, the
Minidoka County Assessor shall determine the appropriate fee (residential,
commercial, exempt, etc.) to be assessed to the owner.
PERSON: Any person, firm, corporation, association, municipality, public
utility, or other such entity, as is recognized by the State of Idaho.
RESIDENTIAL/ DOMESTIC USER: Any person who is the owner of an identifiable
dwelling located on private property, as defined by the records of the Minidoka
County Assessor, which has been identified by such records in the following
residential classifications:
   Category 31 - Improvements - Residential improvements located on category
10.
   Category 34 - Improvements - Residential in nature, located on Category 12.
   Category 37 - Improvements - Residential in nature, located on Category 15.
   Category 41 - Improvements - Residential in nature, located on Category 20.
   Category 46 - Manufactured Housing - Structures transportable in one or more
sections, built on a permanent chassis, for use with or without a permanent
foundation.
   Category 48 - Manufactured Housing - Manufactured housing on which a
statement of intent to declare as real property has been filed.
A person shall be considered a separate “domestic user” for each individual
dwelling on property owned or occupied by such person. Each individual living
unit of multi-family buildings, apartments, duplexes, etc., shall be considered
a separate “domestic user”.
SOLID WASTE: All solid material that is useless, unwanted, discarded, or
otherwise considered as waste by the person in possession of it.
SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL SYSTEM: Lands, sites, facilities, equipment, personnel,
and administration necessary for the disposal of solid waste.
TAX EXEMPT USER: A person who is the owner of a parcel of property as
determined by the records of the Minidoka County Assessor and which is
identified by such records in classification Category 81 - Exempt Properties,
and which has located upon such property an occupied building. For the purpose
of this chapter, an occupied building shall include schools, churches,
government buildings, and other buildings that are in actual use during any
part of the year. A person shall be considered a separate “tax exempt user” for
each individual property or individual building on each property owned by such
person.
UTILITY USER: Any company or corporation operating in the State of Idaho under
the jurisdiction of the Idaho Public Utilities Commission and defined by the
Idaho State Tax Commission as “Operating Property” as determined by the records
of the Minidoka County Assessor and which is identified by such records in
classification Category 67 - Operating Property. One Utility User Unit will be
applied to each parcel of land that has occupied buildings that generate solid
waste as herein defined in this chapter. (Ord. 2016-10-03, 10-3-2016; amd. Ord.
2021-09-13, 9-13-2021; Ord. 2022-10-17, - -2022)
3-1-3: DISPOSAL OF WASTE AT PLACES OTHER THAN WASTE DISPOSAL SYSTEM SITES
PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful, except at a Solid Waste Disposal Site for any person to
throw away, dump, or discard within the county any type or nature of solid
waste on any public lands, right-of way of any kind, or private land of
another. In addition to the criminal penalties for violation of this section,
civil damages in an amount of three times the actual damages shall be imposed
on any person committing any such act, to be used to restore the dump site to
its previous condition. Such civil action shall be brought in Minidoka County
and for the benefit of the County for violations occurring within the county,
and any remainder of damages collected after restoration of the site, shall be
used for the maintenance and operation of the Minidoka County Solid Waste
Disposal System and enforcement of this chapter. (Ord. 2016-10-03, 10-3-2016;
amd. Ord. 2021-09-13, 9-13-2021; Ord. 2022-10-17, - -2022)
3-1-4: DISPOSAL ONLY DURING REGULAR HOURS OF OPERATION:
No person shall deposit or discharge any of the following substances into or
upon any landfill, or the premises in any landfill as defined above, at a time
other than the regular hours and days in which such landfill is open to public
dumping. (Ord. 2016-10-03, 10-3-2016; amd. Ord. 2021-09-13, 9-13-2021; Ord.
2022-10-17, - - 2022)
3-1-5: PROHIBITED DISCHARGES OR DEPOSITS:
No person shall deposit or discharge any of the following substances into or
upon any landfill in Minidoka County:
   A.   Asbestos.
   B.   Hazardous waste.
   C.   Flammable or explosive liquids, solids or gases.
   D.   Radioactive materials.
   E.   Vehicle chassis or frames.
   F.   Any other substance or material which, in the opinion of the landfill
operator, is unsuitable for discharge or deposit at the landfill because of
actual or potential threat to the health or safety of the landfill operator or
other persons using or associated with the landfill. (Ord. 2016-10-03, 10-3-
2016; amd. Ord. 2021-09-13, 9-13-2021; Ord. 2022-10-17, - -2022)
3-1-6: EXAMINATION OR TESTING REQUIRED:
It shall be the responsibility of any person discharging or depositing
materials at a landfill to insure that materials deposited therein do not
contain any of the foregoing prohibited substances. The landfill operator may
refuse to accept for disposal or discharge any materials which, in his opinion,
may contain any of the substances set forth in Section 5 until such time as the
person desiring to discharge such materials has demonstrated to the
satisfaction of the operator that said materials do not contain any prohibited
substances. The cost for any necessary examination or testing of materials
shall be at the sole cost and expense of any person desiring to discharge or
deposit said materials at the landfill. (Ord. 2016-10-03, 10-3-2016; amd. Ord.
2021-09-13, 9-13-2021; Ord. 2022-10-17, - - 2022)
3-1-7: METHOD OF DISPOSAL:
Every person discharging materials at a landfill shall do so in a manner as
directed by the landfill operator. Any person depositing materials shall
personally contact the landfill operator to obtain directions for disposal of
such material prior to the discharge or deposit of said material at the
landfill. (Ord. 2016-10-03, 10-3-2016; amd. Ord. 2021-09-13, 9-13-2021)
3-1-8: TRANSPORTATION OF SOLID WASTE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to transport any solid waste in Minidoka
County without said waste being tarped, or otherwise sufficiently covered or
secured to prevent the inadvertent or accidental dumping, spillage, or discard
of such solid waste. (Ord. 2016-10-03, 10-3-2016; amd. Ord. 2021-09-13, 9-13-
2021; Ord. 2022-10-17, - -2022)
3-1-9: USER FEE ESTABLISHED:
To fund a portion of the operations of the Minidoka County Solid Waste Disposal
System, the Board of County Commissioners of Minidoka County, Idaho does
hereby, pursuant to Idaho Code Section 31-4404, establish a user’s fee within
Minidoka County, Idaho, to be charged upon each solid waste user (as defined
above) for use of the Minidoka County Solid Waste Disposal Facilities. Such
fees are as follows:
   A.   One Hundred Five and 00/100 Dollars ($105.00 per year per residential/
domestic user.
   B.   Five Hundred Fifty and 00/100 Dollars ($550.00) per year per commercial
user.
   C.   Five Hundred Fifty and 00/100 Dollars ($550.00) per heavy use user.
   D.   Five Hundred Fifty and 00/100 Dollars ($550.00 per year per industrial
user.
   E.   Five Hundred Fifty and 00/100 Dollars ($550.00) per year per utility
user.
   F.   One Hundred Five and 00/100 Dollars ($105.00) per year per tax exempt
user.
   G.   A schedule for gate fees based on materials and volume actually
delivered to the landfill will be adopted by Resolution as the Board of
Minidoka County    Commissioners.
   H.   No user fee shall be charged on the Occupancy/Supplemental or Missed
Roll. (Ord. 2016-10-03, 10-3-2016; amd. Ord. 2021-09-13, 9-13-2021; Ord. 2022-
10-17, - -2022)
3-1-10: COLLECTION OF FEES:
Annual user fees as provided in Section 9 of this chapter shall be collected in
conjunction with annual property taxes by the Minidoka County Treasurer after
assessment of said fees by the Minidoka County Assessor through identification
of residential/domestic, commercial, heavy user, industrial, utility and tax
exempt users pursuant to this chapter. Collection of the per load and per
volume charges herein referred to shall be the responsibility of the operator
of the Minidoka County Waste Disposal System, and shall be payable by the user
at the time of delivery of the solid waste to the landfill, unless billing
arrangements have been approved. (Ord. 2016-10-03, 10-3-2016; amd. Ord. 2021-
09-13, 9-13-2021; Ord. 2022-10-17, - -2022)
3-1-11: DELINQUENCY CHARGES:
All solid waste user fees shall be due and payable in two (2) equal
installments. The first installment shall be paid on or before December 20, and
the second installment shall be due and payable on or before June 20. Any
installment not paid on or before its due date becomes delinquent and shall be
subjected to a penalty of two percent (2%), and shall be subjected to interest
on the amount of the fee and penalty at the rate of one percent (1%) per month,
calculated from January 1 following the year for which the user fee was
imposed. (Ord. 2016-10-03, 10-3-2016; amd. Ord. 2021-09-13, 9-13-2021; Ord.
2022-10-17, - - 2022)
3-1-12: PROCEDURE ON APPEAL:
   A.   Solid Waste Users may file an appeal of the Users Fee with the Board of
Minidoka County Commissioners. An appeal shall be made in writing on a form
provided by the Clerk of the Board of County Commissioners and must identify
the Solid Waste User, the property which is the subject of the appeal and the
reason for the appeal.
   B.   Within thirty (30) days of the appeal of the user fee, the Board of
County Commissioners shall render a decision on said appeal and shall notify
the applicant in writing of such decision.
   C.   Any decision of the Board of County Commissioners may be appealed to
the District Court under the procedures established by the Idaho Administrative
Procedures Act. (Ord. 2016-10-03, 10-3-2016; amd. Ord. 2021-09-13, 9-13-2021;
Ord. 2022-10-17, - -2022)
3-1-13: HARDSHIP EXEMPTION:
Any person who shall establish that payment of the Solid Waste User Fee,
provided by this chapter, would create an extreme hardship may apply for
exemption from said fee, pursuant to the appeal process herein provided. In the
event that said hardship is demonstrated, the Board of County Commissioners
shall abate such portion of the annual user fee as is necessary to alleviate
the hardship imposed by the fee. (Ord. 2016-10-03, 10-3-2016; amd. Ord. 2021-
09-13, 9-13-2021; Ord. 2022-10-17, - -2022)
3-1-14: UNOCCUPIED BUILDING EXEMPTION:
After a physical inspection of any property with improvements that are subject
to the User Fee, established by this chapter, and the Minidoka County Assessor
finds the improvements are uninhabitable or otherwise do not meet the
requirements of this chapter to be charged the User Fee, the Minidoka County
Assessor may make application to the Board of Minidoka County Commissioners to
cancel the fee and remove the fee from that parcel. (Ord. 2016-10-03, 10-3-
2016; amd. Ord. 2021-09-13, 9-13-2021; Ord. 2022-10-17, - -2022)
3-1-15: PENALTIES:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be fined not less than
One Hundred and 00/100 Dollars ($100.00), not more than Three Hundred Dollars
($300.00) for each offense, and/or incarcerated for up to six (6) months in the
county jail for such offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on
each day during which a violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 2016-10-03, 10-3-
2016; amd. Ord. 2021-09-13, 9-13-2021; Ord. 2022-10-17, - -2022)
CHAPTER 2
OPEN BURNING
SECTION:
3-2-1: Definitions
3-2-2: Enforcement
3-2-3: Accumulation Of Garbage And Rubbish
3-2-4: Burning Regulated And Restricted
3-2-5: Penalty
3-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms, as used in this chapter, are defined as follows:
   GARBAGE: All putrescible wastes except sewage, including, but not limited
to: table refuse, swill, offal, waste products of the preparation, consumption
and storage of foodstuffs, animal wastes, animal products or grass clippings.
   NEIGHBORING RESIDENCE: Any occupied dwelling which is owned by someone other
than the person, or that person's designee, who intends to burn items included
in this chapter.
   NORMALLY ACCEPTABLE YARD WASTE: Includes tree limbs, dry leaves, and other
dry vegetation matter produced on premises, except grass clippings, that are
readily burnable without a great concentration of smoke.
   PERSON: An individual, partnership, corporation, association or any limited
liability entity.
   PREMISES: Any publicly or privately owned lot, plot, parcel, or tract of
real property, including an alley, right of way, road, street or highway.
   RESIDENCE: A dwelling, whether a single unit or a unit in a multiple
dwelling construction.
   RUBBISH: All nonputrescible wastes, including, but not limited to,
discarded, worthless and valueless personal property, sod and stumps, except
for normally acceptable yard waste or compost piles. (Ord. 07-03, 11-19-2007)
3-2-2: ENFORCEMENT:
This chapter may be enforced by any peace officer, law enforcement officer,
sheriff or fire marshal. (Ord. 07-03, 11-19-2007)
3-2-3: ACCUMULATION OF GARBAGE AND RUBBISH:
It shall be unlawful to deposit, collect, store, or accumulate, or permit the
deposit, collection, storage or accumulation, of any garbage and/or rubbish
upon land, lots, premises, alleys, rights of way, or roads in the county,
except for normally acceptable yard waste and/or garbage produced on premises.
(Ord. 07-03, 11-19-2007)
3-2-4: BURNING REGULATED AND RESTRICTED:
   A.   Burning Of Garbage: It shall be unlawful to burn any garbage upon land,
lots, premises, alleys, rights of way, roads, streets or highways in the county
within three hundred feet (300') of a neighboring residence.
   B.   Permitted Burning: Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit or amend
existing laws as to the burning of agricultural fields, normally acceptable
yard waste, weeds, ceremonial fires, or prohibit the use of open fires for the
purposes of preparing food for human consumption.
   C.   Time And Manner Of Burning:
      1.   All burning must be conducted during daylight hours and no open
burning may remain burning after sunset.
      2.   All burning must be conducted under constant observation by a
responsible person. (Ord. 07-03, 11-19-2007)
3-2-5: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter or fails to
comply with any of the terms of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
and subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 07-03, 11-19-2007; amd. 2016 Code)
TITLE 4
PUBLIC SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
DISASTER MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
4-1-1: Purpose
4-1-2: Definitions
4-1-3: Department Of Disaster Management
4-1-4: Disaster Management Coordinator
4-1-5: Alternate Coordinator
4-1-6: Immunity From Liability
4-1-1: PURPOSE:
The Minidoka County department of disaster management is created to administer
the disaster management policy of Minidoka County pursuant to the requirements
of Idaho Code section 46-1009. The purposes of this chapter are to provide the
preparation and carrying out of plans for the protection of persons, property,
and the environment within the county in the event of a disaster and to provide
coordination and accounting of disaster management functions with all other
public agencies and effective private persons, corporations, and organizations.
(Ord. 2016-09-13-C, 9-13-2016)
4-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
   BOARD OR BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS: The board of Minidoka County commissioners.
   DISASTER: An occurrence or imminent threat of widespread or severe damage,
injury or loss of life or property in Minidoka County resulting from any
natural or manmade cause, including, but not limited to, fire, flood,
earthquake, windstorm, wave action, volcanic activity, explosion, chemical
spill, riot, or hostile military or paramilitary action.
   DISASTER MANAGEMENT: The activities required for preparation, mitigation,
response to and recovery from disasters, to the extent of the responsibility of
Minidoka County as may be provided by law, to prevent, minimize, and repair
injury and damage resulting from a disaster.
   LOCAL DISASTER EMERGENCY: A declaration of a local disaster emergency by the
chairman of the board of commissioners or board of commissioners, as provided
by Idaho Code section 46-1011. (Ord. 2016-09-13-C, 9-13-2016)
4-1-3: DEPARTMENT OF DISASTER MANAGEMENT:
   A.   Department Created: There is hereby created the Minidoka County
department of disaster management, which is hereby designated as the disaster
agency maintained by Minidoka County pursuant to Idaho Code title 46, chapter
10.
   B.   Composition: The department of disaster management shall consist of the
disaster management coordinator as its head, and such other personnel and
volunteers as may be appointed or authorized by the board of commissioners.
(Ord. 2016-09-13-C, 9-13-2016)
4-1-4: DISASTER MANAGEMENT COORDINATOR:
   A.   Appointment: The "disaster management coordinator" (hereafter "the
coordinator") means the administrative head of the Minidoka County department
of disaster management, and shall be appointed by the board of commissioners.
The coordinator shall serve at the will of the board.
   B.   Duties: The coordinator shall, with respect to Minidoka County disaster
management:
      1.   Coordinate, supervise, and direct the effort of the Minidoka County
department of disaster management for the accomplishment of the purposes of
this chapter and as may be directed by the board of commissioners.
      2.   Coordinate and direct, in conjunction with the Minidoka County
sheriff and other county elected officials and agencies, the mitigation,
preparedness, response and recovery of all county agencies during a disaster.
Nothing herein shall be deemed to grant or authorize the coordinator to
exercise any supervisory or command of authority over any deputies or employees
of the county public officials, or equipment, goods or materials of said
offices, which shall at all times remain under the authority of the direction
of the respective public official.
      3.   Represent the Minidoka County department/office of disaster
management in all dealings with public or private agencies pertaining to
disaster management and act as a liaison between Minidoka County and other
government and nongovernment emergency or disaster management and response
agencies.
      4.   Coordinate the preparation and implementation of county plans and
programs for disaster management which are consistent with national and state
plans and programs.
      5.   Provide updating and testing of the county disaster operations plan
and training of county personnel for damage assessment, damage survey and
radiological monitoring.
      6.   Coordinate all requests from local governments for disaster
services.
      7.   With prior approval of the board of commissioners, accept the
services of volunteers for the purposes of disaster management on behalf of
Minidoka County on such terms and conditions as designated by the board. The
coordinator shall have no authority to employ or contract with any person or
entity on behalf of Minidoka County except with the express prior authorization
of the board of commissioners.
      8.   Execute all others duties of coordinator as may otherwise be
designated by the board of commissioners as may be permitted by law 1 .
   C.   Exceptions To Authority: Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed or
construed to:
      1.   Interfere with the course or conduct of labor disputes, except that
those actions otherwise authorized by the state disaster preparedness act or
other laws may be taken when necessary to forestall or mitigate imminent or
existing danger to public health or safety; or
      2.   Interfere with the dissemination of news or comment on public
affairs; or
      3.   Affect or limit the jurisdiction or responsibilities of police
forces, sheriffs or their deputies, firefighting forces, local emergency
medical service (EMS) agencies licensed by the state department of health and
welfare EMS bureau, units of the armed forces of the United States, or of any
personnel thereof, when on active duty; or
      4.   Grant any authority to the coordinator to take, appropriate, or
commandeer any public or private property from its rightful owner or possessor
for the purposes of disaster management; or
      5.   Adopt or consent to adoption of any plans or programs, including
state or federal plans or programs, relating to disaster management without
separate consideration and approval of the board of commissioners. (Ord. 2016-
09-13-C, 9-13-2016)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 46-1011.
4-1-5: ALTERNATE COORDINATOR:
In the event the coordinator is absent or unable to function in that capacity,
the chairman or designated member of the board of commissioners may serve as or
appoint an alternate coordinator. (Ord. 2016-09-13-C, 9-13-2016)
4-1-6: IMMUNITY FROM LIABILITY:
Authorized personnel engaged in disaster management activities and persons,
agencies, or any other entity providing building or premises designated by
proper authority as disaster shelters shall have immunity from liability for
property damage, bodily injury, or death to the extent provided by state or
federal law. (Ord. 2016-09-13-C, 9-13-2016)
CHAPTER 2
AMBULANCE SERVICE
SECTION:
4-2-1: Title
4-2-2: Definitions
4-2-3: License Required; Supervision; Exceptions
4-2-4: Application For Ambulance License
4-2-5: Investigation And Approval Of Application For Ambulance Or Invalid Or
Wheelchair Coach License
4-2-6: Standards For Ambulance Or Invalid Or Wheelchair Coach License Liability
Insurance
4-2-7: Standards For Ambulance Equipment
4-2-8: Ambulance Specifications
4-2-9: Application For Drivers, Technicians And Driver/Technician License
4-2-10: Standards For Drivers, Technicians And Driver/Technicians License
4-2-11: Operation Standards For Ambulance Or Invalid Or Wheelchair Coach
Service
4-2-12: Required Equipment
4-2-13: Responsibility Of Operator
4-2-14: Replacement Or Addition Of Vehicles
4-2-15: License Fees; Duration Of License
4-2-16: Suspension Or Revocation Of License
4-2-17: Compliance Required
4-2-18: Penalties
4-2-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the MINIDOKA COUNTY AMBULANCE ORDINANCE. (Ord.
1-75, 1-1975)
4-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms shall, for the purpose of this chapter, unless otherwise
specified, have the meanings respectively ascribed to them:
   AMBULANCE: Any privately or publicly owned motor vehicle that is
specifically designed or constructed and equipped, and is intended to be used
for and is maintained or operated, for the transportation of wounded, injured
or sick patients, which otherwise complies with the provisions of this chapter.
   AMBULANCE CREW: Defined as, and shall consist of, two (2) persons qualified
as: a) driver/technician, b) two (2) drivers/technicians, or c) driver/
technician and technician.
   AMBULANCE OPERATOR OR AMBULANCE BUSINESS: Anyone engaging in the business of
transporting ill, sick or injured persons, for hire, or who, by advertising
representation, or otherwise, holds himself out as engaging in such business.
   AMBULANCE SERVICE CHARGES: Any charge, fare or other consideration for
ambulance service.
   APPOINTED COMMITTEE: A committee appointed annually by the board of county
commissioners and consisting of at least the following members:
   A.   A licensed physician who is a resident of the county.
   B.   A representative of an agency performing emergency services. This
representative may be: the chief of the fire or police department in the
largest city in the county, or the chief of the largest district fire
department in the county, or a representative of the county sheriff's office.
   C.   A citizen who is a resident of Minidoka County. This citizen shall
possess current certification in first aid, at least through the advanced level
of the American Red Cross or the equivalent.
   DRIVER/TECHNICIAN: A person qualified and licensed as both a driver and
technician independently:
   A.   Driver: Any person may be licensed by Minidoka County who drives an
ambulance or invalid or wheelchair coach when the same is operated by or for an
ambulance operator while engaged in the ambulance business.
   B.   Driver: Any person may be licensed by Minidoka County as a driver who
possesses the following:
      1.   A valid driver's license from the state of Idaho.
      2.   Evidence of completion of Minidoka County sheriff's emergency driver
course or defensive driving course sponsored by the national safety council.
      3.   An advanced first aid card or its equivalent; provided, a license
may be issued pending completion of the emergency driver course or defensive
driving course described in this definition; provided, further, that the person
will complete the above requirements at the earliest possible date or the
license will be immediately revoked.
   Provided, further, a driver's license shall be valid for a period of ninety
(90) days and will not be renewable, as the person will be expected to advance
himself to the category of driver/technician in order to continue to be
licensed for ambulance work.
   INVALID OR WHEELCHAIR COACH: Any motor vehicle specially designed, equipped
and used for the transportation of invalid persons on a rental basis with
driver furnished and which has no first aid equipment, flashing red lights, or
sirens.
   LICENSE HOLDER: Any person to whom an ambulance operator's license has been
issued under the provisions of this chapter, and which license has not been
revoked.
   OPERATION: The receiving, picking up or embarking within the county of
Minidoka of a sick or injured person for transportation or conveyance for hire
to any point within or without the county of Minidoka.
   PATIENT: An individual who is sick, injured, wounded or otherwise
incapacitated or helpless.
   PERSON: An individual, firm, partnership, association, or corporation,
company, or group of individuals acting together for a common purpose, or
organization of any kind, including any governmental agency other than the
United States.
   TECHNICIAN: Any person who is qualified to render first aid and who has
completed an approved emergency technician- ambulance (EMT-A) training course
and has successfully completed written and practical examinations for registry
as a state of Idaho emergency medical technician-ambulance (EMT-A) and has
satisfactorily completed a course in cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR). (Ord.
1-75, 1-1975)
4-2-3: LICENSE REQUIRED; SUPERVISION; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Required: It shall be unlawful for any person, either as owner agent or
otherwise, to furnish, operate, conduct, maintain, advertise or otherwise be
engaged in the business of service of the transportation of patients in the
ambulance business or operate an invalid or wheelchair coach business within
the county without first obtaining a license therefor from the county
commission as hereinafter provided.
   B.   Supervision: It shall be unlawful for an ambulance, or invalid or
wheelchair coach, to be operated, and no person shall drive, attend or permit
it to be operated, within the county, unless the ambulance, the invalid or
wheelchair coach, shall be under the immediate supervision and direction of a
person who is holding a current, valid license as a driver, technician, or
driver/technician.
   C.   Exceptions: Provided, however, that no license shall be required for an
ambulance, or the driver, technician or driver/technician of an ambulance
which:
      1.   Is operated by the state of Idaho, county of Minidoka or other
governmental agency.
      2.   Is operated from a location or headquarters outside of, and
transports patients within, Minidoka County who are picked up beyond the limits
of Minidoka County.
      3.   Is operated from a location or headquarters outside the limits of
Minidoka County, and either:
         a.   Picks up patients beyond the limits of Minidoka County to be
transported to locations within Minidoka County; or
         b.   Picks up patients within Minidoka County to be transported to
locations beyond the limits of Minidoka County; or
         c.   In the case of an emergency where no Minidoka County based
ambulance is available, picks up patients within Minidoka County to be
transported to locations within Minidoka County.
Provided, further, that no such ambulance shall be used to pick up patients
within Minidoka County for transportation to locations within Minidoka County,
unless the driver, technician and technician/driver and the ambulance operator
hold current, valid licenses issued pursuant to this chapter, except as noted
in this subsection C. (Ord. 1-75, 1-1975)
4-2-4: APPLICATION FOR AMBULANCE LICENSE:
Application for ambulance licenses shall be made upon forms prepared or
prescribed by the board of county commissioners, and shall contain:
   A.   The name and address of the applicant and the owner of the ambulance or
invalid or wheelchair coach.
   B.   The trade or other fictitious name, if any, under which the applicant
does business and proposes to do business.
   C.   The training and experience of the applicant in the transportation and
care of patients.
   D.   A description of each ambulance, invalid or wheelchair coach, including
the make, model, year of manufacture, motor and chassis number, current state
license number, the length of time the ambulance or invalid or wheelchair coach
has been in use, the mileage thereof; patient compartment dimensions of the
ambulance or invalid or wheelchair coach, cot and stretcher capacity thereof,
list of equipment carried therein, size, design and color scheme of each
vehicle.
   E.   The location and description of the place or places from which it is
intended to operate.
   F.   Such other information as the board of county commissioners shall deem
reasonably necessary. (Ord. 1-75, 1-1975)
4-2-5: INVESTIGATION AND APPROVAL OF APPLICATION FOR AMBULANCE OR INVALID OR
WHEELCHAIR COACH LICENSE:
   A.   Investigation Of Applicant: The board of commissioners shall, within a
reasonable time after receiving an application for an ambulance or invalid or
wheelchair coach license as provided for herein, cause such investigation as it
deems necessary be made of the applicant and his proposed operation.
   B.   Conditions For License Issuance: The board of commissioners shall issue
a license hereunder for a specified ambulance, invalid or wheelchair coach to
be valid for a period of one year, unless earlier suspended, revoked or
terminated, when they find that:
      1.   The appointed committee or the county sheriff has caused the
ambulance or invalid or wheelchair coach licensed hereunder to be inspected and
found such ambulance or invalid or wheelchair coach so licensed to be in proper
condition as prescribes by the applicable provisions of this chapter;
      2.   The appointed committee or the county sheriff has certified that the
ambulance or invalid or wheelchair coach equipment sets the minimal
requirements prescribed by this chapter and by which to comply with all
applicable laws, ordinances and regulations relating to health, sanitation and
safety;
      3.   The applicant is a responsible and proper person to conduct and
operate an ambulance or invalid or wheelchair coach business;
      4.   A sufficient number of duly licensed technicians and/or technician/
drivers are employed in such capacities by the ambulance or invalid or
wheelchair coach operator; and
      5.   All the requirements of this chapter and all other applicable laws
and ordinances have been met.
   C.   Inspection Of Vehicles; Certification:
      1.   Prior to the issuance of any ambulance or invalid or wheelchair
coach license hereunder, the board of commissioners shall cause to be inspected
the vehicles, equipment and premises designated in each application hereunder
to determine compliance with the standards prescribed by this chapter, and no
license shall be issued by the county clerk unless the appointed committee of
the county has certified compliance with the requirements and standards of this
chapter.
      2.   Subsequent to the issuance of any ambulance or invalid or wheelchair
coach license hereunder, the board of commissioners shall cause to be inspected
each licensed ambulance or vehicle and its equipment and premises whenever they
deem such inspection to be necessary. The inspection authorized by this
subsection shall be in addition to any other safety or motor vehicle inspection
required to be made for ambulances or invalid or wheelchair coaches or other
motor vehicles under the law or ordinance of the state or the county.
   D.   Determination Of Need: The board of commissioners shall determine the
need for additional ambulance, invalid or wheelchair coach operators and shall
issue additional licenses only if the existing ambulance, invalid or wheelchair
coach operators fail to meet the needs and requirements of the county. (Ord. 1-
75, 1-1975)
4-2-6: STANDARDS FOR AMBULANCE OR INVALID OR WHEELCHAIR COACH LICENSE LIABILITY
INSURANCE:
   A.   Requirements: Each ambulance, invalid or wheelchair coach shall, at all
times when in use:
      1.   Conform with the standards, requirements and regulations provided
for in this chapter for the transportation of patients;
      2.   Maintain equipment conforming with the minimal standards,
requirements, and regulations provided for herein, which equipment shall be in
proper and good condition;
      3.   Comply with, and be subject to, all laws, ordinances and regulations
now in force or that may hereinafter be enacted relative to health, sanitation
and safety of patients and property, including motor vehicles; and
      4.   Be equipped with such lights, sirens and special marking to
designate it as an ambulance or invalid or wheelchair coach.
   B.   Inspection: Each licensed ambulance, invalid or wheelchair coach, its
equipment and the premises designated in the application and all records
relating to maintenance and operation of such, shall be open to inspection by
the county, its agents and employees during usual hours of operation.
   C.   Insurance Requirements; Nonliability Of County:
      1.   An ambulance operator shall at all times indemnify and save harmless
the county from and for any and all losses, claims, actions or judgments for
damages or injury to persons or property and losses and expenses caused or
incurred by the ambulance operator and its drivers, technicians and driver/
technicians. No ambulance license shall be issued under this chapter, nor shall
a license be valid after issuance, nor shall any ambulance be operated within
the county unless there is at all times in force and effect insurance coverage
issued by an insurance company licensed to do business in the state of Idaho
for each and every ambulance or invalid or wheelchair coach owned and/or
operated by or for the applicant or licensee, providing the following minimum
limits of liability insurance, in which the county shall be named as a named
insured:
         a.   One hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) for property damage to
any one person;
         b.   Two hundred thousand dollars ($200,000.00) for property damage to
any one occurrence;
         c.   Two hundred fifty thousand dollars ($250,000.00) for personal
injury to any one person; and
         d.   Five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00) for personal injuries
in any other occurrence.
      2.   The limits of insurance provided herein shall not be deemed the
limitation of the applicant's or licensee's covenant to indemnify and save and
hold harmless the county, and if the county becomes liable for an amount in
excess of the insurance limits herein provided, the applicant or licensee
covenants and/or any of its agents upon whom duties may be imposed by this
chapter, agree to indemnify and save and hold harmless the county from any and
all such losses, claims, actions, judgments or expenses for damages or injury
to persons or property. (Ord. 1-75, 1-1975)
4-2-7: STANDARDS FOR AMBULANCE EQUIPMENT:
   A.   Equipment Required: The required equipment in each ambulance shall
include, at all times when the ambulance is in use as such, equipment adequate
for dressing wounds, splinting fractures, controlling hemorrhages, and
providing a workable and usable condition at all times.
   B.   Equipment List: The following is a list of required equipment
representing the minimum standard for each ambulance vehicle:
      1.   Radio Equipment: Each ambulance shall be equipped and maintained at
all times by the operator with a two-way radio operating on a radio frequency
authorized by the federal communications commission. Such radio communications
shall be between such vehicle and the operator's headquarters, and the county
sheriff's office, Rupert police department, and local hospitals as designated
by the medical communication system.
      2.   Safety Equipment:
         2 sets of seat belts.
         2 hardhats.
         2 fire extinguishers (dry chemical type).
         3 road flares (20 minute type).
         2 3-cell flashlights.
         1 hand spotlight.
         1 car mounted spotlight.
         1 auto jack and tire wrench.
         1 tackograph recording device.
      3.   Stretchers:
         1 all level cot, with multiple position backrest, 4 inch all rubber
wheels, multiple standing levels, contour features 2 sets safety belts, locking
bar, and 4 inch foam mattress and pillow.
         1 portable stretcher with safety straps.
      4.   Blankets And Linen:
         5 crash type blankets.
         1 wool or equivalent blanket for each stretcher; adequate linen for 6
complete changes.
         2 plastic covers for patients.
      5.   Oxygen Equipment:
         1 "H" tank of oxygen or equivalent.
         1 "D" tank of oxygen or equivalent.
         1 medical oxygen manifold.
         1 inhalator with regulator and humidifier.
         4 oxygen masks with hose (2 adult and 2 pediatric).
         4 oxygen canulas with hose.
         1 mechanical resuscitator.
         2 resuscitator masks (1 adult and 1 pediatric).
         Mouth to mouth artificial ventilation airways for adults and children.
         Oropharyngeal airways in adult, child and infant sizes (2 each).
         1 hand operated bag-mask ventilation unit with adult, child, and
infant size masks. Valves must operate in cold weather and unit must be capable
of use with oxygen supply.
         1 portable suction apparatus with wide bore tubing and rigid,
pharyngeal suction tip.
         1 portable oxygen equipment with adequate tubing and adequate mask in
adult, child and infant sizes.
         Connecting hose for oxygen supply for bag-mask resuscitator.
      6.   Tools:
         Pry bar.
         Hacksaw.
         1 wrench, 12 inch with adjustable open end.
         1 screwdriver, 12 inch with regular blade.
         1 screwdriver, 12 inch with Phillips type.
         1 hacksaw with 12 wire (carbide) blades.
         1 pliers, 10 inch vise grip.
         1 5-pound hammer with 15 inch handle.
         2 ropes, each 50 feet long and 3/4 inch in diameter.
      7.   First Aid Equipment:
         3 arm splints (pneumatic type).
         4 leg splints (pneumatic type).
         2 arm splints (padded board type).
         4 ice packs.
         1 combination urinal.
         1 bedpan.
         1 package paper towels.
         4 constricting bands.
         1 OB kit (1 pair of scissors and 2 clamps).
         1 bottle of alcohol.
         1 bottle zephiran chloride.
         Ace bandages:
          8 6-inch.
          8 3-inch.
          8 2-inch.
         1 dozen bandages.
         5 triangular type bandages.
         Airways:
          2 large adult.
          2 small adult.
          2 infant adult.
         Spine boards:
          1 short with straps and cervical collar.
          1 long with straps.
          1 lower extremity traction splint with commercial limb support.
         Slings, padded ankle hitch and traction strap.
          1 orthopedic stretcher.
         2 rolls foil 18 inches by 25 feet (sterilized and wrapped).
         5 soft roll self-adhering type bandages 6 inches by 5 yards.
         36 (8 inches by 71/2 inches) combination sterile dressings.
         24 2-inch roller gauze.
         2 rolls (2 inch) adhesive tape.
         3 pairs of scissors.
         2 rolls (1/2 inch) adhesive tape.
         1 bottle distilled water.
         1 bottle normal saline.
         1 poison kit.
         1 package ammonia inhalants.
         2 surgical masks.
         2 dozen patient tags.
         1 restraint belt with cuffs.
         1 restraint belt.
         2 sandbags (2 by 4 by 12 inches).
         2 large sterile burn sheets.
         2 resuscitubes (1 child and 1 adult).
         1 stethoscope.
         1 blood pressure unit.
         2 mouth gags.
         2 universal dressings 10 inches by 36 inches.
      8.   Technician's Bag: A technician's bag which shall contain the
following:
         1 bandage shears.
         2 flashlights (1 regular and 1 pencil type).
         1 small airway (or assorted sizes).
         1 large airway (or assorted sized).
         6 rolls 3 inch bandages.
         2 rolls 1 inch adhesive tape.
         4 arm splints.
         1 mouth gag.
         6 tongue depressors.
         1 infant oxygen face cone.
         2 assorted Ace bandages.
         3 18-inch pieces surgical rubber tubing.
         10 4 by 4-inch gauze pack.
         2 rolls 11/2 inch or 2 inch adhesive tape.
(Ord. 1-75, 1-1975)
4-2-8: AMBULANCE SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   Vehicles: All new vehicles purchased, whether as a replacement or in
the creation of a new ambulance service, must conform to current
specifications, as set forth below:
      1.   The ambulance vehicle should have space for a driver, technician and
two (2) litter patients. The patients should be so positioned in the vehicle
that at least one can be given life support in transit. There should be a
permanent separation between the driver's compartment and patient compartment.
The vehicle should be able to carry equipment and medical supplies for
safeguarding personnel and patients under hazardous conditions, and for maximum
emergency medical care, both outside the vehicle and in transit. The emergency
vehicle should be designed to provide maximum safety and comfort for the
patient.
      2.   Minimum space between the head of the litter and the bulkhead of the
vehicle should be at least twenty five inches (25"), including a seat for a
technician so positioned that he can provide respiratory care and
resuscitation.
      3.   Minimum space at the foot of the litter should be five inches (5")
to accommodate traction splints and attendant.
      4.   Minimum space between litters should be fifteen inches (15") so that
a technician can move between litters, and kneel to perform external cardiac
compression and other medical functions.
      5.   While a height of sixty inches (60") is preferable throughout the
interior of the emergency vehicle, the minimal height should be at least fifty
four inches (54") from floor to ceiling. This minimal height provides
approximately thirty nine inches (39") from the top of the litter to the
ceiling, and allows the technician enough room to kneel beside the patient and
to use maximal body weight in performing cardiac compression.
   B.   Inspection:
      1.   The appointed committee, prior to the issuance of an ambulance
license or the renewal thereof, shall inspect each ambulance to determine the
adequacy of equipment and certify to the board of commissioners compliance with
the minimal standards for ambulance equipment. The appointed committee shall
take into consideration the current list of minimal equipment for ambulances
adopted by this chapter, or any amendment thereto, and by the American College
Of Surgeons or its duly authorized committee trauma.
      2.   Prior to the issuance of an ambulance license or the renewal
thereof, the county sheriff shall inspect each ambulance, and certify to the
board of commissioners that it is equipped with siren, red lights, and other
emergency vehicle equipment as required by the Idaho motor vehicle code, and
shall have been inspected to determine safe operating condition of each
vehicle, in compliance with state vehicle inspection laws. (Ord. 1-75, 1-1975)
4-2-9: APPLICATION FOR DRIVERS, TECHNICIANS AND DRIVER/TECHNICIAN LICENSE:
Application for drivers', technicians', and driver/technicians' licenses
hereunder shall be made upon forms prepared or prescribed by the board of
commissioners. No person shall drive or serve as a driver, technician, or
driver/technician with an ambulance licensed hereunder without first procuring
the applicable license from the county. Each license application shall contain
at least the following:
   A.   The applicant's full name, current residence and length of time he has
resided in the county.
   B.   The applicant's age, marital status and other physical attributes. The
applicant must be nineteen (19) years of age or over.
   C.   Whether he has ever been convicted of a felony or a misdemeanor, and,
if so, when, where and for what cause.
   D.   The applicant's training and experience in the transportation and care
of patients, whether he has previously been licensed as a driver, chauffeur,
technician or driver/technician, and, if so, when, where and whether his
license has ever been revoked or suspended in any jurisdiction and for what
cause.
   E.   Affidavits of good character from two (2) reputable citizens.
   F.   Fingerprints and photograph to be taken by the county sheriff's
department.
   G.   Such other information as the board of commissioners shall deem
reasonably necessary to make a determination of compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 1-75, 1-1975)
4-2-10: STANDARDS FOR DRIVERS, TECHNICIANS AND DRIVER/TECHNICIANS LICENSE:
The board of commissioners shall, within a reasonable time after receiving an
application as provided for herein, cause such investigation as he deems
necessary to be made of the applicant for a driver, technician or driver/
technician license hereunder, valid for a period of one year unless earlier
suspended, revoked or terminated, when he finds that:
   A.   The applicant is not addicted to the use of intoxicating liquors or
narcotics and is a morally fit person.
   B.   The applicant is able to speak, read and write the English language.
   C.   The applicant has been found by a duly licensed physician upon
examination attested to on a form provided by the health officer to be of sound
physique, possessing good eyesight, and free of physical defects or disease
which might impair the ability to drive or attend an ambulance.
   D.   The applicant for either technician or driver/technician license has a
currently valid certificate evidencing successful completion of a course of
training equivalent to the emergency medical technician ambulance course, as
approved by the American College Of Surgeons, department of transportation, and
is being used by the state of Idaho department of environmental protection and
health, emergency medical services program for certification of emergency
medical technicians-ambulance.
   E.   No one shall be licensed as a driver or driver/technician unless he
holds a currently valid driver's license from the state of Idaho, plus evidence
of completion of the county sheriff's emergency driver course or defensive
driving course sponsored by the National Safety Council.
   F.   A license of a driver, technician, or driver/technician issued
hereunder shall not be assignable or transferable. (Ord. 1-75, 1-1975)
4-2-11: OPERATION STANDARDS FOR AMBULANCE OR INVALID OR WHEELCHAIR COACH
SERVICE:
No ambulance license shall be issued, renewed or continue in force unless the
ambulance operator shall:
   A.   Have a minimum of one acceptable ambulance or invalid or wheelchair
coach unit based in the county.
   B.   Equip each ambulance or invalid or wheelchair coach to conform with the
minimal standards, requirements, and regulations provided for herein.
   C.   Maintain each ambulance or invalid or wheelchair coach in mechanically
safe, sound and sanitary condition at all times.
   D.   Have at least two (2) ambulance or invalid or wheelchair coach crews
available for prompt response at all times. Each such crew shall consist of two
(2) appropriately licensed personnel.
   E.   Maintain records on forms specified by the board of commissioners, as
follows:
      1.   Monthly call report.
      2.   Detailed individual call report.
      3.   Annual ambulance or invalid or wheelchair coach service report.
      4.   Daily equipment checkoff list.
      5.   Vehicle maintenance log.
      6.   Patient collection - noncollection report.
      7.   Other records and reports as may be required. (Ord. 1-75, 1-1975)
4-2-12: REQUIRED EQUIPMENT:
   A.   Compliance With State And County Laws: No operator's license shall be
issued unless the county sheriff or his designated officer or agent has
determined, upon personal inspection, that the construction and equipment of
each ambulance proposed to be operated is in full compliance with all laws of
the state of Idaho and ordinances and codes of the county.
   B.   List Of Equipment: Upon making application for an ambulance operator's
license or an invalid or wheelchair coach license, the applicant shall submit a
list of equipment to be carried in each vehicle. This list shall be subject to
approval of the county commission at the time that the applicant license is
before the commission for consideration. The list shall be subject to review
and approval annually at the time of the license holder's renewal and shall be
filed with the county recorder. (Ord. 1-75, 1-1975)
4-2-13: RESPONSIBILITY OF OPERATOR:
It is hereby made the duty of the ambulance operator to supervise his
employees, the drivers of the ambulances, the technicians thereon, and the
ambulance, to assure that at all times such vehicles are in condition to meet
the requirements of this chapter, to assure that a competent licensed driver is
operating the same when making calls, and that a licensed technician be present
and accompany such vehicle. Such operator shall not permit any person who is
under the influence of intoxicating liquor or drugs to drive any ambulance or
to accompany the same as a technician. In case the driver/technician violates
any provision of this chapter, the operator may be held responsible and his
license may be revoked for such violations. (Ord. 1-75, 1-1975)
4-2-14: REPLACEMENT OR ADDITION OF VEHICLES:
Whenever a license holder replaces a vehicle, he shall file with the county
commissioners a description of the vehicle to be placed in use with the name of
the manufacturer, engine and serial numbers, and state motor vehicle license
number. Such information shall also be furnished for any vehicle license or
vehicles being added to the operation. Each new vehicle shall be presented for
inspection according to the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 1-75, 1-1975)
4-2-15: LICENSE FEES; DURATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   License Term: All licenses authorized to be issued hereunder shall bear
the date of issue and shall expire on December 31 next following the date of
issue, unless sooner suspended, terminated or revoked.
   B.   Fees: The following fees shall be charged by the county clerk, which
fee shall accompany the appropriate application:
      1.   Ambulance or invalid or wheelchair coach license, for each vehicle:
Fifty dollars ($50.00).
      2.   Driver, technician and driver/technician licenses: Two dollars
($2.00).
   C.   License Renewal Procedure: Any license issued pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter may be renewed at the expiration thereof by filing a
proper application and paying the fee required for such license; provided, that
the applicant is then qualified to receive a license, and each applicant being
required to conform with all the requirements as upon original licensing. (Ord.
1-75, 1-1975)
4-2-16: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Any licensee who shall:
      1.   Neglect or refuse to comply with the provisions of this chapter, or
with the conditions under which any license shall be issued; or
      2.   Violate any of the provisions of any ordinance of the county; or
      3.   Violate any provisions of the laws of the state of Idaho;
shall be subject to have his license suspended or revoked. The county clerk,
upon order by the board of commissioners, shall give notice of the suspension
or revocation to the holder of any license issued hereunder, which notice shall
set forth specifically the facts supporting the charges or grounds for which
the license was suspended or revoked, and such notice shall be served on the
holder of such license. The notice of suspension or revocation shall designate
the time and place that a hearing will be held before the board of
commissioners. If the commissioners find that the basis of either the
suspension or revocation is substantiated, the license shall be suspended or
revoked. If such license is suspended, the license and all evidence thereof
shall be surrendered by the holder of such license and shall be held by the
county clerk until the end of the period of suspension; and in the event the
license is revoked, the holder shall be ineligible to obtain another license
until granted by the board of commissioners.
   B.   Upon suspension or revocation of an ambulance license hereunder,
operations shall cease with such ambulance. Upon suspension or revocation of a
driver, technician or driver/technician license, such driver, technician or
driver/technician shall cease to drive or attend an ambulance, and no person
shall employ or permit such individual to drive or attend an ambulance. (Ord.
1-75, 1-1975)
4-2-17: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
In addition to the provisions of this chapter, all licensees hereunder shall
comply with all applicable laws, ordinances and regulations now in force or
hereinafter enacted governing the operation of motor vehicles upon highways,
streets, alleys and other public ways. (Ord. 1-75, 1-1975)
4-2-18: PENALTIES:
   A.   Penalty Imposed: Any person violating the provisions of this chapter
shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 1-75, 1-1975; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Injunctive Relief: In addition to the criminal remedies provided
herein, the board of county commissioners may, in its discretion, apply to any
court having jurisdiction over the parties and the subject matter for
injunctive relief to prevent and restrain violation of the provisions of this
chapter. (Ord. 1-75, 1-1975)
CHAPTER 3
911 EMERGENCY COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM
SECTION:
4-3-1: Emergency Communications System
4-3-1: EMERGENCY COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM:
   A.   Service Area: There is hereby established a service area of the
emergency communications system, which service area shall include all of
Minidoka County.
   B.   Governing Board: The governing board of the emergency communications
system shall be the board of county commissioners.
   C.   Administrator: The administrator of the emergency communications system
shall be the county sheriff.
   D.   Servicing Calls: The agency to service all 911 emergency communications
system calls shall be the county sheriff's office. (Ord. 02-01, 4-22-2002; amd.
2016 Code)
CHAPTER 4
IODINE PRODUCTS SALES
SECTION:
4-4-1: Report Of Sales
4-4-1: REPORT OF SALES:
   A.   Reporting Requirement: There is hereby enacted a reporting requirement
for all retailers of iodine in concentrations of seven percent (7%) or greater
by volume. For purposes of this section, "retailer" shall mean any vendor who
knows or should have known that a sale is to an end user of iodine product.
   B.   Information And Identification Required: A reporting form will be
provided by the county and require disclosure of name, address, telephone
number, vehicle, and at least one form of photo identification.
   C.   Failure To Comply A Misdemeanor: It shall be a misdemeanor for any
retail vendor of iodine in concentrations of seven percent (7%) or greater to
sell iodine without requiring disclosure of the above information, for failure
to gather said information, or for failure to disclose the said information
when requested by law enforcement agents. (Ord. 02-02, 6-24-2002)
CHAPTER 5
GENERAL OFFENSES
SECTION:
4-5-1: Loitering Near Jail
4-5-2: Use Of Firearms Prohibited
4-5-3: Curfew; Firearms Discharge; Loitering In Certain Area
4-5-4: Firearms And Dumping In Certain Area
4-5-5: Penalty
4-5-1: LOITERING NEAR JAIL:
   A.   Prohibited Acts:
      1.   It shall be a misdemeanor for any person to loiter within thirty
feet (30') of the county jail, to talk to, attempt to talk to, or to pass or
attempt to pass any message or communication of any kind or description to any
person in the custody of the county sheriff in the county jail or fenced areas
surrounding the said jail, unless such person shall have the express permission
of the sheriff or one of his deputies for the occasion in question or is
visiting during visiting hours prescribed by the county sheriff.
      2.   It shall be a misdemeanor for any person, whether upon an authorized
visit or not, to deliver, or attempt to deliver any foodstuffs, liquids,
medicines, drugs or other substance or substances of any kind or description to
a person who is confined to the county jail or the fenced areas surrounding the
county jail, or to any person who is a trustee of the county jail, unless such
delivery to the trustee is made pursuant to business of the trustee, authorized
by the county sheriff or unless the matter to be delivered to any other
prisoner is first submitted for inspection to the sheriff or one of his
deputies, and permission for the delivery or attempted delivery is first
expressly given by said sheriff or deputy.
   B.   Prosecution; Lack Of Permission Or Consent: In a trial upon an offense
described in subsection A1 or A2 of this section, the prosecution shall not
have the affirmative burden of showing a lack of permission or consent by the
proper authority, but a lack of such permission or consent shall be presumed
unless the presumption be overcome by evidence offered by either side which
raises a reasonable doubt of the absence of the permission or consent required.
(Ord., 5-24-1971, eff. 7-1-1971; amd. 2016 Code)
4-5-2: USE OF FIREARMS PROHIBITED:
   A.   Emerald Lake:
      1.   No person shall shoot or cause to be shot any pistol, rifle, shotgun
or other firearm or air rifle or pellet gun upon or onto or over the
recreational area maintained by the county in section 11, township 10 south,
range 23, East Boise meridian, commonly known as Emerald Lake.
      2.   Any person in possession of any of the foregoing firearms, air
rifles or pellet guns at Emerald Lake shall be asked to leave the premises by
the designated caretaker at the recreation area or any law enforcement officer
or county commissioner, and if he shall fail to leave the recreation area
immediately after having been so asked to leave, he shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor. (Ord., 12-8-1971, eff. 12-14-1971; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Kimama Butte:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess or discharge a rifle
and/or a handgun upon the following real property situated in the county, and
known as Kimama Butte:
         Township 8 south, range 22, Minidoka County, state of Idaho.
         Section 5: NE1/4.
      2.   Any violation of this subsection B is declared to be a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 82-8-1, 8-9-1982)
4-5-3: CURFEW; FIREARMS DISCHARGE; LOITERING IN CERTAIN AREA:
   A.   Definitions: The following terms, as used in this section, are defined
as follows:
   FIREARM: Any rifle, pistol, gun, revolver, air gun, BB gun or other device
in which the propelling force is gunpowder, a spring, air or other similar
force.
   LOITER: To remain on the "premises", as defined in this section, or any
property, either public or private, immediately adjacent to said premises after
being requested to leave by any law enforcement officer or private property
owner.
   PREMISES: The real property owned by Minidoka County and adjacent to exit
208 ("parcel no. 1") in Minidoka County and the real property ("parcel no. 2")
located at 410 South 100 East Minidoka County, state of Idaho, more
particularly described as:
      Parcel No. 1:
      A portion of the S1/2NE1/4 of Section 8, Township 10 South, Range 23
East, Boise Meridian, and described as follows:
      Beginning at the NW corner of the SW1/4NE1/4 of said Section 8, Township
10 South, Range 23 East B.M., thence South along the West line of said SW1/
4NE1/4, 1320.0 feet, more or less, to the Southwest corner thereof; thence
East, along the South line of said SW1/4NE1/4, 908.0 feet, more or less, to a
point in the Northwesterly right of way line of Interstate Project No. I-IG-
80N-3(3)206 Highway Survey; thence along said Northwesterly right of way line
as follows: North 76°12' East, approximately 107.0 feet; Thence North 64°51'
East, 573.49 feet; thence North 47°37'30" East, 397.54 feet to a point which
bears North 60°09' West, 50.0 feet from Station 107+94.06 of relocated State
Highway 27 approach to Interchange No. 1 of said Interstate Project No. I-IG-
80N-3(3)206 Highway Survey; thence Northeasterly along the Northwesterly right
of way line of said relocated State Highway 27, 903.0 feet, more or less to the
North line of the SE1/4NE1/4 of said Section 8; thence West along the North
line of the S1/2NE1/4 of said Section 8, 2270.0 feet, more or less to the Place
of Beginning.
      Parcel No. 2:
      Lot 7, less the North 25 feet of the West 1500 feet, in Section 15,
Township 10 South, Range 24 East of the Boise Meridian.
   B.   Enforcement: This section may be enforced by any peace officer or law
enforcement officer of the state of Idaho.
   C.   Use Of Premises:
      1.   The premises shall be closed to the public between one-half (1/2)
hour after sunset and one-half (1/2) hour before sunrise each and every day and
night.
         a.   All persons are required to leave the premises by one-half (1/2)
hour after sunset and shall not enter the premises before one-half (1/2) hour
before sunrise.
         b.   No person shall allow any motor vehicle, boat, tent, camper or
trailer to remain on the premises during the period in which the premises is
closed to the public.
      2.   It shall be unlawful to mark, deface, disfigure, injure, tamper
with, destroy or remove any buildings, tables, benches, signs, notices, posts,
markers, gate, fence or other structures, facilities or equipment whatsoever
erected, constructed, owned or placed therein by the county or other
governmental entity, either real or personal.
   D.   Discharge Of Firearms: It shall be unlawful for any person, not a peace
officer of the state of Idaho acting in his official capacity, to discharge or
cause to be discharged any firearm on the premises, not in necessary self-
defense.
   E.   Loitering: It shall be unlawful for any person to loiter upon the
premises or upon any real property immediately adjacent to the premises. (Ord.
96-3, 9-30-1996; amd. 2016 Code)
4-5-4: FIREARMS AND DUMPING IN CERTAIN AREA:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the following terms shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
   FIREARM: Any rifle, pistol, gun, revolver, or other device in which a
projectile is discharged from the device by the use of gunpowder or similar
substance.
   PREMISES: The real property located at 450 North Meridian, Minidoka County,
Idaho, more particularly described as follows:
      Township 8 South, Range 24, East, Boise Meridian, Minidoka County, Idaho.
      Section 32:
      The North One-Half (N1/2) of said Section 32, Less Tracts C, D, and H;
and
      The North One-Half of the South One-Half (N1/2S1/2) of said Section 32,
Less Tracts C, G, and H and Also Less the East One-half of the East One-Half of
the Northeast One-Quarter of the southeast One-quarter (E1/2E1/2NE1/4SE1/4) of
said Section 32.
   B.   Enforcement: This section may be enforced by an authorized peace
officer in the state of Idaho.
   C.   Use Of Premises: The premises may be used for any lawful purpose,
except that it will be unlawful to use the premises for:
      1.   Target practice or concentrated shooting practice or establishment
of a shooting range. Hunting of birds and mammals is specifically allowed in
compliance with all applicable hunting regulations.
      2.   Dumping of any garbage, appliances, dead animals or other refuse.
(Ord. 08-01, 10-20-2008; amd. 2016 Code)
4-5-5: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be subject to penalty
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2016 Code)
CHAPTER 6
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
4-6-1: License Permitted; Fees
4-6-2: Tag And Collar; Taking Up Dogs
4-6-3: Control Of Dogs
4-6-4: Reclaiming Impounded Dogs; Adoption; Euthanization
4-6-5: Responsibility Of Head Of Household
4-6-6: Interference With Person Seizing Dog
4-6-7: Entering Private Property
4-6-8: Penalty
4-6-1: LICENSE PERMITTED; FEES:
   A.   All fees set under this Chapter shall be set by Resolution of the
county.
   B.   The owner or any person who is keeping or harboring a dog within the
county, may pay to the Minidoka Joint Animal Control Facility for its special
revenue account an annual license fee for each dog so kept or harbored an
amount as established by the board of commissioners. The license fee shall be
paid at the Minidoka Joint Animal Control Facility, who shall issue in return a
receipt designating the name and address of the owner or custodian paying the
license fee, the number of the license tag assigned, the sex of the dog, a
brief description of the dog, and the amount paid for such license.
   C.   A numbered license tag corresponding to the number listed on the
receipt shall be delivered to the license application with a receipt.
   D.   The implant of a chip at the Minidoka Joint Animal Control Facility,
with payment of related fee at that facility, shall waive any licensing fee for
five (5) years.
   E.   The license shall be effective only to the end of the calendar year
which the same is issued. (Ord. 2021-12-20, 12-20-2021)
4-6-2: TAG AND COLLAR; TAKING UP DOGS:
Any peace officer, animal control officer, or other designated person, may
seize and impound any dog,
   A.   At large, off the owner’s property, without an attendant or master, not
securely confined or leashed whether by tether or trained voice command so that
it does not stray; or
   B.   That threatens, aggressively intimidates or harasses, or bites any
person, livestock, poultry, or domestic animal. (Ord. 2021-12-20, 12-20-2021;
amd. Ord. 2023-10-30, 12-10-2023)
4-6-3: CONTROL OF DOGS:
   A.   Dogs which Disturb Neighborhood: No person shall own, keep, or harbor
any dog which by loud, continued or frequent barking, howling, or yelping shall
annoy or disturb any neighborhood or person. A dog shall not be permitted to
urinate or defecate upon the property of any person other than the dog’s owner,
unless it is immediately cleaned. Violation of this section is an infraction
punishable as provided in
4-6-8 .
   B.   Dogs at Large: Any person who permits any dog owned or possessed or
harbored by him to be, or run at large without a competent and responsible
attendant or master, within the County, or willfully or negligently fails,
neglects, or refuses to keep any such dog securely confined within the limits
of his own premises when not under the immediate care and control of a
competent and responsible attendant or master, shall be guilty of an infraction
punishable as provided in
4-6-8 .
   C.   Vicious Dogs:
      1.   Definitions:
         SECURE ENCLOSURE: One from which the vicious dog cannot escape and for
which exit and entry is controlled by the owner or tenant of the premises or
owner of the vicious dog.
         VICIOUS DOG: Any animal which, when not physically provoked,
physically attacks, wounds, bites, aggressively chases, harasses, or otherwise
injures any person, poultry, livestock, or any domestic animal who is not
trespassing.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for the owner of a vicious dog, or for the
owner or tenant of premises on which a vicious dog is present, to harbor a
vicious dog outside a secure enclosure.
      3.   It shall be unlawful for the owner of a vicious dog, or for the
owner or tenant of premises on which a vicious dog is present, to fail to
maintain the enclosure so that the vicious dog cannot escape the enclosure.
      4.   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove a vicious dog from a
secure enclosure unless the dog is restrained in a manner sufficient to control
the dog.
      5.   Penalty and Sentencing: Persons guilty of a violation of any of the
provisions of this subsection
4-6-3 (C), shall be guilty of a misdemeanor subject to penalties of up to one
hundred eighty days in jail, a one thousand dollar fine, up to 2 years of
probation, and restitution for damages. Further, at sentencing on a violation
of this subsection, the court may in its discretion, in the interest of public
safety, order the owner to have the vicious dog destroyed or may direct the
appropriate authorities to destroy the dog. Both the prosecution and the owner
of the dog may present evidence relevant to the propriety of the destruction of
the vicious dog.
      6.   A vicious dog may be seized and impounded during the pendency of
court proceedings pursuant to
4-6-3 (C).
      7.   Nothing in this chapter shall preclude any civil liability as
otherwise provided by law for damages or loss caused by a vicious dog to
livestock, poultry, or other domestic animals.
   D.   Dog Bites: Any dog which has bitten any person shall be surrendered to
a peace officer or animal control officer. The dog shall be inspected by a
licensed veterinarian and quarantined, if necessary, as may be required under
state law. No inspection or quarantine is required if reliable, current medical
records are provided showing evidence of current immunizations for hydrophobia.
If it is determined during the observation period that the dog has hydrophobia,
the dog shall be euthanized by the veterinarian. Payment of the actual costs of
inspection, keeping the dog, examining the dog, monitoring the dog’s condition
during the period of observation, or euthanization will be assessed by fee. If
the dog is not claimed by its owner and/or person responsible for the animal
within the observation period, it shall be destroyed.
   No dog which has bitten a person shall be adopted out or surrendered to a
third party if the owner or other person responsible for the animal is not
located.
   Any dog which appears likely to be suffering from rabies may be destroyed by
a peace officer or animal control officer if such dog cannot be captured
without exposing such officer or other persons to unreasonable risk of injury.
(Ord. 2021-12-20, 12-20-2021; amd. Ord. 2024-10-30, 12-10-2023)
4-6-4: RECLAIMING IMPOUNDED DOGS; ADOPTION; EUTHANIZATION:
All dogs taken up by a peace or animal control officer shall be delivered to
the Minidoka Joint Animal Control Facility. Facility shall not refuse any dog.
Dogs shall not be held at any other location, except those delivered to a
veterinarian as directed by the Facility. No fostering of dogs outside the
Facility is permitted. Any dog not reclaimed, adopted, or otherwise committed
to an entity engaged in the legal rescue, adoption or otherwise providing homes
for dogs, within twenty-one (21) days shall be euthanized.
Any dog may be reclaimed at the Minidoka Joint Animal Control Facility by the
owner or other person entitled upon payment of any related fees as established
by the county by resolution. Fees shall be paid to the Minidoka Joint Animal
Control Facility and a receipt shall be issued. Fees may include bail out,
vaccination, quarantine, boarding, and other related fees as established by
resolution.
An unlicensed dog which will be kept or harbored within the county, upon
release, shall not be released until the person reclaiming such dog as
purchased a current license and any related fees as established by resolution
incurred related to the dog.
After the five (5) day period for dogs taken up as found in Idaho Code 25-2804,
rather than euthanizing the dog, the animal control officer may then take steps
to adopt the dog to a third person. Any third person shall pay all impoundment
and adoption fees against the dog and have the dog properly licensed before the
dog may be surrendered to such third person.
Minidoka Joint Animal Control Facility may waive impoundment, adoption, and
other fees for an entity engaged in the legal rescue, adoption, or otherwise
providing homes for dogs.
Adoption to a third person is available by Minidoka Joint Animal Control
Facility as provided in this section. Adoption fees shall be established by the
county by resolution and include any needed spay or neuter costs. No dog shall
be surrendered to any such third person unless the dog has been spayed or
neutered, if needed, by a licensed veterinarian. This spay and neuter
requirement may be waived for an entity regularly engaged in the legal rescue,
adoption, or otherwise providing homes for dogs. (Ord. 2021-12-20, 12-20-2021)
4-6-5: RESPONSIBILITY OF HEAD OF HOUSEHOLD:
The responsibility for compliance with all provisions of this chapter shall
rest upon the head of the household at which a dog is being kept or harbored
whether the ownership of such dog is claimed by any person residing in said
household. The parents or guardians of minor children with whom said minor
children are residing shall be deemed to be the owners of the dog of a minor
child residing with them for purposes of this section. A husband and wife or
two (2) or more adults living together may be jointly charged as heads of the
household where a dog is kept or harbored if they fail to comply with their
obligations under this chapter. (Ord. 2021-12-20, 12-20-2021)
4-6-6: INTERFERENCE WITH PERSON SEIZING DOG:
It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder or molest any police officer or
animal control officer who is attempting to perform any act authorized under
this chapter. (Ord. 2021-12-20, 12-20-2021)
4-6-7: ENTERING PRIVATE PROPERTY:
In the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter, any peace officer or
animal control officer is authorized to enter upon private property to capture
a dog running at large or to destroy a rabid or vicious dog, but the authority
granted by this section does not authorize entry into any building on private
property without the consent of the person entitled to control of said
building. It shall be the responsibility of the county to repair any damage to
property or clean up any mess created by the actions of a peace officer or
animal control officer in the pursuit or destruction of a dog on private
property. (Ord. 2021-12-20, 12-20-2021)
4-6-8: PENALTY:
Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
guilty of an infraction unless otherwise provided, and upon conviction thereof
shall be punished as follows:
   A.   An admission of guilt or entry of judgment to any such violation shall
result in a penalty of not more than fifty dollars ($50.00) for the first such
violation.
   B.   Upon a subsequent admission of guilt or entry of judgment for
violations of the provisions of this chapter, a penalty of not more than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) shall be assessed.
   C.   Upon a third admission of guilt or entry of judgment for violation of
the provisions of this chapter, a penalty of not more than three hundred
dollars ($300.00) shall be assessed for each subsequent violation. Failure to
pay shall constitute a misdemeanor.
   D.   Violations of
6-4-3 (C), Vicious Dogs, is a misdemeanor punishable as outlined in
4-6-3 (C)(5). (Ord. 2021-12-20, 12-20-2021; amd. Ord. 2024-10-30, 12-10-2023)
CHAPTER 7
MASS GATHERINGS
SECTION:
4-7-1: Title
4-7-2: Authority And Purpose
4-7-3: Definitions
4-7-4: Licensing Requirements
4-7-5: Conditions For Issuing License
4-7-6: Application For License
4-7-7: License Issuance
4-7-8: Removal Of Structures
4-7-9: Revocation Of License
4-7-10: Violation; Penalty
4-7-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the MINIDOKA COUNTY MASS GATHERING ORDINANCE.
(Ord. 2014-04-28, 4-28-2014)
4-7-2: AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE:
   A.   This chapter is adopted pursuant to the authority granted to counties
to regulate mass gatherings as provided in the Idaho Code and the constitution
of the state of Idaho.
   B.   The purpose of this chapter is to establish consolidated rules and
regulations governing mass gatherings. (Ord. 2014-04-28, 4-28-2014)
4-7-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
   ASSEMBLY: A company of persons gathered together at any location at any
single time for any purpose.
   PERSON: Any individual natural human being, partnership, corporation, firm,
company, association, society or group. (Ord. 2014-04-28, 4-28-2014)
4-7-4: LICENSING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   License Required: No person shall permit, maintain, promote, conduct,
advertise, act as entrepreneur, undertake, organize, manage or sell or give
tickets to an actual or reasonably anticipated assembly of three hundred (300)
or more people, whether on public or private property unless a license to hold
the assembly has first been issued by the Minidoka County commissioners, the
application for which must be submitted to the commissioners at least sixty
(60) days in advance of the assembly. A license to hold an assembly issued to
one person shall permit any person to engage in any lawful activity in
connection with the holding of the licensed assembly.
   B.   License And Fee: A separate license shall be required for each location
in which three hundred (300) or more people assemble or can reasonably be
anticipated to assemble; the fee for each license shall be as set by the board
of county commissioners of Minidoka County.
   C.   Ticket Sales: A license shall permit the assembly of only up to the
maximum number of people stated in the license. The licensee shall not sell
tickets to nor permit to assemble at the licensed location more than the
maximum permissible number of people.
   D.   Location Of Event: No license shall be issued to any anticipated
assembly of three hundred (300) or more people where said location may be
hazardous, dangerous or detrimental to the public health, safety and welfare
unless appropriate safety provisions have been met.
   E.   Exceptions:
      1.   This chapter shall not apply to any regular established, permanent
place of worship, stadium, athletic field, arena, auditorium, coliseum, school
or other similar permanently established place of assembly for assemblies which
do not exceed by more than two hundred fifty (250) people the maximum seating
capacity of the structure where the assembly is held.
      2.   This chapter shall not apply to government sponsored fairs held on
regularly established fairgrounds nor to assemblies required to be licensed by
other ordinances and regulations of the county, nor to assemblies within any
incorporated municipality within the county.
      3.   This chapter shall not apply to any place at which auctions and/or
sales are held which do not exceed by more than two hundred fifty (250) people
the maximum capacity of the structure or outdoor location where the assembly of
the participants and/or buyers of items for auction or sale are held. (Ord.
2014-04-28, 4-28-2014)
4-7-5: CONDITIONS FOR ISSUING LICENSE:
   A.   Number Of Persons At Assembly: Before an applicant may be issued a
license, the applicant shall first determine the maximum number of people which
will be assembled or admitted to the location of the assembly; provided, that
the maximum number shall not exceed the maximum number which can reasonably
assemble at the location of the assembly in consideration of the nature of the
assembly; and provided that, where the assembly is to continue overnight, the
maximum number shall not be more than is allowed to sleep within the boundaries
of the location of the assembly by the zoning or health ordinances of the
county.
   B.   Requirements At Applicant's Expense: Before an applicant may be issued
a license, the applicant shall provide proof that the applicant will furnish at
the applicant's own expense before the assembly commences:
      1.   Health Requirements:
         a.   Potable water, meeting all federal and state requirements for
purity, sufficient to provide drinking water for the maximum number of people
to be assembled at the rate of at least one gallon per person per day and water
for bathing at the rate of at least ten (10) gallons per person per day.
         b.   Separate enclosed toilets for males and females, meeting all
state and local specifications, conveniently located throughout the grounds,
sufficient to provide facilities for the maximum number of people to be
assembled at the rate of at least one toilet for every three hundred (300)
females, and at least one toilet for every three hundred (300) males; an
efficient sanitary means of disposing of waste matter deposited therein, which
is in compliance with all state and local laws and regulations.
         c.   A sanitary method of disposing of solid waste, in compliance with
state and local laws and regulations, sufficient to dispose of the solid waste
production of the maximum number of people to be assembled at the rate of at
least two and one-half (21/2) pounds of solid waste per person per day,
together with a plan for holding and a plan for collecting all such waste at
least once each day of the assembly and sufficient trash cans with tightfitting
lids and personnel to perform the task.
         d.   Physician licensed to practice in the state of Idaho, or
qualified emergency medical technician (EMT) or paramedic, sufficient to
provide the average medical care enjoyed by residents of Idaho for the maximum
number of people to be assembled at the rate of at least one physician or EMT
or paramedic for every two thousand five hundred (2,500) people, together with
an enclosed covered structure where treatment may be rendered, and at least one
emergency ambulance available for use at all times.
         e.   The above health requirements heretofore set forth are to be
minimum requirements only. The plans for the health requirements shall be
submitted to the South Central health district for approval at least thirty
(30) days prior to the proposed assembly.
      2.   Lighting: If the assembly is to continue during hours of darkness,
illumination sufficient to light the central area of the assembly, to include
the medical and health facilities, at the rate of at least five (5) foot-
candles, but not to shine unreasonably beyond the boundaries of the enclosed
location of the assembly.
      3.   Parking: A parking area inside of the assembly grounds sufficient to
provide parking space for the maximum number of people to be assembled at the
rate of at least one parking space for every four (4) persons. In the event
that the site and access to it cannot handle the number of people expected to
attend the assembly, the sheriff of Minidoka County may require the promoter to
provide parking at other sites with transportation between the parking site and
the site of the assembly to be provided by the promoter.
      4.   Telephones: Telephones connected to outside lines sufficient to
provide service for the maximum number of people to be assembled, at the rate
of at least one separate line and receiver for each two thousand (2,000)
persons, and to be placed in accessible locations throughout the assembly area.
      5.   Camping Facilities: If the assembly is to continue overnight,
camping facilities shall be provided by the promoter at the site of the
assembly and said facilities shall be in compliance with all federal and state
requirements sufficient to provide camping accommodations for the maximum
number of people to be assembled. In the event that temporary camping
facilities are not available at the site of the proposed assembly, the promoter
shall provide temporary camping facilities elsewhere which shall be approved by
the health department of Minidoka County.
      6.   Security Guards; Bond: Either regularly employed, duly sworn off
duty peace officers of the state of Idaho or other qualified individuals
sufficient to provide adequate security for the maximum number of people to be
assembled at the rate of at least one security guard for every two hundred
fifty (250) people as a minimum shall be provided by the promoter. A list of
the security guards shall be presented to the Minidoka County sheriff for
approval at least thirty (30) days prior to the proposed assembly. In the event
the county sheriff requires extra help to provide security for the proposed
assembly, the promoter shall deposit with the county a cash bond in the amount
of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) with a higher bond to be required if the
county commissioners determine it to be necessary.
      7.   Fire Protection: Fire protection, including alarms, extinguishing
devices and fire lanes and escapes, sufficient to meet all federal, state and
local standards for the location of the assembly and sufficient emergency
personnel to efficiently operate the required equipment. The plan for fire
protection and emergency personnel shall be presented to the fire district for
approval at least thirty (30) days prior to the proposed assembly.
      8.   Traffic Control: All traffic control shall be approved by the county
sheriff and the appropriate highway district at least thirty (30) days prior to
the proposed assembly. The promoter shall provide an emergency entrance and
exit to and from the site of the proposed assembly and said emergency entrance
and exit shall be kept open at all times for the use of emergency vehicles. The
promoter is responsible for providing traffic control personnel who shall be
approved by the sheriff at least thirty (30) days prior to the proposed
assembly.
      9.   Noise Control: If the assembly is to include the use of
amplification devices, the sound emitting from such devices shall not be
plainly audible within any place of residence not the source of the sound.
Additionally, the sound emitting from such devices must be minimized during the
hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight through seven o'clock (7:00) A.M.
Control and enforcement of noise amplification is the responsibility of the
promoter.
      10.   Insurance Policy:
         a.   An insurance policy, filed with the clerk of the district court,
underwritten by an insurance company licensed to do business in Idaho in the
minimum amount of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00), which shall indemnify
and hold harmless Minidoka County or any of its agents, officers, servants and
employees from any liability or causes of action which might arise by reason of
granting this license, and from any cost incurred in cleaning up any waste
material produced or left by the assembly, at the site or surrounding areas.
         b.   At the discretion of the board of Minidoka County commissioners,
a performance bond may be required to be deposited with the county commission
in the amount of fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000.00) to ensure compliance
with all terms of this chapter. In addition, a cash bond in the amount of two
thousand dollars ($2,000.00) may be required to be deposited with the county to
pay for damage to adjoining or nonadjoining properties within one thousand feet
(1,000') of the site of the proposed assembly. (Ord. 2014-04-28, 4-28-2014)
4-7-6: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Filing Period: Application for a license to hold an actual or
anticipated assembly of three hundred (300) or more persons shall be made in
writing to the county commissioners at least sixty (60) days in advance of such
assembly.
   B.   Sworn Statement Required: The application shall contain a statement
made upon oath or affirmation that the statements contained therein are true
and correct to the best knowledge of the applicant and shall be signed and
sworn to or affirmed by the individual or "person" (see definition herein)
making application in the case of a corporation, by all partners in the case of
a partnership or by all officers, by all members of such association, society,
or group, or if there are no officers, by all members of such association,
society or group.
   C.   Contents: The application shall contain and disclose:
      1.   The name, age, residence and mailing address of all persons required
to sign the application, and, in the case of a corporation, a certified copy of
the articles of incorporation together with the name, age, residence and
mailing address of each person holding ten percent (10%) or more of the stock
of said corporation.
      2.   The address and legal description of all property upon which the
assembly is to be held, together with the name, residence and mailing address
of the record owner(s) of all such property.
      3.   Proof of ownership of all property upon which the assembly is to be
held or a statement made upon oath or affirmation by the record owner(s) of all
such property that the applicant has permission to use such property for an
assembly of three hundred (300) persons or more.
      4.   The nature or purpose of the assembly.
      5.   The total number of days and/or hours during which the assembly is
to last.
      6.   The maximum number of persons which the applicant shall permit to
assemble at any time, not to exceed the maximum number which can reasonably
assemble at the location of the assembly in consideration of the nature of the
assembly, or the maximum number of persons allowed to sleep within the
boundaries of the location of the assembly by the zoning ordinances of the
county if the assembly is to continue overnight.
      7.   The maximum number of tickets to be sold, if any.
      8.   The plans of the applicant to limit the maximum number of persons
permitted to assemble.
      9.   The plan for supplying potable water, including the source, amount
available, and location of outlets.
      10.   The plans for providing toilet and lavatory facilities including
the source, number and location, type, and the means of disposing of solid
waste deposited.
      11.   The plans for holding, collection, and disposing of solid waste
material.
      12.   The plans to provide for medical facilities including the location
and construction of a medical structure, the names and addresses and hours of
availability of physicians and nurses and provisions for emergency ambulance
service.
      13.   The plans, if any, to illuminate the location of the assembly,
including the source and amount of power and the location of lamps.
      14.   The plans for parking vehicles, including the size and location of
lots, points of highway access and interior roads including routes between
highway access and parking lots.
      15.   The plans for telephone service, including the source, number, and
location of telephones.
      16.   The plans for camping facilities, if any, including facilities
available and their location.
      17.   The plans for the use of any amplification devices and the plan for
noise control during the assembly.
      18.   The plans for security including the number of guards, their names,
addresses, credentials and hours of availability. The plans for fire
protection, including the number, type and location of all protective devices,
including alarms and extinguishers, and the number of emergency fire personnel
available to operate the equipment.
      19.   The plans for food concessions and concessionaires who will be
allowed to operate on the ground, including the names and addresses of all
concessionaires and their license or permit numbers.
   D.   Bond; License Fee: The application shall include the bond required and
the license fee. (Ord. 2014-04-28, 4-28-2014)
4-7-7: LICENSE ISSUANCE:
The application for a license shall be processed and issued after proof of
compliance with this chapter has been submitted to the board of county
commissioners. Proof of compliance with this chapter must be submitted to the
commissioners at least fifteen (15) days prior to the beginning of the
assembly. (Ord. 2014-04-28, 4-28-2014)
4-7-8: REMOVAL OF STRUCTURES:
All structures, installations, excavations and construction shall be removed by
the licensee from the site of the assembly at the termination of the event. In
the event this is not accomplished within ten (10) days after the assembly, the
county is authorized to accomplish the removal and charge the cost of the
removal against the performance bond. (Ord. 2014-04-28, 4-28-2014)
4-7-9: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
The license may be revoked by the county at any time if the conditions
necessary for the issuing of or contained in the license are not complied with,
or if any condition previously met ceases to be complied with. (Ord. 2014-04-
28, 4-28-2014)
4-7-10: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   Public Nuisance: The holding of any assembly in violation of any
provisions or conditions contained in this chapter shall give cause to the
county to seek injunctive relief for creation of a public nuisance. Said action
shall be brought in any court of competent jurisdiction.
   B.   Violation; Penalty Imposed: Any person who wilfully, knowingly and
intentionally violates any condition upon which he is granted a license shall
be fined up to one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per offense. Each violation
shall be considered a separate offense. Additionally, anyone holding a mass
gathering in the county without a mass gathering license may be fined up to one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or be imprisoned not to exceed six (6) months, or
by both such fine and imprisonment. The criminal provisions of this subsection
are not enforceable against the licensee in the event injunctive relief under
subsection A of this section is granted.
   C.   Right Of Entry: If the county issues a license to the promoter, the
promoter shall allow entry to enforce provisions of this chapter or license.
(Ord. 2014-04-28, 4-28-2014)
CHAPTER 8
RECREATIONAL ACTIVITIES ON WATERWAYS
SECTION:
4-8-1: Purpose
4-8-2: Waterways Code Of Regulations
4-8-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter, and the waterways code of regulations in section
4-8-2 of this chapter, are designed to regulate and control the activities of
persons involved in recreational pursuits on those portions of the Snake River
adjoining the county, and all other public waterways in the unincorporated
areas of the county, to promote the health, safety, comfort, and convenience,
peace and good order of the county and the inhabitants thereof; to make certain
acts unlawful; and to provide a penalty for violation of those acts. (Ord. 93-
1, 7-12-1993)
4-8-2: WATERWAYS CODE OF REGULATIONS:
   A.   Regulation 1: It shall be unlawful for any person to fish, swim, dive
or ski from, or to sunbathe, sit or otherwise loiter on, any boat launching
ramp/docks located on those portions of the Snake River adjoining the county or
any public waterways in the county, and/or any docks extending from shore
marked for the purpose of boat usage in the county.
   B.   Regulation 2: It shall be unlawful for any person to swim or waterski
within a boat launching area located in the county. Such areas shall include
all water between the "Slow, No Wake" regulatory buoys and the shoreline,
excluding any marked areas where swimming or waterskiing is specifically
permitted.
   C.   Regulation 3: It shall be unlawful for any person to drive a boat
through or within any "No Wake" area at a speed greater than a "No Wake" speed.
"No Wake" areas shall include all water between any "Slow, No Wake" regulatory
buoys and the shoreline.
   D.   Regulation 4: It shall be unlawful for any person to drive a boat in a
manner, direction or speed that is contrary to posted signs or buoys regulating
the manner, direction or speed of boat travel in a specific area.
   E.   Regulation 5: It shall be unlawful for any person to drive a boat
through or within a marked swimming area in the county. It shall also be
unlawful to fish or ski from a marked swimming dock.
   F.   Regulation 6: "No Wake" areas, swimming areas, swimming docks, skiing
docks, fishing docks, boat launching areas, boat launching docks, reduced speed
areas, restricted direction of travel areas, and restricted usage areas shall
be marked and posted, and are hereby established as set forth on the map
attached as exhibit A to the ordinance codified herein, which is incorporated
herein by this reference.
   G.   Regulation 7: It shall be unlawful for any person to pull a waterskier
from or to a dock, or to waterski from a dock unless such dock is designated as
a waterskiing dock. It shall be unlawful for any person to swim, fish, or dive
from, or tie a boat up to, a waterskiing dock. (Ord. 93-1, 7-12-1993)
TITLE 5
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
COUNTY ROADS
SECTION:
5-1-1: Irrigation Water On Roadways
5-1-1: IRRIGATION WATER ON ROADWAYS:
   A.   Control Defined: The owner, operator, lessee, tenant and any other
person having dominion or control of the real property from which irrigation
water sprays, sprinkles or otherwise flows shall be presumed to control such
water.
   B.   Water On Roadway Prohibited: Any person having control of irrigation
water who shall cause, suffer, or allow any such water to spray, sprinkle, or
otherwise flow upon the traveled portion of any public highway, road or street
in any manner other than that authorized by law shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
   C.   Penalties:
      1.   Every person found guilty of a violation of this section shall be
subject to punishment by a fine in an amount not to exceed three hundred
dollars ($300.00) and imprisonment in the county jail for a period not to
exceed six (6) months, or both such fine and imprisonment.
      2.   Every person, upon conviction for a second or subsequent violation
of this section occurring within one year, shall be punished by a mandatory
minimum fine of three hundred dollars ($300.00) and shall be further subject to
imprisonment in the county jail for a period not to exceed six (6) months, or
both such fine and imprisonment. (Ord. 92-3, 5-22-1992)
TITLE 6
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AND AREAS OF CITY IMPACT
CHAPTER 1
COUNTY/CITY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
SECTION:
6-1-1: Plan Adopted
6-1-2: Application Of Plan
6-1-1: PLAN ADOPTED:
The county/city comprehensive plan of May 2001, is adopted in its entirety,
including text, attached maps, and any and all attachments, exhibits,
schedules, and appendices, for any and all implementation and application of
Idaho Code title 67, chapter 65. The said comprehensive plan is intended for
application by the Minidoka County zoning commission in its review of any
applicable recommendations and applications for review, deliberation, and
decision pursuant to the Minidoka County zoning ordinance, and local land use
planning act. (Ord. 01-02, 5-14-2001)
6-1-2: APPLICATION OF PLAN:
The board of county commissioners hereby recognizes and acknowledges that the
said county/city comprehensive plan was formulated and adopted in conjunction
with the city of Rupert, for application in Minidoka County, and the cities of
Rupert, Acequia, and Minidoka, and that there are distinct and differing
comprehensive plans adopted and applied by the cities of Heyburn, Paul, and
North Burley. In recognition of those separate comprehensive plans, and the
acknowledgment by the board of county commissioners of Minidoka County, that
those municipalities have a vested interest in orderly development within the
areas of impact of the respective municipalities, it is the intent of the board
of county commissioners that, to the extent that the county/city comprehensive
plan of May 2001, adopted herein, is inconsistent with the comprehensive plan
of the city of Heyburn, city of Paul, and city of Burley, it is the intent of
the board of county commissioners of Minidoka County to allow the comprehensive
plan of those respective cities to take precedence over the county/city
comprehensive plan adopted herein in the respective areas of impact. To the
extent that they are consistent, the county/city comprehensive plan of May
2001, shall apply in the county and areas of impact. (Ord. 01-02, 5-14-2001)
CHAPTER 2
RESERVED
CHAPTER 3
HEYBURN AREA OF CITY IMPACT
SECTION:
6-3-1: Administration Agreement
6-3-2: Area Of City Impact Description
6-3-3: Map On File
6-3-1: ADMINISTRATION AGREEMENT:
Minidoka County and the city of Heyburn have arrived at an agreement for
administration of the area of impact, which is hereby covenanted, agreed and
stipulated as follows:
   A.   The city's comprehensive plan and any amendments shall apply in the
area of impact.
   B.   The county's zoning ordinance shall be the zoning law of the area of
impact.
   C.   The county's subdivision ordinance shall be the subdivision law of the
area of impact.
   D.   The county's building code regulations shall be the law applicable to
building and related construction activities.
   E.   The parties agree that the fees for the issuance of building permits
within and for the city by the county shall be split with twenty five percent
(25%) going to the city and seventy five percent (75%) going to the county.
Such shall be remitted by the county to the city on a monthly basis. Fees for
building permits for buildings to be built within the Heyburn area of impact
will go one hundred percent (100%) to the county.
   F.   Enforcement of the provisions of ordinances mentioned in the ordinance
codified herein in the city's area of impact vests solely in the county.
   G.   However, the county agrees to give the city notice of all proceedings
affecting real property in the city's area of impact, including: zoning
changes, changes in zoning districts, issuance of special use permits, and
issuance of variances. Notice shall consist of mailing a copy of the same
notice required by law to affected or interested parties defined by Idaho Code
section 67-6509(a) at the same time said notice is sent to said parties. (Ord.
09-03, 4-26-2009)
6-3-2: AREA OF CITY IMPACT DESCRIPTION:
   A.   Physical description:
      Beginning at the intersection point of 300 West Road and the Snake River,
which shall be the point of beginning;
      Thence north along 300 West to 250 South;
      Thence west along 250 South to 875 West;
      Thence south along 875 West to the north right-of-way of Interstate 84;
      Thence east along north right-of-way of Interstate 84 to 600 West;
      Thence south along 600 West to the Snake River;
      Thence southeasterly along the Snake River to the point of beginning,
excepting therefrom that portion of the above described lands presently within
the City limits of the City of Heyburn.
   B.   Legal description:
      Boise Meridian, Minidoka County, Idaho.
      Beginning at the intersection point of the East section line of Section
26, Township 10 South, Range 23 East and the Snake River, which shall be the
point of beginning;
      Thence north along East Section lines of Sections 26, 23, 14, 11, and 2
to the east west quarter section line of Section 1, Township 10 South, Range 23
East;
      Thence west along the quarter section lines of Sections 1, 2, 3, 4, 5,
and 6 to the west quarter corner of Section 6, Township 10 South, Range 23
East;
      Thence south along the West section lines of Section 6 and 7 to the north
right-of-way of Interstate 84;
      Thence east along the north right-of-way of Interstate 84 to the west
section line of Section 9, Township 10 South, Range 23;
      Thence south along the west section lines of Sections 9 and 16, Township
10 South, Range 23 to the Snake River;
      Thence southeasterly along the Snake River to the true point of
beginning, excepting therefrom that portion of the above described lands
presently within the City limits of the City of Heyburn.
(Ord. 09-03, 4-26-2009)
6-3-3: MAP ON FILE:
The official map, as adopted by Minidoka County, attached as exhibit A to
ordinance 02-06, depicting the areas of city impact for the cities of North
Burley, Heyburn, Paul and Rupert, shall be and remain on file with Minidoka
County. (2016 Code)
CHAPTER 4
PAUL AREA OF CITY IMPACT
SECTION:
6-4-1: Administration Agreement
6-4-2: Area Of City Impact Description
6-4-3: Map On File
6-4-1: ADMINISTRATION AGREEMENT:
Minidoka County and the city of Paul have arrived at an agreement for
administration of the area of impact, which is hereby covenanted, agreed and
stipulated as follows:
   A.   The county's comprehensive plan and any amendments thereto shall apply
in the area of impact.
   B.   The county's zoning ordinance shall be the zoning law of the area of
impact.
   C.   The county's subdivision ordinance shall be the subdivision law of the
area of impact.
   D.   The county's building code regulations shall be the law applicable to
building and related construction activities.
   E.   The parties agree that the fees for the issuance of building permits
within and for the city by the county shall be split with twenty five percent
(25%) going to the city and seventy five percent (75%) going to the county. The
county shall remit such to the city on a monthly basis. Fees for building
permits for buildings to be built within the Paul area of impact will go one
hundred percent (100%) to the county.
   F.   Enforcement of the provisions of ordinances mentioned in the ordinance
codified herein in the city's area of impact vests solely in the county.
   G.   The county agrees to give the city notice of all proceedings affecting
real property in the city's area of impact, including: zoning changes, changes
in zoning districts, issuance of special use permits, and issuance of
variances. Notice shall consist of mailing a copy of the same notice required
by law to affected or interested parties defined by Idaho Code section 67-6509
(a) at the same time said notice is sent to said parties. (Ord. 2016-09-13-E,
9-13-2016)
6-4-2: AREA OF CITY IMPACT DESCRIPTION:
The area of impact for the city of Paul shall include all the area within the
following described boundaries, save and except the area already incorporated
in the city limits.
   A.   Physical description:
      Beginning at intersection of the centerline of Baseline and 875 West;
      Thence south along 875 West to 250 South;
      Thence east along 250 South to a point 300 feet west of the centerline of
the 300 West Road;
      Thence north to a point 300 feet west of centerline of the 300 West Road
and the centerline of Baseline Road;
      Thence west along the centerline of Baseline Road to the point of
beginning.
   B.   Legal description:
      Beginning at the northwest corner of the NE1/4NE1/4 Section 26, Township
9 South, Range 22 East, Boise Meridian, Minidoka County, Idaho;
      Thence south along quarter/quarter section line to southwest corner of
the SE1/4NE1/4 Section 26, Township 10 South, Range 22 East;
      Thence east along quarter section line to a point 300 feet west of
southeast corner of NE1/4 of Section 2, Township 10 South, Range 23 East;
      Thence north to a point 300 feet west of the northeast corner of Section
26, Township 9 South, Range 22 East;
      Thence along north section lines (Baseline) to the point of beginning.
This area reflects an expanded area of the already existing area of city
impact. The expanded area is from the 750 West Road to 875 West. (Ord. 2016-09-
13-L, 9-13-2016)
6-4-3: MAP ON FILE:
The map attached as exhibit A to the ordinance codified herein is adopted as
the map identifying the area of city impact for the city of Paul. (Ord. 2016-
09-13-L, 9-13-2016)
CHAPTER 5
RUPERT AREA OF CITY IMPACT
SECTION:
6-5-1: Administration Agreement
6-5-2: Area Of City Impact Description
6-5-3: Map On File
6-5-1: ADMINISTRATION AGREEMENT:
The following provisions shall apply in regard to administration in the Rupert
area of city impact:
   A.   Comprehensive Plan: The comprehensive plan and subsequent amendments
thereto as officially adopted by the city shall apply to the area of city
impact within the unincorporated area of Minidoka County.
   B.   Zoning And Subdivision Ordinances And Zoning Map: The zoning and
subdivision ordinances, zoning map, and subsequent amendments thereto as
officially adopted by the city shall apply to the area of city impact within
the unincorporated area of Minidoka County.
   C.   Building Permits:
      1.   Where individual subsurface sewage disposal systems are needed, the
necessary permits shall be obtained from the South Central district health
department prior to issuing the building permit.
      2.   All building permits to be issued in the unincorporated area of city
impact shall be issued by the Minidoka cities/county building department. The
city of Rupert shall retain twenty five percent (25%) of the building permit
fee and Minidoka County shall retain seventy five percent (75%) of the building
permit fee.
   D.   Planning And Zoning Commission Representation: The city of Rupert shall
appoint a representative(s) of residents living in the unincorporated area of
city impact in proportion to the number of members on the city planning and
zoning commission to serve on said commission. (Example: If a city of 3,000 has
5 planning and zoning commission members and 3,000 people live in the area of
city impact, then at least 3 people living in the area of city impact must be
appointed to the city planning and zoning commission so a new commission of 8
members is formed.) (Ord. 9-28-81, 9-28-1981)
6-5-2: AREA OF CITY IMPACT DESCRIPTION:
   A.   Physical description:
      Beginning at a point 300 feet north of the 200 North Road right-of-way at
150 East, being the point of beginning;
      Thence south along 150 East to the center point of the section at 50
North and 150 East;
      Thence east along 50 North (one mile) to the center point of the section
at 50 North and 250 East;
      Thence south along 250 East to the Snake River;
      Thence in a southwesterly direction along the natural flow of the Snake
to 150 East;
      Thence north along 150 East to a point 300 feet south of the 200 South
Road right-of-way;
      Thence west to a point of intersection of a line running parallel to the
southeast right-of-way of State Highway 24, measured 2640 feet (1/2 mile)
perpendicular from said right-of-way;
      Thence in a southwesterly direction parallel to State Highway 24 to the
north right-of-way of Interstate 84;
      Thence west along the north right-of-way of Interstate 84 to the
centerline of the 300 West Road;
      Thence north along 300 West to 250 South;
      Thence west along 250 South to a point 300 feet west of the 300 West Road
right-of-way;
      Thence north parallel to 300 West to a point 300 feet west of the 300
West Road right-of-way on the centerline of Baseline Road;
      Thence east along the centerline of Baseline Road to a point 300 feet
west of the 200 West Road right-of-way;
      Thence north parallel to 200 West to a point 300 feet west of the 200
West Road right-of-way and 300 feet north of the 200 North Road right-of-way;
      Thence East to the point of beginning, excepting therefrom that portion
of the above described lands presently within the City limits of the City of
Rupert.
   B.   Legal description:
      Boise Meridian, Minidoka County, Idaho.
      Beginning at the south quarter corner of Section 10, Township 9 South,
Range 24 East, thence north 325 feet to a point, which shall be known as the
point of beginning;
      Thence south to the center quarter corner of Section 22, Township 9
South, Range 24 East;
      Thence east along the quarter section lines to the center quarter corner
of Section 23, Township 9 South, Range 24 East;
      Thence south along the quarter section lines to the Snake River;
      Thence in a southwesterly direction along the Snake to the north south
quarter section line of Section 15, Township 10 South, Range 24 East;
      Thence north along the quarter section lines to a point 325 feet south of
the north section line of Section 3, Township 10 South, Range 24 East;
      Thence west to an intersection point of a line running parallel to the
southeast right-of-way of State Highway 24, measured 2640 feet perpendicular
from said right-of- way;
      Thence in a southwesterly direction parallel to State Highway 24 to the
intersection of the north right-of-way of Interstate 84 in Section 12, Township
10 South, Range 23 East;
      Thence west along the north right-of-way of Interstate 84 to the East
Section line of Section 11, Township 10 South, Range 23 East;
      Thence north along east section line of Section 11 to the east west
quarter line of Section 1, Township 10 South, Range 23 East;
      Thence west along the quarter section line to a point 325 feet West of
the East section line of Section 2, Township 10 South, Range 23 East;
      Thence north to the south section line at a point 325 feet west of the
southeast corner of Section 23, Township 9 South, Range 23 East;
      Thence east along the section lines to a point 325 feet west of the
Southeast Corner of Section 24, Township 9 South, Range 23 East;
      Thence north to a point located 325 feet north and 325 feet west of
Southeast corner of Section 12, Township 9 South, Range 23 East;
      Thence East to the point of beginning, excepting therefrom that portion
of the above described lands presently within the City limits of the City of
Rupert.
(Ord. 02-06, 12-9-2002)
6-5-3: MAP ON FILE:
The official map, as adopted by Minidoka County, attached as exhibit A to
ordinance 02-06, depicting the areas of city impact for the cities of North
Burley, Heyburn, Paul and Rupert, shall be and remain on file with Minidoka
County. (2016 Code)
CHAPTER 6
BURLEY AREA OF CITY IMPACT
SECTION:
6-6-1: Administration Agreement
6-6-2: Area Of City Impact Description
6-6-3: Map On File
6-6-1: ADMINISTRATION AGREEMENT:
   A.    Legislative Purpose: The purpose for establishing an area of city
impact is to identify an area of transition that will or may become affected by
future growth and expansion adjoining the city of Burley, Idaho. The
transitioning area is recognized as a rural, agricultural area of the county
and will realize growth and development pressures that must be planned and
managed in an orderly fashion. The area of city impact recognizes trade area,
geographic factors and the potential delivery of public services as being
associated with the city of Burley and comprised of areas that may reasonably
be annexed to the city in the near and distant future.
   B.    Comprehensive Plan: The comprehensive plan and subsequent amendments
thereto as officially adopted by the county shall apply to the area of city
impact within the unincorporated area of the county. Both the city of Burley
and Minidoka county shall amend their comprehensive plans to be consistent with
this agreement, if required.
   C.    Subdivision Ordinance: The subdivision ordinance and subsequent
amendments thereto as officially adopted by the county of Minidoka shall apply
to the area of city impact within the unincorporated area of the county, with
the exception of any proposed subdivision that is contiguous to the city of
Burley shall be annexed into the city and the city of Burley's subdivision
ordinance shall prevail. The subdivision ordinance of the county shall prevail
over any city ordinances pertaining to the division of original parcels of
record, plat amendments, lot line adjustments, minor subdivisions, short plats
or administrative lot splits.
   D.    Zoning Ordinance: The zoning ordinance, zoning map and subsequent
amendments thereto as officially adopted by the county shall apply to the area
of city impact within the unincorporated area of the county.
   E.    Code And Ordinance Administration And Enforcement, Building Permits
and Fees:
      1.    The county shall be responsible for the administration and
enforcement of the county’s ordinances and shall receive all fees and permit
fees for inspections performed to recapture direct costs of inspections,
administration, legal publications, and other costs arising from the process.
Appeal and hearing procedures shall follow those adopted by the county
presently and in the future.
      2.    Amendments to the county's comprehensive plan, requests for
preliminary and final plats or the vacation thereof, and requests for zone
changes involving property located in the area of city impact within the
unincorporated area of the county being proposed for non-agricultural
development of any type shall be considered by the county commissioners upon
recommendation of the county planning and zoning commission in accordance with
Title 67 and Title 50, Idaho Code.
      3.    The authority to enter into and execute development agreements with
a subdivider and to accept required bonding or other form of security to
guarantee construction of required street improvements involving plats located
within the area of city impact within the unincorporated area of the county and
contiguous to the city of Burley shall rest jointly with the city and the
county.
      4.    Building permits in the area of city impact shall be issued by the
county building department and all fees shall be collected by the same building
department.
      5.    Maintenance of public streets located in the area of city impact
shall be the exclusive responsibility of the county highway district, unless
otherwise stipulated by written agreement between the highway district and the
city.
      6.    Fire services in the area of city impact shall remain the
responsibility of the Minidoka fire protection district and the west end fire
protection district unless otherwise stipulated by written agreement between
the county and/or fire districts and the city of Burley.
      7.    The city of Burley shall appoint proportionate number of its
planning and zoning commission to represent the area of city impact. Those
representatives shall reside within the area of city impact or surrounding
areas excluding the incorporated area of the city within the county, and shall
be reappointed upon any vacancy by citizens also residing within the area of
city impact or surrounding areas excluding the incorporated area of the city
within the county.
   F.    Annexation: All annexations by the city of Burley within the defined
area of city impact will amend the defined area of city impact map. The city of
Burley will provide to Minidoka county a legal description prepared by a
surveyor licensed by the State of Idaho the newly defined area of impact and it
shall be recorded as an amendment to this agreement and amend the area of
impact map.
   G.    Addressing: Addressing of property in the area of city impact shall be
under the authority of Minidoka county and shall remain (as is) until the
property is annexed into the city of Burley or until both the county and the
city agree to a change of address.
   H.    Renegotiation: The area of city impact agreement shall be reviewed by
the city and the county at least once every five (5) years and shall be
renegotiated at any time upon the request of either party hereto. Renegotiation
shall begin thirty (30) days after written request by either the city or county
and shall follow procedures for the original negotiation, as set forth in Idaho
Code § 67-6526. Annexation will not trigger a renegotiation unless one or both
parties request it. (Ord. 2016-11-21, 11-21-2016)
6-6-2: AREA OF CITY IMPACT DESCRIPTION:
Part of the southeast quarter of the southeast quarter of Section 7, and Part
of Sections 17 & 18 in Township 10 South, Range 23 East of the Boise Meridian,
Minidoka County, State of Idaho.
Beginning at the northwest corner of Section 18 in Township 10 South, Range 23
East, Boise Meridian said corner marked by a brass cap which shall be the point
of beginning;
Thence south 89 degrees 38 minutes 57 seconds east along the north line of
Section 18 for a distance of 1485.59 feet to a 5/8" rebar at the northwest
corner of the northeast quarter of the northeast quarter;
Thence south 89 degrees 42 minutes 47 seconds east along said section line for
a distance of 1117.98 feet;
Thence north 00 degrees 10 minutes 58 seconds east for a distance of 25.12 feet
to a 1/2" rebar;
Thence north 00 degrees 10 minutes 58 seconds east for a distance of 205.39
feet to a 1/2" rebar;
Thence south 89 degrees 38 minutes 31 seconds east for a distance of 212.69
feet to a 1/2" rebar on the east line of Section 7;
Thence south 00 degrees 12 minutes 47 seconds east along said section line for
a distance of 230.25 feet to a brass cap at the northwest corner of Section 17;
Thence north 89 degrees 47 minutes 56 seconds east along the north line of
Section 17 for a distance of 1318.39 feet to the northwest corner of the Green
Acres Subdivision;
Thence south 00 degrees 19 minutes 05 seconds east along the west line of the
Green Acres Subdivision for a distance of 1483.53 feet to a 1/2" rebar at the
southwest corner of the Green Acres Subdivision;
Thence south 01 degrees 03 minutes 03 seconds east along the east line of Gov't
Lot 9 for a distance of 295.46 feet to a 1/2" rebar;
Thence south 01 degrees 03 minutes 03 seconds east along the east line of Gov't
Lot 9 for a distance of 982.84 feet to the ordinary high water line of the
Snake River;
Thence north 51 degrees 24 minutes 38 seconds west along said ordinary high
water line for a distance of 78.02 feet;
Thence south 83 degrees 43 minutes 51 seconds west along said ordinary high
water line for a distance of 439.84 feet;
Thence south 69 degrees 22 minutes 31 seconds west along said ordinary high
water line for a distance of 708.26 feet;
Thence south 49 degrees 08 minutes 21 seconds west along said ordinary high
water line for a distance of 237.61 feet to the west line of Section 17;
Thence south 67 degrees 42 minutes 02 seconds west along said ordinary high
water line for a distance of 867.72 feet;
Thence south 77 degrees 57 minutes 35 seconds west along said ordinary high
water line for a distance of 702.19 feet;
Thence south 87 degrees 59 minutes 21 seconds west along said ordinary high
water line for a distance of 443.23 feet;
Thence south 83 degrees 59 minutes 19 seconds west along said ordinary high
water line for a distance of 562.06 feet;
Thence south 69 degrees 05 minutes 44 seconds west along said ordinary high
water line for a distance of 358.82 feet to the west line of Section 18;
Thence north 00 degrees 01 minutes 16 seconds east along said section line for
a distance of 1218.89 feet to a 5/8" rebar at the west 1/4 corner of Section
18;
Thence north 00 degrees 01 minutes 07 seconds west along said section line for
a distance of 2636.32 feet to the point of beginning.
Said property contains 319.06 acres more or less. (Ord. 2016-11-21, 11-21-2016)
6-6-3: MAP ON FILE:
The map attached as exhibit A to the ordinance codified herein is adopted as
the map identifying the area of city impact for the city of Burley. (Ord. 2016-
11-21, 11-21-2016)
TITLE 7
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODES
SECTION:
7-1-1: Codes Adopted; Amendments
7-1-2: References To Other Codes
7-1-3: Permit Fees
7-1-4: Manufactured Homes Installation Permits
7-1-5: Exemptions
7-1-1: CODES ADOPTED; AMENDMENTS:
The editions of the following recognized codes as currently adopted by the
state of Idaho as the official building codes of the County of Minidoka, the
adopted versions of the foregoing codes shall be effective January 1, 2021.
The foregoing codes shall be deemed superseded by successive versions of such
codes as they are adopted or approved by the state of Idaho effective on the
1st day of January the year following the date any such codes are made
effective for the state, unless a different date is required by state statute.
The following amendments shall be applicable to the adopted building codes:
   A.   International Building Code.
      1.   Purpose: The purpose of this Chapter is to provide certain minimum
standards and requirements to safeguard life or limb, health, property, and the
public welfare by regulating and controlling the design, construction,
erection, alteration, moving, demolition, quality of materials, use, occupancy,
location, and maintenance of all buildings and structures, where not regulated
by the One-and-Two-Family Dwelling Building Code or the Existing Building Code,
in the County.
      2.   Code Adopted: All the rules, regulations, and ordinances relating
and applying to the regulation of the erection, construction, enlargement,
alteration, repair, moving, removal, conversion, demolition, occupancy,
equipment, use, height, area, and maintenance of buildings or structures
established by the “2018 International Building Code” (IBC) including
Appendixes C, E, G, H, I, and J, published under the authority of the
International Code Council, Inc., is hereby adopted as the Building Code of the
County as amended, and except to the extent that those rules and regulations
are hereby changed, altered, or amended by this code, shall be the rules,
regulations, and ordinances governing the erection, construction, enlargement,
alteration, repair, moving, removal, conversion, demolition, occupancy,
equipment, use, height, area, and maintenance of buildings or structures at and
within the City. One copy of the 2018 International Building Code shall be
filed for use and examination by the public in the Office of the Clerk. It
shall be unlawful to erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, remove,
convert, demolish, or maintain buildings or structures in violation of, or
without complying with the rules, regulations, and ordinances set forth by the
Building Code as adopted and as may be changed, altered, or amended by the
Building Code. All provisions in this Chapter shall be effective January 1,
2021.
 
Snow Load Wind Speed (mph)             Frost Depth Seismic - Site Class D
20 (4800) Risk Category I  II  III IV  24"         Risk Category I & II III IV
                        95 100 105 110                           C      C   D
 
      3.   IBC Amendments:
         a.   The International Building Code (IBC) 2018 Edition, and
Appendices C, E, G, H, I, and J, published by the International Code Council;
as amended; as follows:
            (1)   2018 International Building Code (IBC), Section 101.1
inserting “Minidoka County” in place of [name of jurisdiction],
            (2)   2018 International Building Code (IBC), Section 1612.3
inserting” Minidoka County” in place of [name of jurisdiction] and “September
6,1977" in place of [date of issuance],
            (3)   For the purpose of enforcement and administration of this
code the Minidoka County department of community development will hereby be
designated as the department of building safety for Minidoka County, with the
director thereof being designated as the building official.
         b.   3113.1 General. The provisions of this Section shall apply to
relocatable buildings. Relocatable buildings manufactured after the effective
date of this code shall comply with the applicable provisions of this code;
Title 39, Chapter 43, of Idaho Code; and IDAPA 24.39.31.
Exception: This section shall not apply to manufactured housing used as
dwellings
   B.   International Residential Code:
      1.   Purpose: The purpose of this Chapter is to provide certain minimum
standards and requirements to safeguard life or limb, health, property, and the
public welfare by regulating and controlling the design, construction,
erection, alteration, moving, demolition, quality of materials, use, occupancy,
location, and maintenance of all buildings and structures, where not regulated
by the Building Code or the Existing Building Code, in the County.
      2.   Code Adopted: All the rules, regulations, and ordinances relating
and applying to the regulation of the erection, construction, enlargement,
alteration, repair, moving, removal, conversion, demolition, occupancy,
equipment, use, height, area, and maintenance of one-and-two-family dwelling
buildings or structures, and their accessory buildings or structures,
established by the “2018 International Residential Code “ (IRC) parts I through
IV and IX, including Appendix Q. (Tiny Houses) and Appendix S, (Strawbale
Construction) published under the authority of the International Code Council,
Inc., is hereby adopted as the One-And-Two-Family Dwelling Building Code the
County as amended, and except to the extent that those rules and regulations
are hereby changed, altered, or amended by this code, shall be the rules,
regulations, and ordinances governing the erection, construction, enlargement,
alteration, repair, moving, removal, conversion, demolition, occupancy,
equipment, use, height, area, and maintenance of one-and-two-family dwelling
buildings or structures, and their accessory buildings or structures, at and
within the City. One copy of the 2018 International Residential Code shall be
on filed for use and examination by the public in the Office of the County
Clerk. It shall be unlawful to erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move,
remove, convert, demolish, or maintain buildings or structures in violation of,
or without complying with the rules, regulations, and ordinances set forth by
the One-And-Two- Family Dwelling Building Code as adopted and as may be
changed, altered, or amended by the One-And- Two-Family Dwelling Building Code
. All provisions in this Chapter shall be effective January 1, 2021.
         a.   Table 301.2(1) Climatic and Geographic Design Criteria as
follows:
 
             Wind Design                             Subject to Damage From
Ground Snow         Topo-    Special Wind-  Seismic              Frost
Load”      Speedd graphic  Wind    borne  Design   Weatheringa line   Termitec
             (mph)  effectsk Regionl derbis Category             depthb
                                     zonem
20           90     NO       NO      NO     B        Severe      24"    Slight/
(4800)                                                                  Moderate
 
 
Winter Design Ice Barrier                     Air Freezing
Tempe         Underloyment Flood Hazardg      Indexi       Mean Annual Tempi
              Requiredh
5             NO           1977 FIRM 16O2O1 B 1261         48.1 F
 
MANUAL J DESIGN CRITERIAn
 
Elevation   Latitude      Winter Heating Summer Cooling Altitude Correction
                                                        Factor
4150        42            2              90             .87
Cooling     Wind Velocity Wind Velocity  Coincident Wet
Temperature Heating       Cooling        Bulb           Daily Range
Difference
15          15            7.5            62             H
 
 
Indoor Design Temperature Design Temperature Cooling Heating Temperature
                                                     difference
70                        75                         68
Winter Humidity           Summer Humidity            —
50%                       50%                        —
 
      3.   IRC Amendments:
         a.   Delete Tables R403 403.4 Minimum Depth (D) and Width (W) of
Crushed Stone Footings (inches), R403.1(l) Minimum Width and Thickness for
Concrete Footings for Light-Frame Construction (inches), R403.1(2) Minimum
Width and Thickness for Concrete Footings for Light- Frame Construction and
Brick Veneer (inches), and R403.1(3) Minimum Width and Thickness for Concrete
Footings with Cast-ln-Place or Fully Grouted Masonry Wall Construction
(inches). (3- 20-20)T
   C.   International Energy Conservation Code:
      1.   Purpose: The purpose of this Chapter is to establish minimum
regulations for energy-efficient buildings using prescriptive, performance-
based, or energy rating index compliance alternative provisions. The provisions
of this code shall regulate the design and construction of building envelopes
for adequate thermal resistance and low air leakage, including the design and
selection of mechanical systems, service water-heating systems, pools and spas,
electrical equipment, power, and lighting systems in order to enhance the
efficient use and conservation of energy in new and existing building
construction.
      2.   Code Adopted: All the rules, regulations, and ordinances relating
and applying to the design, construction, quality of materials, erection,
installation, alteration, repair, location, relocation, replacement, addition
to, use or maintenance of the building envelope, building mechanical systems,
service water-heating systems, pools and spas, electrical equipment, power, and
lighting systems, established by the 2018 edition of the International Energy
Conservation Code (IECC), published under the authority of the International
Code Council, Inc., is hereby adopted as the Energy Conservation Code as
amended, and except to the extent that those said rules and regulations are
hereby changed, altered, or amended by this code. One copy of the 2018 edition
of the International Energy Conservation Code shall be filed for use and
examination by the public in the Office of the County Clerk. All provisions in
this Chapter shall be effective January 1, 2021.
   D.   International Existing Building Code:
      1.   Purpose: The purpose of this Chapter is to establish regulations to
allow for the use of alternative methods from those contained in the Building
Code and the One-And-Two-Family Dwelling Building Code in order to comply with
and conform to those minimum requirements necessary to safeguard the health,
safety, property, and public welfare insofar as they are affected by the
repair, alteration, change of occupancy, addition, or relocation of existing
buildings.
      2.   Code Adopted: All rules, regulations, and ordinances relating to the
design, construction, quality of materials, erection, installation, alteration,
repair, location, relocation, replacement, addition to, use, change of
occupancy, or maintenance of existing buildings, established by the 2018
edition of the International Existing Building Code (IEBC), published under the
authority of the International Code Council, Inc., is hereby adopted as the
Existing Building Code as amended, and except to the extent that those rules
and regulations are hereby changed, altered, or amended by this code. One copy
of the 2018 edition of the International Existing Building Code shall be filed
for use and examination by the public in the Office of the County Clerk. All
provisions in this Chapter shall be effective as of January 1, 2021.
      3.   Applicability. This code shall apply to the repair, alteration,
change of occupancy, addition and relocation of existing buildings, regardless
of occupancy, subject to the criteria set forth in sections 1 through 3 herein.
   E.   International Mechanical Code:
      1.   Purpose: The purpose of this Chapter is to establish minimum
requirements for mechanical systems using prescriptive and performance-related
provisions. If is founded on broad-based principles that make possible the use
of new materials and new mechanical design.
      2.   Code Adopted: All the rules, regulations, and ordinances relating
and applying to the design, construction, quality of materials, erection,
installation, alteration, repair, location, relocation, replacement, addition
to, use or maintenance building mechanical systems.. One copy of the 2018
International Mechanical Code shall be on filed for use and examination by the
public in the Office of the County Clerk. It shall be unlawful to erect,
construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, remove, convert, demolish, or maintain
buildings or structures in violation of, or without complying with the rules,
regulations, and ordinances set forth by the Mechanical Code as adopted and as
may be changed, altered, or amended by the Mechanical Code. All provisions in
this Chapter shall be effective January 1, 2021.
   F.   Fire Code: 2015 Idaho Fire Code.
   G.   International Fuel Gas Code:
      1.   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to establish minimum
requirements for fuel gas systems and gas-fired appliances using prescriptive
and performance-related provisions. It is founded on broad-based principles
that make possible the use of new materials and new fuel gas systems and
appliance design.
      2.   Code Adopted: All the rules, regulations, and ordinances relating
and applying to the design, construction, quality of materials, erection,
installation, alteration, repair, location, relocation, replacement, addition
to, use or maintenance building fuel gas systems and appliances. One copy of
the 2018 International Fuel Gas Code shall be on filed for use and examination
by the public in the Office of the County Clerk. It shall be unlawful to erect,
construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, remove, convert, demolish, or maintain
buildings or structures in violation of, or without complying with the rules,
regulations, and ordinances set forth by the Fuel Gas Code as adopted and as
may be changed, altered, or amended by the Fuel Gas Code . All provisions in
this Chapter shall be effective January 1, 2021.
   H.   Property Maintenance Code: 2015 Property Maintenance Code.
   I.   Plumbing Code: 2015 Idaho Uniform Plumbing Code.
   J.   Electrical Code: 2015 Electrical Code. (Ord. 2016-09-13-I, 9-13-2016,
eff. 9-13-2016; amd. Ord. 2017-12-18, 12-18-2017; Ord. 2020-12-21, 2-1-2021)
7-1-2: REFERENCES TO OTHER CODES:
Where any provisions of the codes that are adopted in section
7-1-1 of this chapter make reference to other construction and safety related
model codes or standards which have not been adopted by the involved authority
having jurisdiction, to the extent possible, such reference should be construed
as pertaining to the equivalent code or standard that has been duly adopted by
such jurisdiction. (Ord. 2016-09-13-I, 9-13-2016, eff. 9-13-2016)
7-1-3: PERMIT FEES:
Applicants shall pay permit and plan review fees in amounts to be determined by
resolution of the county commission. All permits required under this chapter
require fees to be paid prior to a permit being issued, unless specified
otherwise herein. (Ord. 2016-09-13-I, 9-13-2016, eff. 9-13-2016; amd. Ord.
2020-12-21, 2-1-2021)
7-1-4: MANUFACTURED HOMES INSTALLATION PERMITS:
Placement of mobile/manufactured homes shall require an installation permit.
The permit applicant shall supply to the building official the same site
information required from an applicant seeking a building permit for a single-
family dwelling and shall pay a permit fee as set by resolution of the county
commission. (Ord. 2016-09-13-I, 9-13-2016, eff. 9-13-2016)
7-1-5: EXEMPTIONS:
Agricultural buildings, as defined by the international building code, are
exempt from the building codes adopted in section
7-1-1 of this chapter but shall remain subject to placement requirements and
permits established by zoning regulations. (Ord. 2016-09-13-I, 9-13-2016, eff.
9-13-2016; amd. Ord. 2020-12-21, 2-1-2021)
CHAPTER 2
WIND TURBINE SYSTEMS
SECTION:
7-2-1: Title
7-2-2: Authority
7-2-3: Purpose
7-2-4: Definitions
7-2-5: Standards And Guidelines
7-2-6: Small Wind Turbine System
7-2-7: Medium Wind Turbine System
7-2-8: Large (Commercial) Turbine System And Wind Farms
7-2-1: TITLE:
This chapter is referred to as the WIND TURBINE SYSTEM ORDINANCE. (Ord. 2016-
09-13-F, 9-13-2016)
7-2-2: AUTHORITY:
This chapter is adopted pursuant to authority granted to Minidoka County by
Idaho Code title 67, chapter 65 and Idaho constitution article XII, section 2.
(Ord. 2016-09-13-F, 9-13-2016)
7-2-3: PURPOSE:
   A.   Minidoka County, herein referred to as "county", recognizes the
increased demand for alternative and renewable energy. Wind energy is an
alternative energy resource that offers economic benefit with minimal impact on
the environment.
   B.   The purpose of this chapter is to provide a regulatory scheme for the
construction and operation of wind turbine systems (WTS) in the county. Subject
to reasonable restrictions, these regulations are intended to preserve the
health, safety, and welfare of the public, assure that any development and
production of wind generated electricity in the county is safe and effective,
facilitate economic opportunities for local residents, promote the supply of
wind energy in support of alternative energy potential and other such economic
development tools, and ensure operation of WTS in the county is consistent with
sound land use planning. (Ord. 2016-09-13-F, 9-13-2016)
7-2-4: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
   ADMINISTRATOR: Minidoka County planning and zoning administrator.
   APPLICANT: The person or entity submitting an application to the building
and zoning departments for the construction and operation of a WTS.
   BOARD: The board of county commissioners of Minidoka County, Idaho.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL: The Minidoka County building official charged with the
administration and enforcement of the adopted building code.
   LANDOWNER: Legal owner of property to be used for the placement of the
proposed WTS.
   OPERATOR: The entity responsible for the day to day operation and
maintenance of the WTS, including any third party subcontractors.
   OWNER: The entity or entities with an equity interest in the WTS, including
their respective successors and assigns. Owner does not mean: a) the property
owner from whom land is leased for locating the WTS (unless the owner has an
equity interest in the WTS); or b) any person holding a security interest in
the WTS solely to secure an extension of credit, or a person foreclosing on
such security interest; provided, that after foreclosure, such person seeks to
sell the WTS at the earliest practicable date.
   TOTAL HEIGHT: The vertical distance from ground level to the top of a wind
generator blade when the tip is at its highest point.
   TOWER: The vertical component, whether a monopole, freestanding, or guyed
structure, that supports or elevates the wind turbine generator and attached
blades above the ground.
   WIND TURBINE SYSTEM (WTS): An aggregation of parts necessary to produce
electricity by converting the kinetic energy of wind to electrical energy. Wind
turbine systems consist of the entire turbine apparatus and any other
buildings, support structures or other related improvements necessary for the
generation of electric power. For the purpose of this chapter, wind turbine
systems shall be categorized as follows:
   A.   Small Wind Turbine System: A WTS consisting of a single wind turbine,
generator, a tower and associated controls or conversion electronics, which
total height is less than sixty feet (60'), has a maximum rated five kilowatts
(5 kW) nameplate capacity or less and designed to primarily supplement or
reduce on site consumption of utility power. Small WTS are off grid systems and
have no net metering capacity available.
   B.   Medium Wind Turbine System: A WTS consisting of one or more wind
turbines, generators, towers and associated controls or conversion electronics,
which total height is more than sixty feet (60'), but not greater than one
hundred twenty five feet (125'), has a maximum rated nameplate capacity of more
than five kilowatts (5 kW), but not greater than twenty five kilowatts (25 kW),
and is designed to primarily supplement or reduce on site consumption of
utility power. Medium WTS have net metering capacity.
   C.   Large (Commercial) Wind Turbine System: A WTS consisting of one wind
turbine, generator(s), tower and associated controls or conversion electronics,
which total height is more than one hundred twenty five feet (125'), has a
maximum rated capacity of more than twenty five kilowatts (25 kW) nameplate
capacity and designed to provide electrical energy to the power grid as well as
provide energy to the facilities wherein the system is located.
   D.   Wind Farm: A large (commercial) WTS consisting of more than one wind
turbine exceeding one hundred twenty five feet (125') or twenty five kilowatt
(25 kW) nameplate capacity on the same or adjoining parcels and designed to
provide electrical energy to the power grid as well as provide energy to the
facilities wherein the system is located. (Ord. 2016-09-13-F, 9-13-2016)
7-2-5: STANDARDS AND GUIDELINES:
General provisions for all classifications of WTS are as follows (unless
otherwise specified in their individual classification sections in this
chapter):
   A.   Interference: WTS shall not be installed in any location where its
proximity would produce electromagnetic interference with signal transmission,
retransmission or reception of the following:
      1.   Existing microwave communication link(s).
      2.   Existing fixed broadcast antenna used for radio, television,
retransmission, wireless phone, or other personal communication systems.
      3.   Retransmission or reception antenna, including residential reception
antenna.
   B.   Equipment Use Or Processes: No equipment or processes shall be used in
such WTS which creates noise, vibration, glare, fumes, odors or electrical
interference detectable to the normal senses off the lot upon which the
proposed WTS is to be sited, except as defined in subsection E of this section.
In case of electrical interference, no equipment or process shall be used that
creates or causes fluctuations in voltage off the premises.
   C.   Compliance With National Electrical Code: Building permit applications
for WTS shall be accompanied by a line drawing of the electrical components in
sufficient detail to allow for a determination that the manner of installation
conforms to the national electrical code (NEC). All WTS must comply with the
applicable provisions of the NEC.
   D.   Utility Notification: No WTS shall be installed until evidence in the
form of a written statement with signature and date from the utility company
has been provided to the building official that the utility company has been
informed of the customer's intent to install an interconnected customer owned
turbine. All grid tied inverter based wind turbines must be certified to UL-
1741 and IEE-1547. Off grid systems shall be exempt from this requirement.
   E.   Noise: WTS shall be located with relation to property lines so that the
level of noise produced during any wind turbine operation shall not exceed
sixty five (65) dBA, measured at the boundaries of all adjacent parcels that
are owned by adjoining property owners or at any point past the property line
of the lot on which the turbine is to be erected. This level may only be
exceeded during short term events such as utility outages and/or severe
windstorms. All other noise and vibration levels shall be in compliance with
all county, state, and federal regulations.
   F.   Siting: Detailed site plan shall be submitted with application
identifying all property lines, existing buildings, proposed buildings, parking
areas, utilities, signs, neighboring properties, proposed transmission lines,
any other information that may be required to determine if use is within the
intent and requirements of this chapter.
   G.   Setbacks: Each wind turbine less than one hundred twenty five feet
(125') and a nameplate less than one hundred kilowatts (100 kW) shall comply
with the following setback requirements:
      1.   Communication And Electrical Lines: Minimum of one hundred twenty
percent (120%) of its total height, plus the size of the rotor radius from the
nearest aboveground public electric power line, telephone line or utility line
of any kind.
      2.   Property Line: Minimum of one hundred twenty percent (120%) of its
total height from the nearest property line, unless mitigation has taken place
and agreed by the owner, operator and affected property owners involved.
Agreement must be recorded in the recorder's office which describes the
benefited and burdened properties, and which advises all subsequent owners of
the burdened property. The recorded easement cannot be used to adjust the
minimum acreage requirement.
      3.   Public Roads And Road Rights Of Way: Minimum of one hundred twenty
percent (120%) of its total height.
      4.   Railroad Rights Of Way: Minimum of one hundred twenty percent (120%)
of its total height.
      5.   Clearance: The minimum distance between the ground and any part of
the rotor blade system shall be fifteen feet (15').
   H.   Building Permit: A building permit is required and must comply with the
currently adopted building code. Permit applications for WTS shall be
accompanied by:
      1.   Standard drawings of the wind turbine structure, including the
tower, base, and footings.
      2.   Engineered wind system specifications, including manufacturer and
model, rotor diameter, tower height, tower type (freestanding or guyed).
Certification that demonstrates conformance to design standard IEC 61400-2.
      3.   Two (2) sets of engineered tower blueprints or drawings.
      4.   Recorded warranty deed showing ownership of property (or letter of
approval/lease agreement from the property owner if different than the
applicant).
      5.   A signed statement by the landowner acknowledging that the landowner
is financially responsible if the owner/operator fails to remove and reclaim
the site as required, and that any removal and reclamation costs incurred by
the county will become a lien on the property and may be collected from the
landowner in the same manner as property taxes.
      6.   Detailed site plans as required in subsection F of this section.
   I.   Appearance, Color And Finish: The wind turbine system shall remain
painted or finished the color or finish that was originally applied by the
manufacturer, unless other nonreflective, nonobtrusive colors or finishes
(colors that blend with the natural landscape or background) are approved in
writing by the administrator.
   J.   Advertising And Signs: WTS shall not be used for displaying any
advertising, except for reasonable identification of the manufacturer,
installer or operator. Any such identification shall not appear on the blades
or other moving parts or exceed six (6) square feet. All signs, other than the
manufacturer's or installer's identification, appropriate warning signs, or
owner identification on a wind turbine, tower, building or other structure
associated with a WTS visible from any public road shall be prohibited.
   K.   Lighting:   WTS exterior shall not be artificially lit, except to the
extent required by the federal aviation administration (FAA) or other
applicable authority.
   L.   Underground Wiring: Electrical controls, control wiring and wiring
shall be wireless or underground where practical, unless otherwise approved in
writing by the administrator/planning and zoning commission. This applies to
the wiring between the wind turbine and the on site collector facility. All
wiring shall be approved by a licensed electrician and shall meet current
approved electrical codes.
   M.   Climbable: All wind turbines shall not be climbable on the exterior up
to fifteen feet (15') above ground level.
   N.   Access: All access doors to the wind turbine towers and electrical
equipment shall be lockable and secured when unattended. All ground mounted
electrical and control equipment shall be labeled and secured to prevent
unauthorized access.
   O.   Signage: Appropriate warning signage shall be placed on all wind
turbine towers, electrical equipment and facility entrances warning of high
voltage and cautionary instructions to unauthorized persons to stay away from
such structures.
   P.   Emergency Shutdown: Procedures for emergency shutdown of power
generation units shall be established and posted prominently and permanently
within three feet (3') of the meter panel. A visible external disconnect shall
be installed and located at the site of the system.
   Q.   Homemade Systems: No experimental, home built, or prototype wind
turbines shall be allowed without submitting engineered documentation of their
maximum probable blade throw distance (the distance a broken blade would travel
if broken during high speed operation) and fall distance in the event of
failure.
   R.   Abandoned, Obsolete Or Unused WTS: A WTS that is out of service, unused
or unable to function for a continuous twelve (12) month period will be deemed
to have been abandoned. The administrator may issue a notice of abandonment to
the owner of the WTS that is deemed to be abandoned. The owner shall have the
right to respond to the notice of abandonment within thirty (30) days from the
notice date. The administrator shall withdraw the notice of abandonment and
notify the owner that the notice of abandonment has been withdrawn if the owner
provides information that demonstrates the WTS system has not been abandoned.
   S.   Removal And Reclamation Of Abandoned, Obsolete Or Unused WTS: When a
WTS is deemed to be abandoned and the owner fails to provide information
sufficient to demonstrate the WTS is not abandoned, the county administrator
shall order the WTS to be removed within a period of six (6) months. If the
owner fails to remove the abandoned WTS and reclaim the site as required, the
administrator may order the removal by the county, and any removal and
reclamation costs incurred by the county will become a lien on the property and
may be collected from the landowner in the same manner as property taxes.
   T.   Braking System: All WTS must have an automatic braking, governing, or
feathering system to prevent uncontrolled rotation creating excessive pressure
on the tower structure, rotor blades, and turbine components.
   U.   Wind Access Claims Against Adjacent Parcels: Unless a prior wind access
easement has been acquired, claims cannot be filed against neighbors for
obstructing wind, based on either current or future improvements on their
parcels. (Ord. 2016-09-13-F, 9-13-2016)
7-2-6: SMALL WIND TURBINE SYSTEM:
   A.   Permitted Zones: Small private pole mounted WTS are allowed in all
zones. Small private pole mounted WTS up to thirty five feet (35') do not
require a special use permit. Those thirty five feet (35') to sixty feet (60')
require a special use permit.
   B.   Minimum Site Area: Small WTS exceeding thirty five feet (35') in
overall height shall be allowed only on lands with a minimum lot area of one
acre.
   C.   Structure Mounted Turbines: Small WTS less than ten feet (10') in total
height and intended for mounting upon structures such as houses, barns, sheds
or other like buildings shall not require a special use permit or building
permit. (Ord. 2016-09-13-F, 9-13-2016)
7-2-7: MEDIUM WIND TURBINE SYSTEM:
   A.   Permitted Zones: Medium private pole mounted WTS are not allowed in
residential low zones. Medium private pole mounted WTS shall be allowed in all
zones (except residential low) by special use permit.
   B.   Special Use Permits: All medium WTS shall require a special use permit,
subject to public hearing by the county planning and zoning commission.
   C.   Minimum Site Area: Medium WTS shall be allowed only on lands with a
minimum lot area of one acre. (Ord. 2016-09-13-F, 9-13-2016)
7-2-8: LARGE (COMMERCIAL) TURBINE SYSTEM AND WIND FARMS:
In addition to the requirements in section
7-2-5 of this chapter, the following shall apply:
   A.   Permitted Zones: Large (commercial) WTS and wind farms will be
permitted in agricultural heavy and outlying zones only, and by special use
permit only, upon demonstration to the county building department and county
planning and zoning commission of compliance with all of the performance
standards.
   B.   Special Use Permits: All large (commercial) WTS and wind farm projects
shall require a special use permit, subject to public hearing by the county
planning and zoning commission. Special use permits granted for large
(commercial) WTS or wind farms will be valid for two (2) years from the
issuance of the permit, with extensions available in two (2) year increments
upon a showing of reasonable cause for the extension. The county planning and
zoning commission shall receive and approve or deny all applications for an
extension.
   C.   Licenses, Approvals And Certifications: Prior to commencing operations,
the owner/operator shall have in its possession all appropriate approvals,
licenses, and certifications required by federal and state oversight agencies;
and copies of said approvals, licenses and certifications shall be filed with
the building official and zoning administrator within thirty (30) days of
receiving the same. Construction and operation must comply with all applicable
federal aviation administration (FAA) standards. Applicant shall consult with
and follow the reasonable recommendations of the United States fish and
wildlife service and the Idaho department of fish and game concerning tower
siting, location, and any studies to be conducted and followed prior to
construction.
   D.   Setbacks From Property Line: Towers or other structures associated with
the large (commercial) WTS or wind farm project shall be set back from the
external boundaries of the project property a distance of not less than one and
one-half (11/2) times the total overall height of the tallest structure. For
purposes of this calculation, overall height shall include total tower height,
plus total blade length. Alternatively, if the external boundary in question is
not along a public road right of way, then the permittee may obtain an easement
from the adjoining landowner, which shall, at minimum, be calculated and
designated on an arc with the center point being the tower site and the
distance being one and one-half (11/2) times the total height of the tower,
plus the blade length and with arc endpoints being located on the boundary line
between permittee and the adjoining landowner, such as to allow for a distance
of one and one-half (11/2) times the total height of the tower plus blade
length to the distant boundary of the easement. A siting permit shall be
obtained from the county building department ensuring compliance with this
setback requirement.
   E.   Minimum Ground Clearance: The tip of a blade shall, at its lowest
point, have a ground clearance of no less than fifty feet (50').
   F.   Use Of Public Roadways: Routes of public travel to be used during the
construction phase shall be specified in the permitting process. The public
travel route will be inspected prior to the commencement of construction by the
county highway department and reinspected thirty (30) days after project
completion. If any significant damage above normal wear and tear is found by
the county highway department at the end of construction, the department shall
give written notice of said damage to the owner and operator of the WTS/
facility. Any and all repairs must be completed within ninety (90) days of said
notice, and paid by the permittee.
   G.   Commencement Of Construction: Approved project construction must be
started within twelve (12) months of approval. If construction has not begun
within twelve (12) months, the owner must demonstrate to the building official
sufficient reason to apply for an extension. Upon demonstration of sufficient
reason, the building official shall grant a one hundred eighty (180) day
extension within ten (10) days of receipt of the extension application. The
building official will grant, if sufficiently demonstrated, a maximum of two
(2) extensions of one hundred eighty (180) days. If a second extension has been
granted and construction has not begun by the expiration of the second
extension, the permit will be deemed expired and a new permit will need to be
purchased and obtained in order for construction to take place.
   H.   Construction Timeline: Owner/operator shall have twenty four (24)
months to complete construction. If construction is not completed within twenty
four (24) months, the owner/operator may apply to the building official for a
one hundred eighty (180) day extension. Application for an extension must
demonstrate sufficient reason for the one hundred eighty (180) day extension.
If owner/operator does not apply for the extension or show sufficient reason to
the building official to grant such extension, the building official may deem
the WTS abandoned.
   I.   Specifications To Building Department; Permit And Site Plan Procedures:
The owner/operator of a wind farm shall provide a digital elevation model based
project visibility map showing the impact of topography upon visibility of the
project from other locations throughout the region, to a distance of five (5)
miles from the center of the project. The scale used shall depict a three (3)
mile radius no smaller than 2.7 inches, and the base map shall be a published
topographic map showing cultural features and other landmarks. An engineering
analysis of the tower(s), showing compliance with the building code and
certified by a licensed professional engineer, shall be submitted with the
application.
   J.   Liability Insurance: Prior to issuance of a building permit for a WTS,
and continuing after construction until such WTS facility is removed from the
site, the applicant shall provide documentation satisfactory to the county and
at such reasonable intervals as determined by the county, of the existence of
liability insurance coverage with a minimum limit of one million dollars
($1,000,000.00) covering property damage, injury or death resulting from the
construction, placement, use, maintenance and operation of a WTS.
   K.   Decommissioning Bond Required:
      1.   Applicants are required to hold a performance bond, completion bond,
decommissioning bond or other financial assurance with an A rated firm in the
amount of five percent (5%) of the WTS's/tower's value.
      2.   Applicants are required to present, with their application, a
detailed decommissioning and reclamation plan, in accordance with state and
federal law. The owner/operator of large (commercial) WTS or wind farms is
responsible for removing the wind turbines and related facilities when no
longer useful. They must remove the turbines and facilities within two (2)
years of the end of electricity generation, unless a new plan is proposed to
reuse the turbine(s). Reclamation shall be restored to its original state as
was before the WTS/wind energy facility site construction.
      3.   All decommissioning requirements transfer with ownership of the WTS/
turbine(s) or ownership of the WTS/wind facility.
   L.   Transfer Of Ownership: Whenever a change in ownership occurs, whether
total, percentage, name or title, the change must be recorded at the county
recorder's office and a transfer of ownership form filed with the planning and
zoning department. (Ord. 2016-09-13-F, 9-13-2016)
TITLE 8
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
TITLE, INTERPRETATION AND ENACTMENT
SECTION:
8-1-1: Title
8-1-2: Authority
8-1-3: Provisions Declared Minimum Requirements
8-1-4: Combining Of Permits
8-1-5: Severability Clause
8-1-1: TITLE:
This title shall be known and may be cited and referred to as the MINIDOKA
COUNTY ZONING ORDINANCE. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-1-2: AUTHORITY:
This zoning title is adopted pursuant to authority granted by Idaho Code title
67, chapter 65, and article XII, section 2 of the Idaho constitution, as
amended or subsequently codified. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-1-3: PROVISIONS DECLARED MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS:
In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this title shall be
held to be minimum requirements, adopted for the promotion of the public
health, safety and the general welfare. Whenever the requirements of this title
conflict with the requirements of any other lawfully adopted rules,
regulations, ordinances or resolutions, the most restrictive or that imposing
the highest standards shall govern. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-1-4: COMBINING OF PERMITS:
The county planning and zoning commission is hereby required to coordinate with
other departments and agencies concerning all permits, which may be required in
this title and previously or subsequently adopted county ordinances. A one stop
permit application and processing procedure may be developed with the
respective departments and agencies for the purpose of reducing errors,
misunderstanding, confusion and unnecessary delay for everyone involved. (Ord.
2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-1-5: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
Should any section or provision of this title be declared by the courts to be
unconstitutional or invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity of
this title as a whole or any part thereof other than the part so declared to be
unconstitutional or invalid. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
8-2-1: General Terms
8-2-2: Definitions Of Words And Terms
8-2-1: GENERAL TERMS:
   A.   For the purpose of this title, certain terms, phrases, or words used
herein shall be defined and interpreted as set out in this chapter. Where
terms, phrases, or words are not defined, they shall have their ordinary
accepted meanings within the context with which they are used. "Webster's Third
New International Dictionary Of The English Language" shall be considered as
providing ordinary accepted meanings.
   B.   For the purpose of this title, certain terms, phrases, or words used
herein shall be defined as follows:
      1.   The word "person" includes a firm, association, organization,
partnership, trust, company or corporation, as well as an individual.
      2.   The present tense includes the future tense, the singular numbers
include the plural and the plural numbers include the singular.
      3.   The words "shall" and "must" are always mandatory requirements, the
word "may" is a permissive requirement, and the word "should" is a preferred
requirement.
      4.   The words "used" or "occupied" include the words "intended, designed
or arranged to be used or occupied".
      5.   The word "lot" includes the words "plot", "parcel" and "tract".
      6.   The term "erected" means "constructed", "altered", "moved", or
"repaired".
      7.   The terms "administrator" or "administration" are synonymous with
the term "planning and zoning administrator".
      8.   The term "planning and zoning commission" is synonymous with the
term "zoning commission".
      9.   The masculine shall include the feminine. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-
2016)
8-2-2: DEFINITIONS OF WORDS AND TERMS:
The following definitions shall apply to words and terms used in this title:
   ACCESS EASEMENT: A limited use easement across one or more adjacent
properties to allow occasional vehicular access to otherwise inaccessible areas
by either property owner at any time.
   ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT (ADU): A dwelling unit that is associated with and
is a subordinate use to a principal dwelling unit on one lot.
   ACCESSORY USE: The use of land, secondary building or part thereof, on a
portion of the main building such as being accessory to or incidental to the
principal use of the premises wherein accessory uses are authorized uses, which
do not require a permit.
   ACCESSORY USE OR STRUCTURE: A use, building or structure that is customarily
incidental and subordinate to the principal or approved conditional use or
building, and is conducted or located upon the same lot.
   ADMINISTRATOR: The Minidoka County planning and zoning administrator
   AFFECTED PERSON: A person having an interest in real property, which may be
adversely affected by the issuance or denial of a permit 1 .
   AGRICULTURAL LAND, PRIME: Land which is particularly well suited to
agricultural purposes due to characteristics which shall include soil type and
depth, the absence of surface groundwater or marshy areas, access to an
existing irrigation system and with slope less than five percent (5%).
   AGRICULTURAL SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT: An establishment primarily engaged in
performing animal husbandry or horticultural services, including agricultural
milling and processing, harvesting, agricultural land preparation, irrigation
and farm equipment sales and service, veterinary services, boarding and
training of horses, and agricultural produce stands.
   AGRICULTURE: The use of land for farming, horticulture, floriculture,
forestry, fisheries, viticulture, raising crops, livestock, dairying and animal
and poultry husbandry, including all uses customarily accessory and incidental
thereto; but excluding slaughterhouses, fertilizer works, boneyards and
commercial feedlots. Incidental retailing of goods and products raised on the
premises shall also be considered as being with the definition of agriculture.
   AIRPORT: Any runway, land area or other facility designed or used, whether
publicly or privately, by any person for the landing and taking off of
aircraft, including all necessary taxiways, aircraft storage and tie down
areas, hangars and other necessary buildings.
   ALLEY: Any public space or thoroughfare, which has been dedicated or deeded
to the public use, and which provides a secondary public means of access to
abutting properties.
   ALTERNATIVE SUPPORT STRUCTURE: Clock towers, steeples, silos, light poles,
water towers, buildings or similar structures that may support
telecommunications facilities.
   ANIMAL CLINIC, ANIMAL HOSPITAL OR VETERINARY OFFICE: Any building or portion
thereof designed or used for the care or treatment of cats, dogs, sheep,
cattle, and horses or other animals in which veterinary services are performed,
including clipping, bathing, boarding, and other services rendered to such
animals and pets.
   ANIMAL UNIT EQUIVALENTS: All livestock shall have the following animal unit
equivalents:
Type Weight/Quantity Animal Unit
Type               Weight/Quantity                                  Animal Unit
Beef cattle - slaughter/feeder:
                  100 lbs. to 300 lbs.                             0.2
                  300 lbs. to 500 lbs.                             0.4
                  500 lbs. to 700 lbs.                             0.6
                  700 lbs. to 900 lbs.                             0.8
                  900 lbs. to 1,000 lbs.                           1.0
Chickens:                                                           
Layers             Each (liquid manure system)                      0.033
                   Each (dry manure system)                         0.005
Broilers           Each (liquid manure system)                      0.033
                   Each (dry manure system)                         0.005
Dairy cattle:                                                       
Holsteins          Milking and dry cows                             1.4
Jerseys            Milking and dry cows                             1.0
Others             1,000 lbs. of live body weight                   1.0
Heifers            100 lbs. to 300 lbs.                             0.2
                  300 lbs. to 500 lbs.                             0.4
                  500 lbs. to 700 lbs.                             0.6
                  700 lbs. to 900 lbs.                             0.8
                  900 lbs. to 1,000 lbs.                           1.0
Ducks              Each                                             0.02
Furbearing animals Less than 10 lbs. in body weight                 0.0065
                  Other - based on body weight as herein specified  
Horse                                                              1.25
Sheep/lambs        Each                                             0.1
Swine:                                                              
Boars              1,000 lbs. of live body weight                   1.0
Sows               1,000 lbs. of live body weight                   1.0
Pigs               55 lbs. to market                                0.5
Pigs               Up to 55 lbs.                                    0.25
Turkeys            Each                                             0.18
For species not specifically identified: 1,000 lbs. of live body weight = 1.0
AU
 
   ANTENNA: Any system of wires, poles, rods, reflecting discs, or similar
devices used for the transmission or reception of electromagnetic waves when
such system is either external to or attached to the exterior of a structure.
Antennas shall include devices having active elements extending in any
direction, and directional beam type arrays having elements carried by and
disposed from a generally horizontal boom that may be mounted upon and rotated
through a vertical mast or tower interconnecting the boom and antenna support,
all of which elements are deemed to be a part of the antenna.
   ANTENNA, BUILDING MOUNTED: Any antenna, other than an antenna with its
supports resting on the ground, directly attached or affixed to a building.
   ANTENNA, GROUND MOUNTED: Any antenna with its base placed directly on the
ground.
   ANTENNA, UTILITY POLE MOUNTED: An antenna attached, without regard to
mounting, to or upon an existing or replacement electric transmission or
distribution pole, streetlight, traffic signal, athletic field light, utility
support structure or other similar structure approved by the Minidoka County
planning and zoning department.
   APARTMENT: A room or suite of rooms in a multiple-family structure or
multiple purpose structure which is arranged, designed or used as a single
housekeeping unit and has complete kitchen facilities permanently installed.
   APARTMENT HOUSE OR MULTI-FAMILY USE: Any building or portion thereof which
is designed, built, rented, leased, let or hired out to be occupied, or which
is occupied, as a home or residence of three (3) or more families living
independently of each other and doing their own cooking in the said building,
and shall include flats and apartments.
   APPLICANT: A person or legal entity seeking approvals or permits pursuant to
this title which has an ownership or other vested interest in real property of
a nature sufficient to control the use to which it is proposed in the
applications for said real property.
   APPLICATION: The form(s) and all accompanying documents, exhibits and fees
required of an applicant by the applicable department, board or commission of
the county for development, review, approval or permitting purposes.
   AREA OF CITY IMPACT: The unincorporated land surrounding the city limits of
each city as established by ordinance and any amendments thereto, as mutually
agreed upon with Minidoka County in conformance with the laws of the state of
Idaho.
   AREA, PRIVATE PARKING: An open, graded or paved area, other than a street or
public way, designed, arranged and made available for the storage of private
passenger automobiles or motor vehicles of occupants of the buildings for which
the parking area is developed.
   AREA, PUBLIC PARKING: An open area, other than a street or alley, used for
the temporary parking of automobiles or other transportation and available for
public use, whether free, for compensation, or as an accommodation for clients
or customers.
   AREA, SETBACK: The space on a lot which is required to be left unoccupied by
any structure as required by this title or by delineation on a recorded
subdivision planned unit development map.
   ASSISTED OR RESIDENTIAL LIVING FACILITY: A facility, however named, operated
on either a profit or nonprofit basis for the purpose of providing necessary
supervision, personal assistance, meals and lodging to three (3) or more
elderly, developmentally disabled, physically disabled and/or mentally ill
adults not related to the owner.
   AUTOMOBILE AND TRAILER SALES AREA: An open area used for the display, sale
or rental of new or used motor vehicles or new or used trailers and where no
repair work is done and on which all motor vehicles are capable of operation
with their own power at all times.
   AUTOMOBILE, MOTOR VEHICLE OR EQUIPMENT REPAIR: The repair, rebuilding or
reconditioning of motor vehicles or equipment, or parts thereof, including
collision, service, painting and steam cleaning of vehicles.
   BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year. Also referred to as the 100-year flood. Designation
on maps always includes the letters A or V.
   BASEMENT: The portion of a structure all or partly underground but having at
least one-half (1/2) of its height below the average level of the adjoining
ground.
   BED AND BREAKFAST: See definition of Boarding House.
   BICYCLE PATH: A public way or land designed for use of nonmotorized vehicles
or pedestrians and so designated.
   BILLBOARD: Any sign exceeding thirty two (32) square feet in size upon which
advertising matter is posted and/or pasted thereon.
   BLOCK: A group of lots, tracts, or parcels within well defined boundaries,
usually streets.
   BOARD: The board of county commissioners of Minidoka County, Idaho.
   BOARDING HOUSE (Including Bed And Breakfast And Lodging Or Rooming Houses):
Any building or portion thereof, other than a hotel or motel, where lodging and
meals are provided for compensation for two (2) or more persons, but not more
than twelve (12) persons, who are not members of the householder's family and
do not require care or supervision. Congregate residences and assisted or
residential living facilities are not included in this definition.
   BUILDABLE AREA: The space remaining on a zoning plat after the minimum open
space and setback requirements of this title have been complied with.
   BUILDING: Any structure designed or intended for the support, enclosure,
shelter or protection of persons, animals, chattels, or property of any kind,
but not including fences or advertising signs.
   BUILDING, AGRICULTURAL: A structure located on agricultural zoned property
and designed and constructed to house farm implements, hay, grain, poultry,
livestock or other horticultural products and includes sheds, barns, corrals or
fences. This definition does not include a place for human habitation or a
place of regular employment, where agricultural products are extracted,
processed, treated or packaged, or a place used by the public.
   BUILDING, ASSEMBLY: A building or portion thereof used for the gathering
together of fifty (50) or more persons for such purposes as deliberation,
worship, entertainment, amusement, or for awaiting transportation.
   BUILDING, EXISTING: A building erected prior to the effective date hereof or
one for which a legal building permit has been issued prior to the effective
date.
   BUILDING HEIGHT: The vertical distance from grade to the highest point of
the coping of a flat roof, or to the deck of a mansard roof or to the average
height of the highest gable of a pitched or hip roof.
   BUILDING LINE: A line established by law or agreement and usually parallel
to property line beyond which a building or structure may not extend.
   BUILDING, MAIN OR PRINCIPAL: A building other than an accessory building, in
which is conducted the main or principal use of the lot on which said building
is situated.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL: The officer or other designated authority charged with
the administration and enforcement of the building code as adopted by the
respective jurisdiction.
   BUILDING PERMIT: An official document or certificate issued by the building
official authorizing performance of a specified activity. The issuance of a
building permit shall not be construed as granting permission or approval to
any activity that would violate the requirements of this title or other laws
adopted by the jurisdiction or the state of Idaho.
   BUILDING SITE: An area proposed or provided and improved by grading,
filling, excavation or other means for erecting pads for buildings.
   BUSINESS: The purchase, sale, exchange or other transaction involving the
handling or disposition of any article, service, substance or commodity for
profit or livelihood, or the ownership or management of office buildings,
offices, recreation or amusement enterprises or the maintenance and use of
offices or professions and trades rendering services.
   CAFO: See definition of Confined Animal Feeding Operation.
   CANNERY: A place where the business of preserving food such as meat, fruit
and vegetables in sealed containers is carried on for profit or as a community
cooperative service.
   CARPORT: A roofed structure surrounded by open space on two (2) or more
sides.
   CEMETERY: Land used or intended to be used for the burial of humans or dead
animals and dedicated for cemetery purposes, including crematories, mausoleums
and mortuaries operated in connection with and within the boundaries of such
cemetery for which perpetual care and maintenance are provided.
   CENTER, DAYCARE: See definition of Daycare Center.
   CENTER, MEDICAL HEALTH: See definition of Clinic.
   CLINIC: A building used for the care, diagnosis, and treatment of sick,
ailing, infirm or injured persons and those who are in need of medical and
surgical attention; but which building does not provide board, room or regular
hospital care and services.
   CLUB OR LODGE: The facilities of an association of persons for the promotion
of some nonprofit common interest, such as politics, service, literature,
science, fellowship, etc., and which holds meetings periodically which are
limited to members and guests.
   COMMERCIAL CONFINED ANIMAL FEEDING OPERATION: A contiguous parcel of land
upon which there is one or more livestock confinement areas, and upon which
there are confined more than two hundred (200) but less than one thousand
(1,000) livestock animal equivalent units of large livestock or more than one
thousand five hundred (1,500) but less than eighty five thousand (85,000) head
of fowl and furbearers.
   COMMERCIAL ENTERTAINMENT FACILITIES: Facilities for any profitmaking
activity which is generally related to the entertainment field, such as motion
picture theaters, carnivals, nightclubs, cocktail lounges and similar
entertainment activities.
   COMMERCIAL FEEDLOT - STOCKYARD: See definitions of Commercial Confined
Animal Feeding Operation or Industrial Confined Animal Feeding Operation.
   COMMERCIAL MEATPACKING FACILITIES: Facilities for meat cutting, canning,
curing, smoking, salting, packing, freezing, inspecting, or other similar
establishments in which meat products are processed for sale or distribution.
   COMMERCIAL SLAUGHTERHOUSE AND MEATPACKING FACILITIES: Includes the
slaughtering, meat canning, curing, smoking, salting, packing, rendering,
freezing or other similar establishments in which meat products are so
processed commercially for sale to the public or as a service for hire.
   COMMISSION: The planning and zoning commission of Minidoka County as
appointed by the board of county commissioners.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: A plan or any portion thereof, adopted by the board,
including such things as the general location and extent of present and
proposed physical facilities including housing, industrial and commercial uses,
major transportation, parks, schools, and other community facilities.
   CONCESSION STANDS: A building, structure, vehicle or tent, having less than
three hundred (300) square feet of area that is used for the sale of food,
beverages, and/or souvenirs on a temporary basis. A permanent concession stand
which will occupy the same site for more than fourteen (14) consecutive days
shall require a zoning permit.
   CONDITIONAL USE: The use permitted only upon issuance of a special use
permit.
   CONDOMINIUM: An estate consisting of: a) an undivided interest in common in
real property, in an interest or interests in real property, or in any
combination thereof together with b) a separate interest in real property, in
an interest or interests in real property, or in any combination thereof.
   CONDOMINIUM PLAT: The drawing of a division of real property into individual
interests in common together with a separate interest in the real property for
the purpose of establishing condominium ownership together with the declaration
that is filed according to law with the county recorder.
   CONFINED ANIMAL FEEDING OPERATION:
   A.   The use of real property for the keeping, stabling, feeding,
confinement and maintenance of livestock, except where such livestock are fed
exclusively on growing range or pasturage when one or more of the following
conditions will exist:
      1.   Livestock operations or facilities that confine, stable, feed or
maintain one hundred (100) or more total animal units or operations located on
twenty (20) acres or less with more than five (5) animal units per acre.
      2.   Livestock operations that consist of one hundred (100) to one
thousand (1,000) animal units that stable or confine and feed or maintain for a
total of one hundred twenty (120) days or more in any twelve (12) month period,
and crops, vegetation forage growth, or postharvest residues are not sustained
in the normal growing season over any portion of the lot or facility.
      3.   Livestock operations that consist of one thousand (1,000) animal
units or more that stable or confine and feed or maintain for a total of forty
five (45) days or more in any twelve (12) month period, and crops, vegetation
forage growth, or postharvest residues are not sustained in the normal growing
season over any portion of the lot or facility.
   B.   Confined animal feeding operation shall include barns, sheds, feed
storage facilities, as well as corrals, lagoons, and parking, feed and waste
storage areas. Operations located on properties that are not contiguous shall
be treated as separate operations. Also known as livestock confinement
operation or LCO, but for the purpose of this title, shall be referred to as
confined animal feeding operation or CAFO. The three (3) classifications of
confined animal feeding operations are domestic, commercial and industrial and
are separately defined in this chapter.
   CONFINED ANIMAL FEEDING OPERATION, EXISTING: The use of any premises as a
confined animal feeding operation which does not conform to the regulations of
this title, but which was in existence at the effective date hereof.
   CONFINED ANIMAL FEEDING OPERATION, LARGE: For the purpose of this title, all
commercial and industrial CAFOs shall be deemed as large confined animal
feeding operations.
   CONGREGATE RESIDENCE: A building or portion thereof that contains facilities
for living, sleeping, and sanitation, and may include facilities for eating and
cooking, for occupancy other than a family. A congregate residence may be a
convent, monastery, dormitory, fraternity or sorority house, but does not
include jails, hospitals, assisted living facilities, hotels, boarding, or
lodging houses.
   CONTIGUOUS PROPERTIES: Properties sharing a property line by either touching
at a point or sharing the same boundary. Properties are contiguous even if
separated from each other by a public or private road or right of way.
Properties connected only by easements, pipelines, waste systems and the like
shall not be considered contiguous.
   CONTRACTORS' YARD: Any parcel of land used for storage, maintenance or
processing incidental to a construction or building business, hauling,
excavation, demolition or similar activity and including any parcel of land
used for the incidental repair of machinery used for any of the above listed
activities.
   CONVENIENCE STORE: A retail establishment selling or distributing fast
moving items such as food and dairy products, sundries and petroleum products.
   COUNCIL: The city council of the respective city.
   COUNTY: Minidoka County, Idaho, and its governing board.
   COUNTY RECORDER: The office of the Minidoka county recorder.
   COVENANT: A written promise or pledge.
   CULVERT: A drain that channels water under a bridge, street, road or
driveway.
   DAIRY: See definitions of Commercial Confined Animal Feeding Operation,
Domestic Confined Animal Feeding Operation or Industrial Confined Animal
Feeding Operation.
   DANCE HALL: A facility or place of assembly, or portion thereof, wherein is
provided an area that may be used for dancing with occupant load of more than
fifty (50), as established by the current building code. This definition does
not apply to facilities or areas within schools or churches that are accessory
to the primary uses.
   DAYCARE CENTER: An establishment where five (5) or more individuals,
children or adults regularly receive care and supervision for periods of time
less than fifteen (15) hours, unaccompanied by the individual's guardian.
   DEDICATION: The setting apart of land or interests in land for use by the
public. Land becomes dedicated when accepted by the county as a public
dedication, either by ordinance, resolution, or entry in the official minutes,
or by the recording of a plat showing such dedication.
   DENSITY: A unit of measure; the number of dwelling units per acre of land.
      Gross Density: The number of dwelling units per acre of total land to be
developed, including public right of way.
      Net Density: The number of dwelling units per acre of land when the
acreage involved includes only the land devoted to residential uses, excluding
public right of way.
   DEVELOPER: Authorized agent(s) of a subdivider or the subdivider himself.
   DEVELOPMENT IN FLOODPLAIN: Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real
estate, including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining,
dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations located
within the area of special flood hazard.
   DEVELOPMENT, LARGE SCALE SUBDIVISION: A subdivision the size of which
consists of thirty (30) or more lots or dwelling units.
   DEVELOPMENT, MEDIUM SCALE SUBDIVISION: A subdivision the size of which
consists of less than thirty (30) but more than ten (10) lots or dwelling
units.
   DEVELOPMENT, SMALL SCALE SUBDIVISION: A subdivision the size of which
consists of up to ten (10) lots or dwelling units.
   DISTRICT OR ZONE: An area of the unincorporated territory of Minidoka County
where certain regulations and requirements, or various continuations thereof,
apply under provisions of this title.
   DOMESTIC CONFINED ANIMAL FEEDING OPERATION: A contiguous parcel of land on
which there is one or more livestock confinement areas, and upon which there
are confined at least twenty five (25), but no more than two hundred (200),
livestock animal equivalent units of large livestock and/or at least five
hundred (500), but no more than one thousand five hundred (1,500), head of fowl
and/or furbearers.
   DRIVE-IN ESTABLISHMENT: An establishment, other than a service station or
truck stop, which is designed to accommodate the motor vehicles or patrons in
such manner as to permit the occupants of such vehicles, while remaining
therein, to make a purchase or receive services.
   DUPLEX: See definition of Dwelling, Two-Family.
   DWELLING: A building or portion thereof, containing one or more dwelling
units, and which complies with the structural requirements of the adopted
building code. The term "dwelling" does not include any temporary mobile home
(defined as "home, mobile - temporary"), "motel", "hotel", "guesthouse" or
"boarding house" as defined herein.
   DWELLING, HIGH RISE MULTIPLE-FAMILY: A multiple-family building or portion
thereof, containing five (5) or more stories.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY: A building, or portion thereof, containing three
(3) or more dwelling units.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A building consisting of a single dwelling unit
designed for use and occupancy by no more than one family, and separated from
other units by open spaces.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY: A building designated for use and occupied exclusively
by two (2) families living independently of each other, known also as a duplex.
   DWELLING UNIT: A suite of two (2) or more habitable rooms providing complete
living facilities for one family, including permanent provisions for living,
sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation.
   DWELLING UNIT (PREFAB): A building or other structure proposed or built for
occupancy by people that is designed for initial transportation on streets and
highways, which arrives at a site where it is installed on a permanent
foundation.
   EASEMENT: Authorization by a property owner for the use by another, and for
a specified purpose, of any designated part of another person's property.
   ELECTRIC VEHICLE (EV) CHARGING STATION: Electric vehicle charging station
means a public or private parking space that is served by battery charging
station equipment that has as its primary purpose the transfer of electric
energy (by conductive or inductive means) to a battery or other energy storage
device in an electric vehicle.
   ELECTRICAL DISTRIBUTION LINES: Electrical power lines used by the electrical
utility to distribute electrical power from the generation source or substation
to the utility's customers or end users.
   ELECTRICAL TRANSMISSION LINES: Electrical power lines used for transmission
of electrical power from the generation source to a substation for further
distribution by an electrical utility.
   ENGINEER: Any person who is licensed in the state to practice professional
engineering.
   EQUESTRIAN WAY: A public way designed to be used for horseback riding and so
designated.
   FAMILY: An individual, or two (2) or more persons related by blood or
marriage, or a group of not more than five (5) persons (excluding servants) who
need not be related by blood or marriage living together in a dwelling unit.
   FAMILY FOOD PRODUCTION: The keeping of domestic animals and fowl for the
production of food for the use of the family occupying the premises.
   FARM, RANCH AND GARDEN BUILDING: See definition of Building, Agricultural.
   FEEDLOT: See definitions of Commercial Confined Animal Feeding Operation,
Domestic Confined Animal Feeding Operation or Industrial Confined Animal
Feeding Operation.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM): The official map on which the federal
insurance administration has delineated both the areas of special flood hazard
and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY: The official map on which the federal insurance
administration has delineated both the areas of special flood hazard and the
risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD OR FLOODING: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
   A.   The overflow of inland or tidal waters, and/or
   B.   The unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from any
source.
   FLOODWAY: The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot (1').
   FOWL: Chickens, ducks, geese, pheasants, partridge, guinea hens, peacocks,
or other similar domesticated birds, excluding ostriches and emus.
   FURBEARERS: Mink, fox, beaver, otter, or other similar domesticated animals.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE: A building or a portion thereof in which motor vehicles
used by the tenants of the main building on the premises are stored or kept.
   GOVERNING AUTHORITY: The board of county commissioners of Minidoka County.
   GOVERNMENT LOTS: Fractional sections in the rectangular government survey
system that are less than one quarter section, generally a quarter-quarter
section with more or less than forty (40) acres and meets one or more of the
following criteria:
   A.   Found along the northern and western tier of townships;
   B.   Found where two (2) surveys meet each other; and/or
   C.   Found along "meanderable" rivers and lakes.
   GRADE OR OFFICIAL GRADE: Grade (ground level) is the average of the finished
ground level at the centers of all walls of a building. If the building is
within twenty five feet (25') of a sidewalk or curb, said ground level shall be
measured at the sidewalk or curb.
   GUEST: Any person, other than a member of a family hiring or occupying a
room for living or sleeping purposes.
   GUESTHOUSE: A detached or attached structure, being an accessory to a one-
family dwelling with not more than two (2) bedrooms used or designed for use
primarily by guests or servants for sleeping quarters.
   HEALTH AUTHORITY: The officer or other designated authority charged with the
administration and enforcement of the rules and regulations of the health
department or its successor.
   HEALTH DEPARTMENT: The South Central health district, the Idaho department
of health and welfare, the United States environmental protection agency and/or
any agency as may succeed to any of their powers.
   HEARING: The convening of a quorum of a governing body for purposes of
hearing public testimony, evidence and/or comment, which is mandated by Idaho
Code or this title, and which the consideration of such will be necessary for
the conducting of county business at a subsequent meeting.
   HEIGHT, TELECOMMUNICATIONS TOWER: The distance measured from the original
grade at the base of the tower to the highest point of the tower. This
measurement excludes any attached antennas, protection devices (e.g., lightning
rods) and lighting.
   HIGH WATER MARK: The water level corresponding to the "natural or ordinary
high water mark" or the line which the water impresses on the soil by covering
it for sufficient periods of time to deprive the soil of terrestrial vegetation
and destroy its value for commonly accepted agricultural purposes.
   HIGHWAY: A street designated as a highway by an appropriate local, state or
federal agency.
   HOME, MOBILE: See definitions related to Manufactured Home.
   HOME, MOBILE - TEMPORARY: A trailer, tent trailer, camper or mobile home
which is eight feet (8') or less in width and thirty two feet (32') or less in
length and may or may not contain cooking or bathroom facilities, but is not
designed or used for long term occupancy. An unoccupied temporary mobile home
is one which is being stored or is to be occupied for fewer than thirty (30)
days in a calendar year.
   HOME OCCUPATION: Any gainful operation, profession or craft, which is
customarily incidental to or carried on in a dwelling or accessory buildings,
and wherein the use is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the
dwelling for dwelling purposes. (See the required performance standards.)
   HORSES FOR PRIVATE USE: Horses kept and maintained as an accessory use to a
dwelling for the pleasure and use of the occupants thereof, and not used for
commercial purposes.
   HORTICULTURAL SERVICES: Commercial greenhouses, landscaping services and
agricultural consulting services which grow plants on the premises in
conjunction with the consulting services they render.
   HOSPITAL: Any building used for the accommodation and medical care of sick,
injured, or infirmed persons and including sanatoriums, but does not include
nursing homes.
   HOTEL: A building containing six (6) or more guestrooms intended or designed
to be used, or that are used, rented or hired out to be occupied, or that are
occupied for sleeping purposes by guests.
   HOUSE, BOARDING: See definition of Boarding House.
   HOUSE, ROOMING: See definition of Rooming House.
   HOUSEHOLD PET: Animals or fowl customarily permitted in the house and kept
for company or pleasure, including dogs, cats, canaries, and similar pets.
   IMPROVEMENT: Any alteration to the land or other physical constructions
associated with subdivision and building site developments.
   INDUSTRIAL: Refers to the manufacture, processing and testing of goods and
materials, including the production of power. It does not refer to the growing
of agricultural crops, or the raising of livestock, or the extraction or
severance of raw materials from the land being classified.
   INDUSTRIAL CONFINED ANIMAL FEEDING OPERATION: A contiguous parcel of land
upon which there is one or more confinement areas, and upon which there are
confined one thousand (1,000) or more livestock animal equivalent units of
large livestock or eighty five thousand (85,000) or more head of fowl and
furbearers.
   JUNKYARD: See definitions of Automobile Salvage Yard and Salvage Yard.
   KENNEL, COMMERCIAL: Any lot or premises, or portion thereof, on which five
(5) or more dogs are maintained, harbored, possessed, trained, bred, boarded,
or caged in return for compensation, but not including an animal clinic, animal
hospital, or veterinary office where boarding is limited to short term care
incidental to treatment.
   KENNEL, NONCOMMERCIAL: Any lot or premises of one household, on which more
than two (2) dogs, but less than five (5), are kept, housed, or maintained,
which are owned by individuals of the household.
   KINDERGARTEN: A place, home, building or location providing care, with
organized play and instruction, for more than five (5) children of preschool
age not residing on the same premises.
   LCO: See definition of Livestock Confinement Operation.
   LAGOON, SETTLING: Pond or other similar facilities designed and used for
industrial or commercial processes for separating solid waste or materials from
liquid waste or materials.
   LAGOON, STORAGE: Pond or other similar facilities designed and used for the
storage of water or treated process water, whether for irrigation or
firefighting purposes.
   LAGOONS, SEWAGE: Ponds or other similar facilities designed and used for the
storage, treatment or evaporation of liquid or semiliquid human, commercial or
industrial waste.
   LAGOONS, WASTE: Ponds or other facilities designed and used for the storage
of, or as a waste treatment system for, liquid or semiliquid waste, waste
products or wastewater for confined animal feeding operations. For the purpose
of this title, waste lagoons do not include facilities such as berms, banks,
trenches, ponds or other storm runoff containment systems designed strictly for
the occasional or seasonal rain or snowmelt runoff of livestock confinement
areas.
   LIQUID WASTE: A liquid substance containing any wastewater, waste or waste
products, separately or in combination.
   LIVESTOCK: Fowl, furbearers, cattle, dairy animals, swine, sheep, goats,
horses, mules, llamas, ostriches, emus, and other similar domesticated animals,
including their offspring.
   LIVESTOCK CONFINEMENT AREA: A structure or area of land within which
livestock are confined for a period of more than forty eight (48) hours during
any seven (7) consecutive days.
   LIVESTOCK CONFINEMENT OPERATION: See definition of Confined Animal Feeding
Operation; also known as LCO, but for the purpose of this title, shall be
referred to as confined animal feeding operations or CAFO.
   LOT: A parcel of land of sufficient size to meet minimum zoning requirements
for use, coverage and area, and to provide such yards and other open spaces as
herein required. Such lot shall have frontage on an improved public street or
approved private street or access to said lot will be provided by means of an
approved irrevocable dedicated easement.
   LOT AREA: The computed horizontal area contained within the lot lines.
   LOT, CONTIGUOUS: Lots may be considered contiguous if they adjoin each other
at a common boundary that permits use of the lots as one unit and if they are
not separated by a public right of way, a railroad right of way, or by property
held in fee simple ownership by another.
   LOT, CORNER: A lot abutting upon two (2) or more streets at their
intersection or upon two (2) parts of the same street, such streets or parts of
the same street forming an interior angle of less than one hundred thirty five
degrees (135°). The point of intersection of the street lines is the "corner".
   LOT COVERAGE: The area of a zoning lot occupied by the principal building or
buildings and accessory buildings.
   LOT DEPTH: The mean horizontal distance between the front and the rear lot
lines. Where the lot is irregular and the lot lines converge, the rear lot line
shall be deemed to be a line at a point the side lot lines are not less than
ten feet (10') apart.
   LOT, INTERIOR: A lot bounded by a street on one side only.
   LOT LINE: A line bounding the lot described in the title to the property.
   LOT LINE, FRONT: The line separating the lot from the principal street on
which it fronts.
   LOT LINE, REAR: The line opposite and most distant from the front lot line.
   LOT LINE, SIDE: Any lot line other than a front or rear lot line. A side lot
line separating a lot from a street is also called a side street or flanking
street lot line. A side lot line separating a lot from another lot or lots is
also called an interior side lot line.
   LOT LINE, STREET OR ALLEY: A lot line separating the lot from a street or
alley.
   LOT, MINIMUM AREA: The area of a lot is computed exclusive of any portion of
the right of way of any public or private street.
   LOT, NONCONFORMING: A parcel of land, which was created prior to or in
compliance with the provisions of the applicable zoning and subdivision
ordinances that were in effect at the time such parcel was created.
   LOT, THROUGH: A lot having frontage on two (2) streets, which are parallel
or nearly so.
   LOT WIDTH: The mean width of the lot measured at right angles to its depth;
provided, however, that the minimum lot width required in each district shall
be measured at a distance from the front line equal to the required least depth
of the front yard.
   LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage, in an area other than a
basement area, is not considered a building's lowest floor; provided, that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable nonelevation design requirements of this chapter found at subsection
8-8-7B1b of this title.
   MANUFACTURED BUILDING OR HOUSE: A building or house built to the
International Code Council (ICC) standards in a factory or other facility and
then delivered to the construction site. This definition includes buildings
used for other than residential use.
   MANUFACTURED HOME (FLOODPLAIN): A structure, transportable in one or more
sections, which is built on a permanent chassis and is connected to the
required utilities. For floodplain management purposes, the term "manufactured
home" also includes park trailers, travel trailers, and other similar vehicles
placed on a site for greater than one hundred eighty (180) consecutive days.
For insurance purposes, the term manufactured home does not include park
trailers, travel trailers, and other similar vehicles.
   MANUFACTURED HOME (MOBILE HOME): A single-family dwelling designated for
transportation after fabrication on streets and highways on its own wheels or
on a flatbed or other trailers, and arriving at the site where it is to be
occupied as a dwelling complete and ready for occupancy, except for minor
incidental unpacking and assembly operations located on jacks or other
temporary or permanent foundations, connections to utilities, and the like. A
prefab dwelling unit or travel trailer is not to be considered as a mobile
home.
   MANUFACTURED HOME (MOBILE HOME) CLASS A: A dwelling unit manufactured and
installed with all the following characteristics:
   A.   Mass produced in a factory;
   B.   Built on a frame, designed and constructed for transportation to a site
for installation and use when connected to required utilities;
   C.   Properly connected to sewer, water and electrical services;
   D.   Designed for long term residential use by a family, containing kitchen,
bath and sleeping facilities;
   E.   Multisectional and at least twenty feet (20') wide at the narrowest
point, with a minimum of four hundred (400) square feet per section (minimum
total square footage equal to 1,000 square feet);
   F.   Constructed after June 15, 1976, and certified as meeting the mobile
home construction and safety standards of the U.S. department of housing and
urban development;
   G.   Has a painted metallic, wood, shake, asphalt shingle or similar type
roof with a minimum pitch of two to twelve (2:12) (pitch to run);
   H.   Has an eaves of a minimum of six inches (6"), or eaves and gutter
combination with a minimum of six inches (6"), attached to the entire perimeter
of the roof;
   I.   Has horizontal metal lap siding, simulated wood siding, or wood siding
similar to permanent residential structures;
   J.   Has a foundation that is similar in appearance and durability to
concrete or masonry foundations of site built dwellings and which surrounds the
entire perimeter of the structure, completely enclosing the space between the
siding and the finished grade; and
   K.   Is permanently affixed, with the running gear and towing hitch removed,
and set upon a foundation base having an anchoring system that is totally
concealed under the structure.
   MANUFACTURED HOME (MOBILE HOME) CLASS B: A dwelling unit manufactured and
installed with all the following characteristics:
   A.   Mass produced in a factory;
   B.   Built on a frame, designed and constructed for transportation to a site
for installation and use when connected to required utilities;
   C.   Properly connected to sewer, water and electrical services;
   D.   Designed for long term residential use by a family, containing kitchen,
bath and sleeping facilities;
   E.   Constructed after June 15, 1976, and certified as meeting the mobile
home construction and safety standards of the U.S. department of housing and
urban development. If constructed before the above mentioned date, the home
shall conform to the mobile home rehabilitation act, Idaho Code title 44,
chapter 25;
   F.   New, new condition or rehabilitated so that all roofing, siding, and
exterior trim is intact, good condition and paint that is not blistered,
peeling, or dull in color;
   G.   Units at least fourteen feet (14') wide at the narrowest point, with a
minimum of six hundred (600) square feet;
   H.   Has a factory constructed painted metallic, wood, shake or shingle,
asphalt or fiberglass shingle or similar residential type roof with a minimum
pitch of two to twelve (2:12) (pitch to run);
   I.   Has an eaves of a minimum of six inches (6"), or an eaves and gutter
combination with a minimum of six inches (6"), attached to the entire perimeter
of the roof;
   J.   Has horizontal metal lap siding, simulated wood siding, or wood siding
similar to permanent residential structures;
   K.   Has a foundation that is similar in appearance and durability to
concrete or masonry foundations or approved skirting material, which matches
the exterior siding. The foundation or skirting surrounds the entire perimeter
of the structure, completely enclosing the space between the siding and the
finished grade; and
   L.   Is permanently affixed, with the running gear and towing hitch removed,
and set upon a foundation base having an anchoring system that is totally
concealed under the structure.
   MANUFACTURED HOME (MOBILE HOME) CLASS C: A dwelling unit manufactured and
installed with all the following characteristics:
   A.   Mass produced in a factory;
   B.   Built on a frame, designed and constructed for transportation to a site
for installation and use when connected to required utilities;
   C.   Properly connected to sewer, water and electrical services;
   D.   Designed for long term residential use by a family, containing kitchen,
bath and sleeping facilities;
   E.   Constructed after June 15, 1976, and certified as meeting the mobile
home construction and safety standards of the U.S. department of housing and
urban development. If constructed before the above mentioned date, shall
conform with the mobile home rehabilitation act, Idaho Code title 44, chapter
25; and
   F.   Does not meet all definitional characteristics in subsections E through
K of the definition of "manufactured home (mobile home) class A" and in
subsections E through L of the definition of "manufactured home (mobile home)
class B" of this section.
   MANUFACTURED HOME (MOBILE HOME) NONCONFORMING: A dwelling unit manufactured
and installed with all the following characteristics:
   A.   Mass produced in a factory;
   B.   Built on a frame, designed and constructed for transportation to a site
for installation and use when connected to required utilities;
   C.   Properly connected to sewer, water and electrical services;
   D.   Does not meet all definitional characteristics in subsections E through
K of the definition of "manufactured home (mobile home) class A", in
subsections E through L of the definition of "manufactured home (mobile home)
class B" and subsection E of the definition of "manufactured home (mobile home)
class C" of this section.
   MANUFACTURING, EXTRACTIVE: Any mining, quarrying, excavating, processing,
storing, separating, cleaning or marketing of any mineral natural resource.
   MANUFACTURING, HEAVY: Manufacturing, processing, assembling, storing,
testing and similar industrial uses which are generally major operations and
extensive in character requiring large sites, open storage and service area,
extensive services and facilities, ready access to regional transportation, and
normally generate some nuisances such as smoke, noise, vibration, dust, glare,
and air and water pollution beyond the district boundary.
   MANUFACTURING, LIGHT: Manufacturing or other industrial uses which are
usually controlled operations; relatively clean, quiet and free from
objectionable or hazardous elements such as smoke, noise, odor, dust or other
pollution; operating and storing within enclosed structures and generating
little industrial traffic or nuisances.
   MAP, ZONING: See definition of Zoning Map.
   MONOPOLE: A telecommunications tower of a single pole design.
   MONUMENT: Any permanent marker either of concrete, galvanized iron pipe, or
iron or steel rods, used to permanently establish any tract, parcel, lot or
street lines, as specified in Idaho Code section 50-1303.
   MOTEL: Shall mean the same as "hotel", as defined in this section.
   MOTOR VEHICLE: Any vehicle propelled or drawn by power other than muscular
power designed to travel on the ground by wheels, treads, runners or slides, to
transport persons or property or pull machinery and including, but not limited
to, automobiles, trucks, trailers, motorcycles and tractors.
   MOTOR VEHICLE FUELING SERVICE STATION: A facility providing the retail sale
and direct delivery to motor vehicles of fuel, including electric charging
stations associated with a motor vehicle fueling station, lubricants and minor
accessories, and retail sales for the convenience of the motoring public.
   NAVIGABLE STREAM OR LAKE: As designated on the United States geological
survey (USGS) map and/or the maps of Minidoka County zoning.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION: Structures for which the "start of construction" commenced
on or after the effective date hereof.
   NONCONFORMING BUILDING OR STRUCTURE: A building, structure, or portion
thereof, which does not conform to the regulations of this title applicable to
the zone or district in which such building is situated, but which existed
prior to the effective date hereof, or one for which a building permit was
issued prior to the effective date.
   NONCONFORMING USE: A use of premises which does not conform to the
regulations of this title, but which was in existence at the effective date
hereof.
   NUISANCE: A person, thing, or circumstance causing inconvenience or
annoyance. The unreasonable, unwarranted and/or unlawful use of property, which
causes inconvenience or damage to others, either to individuals and/or to the
general public. Nuisances can include noxious smells, noise, burning,
misdirection of water on to other property, illegal gambling, unauthorized
collections of rusting autos, indecent signs and pictures on businesses, and a
host of bothersome activities. Where illegal they can be abated (changed,
repaired, or improved) by criminal or quasi-criminal charges. If a nuisance
interferes with another person’s quiet or peaceful or pleasant use of his/her
property, it may be the basis for a lawsuit for damages and/or an injunction
ordering the person or entity causing the nuisance to desist (stop) or limit
the activity (such as closing down an activity in the evening).
   NURSERY, PLANT MATERIALS: Land, building, structure or combination thereof
for the storage, cultivation, transplanting of live trees, shrubs or plants for
sale on or off the premises, including products used for gardening or
landscaping.
   NURSING HOME: See definition of Assisted Or Residential Living Facility.
   OCCUPANCY, CHANGE OF: Any change in the character or use of a building or
premises, not including change of tenants, proprietors or occupants.
   OCCUPIED RESIDENTIAL USE: A "residential use" defined in this section, which
has actual residential habitation by one or more persons during the preceding
three (3) years.
   ODOR: The presence in the outdoor atmosphere of any contaminant or
combination thereof in such quantity, nature and duration and under such
conditions as would be injurious to human health or welfare, to animal or plant
life, or to property, or to interfere unreasonably with the enjoyment of life
or property.
   ODOR ABATEMENT: The reduction or elimination of odors present in the ambient
air.
   ODOR ABATEMENT PLAN: A written plan prepared by the owner/applicant stating
methods and practices to be used to minimize or eliminate odors.
   OFF STREET PARKING SPACE: An area adjoining a building providing for the
parking of automobiles which does not include a public street but has
convenient access to it and shall consist of area adequate for parking an
automobile with room for opening doors, together with properly related access
to a public street or alley and maneuvering room.
   OPEN SPACE: An area substantially open to the sky, which may be on the same
lot with a building. The area may include, along with the natural environmental
features, water areas, swimming pools, tennis courts and other recreational
facilities that the commission deems permissive. Streets, parking areas,
structures for habitation and the like shall not be included.
   OPERATION (TELECOMMUNICATIONS): Other than nominal use; when a facility is
used regularly as an integral part of an active system of telecommunications,
it shall be deemed in operation.
   ORIGINAL PARCEL OF LAND: A lot, tract or individual parcel as recorded on
any plat or recorded on file in the office of the Minidoka County recorder, any
unplatted contiguous parcel of land held in one ownership, or any platted
contiguous parcel of land comprised of or including government lots, and being
any such parcel of record as of March 18, 1982, the effective date of the
original subdivision ordinance.
   OTHER USES: As used in this title, implies such usage that may be permitted
in the zone or district. In no way does the term, when used, imply a permit or
approval for a usage. "Other uses" requires a review by the commission, which
will deny or approve (generally under conditions), the requested usage.
   OWNER: Any individual, person, firm, association, syndicate, partnership,
corporation, or other entity having proprietary interest in real property
subject to this title. A leasehold interest is excluded from such proprietary
interest.
   PARK, MANUFACTURED (MOBILE) HOME: Any area, tract, plot or site of land
developed as a planned unit development located and maintained for dwelling
purposes on a permanent or semipermanent basis for two (2) or more manufactured
(mobile) homes or travel trailers.
   PARK, TRAVEL TRAILER (RV PARK): Any area, tract, plot or site of land with
domestic water and sanitary facilities whereupon two (2) or more travel
trailers are placed, located and maintained for dwelling purposes on a
temporary basis.
   PARKING AREA OR LOT, PUBLIC: An open area, other than a street or public
way, to be used for the storage, for limited periods of time, of operable
automobiles and commercial vehicles, and available to the public, whether for
compensation, free, or as an accommodation to clients or customers.
   PARKING AREA, PRIVATE: An open area, other than a street or public way,
designed, arranged and made available for the storage of private passenger
automobiles of occupants of the building or buildings for which the parking
area is developed and is necessary and accessory.
   PARKING SPACE: A usable space of not less than one hundred eighty (180)
square feet, either within a structure or in the open, exclusive of driveways
or access drives, for the parking of motor vehicles.
   PERFORMANCE BOND: An amount of money or other negotiable security paid by
the subdivider or his surety to the county clerk which guarantees that the
subdivider will perform all actions required by an approved plat, and provides
that if the subdivider defaults and fails to comply with provisions of an
approved plat, the subdivider or his surety will pay damages up to the limit of
the bond, or the surety will itself complete the requirements of the approved
plat. The board shall set the amount of the bond at its sole discretion with
regard to the recommendation of the commission.
   PERSONAL SERVICES: Any enterprise conducted for gain, which primarily offers
services to the general public such as shoe repair, watch repair, barbershops,
beauty parlors, and similar activities.
   PEST ABATEMENT: The reduction or elimination of pests such as, but not
limited to, flies, insects, rodents, etc.
   PEST ABATEMENT PLAN: A written plan prepared by the owner/applicant stating
methods and practices to be used to minimize or eliminate pests.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT: An area of land in which a variety of residential,
commercial and industrial uses developed under single ownership or control are
accommodated in a preplanned environment with more flexible standards, such as
lot sizes and setbacks, than those restrictions that would normally apply under
these regulations.
   PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION: See definition for Commission.
   PLAT: The drawing of a proposed subdivision as directed by the Idaho Code.
   PLAT, FINAL: The final and formal preparation and presentation of drawings,
the original and one copy of which is filed with the county recorder, done in
accordance with the Idaho Code.
   PLAT, PRELIMINARY: The initial, formal preparation and presentation of
drawings done in accordance with the Idaho Code.
   PLATFORM (ANTENNAS): A support system that may be used to connect antennas
and antenna arrays to telecommunications towers or alternative support
structures.
   PLOT: A parcel of land consisting of one or more lots or portions thereof,
which is described by reference to a recorded plat or by metes and bounds.
   PRINCIPAL DESIGNATED USE: The main use of land or building as distinguished
from a subordinate, accessory uses or other uses.
   PROFESSIONAL ACTIVITIES: The use of offices and related spaces for such
professional services as are provided by medical practitioners, lawyers,
architects, engineers and similar professions.
   PROPERTY: A lot or plot including all buildings and improvements thereon.
   PROPERTY LINE: A recorded boundary of a plot.
   PUBLIC USES: Public parks, schools, administrative and cultural buildings,
and structures, not including public land or buildings devoted solely to
storage and maintenance of equipment and materials and public service
facilities.
   PUBLIC UTILITIES: Structures or facilities essential to furnishing the
public with electricity, power, gas, water supply, water treatment and public
services, including power plants and service stations, water treatment plants
or public stations, fire stations or police stations.
   PUBLIC WAY, PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY: A public way, right of way, easement, or
strip of land dedicated, acquired or platted across real property and intended
for the special or general use of the public which normally includes streets,
sidewalks or other public utilities or service areas.
   QUASI-PUBLIC USE: Churches, Sunday schools, parochial schools, colleges,
hospitals and other facilities of an educational, religious, charitable,
philanthropic or nonprofit nature.
   REAL PROPERTY: Real estate consisting of:
   A.   Lands, possessive rights to land, ditch and water rights and mining
claims; both lode and placer;
   B.   That which is affixed to land; or
   C.   That which is appurtenant to land.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicle, such as a camper or motor home, used for
traveling and recreational activities.
   REPAIR: The reconstruction or renewal of any part of an existing building
for the purpose of its maintenance. The word "repair" or "repairs" shall not
apply to any change in a structure such as would be required by additions to,
or remodeling of, such structure.
   RESEARCH ACTIVITIES: Research, development, and testing related to such
fields as chemical, pharmaceutical, medical, electrical, transportation,
electronics, and engineering.
   RESERVE STRIP: A strip of land between a dedicated street or partial street
and adjacent property, in either case, reserved or held in public ownership for
future street extension or widening.
   RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITY: See definition of Assisted Or Residential Living
Facility.
   RESIDENTIAL USE: A building or portion thereof designed exclusively for
residential occupancy, including one-family, two- family and multiple-family
dwellings, but not including hotels, motels, boarding and lodging houses,
trailers, recreational vehicles, or trailer houses.
   RESTAURANT: Any land, building or part thereof, other than a boarding house
where meals are provided for compensation, including, among others, such uses
as cafe, cafeteria, coffee shop, lunchroom, tearoom and dining room.
   RIGHT OF WAY: A strip of land taken or dedicated for use as a public way. In
addition to the roadway, it normally incorporates the curbs, lawn strips,
sidewalks, lighting and drainage facilities, and may include special features
(required by the topography or treatment) such as grade separation, landscaped
area, viaducts, and bridges.
   RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN (RMP): A formal statement detailing the hazardous
level, risk level, facility design, emergency response and containment
procedures in response to an accidental discharge of part or all of the
hazardous material contained in the facility.
   ROADSIDE STAND: A temporary structure designed or used for the display or
sale of agricultural and related products, the majority of which have been
grown on adjacent land.
   RODEO, RODEO ARENA: An area used as an entertainment site for an exhibition
and/or competition of the skills of cowboys/cowgirls and horsemanship.
   ROOMING HOUSE: A building other than a hotel where lodging is provided for
compensation to three (3) or more persons who are not members of the
householder's family and wherein no meals are served or provided.
SALVAGE YARD, WRECKING YARD, AUTOMOBILE SALVAGE YARD, AUTOMOBILE WRECKING YARD:
A place where scrap, waste, discarded or salvage materials are bought, sold,
exchanged, baled, packed, dismantled, handled or stored, including auto
wrecking yards, house wrecking yards, used lumberyards, and places or yards for
storage of salvaged house wrecking and structural materials and equipment; but
not including such places where such uses are conducted entirely within a
completely enclosed building, and not including pawnshops and establishments
for the sale, purchase or storage of used furniture and household equipment
within a building, used cars in operable condition, or salvaged materials
incidental to manufacturing operations conducted on the premises; Any area,
lot, land, or parcel, excluding farm equipment in agricultural zones or when
located within a completely enclosed building, whereon more than two (2) motor
vehicles without current registration, or where more than two (2) motor
vehicles inoperable or dismantled motor vehicles, or any combination of more
than two (2) unregistered, inoperable or dismantled motor vehicles, not in
operating condition are standing more than thirty (30) days, or on which such
used motor vehicles or parts thereof are dismantled or stored. For purposes of
this definition, the term “inoperable” means the motor vehicle cannot move
under its own power or does not meet minimum legal requirements necessary for
the motor vehicle to be operated in a safe and lawful manner upon the roads and
highways in the state of Idaho as set forth in the Idaho motor vehicle laws of
the state of Idaho.
   SANITARIUM, SANATORIUM: A hospital, whether or not such facility is operated
for profit.
   SATELLITE DISH: A device incorporating a reflective surface that is solid,
open mesh, or bar configured that is shell dish, cone, horn, or cornucopia
shaped and is used to transmit and/or receive electromagnetic signals. This
definition is meant to include, but is not limited to, what are commonly
referred to as satellite earth stations, TVROs (satellite television receive
only) and satellite microwave antennas.
   SCHOOL: An institution conducting regular academic instruction at
elementary, secondary and college levels.
   SCHOOL, TRADE OR INDUSTRIAL: An institution or facility conducting
instruction in the technical, commercial or trade skills such as business,
beauticians, barbers, electricians, automotive and so forth.
   SERVICE STATION:
   A.   Buildings, premises where gasoline, oil, grease, batteries, tires and
motor vehicle accessories may be supplied and dispensed at retail and wherein,
in addition, the following services may be rendered and sales made:
      1.   Sales and service of spark plugs, batteries and distributor parts;
      2.   Tire servicing and repair, but not recapping or regrooving;
      3.   Replacement of mufflers and tailpipes, water hoses, fan belts, brake
fluid, light bulbs, fuses, floor mats, seat covers, windshield wipers and
blades, grease retainers, wheel bearings, mirrors and the like;
      4.   Radiator cleaning and flushing;
      5.   Washing, polishing and sale of washing and polishing materials;
      6.   Greasing and lubrication;
      7.   Providing and repairing fuel pumps, oil pumps and lines;
      8.   Minor servicing and repair of carburetors;
      9.   Adjusting and repairing brakes;
      10.   Minor motor adjustment not involving removal of the head or
crankcase or raising the motor;
      11.   Sales of cold drinks, packaged food, tobacco and similar
convenience goods for service station customers, as accessory and incidental to
principal operations;
      12.   Provisions of road maps and other informational material to
customers; provision of restroom facilities; and
      13.   Warranty maintenance and safety inspections.
   B.   Uses permissible at a service station do not include major mechanical
and body work, straightening of body parts, painting, welding, storage of
automobiles not in operating condition or other characteristics to an extent
greater than normally found in service stations. A service station is neither a
repair garage nor a body shop.
   SETBACK: The shortest distance between the property or lot line and the
structure or portion thereof, excluding street or road right of way.
   SETBACK AREA: The space on a lot required to be left open and unoccupied by
buildings or structures, either by the front, side or rear setback requirements
of this title, or by delineation on a recorded subdivision or planned unit
development map.
   SETBACK LINE: A line established by the zoning regulations, generally
parallel with and measured from the lot line, defining the limits of a yard in
which no building or structure may be located above ground, except as may be
provided in this title.
   SEWAGE LAGOONS: Ponds or other similar facilities designed and used for the
storage, treatment or evaporation of liquid or semiliquid human, commercial or
industrial waste.
   SHELTER HOME: A residential facility for temporary occupancy by individuals
who, for financial or physical or mental health reasons, do not have a place of
residence or cannot live at their normal residences. This would include, but
not be limited to, facilities for the homeless, battered and abused, halfway
houses, and children's home.
   SHOOTING RANGE: A facility which allows for the safe practice of shooting
firearms, including shotguns, pistols, and rifles, which may include any
accessory uses and structures normally associated with this activity.
   SIDEWALK: That portion of the street right of way outside the street
pavement, which is improved for pedestrian use (also known as "walkway").
   SIGN: Any display or device consisting of painted letters, symbols or
designs, and including any moving parts, lighting, sound equipment, framework,
background material or structural support, which display or device is intended
to communicate business identification, an advertisement, announcement,
directions or other message, or attract, distract, hold, direct or focus public
attention.
   SIGN, COMMERCIAL: Any sign erected which directs attention to a use, name,
business, commodity, service or entertainment conducted, sold or offered at a
commercial establishment, whether located on the same premises of the sign or
not.
   SIGN, DIRECTIONAL/INFORMATIONAL: Any sign erected with the purpose of giving
directions which contains words such as "entrance", "enter", "exit", "in",
"out", or other similar words, or a sign containing arrows or characters
indicating traffic directions, or provides information and/or messages of
interest to the public.
   SIGN, HOME: An accessory sign or nameplate announcing the names of the
occupants or owners of the premises, or the name of the home occupation
conducted thereon.
   SIGN, PROPERTY: An on premises sign erected for the purpose of advertising
the availability of the property for sale, lease or rent; or may include
project identification, a private or public announcement or the announcement of
danger or warning in connection with said premises.
   SIGN, PUBLIC: An accessory sign erected for the purpose of identification of
the buildings, or involved facilities, and may include the dissemination of
information in connection with the program, policy or operation of public or
semipublic institutions owning or occupying subject premises, such as schools,
churches, hospitals, quasi-public bodies, clubs, lodges, clinics, professional
and executive offices, or information in connection with the property of
general interest to the public.
   SIGN, TEMPORARY: Any sign that is used only temporarily, not exceeding sixty
(60) days and is not permanently mounted or installed.
   SITING ADVISORY TEAM ("TEAM"): A team comprised of representatives from the
Idaho state department of agriculture (ISDA), Idaho division of environmental
quality (IDEQ), Idaho department of water resources (IDWR), and an official
designee of Minidoka County. The siting advisory team may invite
representatives of the state universities of Idaho and following federal
agencies: U.S. environmental protection agency (EPA), U.S. natural resources
conservation service (NRCS), U.S. geological survey (USGS), and the United
States department of agricultural research services (USDA), to participate as
advisors and/or consultants to the team.
   SLAUGHTERHOUSE: See definition of Commercial Slaughterhouse And Meatpacking
Facilities.
   SPECIAL USE: A special use permitted within a district, other than a
principally permitted use, requiring a permit and approval of the commission.
Special uses permitted in each zone are listed in the schedule of zoning
regulations.
   STABLE, PRIVATE: A detached accessory building or structure for the keeping
of one or more horses or cows owned and used by the occupant of the premises
and not for remuneration, hire or sale.
   STABLE, RIDING: A building or structure used or designed for the boarding or
care of riding horses for remuneration, hire or sale.
   STAFF: Employees of the Minidoka County planning and zoning or building
departments, or other persons identified by a governing body, who are
authorized by the board, ordinance or Idaho Code, to prepare documents or
otherwise assist a governing body with planning and zoning matters.
   STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS: Shall be the specifications as may be specified in
this title or as officially adopted by the county.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION: Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, placement or other improvement was within one hundred
eighty (180) days of the permit date. The actual start means either the first
placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the
pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of
columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a
manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land
preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the
installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a
basement, footings, piers, or foundation, or the erection of temporary forms;
nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings,
such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main
structure.
   STATE: The state of Idaho
   STORM RUNOFF CONTAINMENT: The storage facility that intercepts precipitation
runoff of a corral(s) based on the requirement for a 25-year, 24-hour storm
event only. This does not include wastewater.
   STORY: That portion of a building included between the surface of a floor
and the ceiling next above it.
   STREET: A right of way that provides access to adjacent properties, the
dedication of which has been officially accepted. The term "street" also
includes the terms highway, thoroughfare, parkway, road, avenue, boulevard,
lane, place, and similar terms. Some related terms and definitions are as
follows:
      Alley: A minor street providing secondary access at the back or side of a
property otherwise abutting a street.
      Arterial: A street which is designated for the purpose of carrying fast
and/or heavy traffic.
      Collector: A street which is designated for the purpose of carrying
traffic from minor streets or other collector streets and/or arterial streets.
      Commercial: A street which is designated for the purpose of providing
traffic movement in a commercial area.
      Cul-De-Sac: A street which is connected to another street at one end only
and provided with a turnaround space.
      Dead End: A street which connects to another street at one end only and
not having provision for vehicular turnaround at its terminus.
      Frontage: A minor street which is parallel to and adjacent to arterial or
collector streets, and has the primary purpose of providing access to abutting
properties.
      Industrial: A street which is designated for the purpose of providing
traffic movement in an industrial area.
      Loop: A minor street with both terminal points on the same street origin.
      Minor: A street which has the primary purpose of providing access to
abutting properties.
      Partial: A dedicated right of way providing only a portion of the
required street width, usually along the edge of a subdivision or tract of
land.
      Private: A street that provides vehicular and pedestrian access to one or
more properties; however, not accepted for public dedication or maintenance.
      Side Street: A secondary street that provides access to a corner lot
toward which the principal building is not oriented.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATION: Any change in the supporting members of the building
such as the bearing walls, columns, beams, girders or roof.
   STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
location on the ground or attachment to something having a fixed location on
the ground. Among other things, structures include buildings, mobile homes,
walls, gas or liquid storage tanks and billboards.
   SUBDIVIDER: The individual, firm, corporation, partnership, association,
syndicate, trust or other legal entity that executes the application and
initiates proceedings for the subdivision ordinance. The subdivider need not be
the owner but must have written authorization from the owner to propose the
subdivision of the owner's lands.
   SUBDIVISION: The division of an original lot, tract, or parcel of land into
more than four (4) parts for the purpose of transfer of ownership or
development; the dedication of a public street and the addition to, or creation
of, a cemetery. However, title 9 of this code shall not apply to any of the
following:
   A.   An allocation of land in the settlement of an estate of a decedent or a
court decree for the distribution of property;
   B.   The unwilling sale of land as a result of legal condemnation as defined
and allowed in the Idaho Code;
   C.   Widening of existing streets to conform to the comprehensive plan;
   D.   The acquisition of collector and arterial street rights of way by a
public agency in conformance with the comprehensive plan;
   E.   The exchange of land for the purpose of straightening property
boundaries that does not result in the change of the present land usage of the
properties involved; and
   F.   The acquisition of a parcel with the purpose of adding to an existing
parcel, lot or tract without any individual or separate development.
   SUBDIVISION, MOBILE HOME: A subdivision designed for manufactured or mobile
home residential use.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT:
   A.   Any repair, reconstruction, or improvement of a structure, the cost of
which equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the
structure, either:
      1.   Before the improvement or repair is started; or
      2.   If the structure has been damaged and is being restored, before the
damage occurred.
   B.   For the purpose of this definition, "substantial improvement" is
considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or
other structural part of the building commences, whether or not that alteration
affects the external dimensions of the structure.
   SURVEYOR: A land surveyor or professional engineer registered in the state
of Idaho.
   TAVERN OR LOUNGE: A building where alcoholic beverages are sold for
consumption on the premises, not including restaurants when the principal
business is serving food.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITY: A facility, site, or location that contains one
or more antennas, telecommunications towers, alternative support structures,
satellite dish antennas, other similar communication devices, and support
equipment which is used for transmitting, receiving, or relaying
telecommunications signals.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITY (COLLOCATED): A telecommunications facility
comprised of a single telecommunications tower or building supporting multiple
antennas, dishes, or similar devices owned or used by more than one public or
private entity.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS SUPPORT FACILITY: The telecommunications equipment
buildings and equipment cabinets.
   TOWER, CAMOUFLAGED: Any telecommunications tower that, due to design or
appearance, entirely hides, obscures, or conceals the presence of the tower and
antennas.
   TOWER FARM: A parcel of ground on which multiple telecommunications towers
or antennas are located and clustered together on a single parcel for economic,
aesthetic, or other reasons.
   TOWER, GUYED: A telecommunications tower that is supported in whole or in
part by guywires and ground anchors or other means of support besides the
superstructure of the tower itself.
   TOWER, LATTICE: A telecommunications tower that consists of vertical and
horizontal supports and crossed metal braces.
   TOWER, TELECOMMUNICATIONS: Any structure that is designed and constructed
primarily for the purpose of supporting one or more antennas, including
camouflaged towers, lattice towers, guy towers, or monopole towers. This
includes radio and television transmission towers, microwave towers, and common
carrier towers.
   TRACT, ORIGINAL TRACT OF LAND OR ORIGINAL PARCEL OF LAND: A lot or tract as
recorded on any plat or record on file in the office of the county recorder, or
any unplatted contiguous parcel of land held in one ownership of record at the
effective date hereof.
   UNDUE HARDSHIP: Special conditions depriving the applicant of rights
commonly enjoyed by other property owners in the same district under the terms
of this title, but not merely a matter of convenience and profit. A hardship
caused by the applicant for the purpose of evading the restrictions of this
title shall not be considered an undue hardship.
   USE: The specific purposes for which land or a building is designated,
arranged, intended or for which it is or may be occupied or maintained.
   USE, EXISTING: Any use legally existing at the time of adoption of this
title.
   UTILITIES: Installation(s) to conduct and provide service(s) such as the
generation, transmission or distribution of water, sewage, gas, electricity and
communication; the collection and treatment of sewage and solid waste; the
collection, storage or diversion of surface water, stormwater, and ancillary
facilities providing services to the public. These services may be provided by
a public or private agency.
   VARIANCE: A modification of the bulk and placement requirements of the
ordinance as to lot size, lot coverage, width, depth, front yard, side yard,
rear yard, setbacks, parking space, height of buildings, or other ordinance
provision affecting the size or shape of a structure or the placement of the
structure upon lots, or the size of lots. A variance shall not be considered a
right or special privilege, but may be granted to an applicant only upon a
showing of undue hardship because of characteristics of the site and that the
variance is not in conflict with the public interest.
   VICINITY MAP: A small scale map showing the location of a tract of land in
relation to a larger area.
   WASTE: Waste normally associated with animal feeding operations, which may
include waste products, wastewater and feed residues.
   WASTE PRODUCTS: Organic waste matter such as urine and/or feces.
   WASTE TREATMENT SYSTEM: The process, area, or mechanism employed for the
retention, storage and treatment of liquid or solid wastes.
   WASTEWATER: Water that has been used for washing, flushing, or in a
manufacturing process, which also contains waste products.
   YARD: An open space on the same zoning lot with a principal building or
group of buildings, which is unoccupied and unobstructed from its lowest level
upward, except as otherwise permitted in this title, and which extends to a
depth or width specified in the yard or setback regulations for the district in
which the lot is located.
   YARD, FRONT: The yard across the full width of the lot or plot facing the
street and extending from the front building line of the building to the front
property or street line.
   YARD, REAR: The yard across the full width of the lot or plot opposite the
front yard, extending from the rear building line of the building to the rear
property line.
   YARD, SIDE: The yard between the side building line of the building and the
adjacent side property line and extending from the front yard to the rear yard.
   ZONE OR ZONING DISTRICT: A portion of the unincorporated territory of
Minidoka County or the incorporated territory of the cities of Rupert, Heyburn,
Paul, Acequia, or Minidoka as defined by this title and designated on zoning
maps, to which the provisions of this title apply.
   ZONING MAP: The zoning map or maps of Minidoka County, Idaho, incorporated
into this title designating zoning districts, together with all amendments
subsequently adopted.
   ZONING OFFICIAL: The zoning administrator or his authorized representative.
   ZONING PERMITS AND CERTIFICATES:
   A.   Certificate Of Zoning Compliance: A document issued by the zoning
official which may be issued separately or attached to an occupancy permit,
business license or building permit, which is for the purpose of carrying out
and enforcing the provisions of this title. A building permit once issued may
serve as a zoning permit.
   B.   Certificate Of Occupancy: A document issued by the building official
authorizing the occupancy and use of completed buildings, structures or
premises and the proposed use thereof, for the purpose of ensuring compliance
with the provisions of this title and other adopted codes and regulations.
   C.   Notice Of Noncompliance: A document issued by the zoning administrator
indicating that a use or structure is nonconforming to the district regulations
or is not in conformity with other conditions or requirements of this title.
(Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016; amd. Ord. 2016-09-13-K, 9-13-2016; 2019-11-18,
11-18-2019)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 67-6521.
CHAPTER 3
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
8-3-1: Administration Of Title
8-3-2: Administrator
8-3-3: Commission Membership
8-3-4: Commission Organization, Rules And Expenditures
8-3-5: Duties Of Commission
8-3-6: Conflict Of Interest
8-3-7: Zoning Permit Required
8-3-8: Contents Of Application
8-3-9: Public Notice Procedure; Hearings
8-3-10: Appeals
8-3-11: Approval Of Zoning Permit; Time Limit
8-3-12: Expiration Of Zoning Permit
8-3-13: Exemption From Zoning/Building Permit
8-3-14: Special Requirements For Issuance Of Building Permits
8-3-15: Certificates Of Occupancy
8-3-16: Declaring Manufactured Home Real Property
8-3-17: Record Of Permits And Certificates
8-3-18: Failure To Obtain Permit Or Certificate
8-3-19: Approval Of Plans And Applications Required
8-3-20: Schedule Of Fees, Charges And Expenses
8-3-21: Complaints Regarding Violations
8-3-22: Penalties
8-3-1: ADMINISTRATION OF TITLE:
For the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this title, an administrator
and commission are hereby created. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-3-2: ADMINISTRATOR:
   A.   Appointment: The board of county commissioners shall appoint an
administrator to administer this title. The administrator may be provided with
the assistance of such other persons as the board may direct.
   B.   Duties: For the purpose of this title, the administrator shall have the
following duties:
      1.   Advise interested person(s) of the zoning ordinance provisions;
      2.   Notify the news media and/or the newspaper of record regarding
matters of public interest;
      3.   Aid applicants in the preparation and expedition of required
application;
      4.   Issue zoning permits, provide required notifications and such
similar administrative duties;
      5.   Investigate all violations of this title and notify in writing the
persons or entities responsible for such violations, ordering the action
necessary to correct such violations; and
      6.   Assist the planning and zoning commission and board of county
commissioners in carrying out the provisions of this title. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J,
9-13-2016)
8-3-3: COMMISSION MEMBERSHIP:
   A.   Minidoka County Planning And Zoning Commission:
      1.   The commission shall consist of not less than seven (7) nor more
than twelve (12) voting members all appointed by the county board of
commissioners and confirmed by majority vote of the board. An appointed member
of a commission must have resided in the county for two (2) years prior to his
appointment, and must remain a resident of the county during his service on the
commission.
      2.   Not more than one-third (1/3) of the members of the commission
appointed by the chairman of the board of county commissioners may reside
within any of the incorporated cities in the county. There shall be at least
one member appointed from the corporate limits or areas of impact of each of
the cities of Rupert, Heyburn and Paul.
   B.   Number Of Members; Terms Of Office: A separate ordinance establishing a
planning and zoning commission to exercise the powers under this title shall
set forth the number of members to be appointed. The term of office for members
shall be not less than three (3) years. Members may be reappointed to
additional terms as deemed necessary by the board of county commissioners.
   C.   Vacancies; Removals: Vacancies occurring otherwise than through the
expiration of terms shall be filled in the same manner as the original
appointment. Members may be removed for cause by a majority vote of the board.
   D.   Political Affiliation; Compensation: Members shall be selected without
respect to political affiliation and may receive such mileage and per diem
compensation as provided by the board. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
 
8-3-4: COMMISSION ORGANIZATION, RULES AND EXPENDITURES:
   A.   Organization: The commission shall elect a chairman and fill any other
office that it may deem necessary. A commission may establish subcommittees,
advisory committees, hearing examiners, or neighborhood groups to advise and
assist in carrying out the responsibilities. A commission may appoint nonvoting
ex officio advisors as may be deemed necessary.
   B.   Rules, Records And Meetings:
      1.   Written bylaws consistent with this title and other laws of the
state for the transaction of business of the commission shall be adopted.
      2.   A record of meetings, hearings, resolutions, studies, findings,
permits and actions taken shall be maintained. All meetings and records shall
be open to the public.
      3.   A majority of voting members of the commission shall constitute a
quorum.
   C.   Expenditures And Staff: With approval of the board, the commission may
receive and expend funds, goods and services from the federal government or
agencies and instrumentalities of state or local governments or from civic and
private sources, and may contract with these entities and provide information
and reports as necessary to secure aid. Expenditures by a commission shall be
within the amounts appropriated by the board. Within such limits, any
commission is authorized to hire employees and technical advisors, including,
but not limited to, planners, engineers, architects and legal assistants. (Ord.
2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-3-5: DUTIES OF COMMISSION:
For the purpose of this title, the commission shall have the following duties:
   A.   May initiate proposed amendments to this title and conduct an annual
review of the complete zoning ordinance;
   B.   Review all proposed amendments to this title and make recommendations
to the board;
   C.   Review all planned unit developments and make recommendations to the
board;
   D.   Grant special use permits as specified in the official schedule of
district regulations, and under the conditions as herein specified with such
additional safeguards as will uphold the intent of this title;
   E.   Hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is an error in any
order, requirement, decision, interpretation or determination made by the
administrator; and
   F.   Authorize such variances from the terms of this title; provided, that
it must not be contrary to the public interest, where, owing to the special
conditions, a literal enforcement of this title will result in unnecessary
hardship, and so that the spirit of this title shall be observed. (Ord. 2016-
09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-3-6: CONFLICT OF INTEREST:
A member or employee of the board or commission shall not participate in any
proceeding or action when the member or employee or his employer, business
partner, business associate or any person related to him by affinity or
consanguinity within the second degree has an economic interest in the
procedure or action. Any actual or potential interest in any proceeding shall
be disclosed at or before any meeting at which the action is being heard or
considered. A knowing violation of this section shall be a misdemeanor. (Ord.
2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-3-7: ZONING PERMIT REQUIRED:
No building or other structure shall be erected, moved, added to or
structurally altered, nor shall any building, structure, or land be established
or changed in use without a permit therefor issued by the administrator. Zoning
permits shall be issued only in conformity with the provisions of this title. A
building permit once issued may serve as a zoning permit. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J,
9-13-2016)
8-3-8: CONTENTS OF APPLICATION:
The application for zoning permit shall be signed by the owner or applicant
attesting to the truth and exactness of all information supplied on the
application. Each application shall clearly state that the permit shall expire
and be considered revoked if work has not begun within one hundred eighty (180)
days from the date the permit was issued. At a minimum, the application shall
contain the following information:
   A.   Name, address and phone number of applicant and name, address and phone
number of owner if applicant is not the owner;
   B.   Legal description of property;
   C.   Existing use;
   D.   Proposed use;
   E.   Zoning district;
   F.   Plan, drawn to scale, showing the actual dimensions and the shape of
the lot to be built upon; the exact size and location of existing buildings on
the lot, if any; and the location and dimensions of the proposed building(s) or
alterations;
   G.   Building heights;
   H.   Number of off street parking spaces or loading spaces;
   I.   Number of dwelling units;
   J.   Proposed sewer, water and electrical facilities; and
   K.   Such other matters as may be necessary to determine conformance with,
and provision for, the enforcement of this title. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-
2016)
8-3-9: PUBLIC NOTICE PROCEDURE; HEARINGS:
   A.   Hearing Notices:
      1.   Notice Required: In order that the owners of property involved and
other legitimately interested parties may have fair opportunity to be heard,
notice shall be given of any public hearing required by the provisions of this
title.
      2.   Filing Of Application For Zoning Action: Applications for zoning
actions that require a public hearing shall be filed with the planning and
zoning secretary no less than thirty (30) days before the next regularly
scheduled meeting.
      3.   Contents Of Notice: Notice of any public hearing which the board of
county commissioners or planning and zoning commission is required to hold
under the terms of this title shall specify the date, time, and place of
hearing, and the matter to be presented at the hearing.
      4.   Publication Of Notice: The notice of public hearing shall be
published in the official newspaper of general circulation in Minidoka County
not less than fifteen (15) days before the date of hearing. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J,
9-13-2016)
      5.   Manner Of Serving Notice; Conditions: Notice of the public hearing
shall be mailed not less than ten (10) days before the date of hearing by U.S.
mail, first class postage prepaid, to all interested parties and every person
listed by the county tax assessor as owning real property located within one-
half (1/2) mile of any external boundary of the subject property as is
described in the application. All CAFO notice requirements shall be one mile
from external boundaries. Any subject property bordering a city's corporate
boundary shall require notice to all interested parties and every person listed
by the county tax assessor as owning real property within three hundred feet
(300') inside the city's corporate boundary and any additional area that in the
determination of the zoning administrator may be substantially impacted. The
applicant shall prepare and file, with the planning and zoning secretary, at
least five (5) days prior to the hearing, an affidavit of publication, posting
and mailing indicating that the notice given is in compliance with this
section. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016; amd. Ord. 2016-09-13-K, 9-13-2016)
      6.   Notice To Multiple Property Owners; Publication: When notice is
required to two hundred (200) or more property owners or purchasers of record,
in lieu of mailing notification, two (2) notices in the newspaper or paper of
general circulation is sufficient; provided, that the second notice appears ten
(10) days prior to the public hearing. If notice is given to fewer than two
hundred (200) property owners or purchasers of record, notice shall be by
regular first class mail with postage prepaid to the address shown on the rolls
of the county tax collector at the time of mailing. An agent from the
respective jurisdiction who mails the notices shall file a certificate with the
commission secretary showing the date of mailing and listing the names and
addresses to which the notice was sent. (Ord. 2016-09-13-K, 9-13-2016)
      7.   Posting Notice On Premises: Notice shall be posted on the premises
by the applicant not less than ten (10) days prior to hearing. Notice may also
be made available by the county to other newspapers, radio and television
stations serving the jurisdiction for use as a public service announcement.
   B.   Testimony At Hearing:
      1.   Support Or Objection: All persons to whom notice is mailed shall be
advised that they may file written objections or supporting statements with the
planning and zoning secretary no later than five (5) days prior to the date of
hearing in order to establish that their substantial rights would be affected
by the approval or denial of the application.
      2.   Statement Filed: Any person who files a statement in support or
objection shall indicate in such statement whether or not such person desires
to testify at the hearing.
      3.   Right To Participate: Any property owner entitled to specific notice
pursuant to the provisions of this section shall have a right to participate in
public hearings before a planning and zoning commission or governing board.
(Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-3-10: APPEALS:
   A.   Right To Appeal: The applicant or any affected aggrieved persons with
lawful standing and who also appeared in person or in writing before the
commission may appeal the decision of the commission to the commission or board
as provided in this chapter.
   B.   Zoning Administrator Decisions: Appeals of decisions of the zoning
administrator shall be determined by the planning and zoning commission. An
appeal shall be in writing and shall include the specific legal basis for
appeal and the results sought. The commission will render a written decision
that will be communicated to the appellant and applicant.
   C.   Commission Decisions: Appeals of decisions made by the commission shall
be determined by the board of county commissioners. The procedure for an appeal
shall be as follows:
      1.   Fees governing appeals must be paid at the time of the filing of the
appeal. The legal basis for the appeal must be stated in writing before an
appeal will be deemed accepted for consideration. The written notice of appeal
shall contain the name, address and phone number of the appellant and, if
different, the name, address and phone number of the property owner; and it
shall include the street address and legal description of the property which is
the subject of the appeal. The record of the proceedings before the commission
shall be transmitted to the board before consideration of the appeal by the
board.
      2.   Appeals of final decisions made by the commission may only be
appealed to the board if a written request for reconsideration has been
previously submitted to the commission within fourteen (14) days of the final
decision of the commission. The request for reconsideration shall state the
issues to be considered on reconsideration and the legal basis for the relief
sought. The commission shall respond in writing to any request for
reconsideration at its next scheduled meeting, either modifying its original
decision or affirming its prior action. Only following issuance of the
commission's written decision regarding reconsideration, may the appeal process
proceed before the board. The appeal to the board must also include a copy of
the request for reconsideration of the appeal before the commission and the
commission's decision on reconsideration. Any appeal to the board for which
there is no request for reconsideration before the commission shall be
dismissed by the county clerk.
      3.   A request for appeal to the board shall include the explanation of
the basis for appeal and the result sought and must be filed no more than
fourteen (14) days after the reconsideration decision of the commission is
entered. The issues on appeal shall be limited to those raised in the request
for reconsideration submitted to the commission.
      4.   After considering the written decision of the commission, the
decision on reconsideration, the record on appeal and the written appeal
submitted by the applicant, the board may determine that the appeal has no
legal basis and dismiss it, may rule upon the appeal based upon the written
record placed before it or schedule an appeal hearing to allow oral
presentation of the issues associated with the appeal. Following conclusion of
the procedures it chooses to invoke, the board will render a written decision
that will be communicated to the appellant and applicant.
   D.   Grievance: An aggrieved party may seek judicial review of a decision of
the board of any final decision of the board.
   E.   Final Decision; Reconsideration: A decision of the board is not final
until it has been rendered in writing and delivered to the applicant. Also, it
is not a final decision, subject to review, until a written request for
reconsideration has been submitted to the county clerk within fourteen (14)
days of the final decision of the board, stating the issues to be reconsidered
and specific legal basis for the relief sought.
      1.   The board shall respond in writing to any request for
reconsideration within fourteen (14) days of its filing, either modifying its
original decision or affirming its prior action. The board may determine that
the request for reconsideration has no legal basis and dismiss it, may rule
upon the request based upon the written record placed before it, or schedule a
hearing to allow oral presentation of the issues associated with the request.
The board will render a written decision that will be communicated to the
appellant and applicant.
      2.   Failure to request reconsideration is a failure of the appellant to
exhaust administrative remedies.
   F.   Fees: During the process of appeal or of reconsideration, should either
the commission or the board determine that new or additional public hearings
must be held, requiring new notice of hearing to be sent or published, the cost
of such shall be borne by the applicant. The cost of such shall be paid in
advance of giving any such notice. Any other fee for filing any request for
reconsideration shall be paid in advance in the amount set by board resolution.
(Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-3-11: APPROVAL OF ZONING PERMIT; TIME LIMIT:
Within twenty eight (28) days after the receipt of an application, the
administrator shall either approve or disapprove the application in conformance
with the provisions of this title. (Ord. 2016-09-13-K, 9-13-2016)
8-3-12: EXPIRATION OF ZONING PERMIT:
If the work described in a zoning permit has not begun within one hundred
eighty (180) days from the date of issuance thereof, said permit shall expire
and be considered revoked by the administrator. No written notice of expiration
or revocation need be given to the persons affected. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-
2016)
8-3-13: EXEMPTION FROM ZONING/BUILDING PERMIT:
   A.   Siting Permit Only: Structures or buildings that meet the definition of
agricultural building and are constructed and located in an agricultural zone
on a parcel that meets the definition for agricultural exemption in subsection
B of this section will only be required to obtain a siting permit in lieu of a
building permit.
   B.   Exemption Criteria: A parcel or tract of land that is more than five
(5) contiguous acres, and is actively devoted to agriculture, is eligible for
an agricultural exemption when meeting the following criteria:
      1.   It is used to produce field crops including, but not limited to,
grains, feed crops, fruits and vegetables; or
      2.   It is used to produce nursery stock as defined in Idaho Code section
22-2302; or
      3.   It is used by the owner for the grazing of livestock to be sold as
part of a net profitmaking enterprise, or is leased by the owner to a bona fide
lessee for grazing purposes; or
      4.   It is in a cropland retirement or rotation program; and
      5.   It is not a lot, tract or parcel within a subdivision or planned
unit development. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-3-14: SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ISSUANCE OF BUILDING PERMITS:
The following are requirements dealing with providing utility hookups and
payment of hookup fees prior to the issuance of a zoning/building permit:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to request or demand from any utility, private or
public, the connection of power to any structure, house, building,
installation, including manufactured homes, for which a building permit is
required, without first displaying to said utility or other company a valid
building permit.
   B.   Each utility, private or public, receiving such a request for
connection of utilities without compliance with the terms of this section,
shall promptly notify the county.
   C.   No building permit shall be issued for any structures located within
the corporate limits of the cities which would require public services without
verification that the appropriate hookup fees or deposits have been paid.
   D.   Manufactured home parks (mobile home parks) shall not allow a unit to
be connected to utilities without verification that a building permit has been
issued as required by state law and local ordinances.
   E.   No building permit shall be issued for structures utilizing private
septic systems without first obtaining a subsurface sewage permit from the
applicable health authority. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-3-15: CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY:
   A.   Certificate Required: It shall be unlawful to use or occupy, or permit
the use or occupancy of, any building or premises, or both, or part thereof
hereafter created, erected, changed, converted or wholly or partly altered or
enlarged in its use or structure until a certificate of occupancy shall have
been issued therefor stating that the proposed use of the building or land
conforms to the requirements of this title and with all conditional provisions
that may have been imposed.
   B.   Temporary Certificate: A temporary certificate of occupancy may be
issued by the administrator for a period not exceeding six (6) months during
alterations or partial occupancy of a building pending its completion. (Ord.
2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-3-16: DECLARING MANUFACTURED HOME REAL PROPERTY:
Pursuant to Idaho Code section 63-304, manufactured homes may be declared as
real property. A manufactured home may only be accepted as real property upon
the submittal of an application as prescribed by the state, properly completed,
signed and notarized, and upon verification of compliance with all state and
local building codes and manufactured home installation standards. (Ord. 2016-
09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-3-17: RECORD OF PERMITS AND CERTIFICATES:
The administrator shall maintain a record of all zoning permits and
certificates of occupancy, and copies shall be furnished upon request to any
person. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-3-18: FAILURE TO OBTAIN PERMIT OR CERTIFICATE:
Failure to obtain a zoning permit or certificate of occupancy shall be a
violation of this title. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-3-19: APPROVAL OF PLANS AND APPLICATIONS REQUIRED:
Zoning permits or certificates of occupancy issued on the basis of plans and
applications approved by the administrator authorize only the use and
arrangement set forth in such approved plans and applications or amendments
thereto, and no other use, arrangement or construction. Use, arrangement or
construction contrary to that authorized shall be deemed a violation of this
title. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-3-20: SCHEDULE OF FEES, CHARGES AND EXPENSES:
   A.   Establishment Of Fees: The board of county commissioners, by
resolution, shall establish a schedule of fees, charges and expenses, and a
collection procedure for zoning permits, amendments, appeals, variances,
special use permits, plan approvals and other matters pertaining to the
administration and enforcement of this title requiring investigations,
inspections, legal advertising, postage and other expenses.
   B.   Posting Of Schedule: The schedule of fees shall be posted in the office
of the administrator, and may be altered or amended only by the board.
   C.   Payment Of Fees: Until all applicable fees, charges and expenses have
been paid in full, no action shall be taken on any application or appeal. (Ord.
2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-3-21: COMPLAINTS REGARDING VIOLATIONS:
Whenever a violation of this title occurs, or is alleged to have occurred, any
person may file a written complaint. Such complaint stating fully the causes
and basis thereof shall be filed with the administrator. The administrator
shall properly record such complaint and immediately cause to investigate and
take action thereon as provided by this title. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-3-22: PENALTIES:
The county attorney may, in addition to taking whatever criminal action deemed
necessary, take steps to civilly enjoin any violation of this title. Penalties
for failure to comply with or violations of the provisions of this title shall
be as follows:
Violation of any of the provisions of this title or failure to comply with any
of its requirements shall constitute a misdemeanor, and a person guilty of such
violation shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day such violation continues shall be considered a
separate offense. The landowner, tenant, subdivider, builder, public official
or any other person who commits, participates in, assists in or maintains such
violation may be found guilty of a separate offense. Nothing herein contained
shall prevent any public official or private citizen from taking such lawful
action as is necessary to restrain or prevent any violation of this title or
the Idaho Code. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
ARTICLE A. VARIANCES
SECTION:
8-3A-1: Stay Of Proceedings
8-3A-2: Authorization; Grounds
8-3A-3: Application And Standards
8-3A-4: Supplementary Conditions And Safeguards
8-3A-5: Public Hearing
8-3A-6: Variance Procedure In City Areas Of Impact
8-3A-7: Action By Commission
8-3A-8: Appeals
8-3A-1:   STAY OF PROCEEDINGS:
An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action taken unless the
administrator certifies to the commission after the notice of appeal is filed
with him that by reason of facts stated in the application, a stay would, in
his opinion, cause imminent peril to life and property. In such case,
proceedings shall not be stayed other than by a restraining order which may be
granted by the commission or by a court based upon an application, with notice
to the administrator showing due cause. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-3A-2:   AUTHORIZATION; GROUNDS:
   A.   Hardship: The commission may authorize in specific cases such variance
from the terms of this title as will not be contrary to the public interest
where, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of the provisions of
this title would result in unnecessary hardship.
   B.   Nonconformance: No nonconforming use of the neighboring lands,
structures or buildings in the same district and no permitted or nonconforming
use of lands, structures or buildings in other districts shall be considered
grounds for issuance of a variance.
   C.   Limitation On Granting: Variances shall not be granted on the grounds
of convenience or profit, but only where strict application of the provisions
of this title would result in unnecessary hardship. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-
2016)
8-3A-3:   APPLICATION AND STANDARDS:
   A.   Written Application; Contents: A variance from the terms of this title
shall not be granted by the commission unless and until a written application
for a variance is submitted to the administrator and the commission containing:
      1.   Name, address and phone number of applicant.
      2.   Legal description of property.
      3.   Description of nature of variance requested.
      4.   A narrative statement demonstrating that the requested variance
conforms to the following standards:
         a.   That special conditions and circumstances exist which are not
applicable to other lands, structures or buildings in the same district;
         b.   That a literal interpretation of the provisions of this title
would deprive the applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by other properties in
the same district under the terms of this title;
         c.   That special conditions and circumstances do not result from the
actions of the applicant; and
         d.   That granting the variance requested will not confer on the
applicant any special privilege that is denied by this title to other lands,
structures or buildings in the same district.
   B.   Findings Of Fact: A variance shall not be granted unless the commission
makes specific findings of fact based directly on the particular evidence
presented to it, which supports conclusions that the above mentioned standards
and conditions have been met by the applicant. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-3A-4:   SUPPLEMENTARY CONDITIONS AND SAFEGUARDS:
Under no circumstances shall the commission grant variance to allow a use not
permissible under the terms of this title in the district involved, or any use
expressly or by implication prohibited by the terms of this title in said
district. In granting any variance, the commission may prescribe appropriate
conditions and safeguards in conformity with this title. Violation of such
conditions and safeguards, when made a part of the terms under which the
variance is granted, shall be deemed a violation of this title. (Ord. 2016-09-
13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-3A-5:   PUBLIC HEARING:
   A.   Hearing For Variance: Upon receipt of the application for a variance,
at least one public hearing in which interested persons shall have an
opportunity to be heard shall be held.
   B.   Notice Of Hearing: Hearing notice procedure shall be in accordance with
section
8-3-9 of this chapter. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-3A-6:   VARIANCE PROCEDURE IN CITY AREAS OF IMPACT:
   A.   Within five (5) days after receiving the completed application for
variance, a copy of the application shall be forwarded by the Minidoka County
zoning department to the zoning administrator and the clerk of the city in
whose area of impact the application is relevant.
   B.   The city shall have the right to review and provide comment. All
written or official comments received from the city shall be brought before the
commission or board who is conducting the public hearing on the matter and
shall become part of the official record. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-3A-7:   ACTION BY COMMISSION:
Following conclusion of the hearing and procedures, the commission will render
a written decision that will be communicated to the applicant. (Ord. 2016-09-
13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-3A-8:   APPEALS:
Appeals procedure will be in accordance with section
8-3-10 of this chapter. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
ARTICLE B. SPECIAL USES
SECTION:
8-3B-1: Consideration And Hearing
8-3B-2: Contents Of Application For Special Use Permit
8-3B-3: General Standards Applicable To All Special Uses
8-3B-4: Public Sites And Open Spaces
8-3B-5: Supplementary Conditions And Safeguards
8-3B-6: Transfer Of Special Use Permits
8-3B-7: Hearing And Notice Procedure
8-3B-8: Special Use Permit Application In City Areas Of Impact
8-3B-9: Action By Commission
8-3B-10: Notification To Applicant
8-3B-11: Appeals
8-3B-1:   CONSIDERATION AND HEARING:
   A.   Each Use Considered: It is recognized that an increasing number of new
kinds of uses are appearing, and that many of these and some other conventional
uses possess characteristics of such unique and special nature relative to
location, design, size, method of operation, circulation and public facilities
that each specific use must be considered individually.
   B.   Hearing: The commission shall hold a public hearing on each special use
permit application as specified in the schedule of regulations. The commission
may approve, conditionally approve, or deny a special use permit under the
conditions herein specified and such additional safeguards as will uphold the
intent of this title. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-3B-2:   CONTENTS OF APPLICATION FOR SPECIAL USE PERMIT:
An application for special use permit shall be filed with the administrator by
at least one owner or lessee of property for which such special use is
proposed. At a minimum, the application shall contain the following:
   A.   Name, address and phone number of applicant and name, address and phone
number of owner, if applicant is not the owner.
   B.   Legal description of property.
   C.   Description of existing use.
   D.   Zoning district.
   E.   Description of proposed special use.
   F.   A plan drawn to an approved scale of the proposed site for the special
use showing the location of all buildings, parking and loading area, traffic
access and traffic circulation, open spaces, landscaping, refuse and service
areas, utilities, signs, yards and such other information as the commission may
require to determine if the proposed special use meets the intent and
requirements of this title.
   G.   A narrative statement evaluating the effect on adjoining property; the
effect of such elements as noise, glare, odor, fumes and vibration on adjoining
property; a discussion of the general compatibility with adjacent and other
properties in the district; and the relationship of the proposed use to the
comprehensive plan. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-3B-3:   GENERAL STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO ALL SPECIAL USES:
The commission shall review the particular facts and circumstances of each
proposed special use in terms of the following standards and shall find
adequate evidence showing that such use at the proposed location:
   A.   Will, in fact, constitute a special use as established on the official
schedule of district regulations for the zoning district involved;
   B.   Will be harmonious with, and in accordance with, general objectives or
with any specific objective of the comprehensive plan and/or this title;
   C.   Will be designed, constructed, operated and maintained to be harmonious
and appropriate in appearance with the existing or intended character of the
general vicinity and that such use will not change the essential character of
the same area;
   D.   Will not be hazardous or disturbing to existing or future neighboring
uses;
   E.   Will be served adequately by essential public facilities and services
such as highways, streets, police and fire protection, drainage structures,
refuse disposal, water and sewer and schools, or the persons or agencies
responsible for the establishments of the proposed use shall provide adequately
any such services;
   F.   Will not create excessive additional requirements at public cost for
public facilities and services and will not be detrimental to the economic
welfare of the community;
   G.   Will not involve uses, activities, processes, materials, equipment and
conditions of operation that will be detrimental to any persons, property or
the general welfare by reason of excessive production of traffic, noise, smoke,
fumes, glare or odors;
   H.   Will have vehicular approaches to the property which shall be so
designed as not to create an interference with traffic on surrounding public
thoroughfares; and
   I.   Will not result in the destruction, loss or damage of a natural, scenic
or historic feature of major importance. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-3B-4:   PUBLIC SITES AND OPEN SPACES:
Public sites and open spaces shall conform to the following:
   A.   Public Uses:
      1.   Where it is determined that a proposed park, playground, school or
other public use as shown on the future acquisition map, as authorized in Idaho
Code section 67-6517, is located in whole or in part within a proposed
development, the commission shall notify the appropriate public agency
concerning the land proposed to be acquired.
      2.   Within thirty (30) days of the date of notice, the public agency may
request the governing body to suspend consideration of the permit for sixty
(60) days from the date of the request. However, if an agreement is not reached
within sixty (60) days, the commission shall resume consideration of the
special use application.
   B.   Natural Features: Existing natural features which add value to
residential development and enhance the attractiveness of the community (such
as trees, watercourses, historic spots and similar irreplaceable assets) shall
be preserved in the design of the development.
   C.   Special Developments: In the case of planned unit developments and
large scale developments, the commission shall require sufficient park or open
space facilities of acceptable size, location and site characteristics that may
be suitable for the proposed development. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-3B-5:   SUPPLEMENTARY CONDITIONS AND SAFEGUARDS:
In granting any special use, the commission may prescribe appropriate
conditions, bonds and safeguards in conformity with this title. Violations of
such conditions, bonds or safeguards, when made a part of the terms under which
the special use permit is granted, shall be deemed a violation of this title
and may be subject to revocation of the permit. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-3B-6:   TRANSFER OF SPECIAL USE PERMITS:
Special use permits will transfer with the change of ownership of the property,
unless prohibited by specific condition(s) of the permit. Prohibition or
special provisions for transfer of permit may be specified as conditions of
permit approval. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-3B-7:   HEARING AND NOTICE PROCEDURE:
Hearing and notice procedures shall be in accordance with section
8-3-9 of this chapter. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-3B-8:   SPECIAL USE PERMIT APPLICATION IN CITY AREAS OF IMPACT:
The following shall apply regarding applications for zoning matters that
require a public hearing:
   A.   Within five (5) days after receiving the completed application, a copy
of the application shall be forwarded by the Minidoka County zoning department
to the zoning administrator and the clerk of the city in whose area of impact
the application is relevant.
   B.   The city shall have the right to review and provide comment. All
written or official comments received from the city shall be brought before the
commission or board who is conducting the public hearing on the matter and
shall become part of the official record. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-3B-9:   ACTION BY COMMISSION:
   A.   Decision: After the commission has completed all hearings and processes
for special use, the commission will render a written decision that will be
communicated to the applicant and further will make public, the ruling
concerning the application as presented. If the application is approved or
approved with modifications, the commission shall direct the administrator to
issue a special use permit listing the specific conditions specified by the
commission for approval.
   B.   Conditions: Upon granting of a special use permit, conditions may be
attached to a special use permit, including, but not limited to:
      1.   Minimizing adverse impact on other development;
      2.   Controlling the sequence and timing of development;
      3.   Controlling the duration of development;
      4.   Assuring that development is maintained properly;
      5.   Designating the exact location and nature of development;
      6.   Requiring the provision for on site public facilities or services;
      7.   Requiring more restrictive standards than those generally required
in an ordinance; and
      8.   Limiting duration of the special use permit and requiring
termination of the use upon expiration of the permit.
   C.   Commission Decision; Specifications: Prior to granting a special use
permit, the commission may request studies from the planning staff or public
agencies concerning social, economic, fiscal and environmental effects of the
proposed special use. A special use permit is not transferable from one parcel
of land to another. Upon granting or denying an application, the commission
shall specify:
      1.   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the application;
      2.   The reasons for approval or denial; and
      3.   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain a
permit. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-3B-10:   NOTIFICATION TO APPLICANT:
Following conclusion of the hearing and procedures, the commission will render
a written decision that will be communicated to the applicant. (Ord. 2016-09-
13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-3B-11:   APPEALS:
Appeals procedure will be in accordance with section
8-3-10 of this chapter. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
ARTICLE C. AMENDMENTS
SECTION:
8-3C-1: Authority And Conditions
8-3C-2: Initiation Of Zoning Amendments
8-3C-3: Application For Amendment Of Zoning Map
8-3C-4: Transmittal To Commission
8-3C-5: Commission Public Hearing
8-3C-6: Recommendation By Commission
8-3C-7: Action By Board
8-3C-8: Hearing And Notice Procedure
8-3C-9: Amendment Or Rezone In City Areas Of Impact
8-3C-10: Resubmission Of Application
8-3C-1:   AUTHORITY AND CONDITIONS:
Whenever the public necessity, convenience, general welfare or good zoning
practices require, the board may, by ordinance, after receipt of recommendation
thereon from the commission and subject to procedures provided by law, amend,
supplement, change or repeal the regulations, restrictions and boundaries or
classification of property. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-3C-2:   INITIATION OF ZONING AMENDMENTS:
Amendments to this title may be initiated in one of the following ways:
   A.   By adoption of a motion by the commission;
   B.   By adoption of a motion by the board;
   C.   By the filing of an application by a property owner or a person who has
existing interest in property within the area proposed to be changed or
affected by said amendment. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-3C-3:   APPLICATION FOR AMENDMENT OF ZONING MAP:
Applications for amendments to the official zoning map adopted as part of this
title shall contain at least the following information:
   A.   Name, address and phone number of applicant;
   B.   Proposed amending ordinance, approved as to form by the county
attorney;
   C.   Present land use;
   D.   Present zoning district;
   E.   Proposed use;
   F.   Proposed zoning district;
   G.   A vicinity map at a scale approved by the administrator showing
property lines, thoroughfares, existing and proposed zoning and such other
items as the administrator may require;
   H.   A list of all property owners and their mailing addresses in accordance
with the hearing and notice procedures contained in section
8-3-9 of this chapter;
   I.   A statement on how the proposed amendment relates to the comprehensive
plan, availability of public facilities and compatibility with the surrounding
area, and quantifiable data that will verify that rezoning would not cause
economic, social or physical stress on existing uses of surrounding areas; and
   J.   A fee as established by the board. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-3C-4:   TRANSMITTAL TO COMMISSION:
Zoning districts shall be amended in the following manner:
   A.   Requests for an amendment to the zoning ordinance shall be submitted to
the commission, which shall evaluate the request to determine the extent and
nature of the amendment requested.
   B.   If the request is in accordance with the adopted comprehensive plan,
the commission may recommend, and the board may adopt or reject the ordinance
amendment under the notice and hearing procedures as herein provided.
   C.   If the request is not in accordance with the adopted comprehensive
plan, the request shall be submitted to the commission, which may recommend and
the board may adopt or reject an amendment to the comprehensive plan following
the notice and hearing procedures provided in Idaho Code section 67-6509. After
the comprehensive plan has been amended, the zoning ordinance may then be
amended as hereinafter provided. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-3C-5:   COMMISSION PUBLIC HEARING:
The commission shall hold a public hearing and make recommendations on proposed
zoning amendments. Zoning amendments may consist of text or map revisions.
   A.   Zoning Ordinance Text Amendment:
      1.   Public Hearing: The commission, prior to recommending a zoning
ordinance text amendment to the board, shall conduct at least one public
hearing in which interested persons shall have an opportunity to be heard.
      2.   Hearings And Notice Procedures: Hearing and notice procedures shall
be in accordance with section
8-3-9 of this chapter.
      3.   Additional Changes Require Additional Hearings: Following the
commission's hearing, if the commission makes material change from what was
presented at the public hearing, further notice and hearing shall be provided
before the commission forwards the amendment with its recommendation to the
board.
   B.   Zoning Ordinance Map Amendment:
      1.   Public Hearing: The commission, prior to recommending a zoning
ordinance map amendment to the board that is in accordance with the
comprehensive plan, shall conduct at least one public hearing in which
interested persons shall have an opportunity to be heard.
      2.   Hearing And Notice Procedures: Hearing and notice procedures shall
be in accordance with section
8-3-9 of this chapter.
      3.   Additional Changes Require Additional Hearings: Following the
commission's hearing, if the commission makes material change from what was
presented at the public hearing, further notice and hearing shall be provided
before the commission forwards the amendment with its recommendation to the
board. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-3C-6:   RECOMMENDATION BY COMMISSION:
Upon completion of all required hearings the commission shall transmit its
recommendation to the board. The commission may recommend a modification of the
amendment requested, or it may recommend that the amendment be denied. The
commission shall ensure that any favorable recommendations for amendments are
in accordance with the comprehensive plan and established goals and objectives.
(Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-3C-7:   ACTION BY BOARD:
   A.   The board, prior to adopting, revising or rejecting the amendment to
the zoning ordinance as recommended by the commission, shall conduct at least
one public hearing. Following the board hearing, if the board makes a material
change from what was presented at the public hearing, further notice and
hearing shall be provided before the board adopts the amendment.
   B.   The board shall accept the recommendation of the commission's report
unless rejected by a vote of a simple majority of the full board.
   C.   Upon granting or denying an application to amend the zoning ordinance,
the board shall specify:
      1.   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the application;
      2.   The reasons for approval or denial; and
      3.   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain an
amendment to the ordinance or a permit to use the applicant's property in the
way which the applicant seeks if a means exists to obtain such permit.
   D.   In the event the board shall approve an amendment, such shall
thereafter be made part of this title upon the preparation and passage of an
ordinance. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-3C-8:   HEARING AND NOTICE PROCEDURE:
Hearing and notice procedures shall be in accordance with section
8-3-9 of this chapter. (Ord. 2016-09-13-K, 9-13-2016)
8-3C-9:   AMENDMENT OR REZONE IN CITY AREAS OF IMPACT:
The following shall apply regarding applications for zoning matters that
require a public hearing:
   A.   Within five (5) days after receiving the completed application, a copy
of the application shall be forwarded by the Minidoka County zoning department
to the zoning administrator and the clerk of the city in whose area of impact
the application is relevant.
   B.   The city shall have the right to review and provide comment. All
written or official comment received from the city shall be brought before the
commission or board that is conducting the public hearing on the matter and
shall become part of the official record. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-3C-10:   RESUBMISSION OF APPLICATION:
No application for a reclassification of any property which has been denied by
the board shall be resubmitted in either substantially the same form or with
reference to substantially the same premises for the same purpose within a
period of one year from the date of such final action, unless there is an
amendment in the comprehensive plan which resulted from a change in conditions
as applying to the specific property under consideration. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J,
9-13-2016)
CHAPTER 4
ZONING DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED; MAP
SECTION:
8-4-1: Designation Of Zones
8-4-2: Zoning Map
8-4-3: General Regulations
8-4-4: Boundaries Of Zones
8-4-5: Conformity And General Intent
8-4-1: DESIGNATION OF ZONES:
In order to accomplish more fully the objectives and purposes of this title,
Minidoka County is hereby divided into zones which shall be known by symbols
and/or names as follows:
Short Title Zones
   AL    Agricultural low
   AM    Agricultural medium
   AH    Agricultural heavy
   RL    Residential low density
   RM    Residential medium density
   RH    Residential high density
   CL    Commercial local
   CG    Commercial general
   IL    Industrial light
   IH    Industrial heavy
 
(Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-4-2: ZONING MAP:
   A.   The location and boundaries of each of the zoning districts listed in
section
8-4-1 of this chapter, and special overlay districts, are hereby established as
are shown on the zoning map or maps of the respective jurisdiction. All
boundaries, notations and other data shown thereon are as much a part of this
title as if fully described herein. Said zoning maps, properly attested, shall
be placed and remain on file in the office of the Minidoka County recorder.
   B.   The zoning map shall be identified by the signature of the chairman of
the board of county commissioners, attested by the county clerk, and shall bear
the following words:
I hereby certify that this is the official Minidoka County Zoning Map which was
adopted by the Board of County Commissioners of Minidoka County on the      
day of               ,       .
(Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-4-3: GENERAL REGULATIONS:
Within each of the zones, the height, number of stories, and the size of
buildings and structures, and percentage of lot that may be occupied, the size
of yards, courts and other open spaces, the density or population and the
location and use of buildings, structures and land for trade, industry,
residence or other purposes are hereby regulated and restricted as set forth in
this title or as may be amended. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-4-4: BOUNDARIES OF ZONES:
Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of zones, the following
rules shall apply:
   A.   When indicated boundaries of the zone map are adjacent to street or
land survey lines, said street or land survey lines shall be construed to be
the zone boundaries.
   B.   Where the indicated boundaries are adjacent to canals, natural streams
or watercourses, or other clearly defined natural features, the centerline of
said canal, natural stream, watercourse or natural feature shall be construed
to be the zone boundary.
   C.   In the absence of any street, land survey, canal, natural stream,
watercourse or other natural feature or measurement as forming the boundaries
of any zone, the scale or measurement shown on the map shall be used to
determine the zone boundary lines.
   D.   Whenever a street is vacated and that street has not been given a zone
classification, the land of the vacated street shall have the same zone
classification as the land adjacent or abutting land owned or on the same side
of the centerline of the former street to whom such land reverts or in whom
said land becomes vested by operations of law or otherwise.
   E.   In every case where small parcels of territory have not been
specifically included within a district through errors in legal description, or
where territory becomes a part of a city by incorporation or by inclusion in
the area of impact of the city, such territory shall automatically retain its
existing use classification, until otherwise classified.
   F.   In case of conflict between the text and the maps of this title, the
maps shall prevail. In case of a conflict between the provisions of the various
sections of the text of this title, the most stringent provisions shall
prevail.
   G.   Where other uncertainty exists, the zoning administrator shall
interpret the map. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-4-5: CONFORMITY AND GENERAL INTENT:
Except as otherwise provided herein, land, buildings and premises in any
district shall hereafter be used only in accordance with the regulations herein
established for the district, and the following general provisions:
   A.   Building Height; Coverage: No building shall hereafter be erected,
constructed, relocated or structurally altered to have a greater height,
proportion of coverage or smaller yards or open spaces about it than
permissible under the limitations set forth herein for the district in which
such buildings are located.
   B.   Yards, Open Spaces And Off Street Parking:
      1.   No yards, open spaces or off street parking space or loading space
existing or provided hereafter about any building shall be reduced below the
minimum requirements hereinafter set forth for such open space, parking space
or loading space, or further reduced if already less than said minimum
requirements.
      2.   No open space, yard or off street parking space or loading space
existing or hereafter provided for a building or use and necessary to meet or
partially meet the requirements of this title shall be considered as all or
part of the yard, open space, off street parking space or loading space
required for any other building or upon any other lot.
   C.   Lot Area: No lot held under one ownership at the effective date hereof
shall be reduced in dimension or area in relation to any building thereon so as
to be smaller than that required by this title, and if already less, the
dimension or area of such lot shall not be further reduced, except by
subdivision properly approved by the county.
   D.   Easements: If any development, building or structure shall be over any
recorded or known easement, a letter of approval from the grantee of said
easement must be submitted with the plan specifying that said development,
building or structure does not infringe upon said easement.
   E.   Use Limitations In Residential Areas: No facilities or use can be
permitted in residential areas unless it is clearly demonstrated that the
proposed use will not result in smoke, dirt, litter, smog, air or water
pollution, excessive noise or offensive odors beyond the boundaries of the
property on which the facility is located. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
CHAPTER 5
GENERAL PURPOSES OF ZONES
SECTION:
8-5-1: Purposes
8-5-1: PURPOSES:
   A.   AL Agricultural Low Zone: The purpose of this agricultural zone is
intended to provide areas for low density or residential development that
maintains a rural environment with continuation of limited or light
agricultural uses where compatible with each other. It is appropriate to be
applied to areas which have, by nature of uses and land division activity,
already begun a conversion from rural to urban use, primarily in the outer
portions of the rural-urban fringe areas where public facilities and services
will be necessary before intensive urbanization should occur, and in rural land
with marginal suitability for agricultural production.
   B.   AM Agricultural Medium Zone: The purpose of this zone or district is to
retain the economic base of Minidoka County by preserving the good productive
lands for agricultural purposes and activities, which are of a less
objectionable nature, by identifying the farmlands lying in those portions of
the county that are in areas of higher residential density, located closer to
urban areas, and are more likely to undergo urban development.
   C.   AH Agricultural Heavy Zone: The purpose of this zone or district is to
retain and support the economic base of Minidoka County by preserving the good
productive lands for all agricultural purposes and by identifying and
protecting the farmlands lying in those portions of the county not likely to
undergo urban development. This zone or district is characterized by farms and
ranches devoted to the production of food, fiber, and animal products, and by
large tracts of open rangeland devoted to the raising of livestock.
   D.   RL Residential Low Density Zone: The purpose of this zone or district
is to permit the establishment of low density single- family housing areas
designed to contain a range from one to eight (8) units per acre.
   E.   RM Residential Medium Density Zone: The purpose of this zone or
district is to permit the establishment of medium density multiple-family
dwellings not exceeding fourplex type apartments. This zone or district is also
designed to permit the conversion of large older houses and will allow the
establishment of neighborhoods into apartments.
   F.   RH Residential High Density Zone: The purpose of this zone or district
is to permit the establishment of high density housing areas. This zone or
district may act as a buffer between various nonresidential uses and less dense
residential uses, thus serving as a transitional use.
   G.   CL Commercial Local Zone: The purpose of this zone or district is to
provide for areas suitable to fulfill the need for travel related services,
retail sales and professional offices as well as neighborhood or local
commercial services throughout the county and areas of city impact. This zone
or district is established to encourage the development of convenience business
uses, which tend to meet the daily needs of the residents of the immediate
neighborhood and for pedestrian patrons. The zone is also designed to act as a
buffer between other more intense nonresidential uses and residential uses.
   H.   CG Commercial General Zone: The purpose of this zone or district is to
provide for and encourage the grouping together of business, retail, public,
quasi-public, and other related uses with minimal light industrial uses capable
of being operated under such standards as to location and appearance of
buildings and treatment of land around them that they will be unobtrusive and
not detrimental to surrounding commercial or residential uses. The light
industrial uses permitted in this zone are manufacturing and wholesale business
establishments which are clean, quiet and free of hazardous or objectionable
elements such as noise, odor, dust, smoke or glare operated entirely within
enclosed structures which generate little industrial traffic. This zone or
district is further designed to accent a transitional use between industrial
uses and other less intense business and residential uses.
   I.   IL Industrial Light Zone: The purpose of this zone is to provide for
the location of manufacturing or other industrial uses which are duly
controlled operations that do not generate smoke, noise, vibration, dust, odor,
glare, gas, light, air pollution or water pollution beyond the district
boundary. This zone is characterized by warehouses, wholesale storage areas,
packaging and assembling plants. The district is further designed to accent a
transitional use between heavy industrial uses and less intense general
commercial uses.
   J.   IH Industrial Heavy Zone: The purpose of this zone is to provide for
the location of manufacturing and other industrial uses which usually contain
heavy manufacturing, processing, assembling, storing, testing and similar
industrial uses which are generally major operations and extensive in character
requiring large sites where the byproduct of such use includes emittance of
nuisances such as smoke, noise, vibration, dust, odor, glare, gas, light, air
pollution or water pollution beyond the district boundary which may have a
detrimental effect on neighboring property. These uses require extensive
community facilities and isolation from residential and commercial uses and
also require reasonable access to arterial thoroughfares.
   K.   Outlying Zone: The purpose of the outlying zone is to classify land
which is considered to be of such remote location, constitutes unproductive
land, or is otherwise situated or categorized so as to require no regulations
at this time, except that industrial uses will not be permitted in said zone
without first obtaining a special use or conditional use permit. (Ord. 2016-09-
13-J, 9-13-2016)
CHAPTER 6
REGULATIONS WITHIN ZONES
SECTION:
8-6-1: Compliance With Regulations
8-6-2: Schedule Of Zoning Regulations
8-6-3: Schedule Of Height And Area Regulations
8-6-1: COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS:
The regulations of each zone set forth by this title shall be minimum
regulations and shall apply uniformly to each class or kind of structure or
land, except as hereinafter provided.
   A.   No building, structure or land shall be used or occupied and no
building or structure, or a part thereof, shall be erected, constructed,
reconstructed, moved or structurally altered, except in conformity with all the
regulations herein specified for the zone in which it is located.
   B.   No building or other structure shall be erected or altered:
      1.   To provide for greater height or bulk;
      2.   To accommodate or house a greater number of families;
      3.   To occupy a greater percentage of lot area; or
      4.   To have narrower or smaller rear yards, front yards, or other open
spaces than herein allowed or required, as the case may be, or any other manner
contrary to the provision of this title.
   C.   No yard or lot existing on the effective date hereof shall be reduced
in dimension of area below the minimum requirements set forth herein. Yards or
lots created after the effective date hereof shall be at least the minimum
requirements set forth herein. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-6-2: SCHEDULE OF ZONING REGULATIONS:
Zoning regulations shall be as set forth in the official schedule of zoning
regulations and in chapter 7, "Performance Standards", of this title. To
determine in which zone a specific use is allowed, it is necessary to find the
use and read across the schedule until either the letter "P", "N" or "S"
appears in one of the columns. If the letter "P" appears, the use is an allowed
use, if the letter "S" appears, the use is only allowed upon the issuance of a
special or conditional use permit, and if the letter "N" appears, the use is
not permitted in that zone or district. The administrator shall interpret the
appropriate zone for land uses not specifically mentioned by determining a zone
in which similar uses are permitted. When several combined land uses exist, or
are proposed, the most intensive land use shall be considered as the primary
activity. All uses listed in the schedule will be considered public and/or
commercial unless specifically designated as private, public or commercial.
(Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
Minidoka County   OFFICIAL SCHEDULE OF ZONING REGULATIONS
 
Key to symbols:
 AL Agricultural  RL Residential low   CL Commercial local  IH Industrial heavy
    low
 AM Agricultural  RM Residential       CG Commercial        O  Outlying
    medium           medium               general
 AH Agricultural  RH Residential high  IL Industrial light
    heavy
 
 
P = Permitted use S = Special use N = Not permitted
 
Land Uses Zoning Districts
          AL AM AH RL RM RH CL CG IL IH O
Land Uses                           Zoning Districts
                                    AL  AM  AH  RL  RM  RH  CL  CG  IL  IH  O
Agricultural activities:                                           
 Agronomy and crop consulting      N   S   S   N   N   N   P5  P   P   P   S
  services
 Alcohol production plants         N   S   S   N   N   N   N   S   S   P   S
 Dairy product processing          N   N   S   N   N   N   N   N   P1  P   N
 Grain and seed processing,        N   S   S   N   N   N   N   N   P1  P   P
  commercial
 Grain and seed processing,        N   P   P   N   N   N   N   N   P1  P   P
  domestic
 Greenhouses                       S   P   P   N   N   N   S   P   P   P   N
 Kennels commercial                N   S6  S6  N   N   N   N   P6  P   P   N
 Kennels noncommercial             P6  P   P   P6  N   N   P6  P6  P   P   N
 Livestock feed processing,        N   S   S   N   N   N   N   N   P   P   S
  commercial
 Livestock feed processing,        N   P   P   N   N   N   N   N   P   P   S
  domestic
 Livestock sales                   N   S   S   N   N   N   N   N   S   S   N
 Meat product processing           N   N   S   N   N   N   N   N   S1  P   N
 Plant and flower nurseries        S   P   P   N   N   N   S   P   P   P   N
 Vegetable and produce processing  N   N   S   N   N   N   N   N   P   P   N
 Veterinarian                      N   S   S   N   N   N   S1  P1  P   P   N
Agriculture:                                                       
 Confined animal feeding                                          
  operations:
  Commercial                      N   N   S   N   N   N   N   N   N   S   S
  Domestic                        S   P11 P11 N   N   N   N   N   N   S   P
  Industrial                      N   N   S   N   N   N   N   N   N   N   P
 Family food production (family    P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P
  garden)
 Farms:                                                           
  Animals confined6               P   P   P   N   N   N   N   N   N   N   P
  Animals on pasture              P6  P   P   P6  N   N   N   N   P6  P6  P
  Plant and trees                 P   P   P   N   N   N   N   N   P   P   P
  Produce and other farm products P   P   P   N   N   N   N   N   P   P   P
 Poultry (enclosed):                                              
  Commercial                      S   S   S   N   N   N   N   N   N   S   P
  Domestic                        S   P   P   N   N   N   N   N   N   S   P
  Hatchery                        N   S   P   N   N   N   N   N   S   P   P
  Industrial                      N   S   S   N   N   N   N   N   N   N   P
Communications and utilities:                                      
 Distribution lines                P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P
 Electrical generation             N   S   S   N   N   N   N   N   S   S   S
 Media transfer/booster stations12 S1  S1  S1  S1  S1  S1  P1  P   P   P   S
 Radio and television stations     N   N   N   N   N   P1  P1  P   P   P   N
 Telecommunication towers:                                        
  Camouflaged towers              P6  P6  P6  N   N   S6  S6  S6  P6  P6  S6
  Tower/antenna farms             N   S6  S6  N   N   N   N   S6  S6  P6  S6
  Towers less than 90 feet in     S6  P6  P6  N   N   N   N   S6  P6  P6  S6
    height
  Towers over 90 feet in height   S6  S6  S6  N   N   N   N   N   S6  S6  S6
 Telegraph centers and stations    N   N   N   N   N   P1  P1  P   P   P   N
 Telephone exchange stations       S1  S1  S1  S1  S1  S1  P1  P   P   P   S
 Transmission lines                S   S   S   N   N   N   N   S   S   S   P
 Utility buildings and structures  S2  S2  S2  S2  S2  S2  S2  P   P   P   S2
 Wind turbine system:                                             
  Large WTS                       N   N   S   N   N   N   N   N   N   N   S
  Medium WTS                      S   S   S   N   S   S   S   S   S   S   S
  Small WTS                       P17 P17 P17 P17 P17 P17 P17 P17 P17 P17 P17
  Wind farm                       N   N   S   N   N   N   N   N   N   N   S
Cultural facilities:                                               
 Aquariums                         N   N   N   N   N   S   P1  P   P   P   S
 Botanical gardens, arboretums     S   S   S   S   S   S   P   P   P   P   S
 Historical sites, monuments       S   P   P   S   S   S   S   P   P   P   P
 Libraries, museums, galleries     N   N   N   N   N   P1  P   P   P   P   N
 Planetariums                      N   N   N   N   N   S   P1  P   P   P   S
 Zoos                              N   S   S   N   N   N   S   S   P   P   S
Manufacturing:                                                     
 Ammunition                        N   S   S   N   N   N   N   N   S   S   P
 Apparel and related products      N   N   N   N   N   N   S1  P1  P   P   N
 Asphalt plant                     N   N   N   N   N   N   N   N   S   P   N
 Beverage bottling plant           N   N   N   N   N   N   N   P1  P   P   N
 Building materials                N   N   N   N   N   N   N   P1  P   P   N
 Chemicals and chemical products   N   N   N   N   N   N   N   N   S1  P   N
 Computer products and             N   N   N   N   N   N   N   N   P   P   N
  semiconductors
 Concrete products                 N   N   N   N   N   N   N   N   P1  P   N
 Farm equipment                    N   N   N   N   N   N   N   S1  P   P   N
 Food processing                   N   S   S   N   N   N   N   S1  P1  P   N
 Furniture and fixtures            N   N   N   N   N   N   N   P1  P   P   N
  Gravel pits, sand and gravel
 pits, rock quarries and mining    N   S   S   N   N   N   N   N   S   S   S
  activities
 Ice manufacturing                 N   N   N   N   N   N   P1  P   P   P   N
 Metal products                    N   N   N   N   N   N   N   N   S1  P   N
 Mineral products                  N   N   S   N   N   N   N   N   S1  P   N
 Miscellaneous products            N   N   N   N   N   N   N   N   S1  P   N
 Paper products                    N   N   N   N   N   N   S1  P1  P   P   N
 Petroleum products                N   N   N   N   N   N   N   N   S1  P   N
 Pharmaceutical products           N   N   N   N   N   N   N   S1  P   P   N
 Printing and publishing           N   N   N   N   N   N   P1  P1  P   P   N
 Professional and scientific       N   N   N   N   N   N   P1  P1  P   P   N
  products
 Temporary asphalt plant           N   S   S   N   N   N   N   N   P   P   N
 Temporary concrete batch plant    N   S   S   N   N   N   N   N   P   P   N
 Textile products                  N   N   N   N   N   N   S1  P1  P   P   N
 Trailers and truck beds           N   N   N   N   N   N   N   S1  P   P   N
Parks:                                                             
 Open spaces                       P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P
 Public parks and playgrounds      P   S   S   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   S
Public assembly:                                                   
 Amusement parks                   N   N   N   N   N   N   S   S   S   S   N
 Auditoriums                       N   N   N   N   N   N   P   P   P   P   N
 Churches                          S   S   S   S   S   P   P   P   P   S   S
 Concession                        N   N   N   N   N   N   S   P   P   P   N
 Convention centers                N   N   N   N   N   N   P1  P   P   P   N
 Dance halls (occupant of 51 to    N   N   N   N   N   N   N   P6  P6  P6  N
  300)
 Dance halls (occupant over 300)   N   N   N   N   N   N   N   S6  P6  P6  N
 Drive-in theaters                 N   S   S   N   N   N   S   S   S   S   N
 Exhibition halls                  N   N   N   N   N   N   P1  P   P   P   N
 Fairgrounds                       N   S   S   N   N   N   N   N   P   P   S
 Riding arenas, private            P16 P16 P16 N   N   N   N   S1  S   S   S
 Riding arenas, public             S1  S   S   N   N   N   N   S1  P   P   N
 Sports arenas                     N   S   S   N   N   N   S1  P   P   P   N
 Theaters                          N   N   N   N   N   P   P   P   P   P   N
Residential:                                                       
 Assisted living facilities        N   N   N   N   S   P   P   P   P   P   N
 Bed and breakfast                 S   S   S   S   S   P   P   P   S   S   N
 Boarding houses                   S   S   S   S   S   P   P   P   S   S   N
 Condominiums                      N   N   N   N   P4  P   P   P   P   S   N
 Congregate residences             N   N   N   N   S   P   P   P   P   P   N
 Home occupation                   P6  P6  P6  P6  P6  P6  P6  P6  P6  P6  S
 Manufactured home class A         P   P   P   P7  P7  P7  P7  P7  P7  S   P
 Manufactured home class B         P7  P   P   N   N   N   N   N   N   S7  P
 Manufactured home class C8        N   N   N   N   N   N   N   N   N   N   N
 Manufactured home, nonconforming9 N   N   N   N   N   N   N   N   N   N   N
 Manufactured (mobile) home parks  N   S10 S10 N   S   S   S   S   S   S   N
 Multi-family dwellings            S3  S4  S4  S3  P4  P   P   P   P   S   N
 One-family dwelling               P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   S   P
 Retirement homes or senior        N   N   N   N   P4  P   P   P   S   S   N
  housing
 Rooming house                     S   S   S   S   S   P   P   P   S   S   N
 Shelter homes                     N   N   N   N   S6  S6  S6  S6  P6  P6  N
 Subdivision, industrial           N   N   N   N   N   N   N   N   P   P   N
 Subdivision, manufactured home    S   N   N   S   S   S   S   S   S   S   N
 Subdivision, residential          P   S15 S15 P   P   P   S   N   N   N   N
 Temporary mobile home             N   N   N   N   N   N   N   N   N   N   N
 Townhouses                        N   N   N   N   S   P   P   S   N   N   N
 Two-family dwelling               S   S   S   S   P   P   P   P   P   S   N
Services:                                                          
 Academic and vocational schools,  S   N   N   S   S   P   P   P   P   S   S
  public
 Advertising                       N   N   N   N   N   S5  P5  P   P   P   N
 Animal hospital                   N   S   S   N   N   N   S1  P1  P   P   N
 Apparel repair and alteration     N   N   N   N   N   S   P1  P   P   P   N
 Automobile rental                 N   N   N   N   N   S   P   P   P   P   N
 Automobile repair                 N   S1  S1  N   N   N   S1  P1  P   P   N
 Automobile salvage or wrecking    N   N   N   N   N   N   N   N   S   S   S
  yard
 Beauty and barber                 N   N   N   N   N   P   P   P   P   P   N
 Billboards6                       N   N   N   N   N   N   S   P   P   P   N
 Building care contracting         N   N   N   N   N   P1  P1  P   P   P   N
 Business associations             N   N   N   N   N   S5  P1  P   P   P   N
 Car wash                          N   N   N   N   N   S   P   P   P   P   N
 Cemetery                          S   S   S   N   N   N   S   S   S   S   N
 Civic, social and fraternal       N   N   N   N   S5  P1  P   P   P   P   N
  organizations
 Consumer, credit, collection      N   N   N   N   N   S5  P5  P   P   P   N
 Contractor yard                   S   S   N   N   N   N   P5  P1  P   P   N
 Copy center, duplication,         N   N   N   N   N   S5  P   P   P   P   N
  stenographic
 Dance, music, voice studio        S1  S   N   N   S1  P1  P1  P   P   P   N
 Daycare/day nursery               S   S   S   N   N   S   S   S   S   N   N
  (commercial)18
 Daycare - home occupation (1 - 6  P   P   P   P   P   S   S   N   N   N   N
  children)20
 Daycare - home occupation (7 - 12 S   P   P   S   S   P   P   S   N   N   N
  children)19,20
 Electric vehicle (EV) charging    N   N   N   N   N   S1  S1  P   P   P   N
  stations
 Employment                        N   N   N   N   N   S5  P5  P   P   P   N
 Equipment rental                  N   N   N   N   N   N   P1  P   P   P   N
 Finance and investment            N   N   N   N   N   S   P   P   P   P   N
 Frozen food lockers               N   N   N   N   N   P   P   P   P   P   N
 Funeral parlor/crematorium        N   N   N   N   N   S   P   P   P   P   N
 Governmental facilities           N   S   S   N   N   S5  P5  P   P   P   S
 Health club                       N   N   N   N   N   S   P   P   P   P   N
 Hospital, clinics and related     N   N   N   N   S   S   P   P   P   P   N
  services
 Hotels                            N   N   N   N   N   P   P   P   P   P   N
 Industrial waste or produce water N   S   S   N   N   N   N   N   S   P   S
  ponds
 Insurance and related             N   N   N   N   N   S   P   P   P   P   N
 Labor union and organizations     N   N   N   N   N   S5  P1  P   P   P   N
 Landscaping                       S   P   P   N   N   N   S   P   P   P   N
 Laundering and dry cleaning       N   N   N   N   N   S   P   P   P   P   N
 Laundromats                       N   N   N   N   N   P   P   P   P   P   N
 Motels                            N   N   N   N   N   P   P   P   P   P   N
 Motor vehicle fueling service     N   N   N   N   N   S1  S1  P   P   P   N
  station
 News syndicate                    N   N   N   N   N   N   P5  P   P   P   N
 Nursing and rest homes            S   N   N   N   S   S   P   P   P   P   N
 Photo labs                        N   N   N   N   N   S   P   P   P   P   N
 Photography studios               N   N   N   N   S   S   P   P   P   P   N
 Professional                      N   N   N   N   N   S5  P5  P   P   P   N
 Professional organizations        N   N   N   N   N   S5  P1  P   P   P   N
 RV (recreational vehicle) park    N   N   N   N   N   S   S   S   P   P   N
 Real estate and related           N   N   N   N   N   P5  P5  P   P   P   N
 Religious facilities              S   S   S   S   S   P   P   P   P   S   S
 Rendering plant                   N   N   N   N   N   N   N   N   S   P   N
 Salvage or wrecking yard          N   N   N   N   N   N   N   N   S   S   S
 Sanitary landfills                N   S   S   N   N   N   N   N   N   S   S
 Schools, commercial/private       S   N   N   S   S   P   P   P   P   P   S
 Schools, public                   S   N   N   S   S   P   P   P   P   S   S
 Sewage lagoons                    N   S   S   N   N   N   N   N   N   S   S
 Signs6:                                                          
  Commercial                      N   N   N   N   N   N   P   P   P   P   N
  Directional/informational       P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P
  Home                            P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P
  Property                        P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P
  Public                          P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P
  Temporary                       P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P
 Small appliance repair            N   S1  S1  N   N   N   P1  P   P   P   N
 Small engine repair               N   S1  S1  N   N   N   P1  P1  P   P   N
 Storage rentals                   S1  S   N   S14 S14 S1  P1  P   P   P   N
 Telemarketing                     N   N   N   N   N   N   P   P   P   P   S
 Tire shop                         N   N   N   N   N   N   S1  P1  P   P   N
 Truck and tractor repair          N   S1  S1  N   N   N   S1  P1  P   P   N
  (agricultural)
 Truck and tractor repair          N   N   N   N   N   N   N   P1  P   P   N
  (commercial)
 Upholstery repair                 N   N   N   N   N   S1  P1  P   P   P   N
 Welfare and charitable            N   N   N   N   N   S5  P1  P   P   P   N
Sports facilities:                                                 
 Athletic areas                    S   S   N   S   S   S   P   P   P   P   S
 Bike and skate park               N   N   N   N   N   S   P   P   P   P   N
 Car racing track                  N   S   S   N   N   N   N   N   S   S   S
 Equestrianway                     S   S   S   N   N   N   N   N   S   S   S
 Go-cart tracks                    N   N   N   N   N   N   S   P   P   P   N
 Golf courses and country clubs    S   S   N   S   S   S   P   P   P   P   S
 Golf driving ranges               S   S   N   S   S   S   P   P   P   P   S
 Horseracing track                 N   S   S   N   N   N   N   N   S   S   N
 Ice or roller skating             N   N   N   N   N   S   P   P   P   P   N
 Indoor recreational facility      S   S   N   S   S   S   P   P   P   P   S
 Miniature golf                    S   N   N   N   N   S   S   P   P   P   S
 Motorcycle racing track           N   S   S   N   N   N   N   N   S   S   S
 Paintball park or facility        N   N   N   N   N   S1  P1  P   P   P   N
 Private hunting club or reserve   N   S   S   N   N   N   N   N   N   S   S
 Riding arenas, private            P16 P16 P16 N   N   N   N   S1  S   S   S
 Riding stable and schools         S   S   S   N   N   S   S   P   P   P   N
 Rifle and pistol range            N   S   S   N   N   N   N   N   S   S   S
 Swimming pools (commercial and    S   N   N   N   N   S   P   P   P   P   N
  public)
 Tennis courts, commercial         S   N   N   S   S   S   P   P   P   P   N
 Tennis courts, private            P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P
 Tennis courts, public             S   S   S   S   P   P   P   P   P   P   P
Trade, retail:                                                     
 Alcoholic beverages, served       N   N   N   N   N   S   P   P   P   P   N
 Alcoholic beverages, sold only    N   N   N   N   N   N   P   P   P   P   N
 Apparel and accessories           N   N   N   N   N   S   P   P   P   P   N
 Automobiles and trucks            N   N   N   N   N   N   S   P   P   P   N
 Building material, hardware       N   N   N   N   N   N   P1  P   P   P   N
 Bulk fertilizer and farm          N   N   S   N   N   N   N   S   P   P   N
  chemicals
 Convenience store                 N   N   N   N   N   S   P   P   P   P   N
 Drive-in establishments           N   N   N   N   N   S   S   P   P   P   N
 Eating places                     N   N   N   N   N   S   P   P   P   P   N
 Farm and garden supplies          N   N   N   N   N   S1  P1  P   P   P   N
 Food, drugs, liquor, etc.         N   N   N   N   N   N   P1  P   P   P   N
 General merchandise               N   N   N   N   N   N   P1  P   P   P   N
 Home furnishings, appliances      N   N   N   N   N   N   P   P   P   P   N
 Irrigation sales                  N   N   N   N   N   N   S1  P1  P   P   N
 Large implements and heavy        N   N   N   N   N   N   S1  P   P   P   N
  equipment
 Manufactured home sales           N   N   N   N   N   N   P5  P   P   P   N
 Petroleum                         N   N   N   N   N   N   N   P1  P   P   N
 Sexually oriented businesses      N   N   N   N   N   N   N   N   P6  P6  N
 Sporting goods                    N   N   N   N   N   N   P   P   P   P   N
Trade, wholesale:                                                  
 Bulk fertilizer and farm          N   N   S   N   N   N   N   S   P   P   N
  chemicals
 Bulk storage, flammable liquids   N   N   N   N   N   N   N   S1  S   P   N
  and gases
 Wholesale distribution and        N   N   N   N   N   N   N   P1  P   P   N
  warehousing
Transportation:                                                    
 Airfields (private)               N   S   S   N   N   N   N   N   S   S   S
 Airfields (public)                N   S   S   N   N   N   N   N   S   S   S
 Automobile open parking lot       N   N   N   N   N   S   P   P   P   P   N
 Bicycle-walking path              P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P
 Bus facilities, excluding pick up N   N   N   N   N   N   S1  P1  P   P   N
  shelters
 Bus pick up shelters              S   S   S   S   S   S   P   P   P   P   S
 Freight transfer                  N   N   N   N   N   N   N   P1  P   P   N
 Helicopter landing pad            S   S   S   N   N   N   S13 S13 S13 S13 S
 Railroad buildings and equipment  N   N   N   N   N   N   S5  S   P   P   N
 Tickets and arrangements          N   N   N   N   N   S5  P5  P   P   P   N
 Truck and bus open parking lot    N   N   N   N   N   N   N   P   P   P   N
 Trucking facilities               N   N   N   N   N   N   P5  P5  P   P   N
 
Notes:
    1.    Provided all materials and equipment are kept inside of an enclosed
building, and provided all work is performed inside an enclosed building.
    2.    Utility buildings and structures less than 50 square feet in area and
less than 3 feet above the natural grade, or utility buildings adjacent to and
connected to an existing approved transmission tower are permitted uses.
    3.    Maximum of 2 dwelling units per building.
    4.    Maximum of 4 dwelling units per building.
    5.    Offices only.
    6.    Must comply with separate and/or additional requirements of this
title and other applicable ordinances.
    7.    The applicable classes of manufactured homes are permitted, but may
be subject to other ordinances adopted by governing body dealing with buildings
or structures built outside of the jurisdiction.
    8.    Class C manufactured homes as defined in this title are permitted
only in mobile home parks.
    9.    Nonconforming manufactured homes as defined in this title are
permitted only in mobile home parks.
    10.    Manufactured (mobile) home parks are permitted with approval of
special use permit when such park is used exclusively for the housing of
agricultural laborers and their immediate family members, and is owned by an
individual farmer, farming entity, group of farmers or farming entities.
    11.    Application approval may be granted by administrative approval
without a public hearing.
    12.    To facilitate for location of telecommunication equipment on
existing towers or structures, media transfer or booster stations will be
permitted uses when located immediately adjacent to such existing towers or
structures.
    13.    Helicopter landing pads will be permitted in the zoning districts
where special use permits are required when associated with hospitals or other
emergency related service provider.
    14.    Storage rental facilities developed in conjunction with the platting
and approval of new subdivisions or planned unit developments may be permitted
for the number of units not exceeding the number of developable lots, with the
approval of a special use permit.
    15.    Small subdivisions of 10 lots or less.
    16.    Private riding arenas are for the personal use of the owners,
owner's family and friends where no commercial gain is realized.
    17.    Small wind turbine systems over 35 feet in height require a special
use permit.
    18.    Denotes a commercial daycare of 13 plus children and/or "not at
home" occupation or a purposeful commercial operation.
    19.    Operations in existence before May 1, 2000, providing care for 7
plus children do not require a "special use permit".
    20.    A caregiver's children under age 6 count against the number of
daycare children allowed.
(Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016; amd. Ord. 2016-09-13-K, 9-13-2016; Ord. 2019-11-
18, 11-18-2019)
8-6-3: SCHEDULE OF HEIGHT AND AREA REGULATIONS:
Zoning height, area, and setback regulations shall be set forth in the
following schedule:
   A.   The following setbacks and minimum yard requirements shall apply in the
respective zones.
   B.   Setbacks shall be measured from property lines unless a property line
is in the center of the road or street. In such case, setback shall be measured
from the road or street right of way.
   C.   Setbacks shall be measured to the wall of a structure with projections
of twenty four inches (24") or less. For walls with projections of greater than
twenty four inches (24"), setbacks shall be measured to the projections.
Projections over public way will be governed by provisions of this title and
the international building code.
   D.   Minimum Lot Area and Maximum Lot coverage of the official height and
area regulation table to comply with current sanitation requirements.
OFFICIAL HEIGHT AND AREA REGULATION
Zoning   Maximum  Front     Rear      Interior  Side      Maximum  Minimum Lot
District Height 1 Setback 5 Setback 2 Side      Street    Lot      Area 3
                                      Setback 7 Setback 6 Coverage
Zoning   Maximum  Front     Rear      Interior  Side      Maximum  Minimum Lot
District Height 1 Setback 5 Setback 2 Side      Street    Lot      Area 3
                                      Setback 7 Setback 6 Coverage
   AL 35'      30'       5'        5'        30'       30%      1 acre4
   AM 45'      30'       5'        5'        30'       10%      1 acre
   AH 45'      30'       5'        5'        30'       10%      1 acre
   RL 35'      20'       5'        5'        30'       30%      1 acre4
   RM 35'      20'       5'        5'        30'       30%      1 acre4
   RH 45'      20'       5'        5'        30'       30%      1 acre4
   CL 35'      20'       5'        5'        30'       NR       1 acre4
   CG 45'      0'        0'        0'        0'        NR       1 acre4
   IL 60'      0'        0'        0'        0'        NR       1 acre4
   IH 60'      0'        0'        0'        0'        NR       1 acre4
 
Notes:
    1.    Except for silos, granaries, windmills and elevator legs.
    2.    Any building on residential lots that has garage doors opening toward
the alley to the rear of the property shall be set back 20 feet from the rear
property line, unless permanently posted for no parking on doors opening to the
alley. The no parking signs shall be of letters no less than 4 inches in height
and of a permanent material and nature.
    3.    When more than 1 dwelling unit is placed on the same lot, parcel or
tract, the minimum lot area will be required per unit.
    4.    If central water or sewer is provided, then the minimum lot size may
be reduced to 1/2 acre.
    5.    Front and side street setbacks from streets located within an
approved rural subdivision may be reduced to 20 feet from the applicable street
right of way.
    6.    Side street setback may be reduced to 10 feet from the applicable
street right of way within platted subdivisions when said side street is not a
front street for more than 50 percent of the lots in the block in which the lot
is located.
    7.    Interior side setbacks may be reduced to 1 foot for noncombustible
detached carports which contain the roof storm runoff to the property on which
it is located.
(Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016; amd. Ord. 2016-09-13-K, 9-13-2016; Ord. 2019-11-
18, 11-18-2019)
CHAPTER 7
PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
SECTION:
8-7-1: Purpose And Conditions
8-7-2: Supplemental Yard And Height Regulations
8-7-3: Supplemental General Provisions
8-7-4: Commercial And Industrial Uses
8-7-5: Gravel Pits; Mining Activities
8-7-1: PURPOSE AND CONDITIONS:
The purpose of performance standards is to set specific conditions for various
uses and classifications of uses of areas where problems are frequently
encountered. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-7-2: SUPPLEMENTAL YARD AND HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
In addition to all yard regulations specified in the schedule of zoning
regulations and in other sections of this title, the following provision shall
be adhered to:
   A.   Visibility At Intersections: On a corner lot in all districts where
front and side setbacks are required, nothing shall be erected, placed, planted
or allowed to grow in such a manner as to materially impede vision between a
height of two and one-half feet (21/2') and ten feet (10') above the centerline
grades of the intersecting streets in the area bounded by the right of way
lines of such corner lots and a line adjoining points along said street right
of way twenty five feet (25') from the point of intersection.
   B.   Fence And Wall Restrictions In Front Yards: In any required front yard,
no fence or wall shall be permitted which materially impedes vision across such
yard between the height of two and one-half feet (21/2') and ten feet (10').
   C.   Yard Requirements For Multi-Family Dwellings: Multi-family dwellings
shall be considered as one building for the purpose of determining front, side
and rear yard requirements. The entire groups as a unit shall require one
front, one rear, and two (2) side yards as specified for dwellings in the
appropriate district.
   D.   Side And Rear Yard Requirements For Nonresidential Uses Abutting
Residential Districts: Nonresidential buildings or uses shall not be located
nor conducted closer than forty feet (40') to any lot line of a residential
district, except that the minimum yard requirements may be reduced if
acceptable landscaping, screening or other mitigating feature approved by the
commission is provided.
   E.   Architectural Projections: Open structures such as porches, canopies,
balconies, platforms, carports, covered patios and similar architectural
projections shall be considered parts of the building to which attached and
shall not project into the required minimum front, side or rear yard. Eaves of
two feet (2') or less shall be disregarded for setback purposes.
   F.   Exceptions To Height Regulations: The height limitations contained in
the official schedule of district regulations do not apply to spires, belfries,
cupolas, antennas, water tanks, ventilators, chimneys or other appurtenances
usually required to be placed above the roof level and not intended for human
occupancy, except where the height of such structure will constitute a hazard
to the safe landing and takeoff of aircraft at an established airport.
   G.   Residential Uses In Nonresidential Zones: Lots used for residential
purposes in nonresidential zones shall be governed by setback and land use
restrictions of lots in residential zones found in Chapter 6, Schedule of Land
Use Regulations, found in this title.
   H.   Buildings Adjacent To Snake River: Buildings adjacent to the Snake
River:
      1.   Will have a minimum setback measured horizontally from the high
water mark of any impounded water of the Snake River of a sixty foot (60')
setback in unincorporated areas and twenty foot (20') setback in incorporated
areas.
      2.   Will have a minimum elevation for any finished floor level or top of
foundation of six feet (6') measured vertically from the high water mark of any
impounded water of the Snake River.
      3.   Will have a minimum elevation for the finish surface grade of the
general area of which the septic system drainfield will be installed, of six
feet (6') measured vertically from the high water mark of any impounded water
of the Snake River. The septic system drainfield shall also be located on the
opposite side of the building from the river, unless located no less than three
hundred feet (300') horizontally from the high water mark of the river. (Ord.
2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016; amd. Ord. 2019-11-18, 11-18-2019)
8-7-3: SUPPLEMENTAL GENERAL PROVISIONS:
In addition to all other regulations as specified in this title, the following
provisions shall be adhered to:
   A.   Conversion Of Dwellings To More Units: A residence may not be converted
to accommodate an increased number of dwelling units unless:
      1.   The building to be converted is located in a zoning district that
permits the applicable multi-family use;
      2.   The yard dimensions still meet the yard dimensions required by the
zoning regulations for new structures in that district;
      3.   The lot area per unit equals the lot area requirements for new
structures in that district;
      4.   The floor area per dwelling unit is not reduced to less than that
which is required for new construction in that district; and
      5.   The conversion is in compliance with all other relevant codes and
ordinances.
   B.   Temporary Buildings And Concession Stands: Temporary building,
construction trailers, equipment and materials may be used in conjunction with
construction work in progress, but such temporary facilities shall be removed
upon completion of the construction work. Temporary living accommodations shall
not be permitted at a construction site unless approved by the administrator,
proper permits are obtained and approved, and the temporary unit is removed
immediately upon completion of the construction project. Storage of such
facilities or equipment beyond the completion date of the project shall require
a zoning permit authorized by the administrator. Concession stands may not be
located on private property in any residential zone.
   C.   Parking And Storage Of Certain Vehicles: Automotive vehicles or
trailers of any kind or type without current license plates shall not be parked
or stored on any residentially zoned property other than in a completely
enclosed building or carport; however, one boat and one travel trailer may be
stored in the side or rear yard.
   D.   Required Trash Areas: All trash and/or garbage collection areas for
commercial, industrial and multi-family residential uses shall be enclosed on
at least three (3) sides by a solid or sight obscuring fence or wall of at
least four feet (4') in height or within an enclosed building or structure.
Adequate vehicular access to and from such area or areas for collection of
trash and/or garbage as determined by the administrator shall be provided.
   E.   Permits For Private Septic Systems Required: All persons putting in
private septic tanks and drainfields shall first obtain a sewer system permit
from the health authority before building and zoning permits may be issued. All
septic systems shall be installed to the requirements as established by the
state, federal, and local governments and as administered by the health
authority. Septic tanks and drainfields are not permitted where city sewer
service is reasonably available.
   F.   Development Close To Airport: The location, building height and
lighting of residential and commercial development shall be restricted within
airport approach areas as required by the state department of transportation,
division of aeronautics and public transportation, and the federal aviation
administration. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-7-4: COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL USES:
No land or building in any district shall be used or occupied in any manner
creating dangerous, injurious, noxious or otherwise objectionable conditions
which could adversely affect the surrounding areas or adjoining premises,
except that any use permitted by this title may be undertaken and maintained if
acceptable measures and safeguards are implemented to reduce dangerous and
objectionable conditions to acceptable limits as established by the following
performance requirements:
   A.   Fire Hazards: Any activity involving the use or storage of flammable or
explosive materials shall be protected by adequate firefighting and fire
prevention equipment and by such safety devices as are normally used in the
handling of any such material. Such hazards shall be kept removed from adjacent
activities to a distance which is compatible with the potential danger involved
as specified in the adopted fire code and the National Fire Protection
Association standards.
   B.   Radioactivity Or Electrical Disturbance: No activity shall emit harmful
radioactivity at any point. No electrical disturbance shall adversely affect
the operation of any equipment at any point beyond the property of the emitter
of such disturbance.
   C.   Noise: Objectionable noise as determined by the administrator, which is
objectionable due to volume, frequency or beat, shall be muffled or otherwise
controlled. Sirens and similar apparatus used solely for public purposes are
exempt from this requirement.
   D.   Vibration: No vibration shall be permitted which is discernible without
instruments on any adjoining lot or property.
   E.   Air Pollution: Air pollution shall be subject to the requirements and
regulations established by the health authority.
   F.   Glare: No direct or reflected glare shall be permitted which is
directed toward and visible from any property outside a manufacturing district
or from any street.
   G.   Erosion: No erosion, by man, wind, or water, shall be permitted which
will carry objectionable substances onto neighboring properties.
   H.   Water Pollution: Water pollution shall be subject to the requirements
and regulations established by state and federal law.
   I.   Enforcement Provisions: The administrator, prior to the issuance of a
zoning permit, may require the submission of statements and plans indicating
the manner in which dangerous and objectionable elements involved in processing
and in equipment operations are to be eliminated or reduced to acceptable
limits and tolerances.
   J.   Measurement Procedures: Methods and procedures for the determination of
the existence of any dangerous and objectionable elements shall conform to
applicable standard measurement procedures published by the American Standards
Institute, New York, the United States bureau of mines, the health authority
and the Manufacturing Chemists Association, Inc., Washington, D.C. (Ord. 2016-
09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-7-5: GRAVEL PITS; MINING ACTIVITIES:
   A.   A minimum setback of thirty feet (30') is required from any road right
of way to top edge of any mining pit.
   B.   A minimum setback of ten feet (10') is required from any interior or
rear property line to top edge of any mining pit, unless otherwise agreed by
the adjacent property owner. Such agreement shall be signed, notarized and
recorded.
   C.   A maximum of one to one (1:1) slope will be maintained with backfill on
perimeter edges of the mining pits immediately following the extraction
process.
   D.   A buffer shall be established between the mining operation pits and
adjacent residential uses, county roads, state roads, or highways. Allowable
buffer materials would consist of earthen berms, hedges, rows of trees, or
other fast growing foliage that will obscure the sight of the mining operation
from adjoining roads or residences. Residential development by the operator/
owner may be used as the buffer from roads and other residences, this buffer
must be in place and established as a visual buffer before the mining operation
comes within two hundred feet (200') of the boundary.
   E.   A plan which details the type of buffer materials and estimated time
schedule and plan for implementation shall be submitted and approved during the
special use permit approval.
   F.   Safety fencing or other physical barriers as approved by the
administrator shall be erected around all pits. Temporary warning style fencing
material or other approved physical barrier with warning signs or materials
will be allowed on the sides that are continually moving because of the mining
operation.
   G.   Prior to mining activity, security access gates shall be installed and
maintained to discourage trespass and dumping in the pit areas.
   H.   Operating hours shall be limited to six o'clock (6:00) A.M. to eight
o'clock (8:00) P.M. Mondays through Saturdays. No operations will be permitted
on Sundays or major holidays. Variations of these operating hours may be
approved with conditions upon the granting of the special use permit.
   I.   Gravel crushing operations shall be confined and localized to the
bottom of the pit unless otherwise approved by the commission at the granting
of the special use permit.
   J.   No concrete batch plants or other heavy equipment associated with the
ready mix concrete industry or salvaged equipment shall be located or stored at
site or in the pit. A special use permit shall be obtained to set up and
operate a temporary batch plant.
   K.   Any fueling shall be done from operable fuel vehicles or tanks with
approved leakage containment systems and approved by the local fire chief.
   L.   No standing water shall be permitted in the pits, except what is
created by natural precipitation and runoff or that is created or being used in
the gravel mining, washing, and screening processes.
   M.   A plan addressing the extent and method of rehabilitation and
reclamation shall be determined in advance of issuing the special use permit,
and approved by the Idaho state department of lands, with due consideration
given to what is suitable and compatible with the surrounding area.
   N.   The following shall be minimum reclamation standards:
      1.   Reclamation of mined areas shall commence immediately after the
extraction process has ended, or mined area exceeds thirty (30) acres.
      2.   The date the extraction process shall be deemed terminated will be
computed in the following manner: When ninety percent (90%) of the approved
minable area has been mined, the allowable additional time for pit termination
will be calculated by dividing remaining area by one-half (1/2) the average
annual extraction rate measured by surface area. The average annual extraction
rate shall be determined by dividing the area mined by age of the pit or the
time it took to mine the given area.
      3.   The mined areas shall be completely reclaimed within one year after
the extraction process has been terminated unless the area is used for
stockpiles.
      4.   In cases where stockpiles exist in depleted areas, the pits shall be
completely reclaimed to the full extent possible until the last stockpile is
removed.
      5.   Stockpiles shall be removed from a mined area of the pit within four
(4) years from when the time normal extraction process is terminated.
      6.   Final reclamation shall commence after the removal of the final
stockpile and shall be finished within one year from the time of the stockpile
removal or the time required for removal of stockpile as set forth in
subsection N5 of this section.
      7.   Finished grade of reclaimed area shall be at least twelve inches
(12") above seasonal high groundwater level, unless provisions for ponds, lakes
or bodies of standing water are approved in both the special use permit and
reclamation plan.
      8.   Reclamation shall include a minimum of twelve inches (12") of
restored topsoil or other suitable material consisting of sixty percent (60%)
of the normal soil profile of the adjacent and surrounding properties.
      9.   Reclaimed pit sides shall have maximum slope of one to one (1:1).
      10.   Area shall be reclaimed to be used for pasturing, agricultural,
recreation, or residential uses. When reclamation is for residential use, the
finished grade adjacent to the residences shall be six feet (6') above the
natural high water mark.
      11.   At the time of final reclamation, an irrigation system shall be
installed to support pasturing and farming uses.
      12.   Upon depletion of the area and the removal of stockpiles, all
temporary buildings and structures except property line fences shall be
entirely removed from the property. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
ARTICLE A. SIGNS AND BILLBOARDS
SECTION:
8-7A-1: Purpose
8-7A-2: Definitions
8-7A-3: Exempt Signs
8-7A-4: Prohibited Signs
8-7A-5: General Regulations
8-7A-6: Home Signs
8-7A-7: Billboards
8-7A-8: Temporary And Nonconforming Signs
8-7A-1:   PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article is to control and regulate the erection and
maintenance of signs, in the interest of public safety, to promote and enhance
property values, and to encourage the design of signs to be in harmony and
compatible with the overall street or road setting and the neighborhood
character. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-7A-2:   DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this article, certain terms, phrases, or words used herein
shall be as defined in chapter 2 of this title. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-7A-3:   EXEMPT SIGNS:
The following types of signs, when not illuminated, do not require permits and
are not subject to the general requirements of this article:
   A.   Directional or informational signs bearing no advertising message
located within a parcel and signs not exceeding sixteen (16) square feet in
area erected for the convenience of the public, such as signs identifying
restrooms, public telephones, walkways and similar features or facilities.
   B.   Memorial signs or tablets and names of buildings and dates of erection
when mounted on or cut into the surface or facade of the building.
   C.   Traffic or other county signs required to be mentioned by law, railroad
crossing signs, legal notices and such temporary emergency or nonadvertising
signs as may be authorized by the board of county commissioners.
   D.   Signs placed by public utilities showing the location of underground
facilities.
   E.   Project or construction signs when referring solely to the principal
use of the property.
   F.   Home signs located on the parcel of the applicable residence or home
occupancy.
   G.   Property and temporary signs. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-7A-4:   PROHIBITED SIGNS:
   A.   No sign or sign structure, other than those approved by the
jurisdiction having authority, shall be placed upon any road or highway right
of way.
   B.   No rotating beam, beacon, or flashing illumination resembling an
emergency light shall be used in connection with any sign display. (Ord. 2016-
09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-7A-5:   GENERAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   Installation; Compliance With Building Code: In addition to the
requirements herein provided, the installation of signs and billboards shall be
governed by applicable provisions of the currently adopted building code.
   B.   Sign Projections: Sign projections over a public right of way, if
permitted, will be governed by the applicable standards as established by the
authority having jurisdiction as well as provisions provided in this title.
   C.   Placement; Consent Required: No sign or sign structure shall be placed
on private or public property without the written consent of the owners or
agents thereof.
   D.   Facing Side Or Rear Property Lines: No sign facing the side or rear
property line of an abutting residential property shall be located within fifty
feet (50') of such side or rear property line.
   E.   Flashing Or Animated Signs: Flashing and/or animated signs shall be
prohibited within three hundred feet (300') of any residential zoning district.
   F.   Sign Size And Location: For the purpose of preventing the blanketing of
one sign by another, the following provisions regulating the size of a sign and
its location shall govern:
      1.   No projecting sign shall be erected in the same horizontal plane
with other projecting signs, unless the sizes are spaced as set forth herein,
measured center to center.
      2.   Projecting signs three feet (3') or less in depth shall be spaced no
less than ten feet (10') apart.
      3.   Projecting signs more than three (3) to six feet (6') in depth shall
be spaced no less than twenty feet (20') apart.
      4.   Projecting signs more than six feet (6') in depth shall be spaced no
less than thirty feet (30') apart.
      5.   Any projecting sign erected at a shorter distance than required
above shall be erected above the top edge or below the bottom edge of the
blanketed sign. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-7A-6:   HOME SIGNS:
   A.   One accessory nameplate and home occupation sign or combination is
permitted for each dwelling.
   B.   In RL, RM and RH zoning districts, the erection of such signs is
subject to the following design standards:
      1.   Each sign shall not exceed four (4) square feet in area and may be
illuminated by external illumination only.
      2.   Home occupation signs must be attached flatly to the building and
not to exceed the height of the eaves line.
   C.   In other than RL, RM and RH zoning districts, the erection of such
signs is subject to the following design standards:
      1.   Each sign shall not exceed sixteen (16) square feet in area and may
be illuminated by external illumination only.
      2.   Home occupation signs located in the front yard shall be positioned
as to not obstruct vision at intersections or for access driveways.
   D.   Any home occupation sign not complying with these provisions may be
permitted only with the granting of a special use permit. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J,
9-13-2016)
8-7A-7:   BILLBOARDS:
   A.   Billboards shall be permitted as established in the official schedule
of zoning regulations only adjacent to state highways and Interstate 84.
   B.   Billboards may be permitted as established in the official schedule of
zoning regulations adjacent to other arterial streets or roads with the
approval of a special use permit.
   C.   Billboards shall be located within one hundred feet (100') of the
street, road, highway or interstate right of way.
   D.   Billboards shall not exceed a height of fifty feet (50') from the base
of the sign or twenty five feet (25') from above grade level of the right of
way, whichever is less.
   E.   Billboards shall not exceed three hundred twenty (320) square feet in
area, except along Interstate 84 where billboards shall not exceed six hundred
seventy five (675) square feet.
   F.   Billboards may be allowed two (2) faces or back to back sign faces,
provided there is no more than five feet (5') separating the sign faces.
   G.   Billboards shall not be located any closer than one thousand feet
(1,000') from any other billboard measured from center of sign to center of
sign in the direction of the traffic being served on any given side of the
street, road, highway or Interstate 84.
   H.   Billboards located on intersecting streets, roads or highways shall not
be located any closer than one thousand feet (1,000') from any billboard
located on an intersecting street, road or highway.
   I.   Billboards shall not be located within four hundred feet (400') of any
residential zoning district.
   J.   Billboard's primary structure shall be of painted noncombustible
material and monopole design.
   K.   Illumination of billboards shall be limited to the hours between dusk
and dawn. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-7A-8:   TEMPORARY AND NONCONFORMING SIGNS:
   A.   Those signs herein designated as being temporary signs shall be
completely removed by the owner of the sign or by the owner of the property
upon which the sign is located at the expiration of the time which the sign was
permitted.
   B.   Temporary signs may be permitted past the established expiration date
with the approval of a special use permit.
   C.   Nonconforming signs shall be deemed to be a conforming use and/or
structure, and may continue in use and normal maintenance.
   D.   Nonconforming signs may only be expanded or enlarged with the approval
of a special use permit. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
ARTICLE B. UNIQUE LAND USES
SECTION:
8-7B-1: Findings
8-7B-2: Accessory Buildings In Residential Zones
8-7B-3: Animal Clinic, Animal Hospital, Veterinary Office And Kennel
8-7B-4: Meatpacking, Processing Plants And Slaughterhouse Facilities
8-7B-5: Bulk Storage Of Flammable Liquids And Gases, Aboveground And For Resale
8-7B-6: Chemical, Pesticide And Fertilizer Storage And Manufacturing
8-7B-7: Hazardous Chemical, Hazardous Material, Storage And Dispensing
Facilities
8-7B-8: Contractor's Yard
8-7B-9: Drive-In Restaurant
8-7B-10: Filling, Grading, Lagooning, Dredging Or Other Earthmoving Activity
8-7B-11: Boathouses
8-7B-12: Home Occupation
8-7B-13: Manufactured Or Mobile Homes
8-7B-14: Manufactured (Mobile) Home Parks Or Courts
8-7B-15: Recreational Vehicles
8-7B-16: Outdoor Storage Of Commercial And Industrial Materials
8-7B-17: Riding Stables And Schools
8-7B-18: Rifle And Pistol Range
8-7B-19: Salvage Yard, Wrecking Yard, Automobile Salvage Yard, Or Automobile
Wrecking Yard
8-7B-20: Abandoned, Junked Property
8-7B-21: Livestock
8-7B-22: Sanitary Landfill
8-7B-23: Refuse, Solid Waste, Stagnant Water
8-7B-1:   FINDINGS:
Certain unique land uses pose special problems that may have detrimental
influences on surrounding land uses. The performance standards for such unique
land uses, as set out in this article, shall be adhered to in addition to all
other provisions of this title. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-7B-2:   ACCESSORY BUILDINGS IN RESIDENTIAL ZONES:
Accessory buildings in residential zones:
   A.   Shall not be located in any required front yard area; and
   B.   Shall not be located closer than five feet (5') from any side or rear
property line. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-7B-3:   ANIMAL CLINIC, ANIMAL HOSPITAL, VETERINARY OFFICE AND KENNEL:
An animal clinic, animal hospital, veterinary office and kennel shall be
located at least three hundred feet (300') from any residence, including motels
and hotels, except for an owner's residence. The administrator may modify these
requirements if the animals are completely housed in soundproof structures that
completely screen them from view of the abutting residential property, and will
comply with all state and local regulations relative to such an operation, and
maintain adequate housekeeping practices designed to prevent the creation of a
nuisance, and to reduce to a minimum the factors of noise and odor. (Ord. 2016-
09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-7B-4:   MEATPACKING, PROCESSING PLANTS AND SLAUGHTERHOUSE FACILITIES:
These facilities:
   A.   Shall be located not less than one thousand feet (1,000') from any
residence, except for an owner's residence. This restriction may be waived if
the affected property owner gives written permission to the commission.
   B.   Shall be designed and located with full consideration to their
proximity to adjacent use, their effect upon adjacent and surrounding
properties, and to the reduction of nuisance factors.
   C.   Shall be adequately maintained with housekeeping practices to prevent
the creation of a nuisance, and shall also be subject to the health authority
requirements as to the elimination of waste materials and the maintenance of
water quality control.
   D.   Shall be required to comply with the confined animal feeding operation
requirements when the operation confines and feeds more than two hundred (200)
animal units on a continuous basis. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-7B-5:   BULK STORAGE OF FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS AND GASES, ABOVEGROUND AND FOR
RESALE:
These storage facilities:
   A.   Shall be located at least three hundred feet (300') from a residential
zone, a residence, motel, and hotel, except for an owner's residence.
   B.   Shall be erected subject to the approval of the fire chief or fire
marshal.
   C.   Shall have suitable loading and unloading spaces and off street parking
facilities, subject to the approval of the fire chief or fire marshal. (Ord.
2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-7B-6:   CHEMICAL, PESTICIDE AND FERTILIZER STORAGE AND MANUFACTURING:
These facilities shall have adequate fire protection, storage area, handling
and disposal as approved by the fire chief or fire marshal and state department
of agriculture. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-7B-7:   HAZARDOUS CHEMICAL, HAZARDOUS MATERIAL, STORAGE AND DISPENSING
FACILITIES:
   A.   Risk Management Plan: Hazardous material facilities shall require a
risk management plan (RMP) demonstrating that a release of the hazardous
substances does not pose a threat to the public and must be submitted with any
construction documents or submittals that are presented for any zoning and/or
building permit application.
   B.   Hazard Assessment: As a minimum, the hazard assessment shall include
the preparation and reporting of worst case release scenarios for each
structure under consideration, showing the potential effect on the public for
each. As a minimum, the worst case event shall include the complete failure
(instantaneous release of entire contents) of a vessel, piping system, or other
storage structure. A worst case event includes (but is not limited to) a
release during the design wind or design seismic event as well as accidental
damage caused by equipment or vehicles either by impact or failure. In this
assessment, the evaluation of the effectiveness of subsequent measures for
accident mitigation shall be based on the assumption that the complete failure
of the primary storage structure has occurred. The off site impact must be
defined in terms of population within the potentially affected area.
   C.   Prevention Program: As a minimum, the prevention program shall consist
of the comprehensive elements of process safety management, which is based upon
accident prevention through the application of management controls in the key
areas of design, construction, operation, and maintenance. Secondary
containment of the hazardous substances (including, but not limited to, double
wall tank, dike of sufficient size to contain a spill, or other means to
contain a release of the hazardous substances within the property boundary of
the facility and prevent release of harmful quantities of contaminants to the
air, soil, groundwater, or surface water) are permitted to be used to mitigate
the risk of release. The hazard assessment shall demonstrate that a release of
the hazardous material from a worst case event does not pose a threat to the
public outside the property boundary of the facility.
   D.   Emergency Response: As a minimum, the emergency response plan shall
address public notification, emergency medical treatment for accidental
exposure to humans, and procedures for emergency response to releases that have
consequences beyond the property boundary of the facility. The emergency
response plan shall address the potential that resources for response could be
compromised by the event that has caused the emergency. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-
13-2016)
8-7B-8:   CONTRACTOR'S YARD:
Contractors' yards:
   A.   Shall be located a minimum distance of three hundred feet (300') from
any residence, except for any owner's residence; or will have a sight obscuring
fence around areas utilized for storage of materials and equipment.
   B.   Shall be limited to storage, maintenance and processing incidental to
contracting work. There shall be no general industrial or commercial uses.
   C.   Shall have fence, approved by the administrator or the commission,
around areas utilized for storage of materials and equipment. (Ord. 2016-09-13-
J, 9-13-2016; amd. Ord. 2019-11-18, 11-18-2019)
8-7B-9:   DRIVE-IN RESTAURANT:
Drive-in restaurants:
   A.   Shall be maintained in a neat and orderly condition to prevent trash
from moving onto other properties.
   B.   Shall have a six foot (6') high sight obscuring fence along the
property lines that adjoin an existing residence or residentially zoned area.
   C.   Shall provide for adequate trash receptacles.
   D.   Shall not direct night lighting toward any residence. (Ord. 2016-09-13-
J, 9-13-2016)
8-7B-10:   FILLING, GRADING, LAGOONING, DREDGING OR OTHER EARTHMOVING ACTIVITY:
These activities:
   A.   Shall result in the smallest amount of bare ground exposed for the
shortest time feasible.
   B.   Shall provide temporary ground cover, such as mulch.
   C.   Shall use diversions, silting, basins, terraces and other methods to
trap sediment.
   D.   Shall provide lagooning in such a manner as to avoid creation of fish
trap conditions.
   E.   Shall not restrict a floodway, channel or natural drainageway.
   F.   Shall construct and stabilize sides and bottom of cuts, fills, channels
and artificial watercourses to prevent erosion or soil failure.
   G.   Shall not have below grade excavation, except for drainageways within
fifty feet (50') of any lot line or public right of way.
   H.   Shall restore topsoil or loam to a depth of not less than four inches
(4"). (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-7B-11:   BOATHOUSES:
Boathouses:
   A.   Shall only be located within a shore lot.
   B.   Shall be limited to one on premises boathouse for each shore lot.
   C.   Shall not exceed a height of fifteen feet (15') without a special use
permit issued by the commission.
   D.   Shall not be located closer than ten feet (10') to any property line.
   E.   Shall not exceed three hundred (300) square feet of building area
without a special use permit issued by the commission. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-
13-2016)
8-7B-12:   HOME OCCUPATION:
The following shall apply to home occupations:
   A.   No more than one person, other than members of the family residing on
the premises, shall be engaged in such occupation.
   B.   The use of the dwelling unit for the home occupation shall be clearly
incidental and subordinate to its use for residential purposes by its
occupants, and not more than twenty five percent (25%) of the floor area of the
dwelling unit shall be used in the conduct of the home occupation.
   C.   There shall be no change in the outside appearance of any of the
building or premises, or other visible evidence of the conduct of such home
occupation other than one sign.
   D.   If the dwelling or an accessory building is used as a home office for a
business that provides services at other locations, no storage of material or
equipment will be allowed outside of an enclosed building. Temporary or
overnight parking of licensed vehicles, used for related services at other
locations, is permitted. Yards for storage of materials or equipment shall not
be considered as part of a home occupation and shall comply with the specific
requirements of that use.
   E.   No significant traffic shall be generated by such home occupation, and
any need for parking generated by the conduct of such home occupation shall
meet the off street parking requirements as specified in this title, and shall
not be located in a required front yard.
   F.   No equipment or process shall be used in such home occupation which
creates noise, vibration, glare, fumes, odors or electrical interference
detectable to the normal senses off the lot, if the occupation is conducted in
a single-family residence, or outside the dwelling unit if conducted in other
than a single-family residence. In the case of electrical interference, no
equipment or process shall be used which creates visual or audible interference
in any radio or television receivers off the premises, or causes fluctuations
in line voltage off the premises.
   G.   Home occupations shall be conducted completely inside the dwelling,
enclosed garage or other building accessory to the dwelling. (Ord. 2016-09-13-
J, 9-13-2016)
8-7B-13:   MANUFACTURED OR MOBILE HOMES:
The following shall apply to manufactured or mobile homes:
   A.   A manufactured or mobile home shall not be moved onto a site or
occupied before a building permit has been issued.
   B.   At least one inspection after the permit is issued shall be to verify
compliance with applicable zoning, health, installation, and building
requirements.
   C.   A permit shall be required for all classes of manufactured homes and
shall be in addition to any other required zoning, permit, or hookup fees.
   D.   Manufactured or mobile homes as defined in this title shall only be
used for residential purposes.
   E.   Manufactured or mobile homes that are no longer occupied and have
become run down, dilapidated or deemed unsafe or a public nuisance shall be
removed and/or disposed of at the owner's expense. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-
2016)
8-7B-14:   MANUFACTURED (MOBILE) HOME PARKS OR COURTS:
Manufactured (mobile) home parks or courts:
   A.   Shall be designed, constructed, operated and maintained so as to be
harmonious and appropriate in appearance with the existing or intended
character of the general vicinity so that such use will not change the
essential character of the same area.
   B.   Shall not be hazardous or detrimental to existing or future neighboring
uses.
   C.   Shall be served adequately by essential public facilities and services
such as highways, streets, police and fire protection, drainage, refuse
disposal and schools, or the persons, or agencies responsible for the
establishment of the proposed park shall be able to provide adequately any such
services.
   D.   Shall be consistent with the intent and purpose of this title and the
comprehensive plan.
   E.   Shall have vehicular approaches to the property which shall be designed
as not to create an interference with traffic in surrounding streets or roads.
   F.   Shall not result in the destruction or damage of natural, scenic or
historic features of major importance.
   G.   Shall meet the minimum health standards as set forth and administered
by the appropriate health authority.
   H.   Shall have a minimum of eight feet (8') separation between manufactured
home units. Garages, carports or any other accessory buildings shall be located
at least eight feet (8') from all manufactured homes other than the one they
are intended to serve.
   I.   Shall provide two (2) off street parking spaces for each mobile home
parking space.
   J.   Shall be a minimum total area of two (2) acres for the manufactured
home park or court, including common areas, buildings, and facilities. (Ord.
2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-7B-15:   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES:
It is prohibited to place and occupy a recreational vehicle on any lot or
parcel, except in an approved recreational vehicle or manufactured home park,
subject to the following exceptions:
   A.   Temporary occupancy of up to fourteen (14) days of a recreational
vehicle for use by friend or family of owner or occupant.
   B.   Upon the issuance of the appropriate permits, a recreational vehicle
may be placed and occupied on a construction site until construction is
completed, but not to exceed eighteen (18) months.
   C.   Upon the issuance of the appropriate permits, a recreational vehicle
may be placed and occupied on any parcel or lot that would allow the placement
of a class C manufactured home. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-7B-16:   OUTDOOR STORAGE OF COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL MATERIALS:
Such outdoor storage:
   A.   Shall be screened from view from any existing adjoining residence or
residentially zoned area, whether or not such property is separated by an
alleyway or street.
   B.   Shall not be located in any front yard setback area. (Ord. 2016-09-13-
J, 9-13-2016)
8-7B-17:   RIDING STABLES AND SCHOOLS:
Riding stables and schools:
   A.   Shall locate all stables or loafing sheds no closer than one hundred
feet (100') from any residence, except for an owner's residence. All facilities
shall be set back a distance of thirty feet (30') from any property lines.
   B.   Shall be designed and located with full consideration being given to
their proximity to adjacent uses and their effect upon adjacent and surrounding
properties as to the storage of horse trailers, and the factors of noise and
odor.
   C.   Shall require that the owner or operator of such use shall have a
continuous obligation to maintain adequate housekeeping practices to prevent
the creation of a nuisance. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-7B-18:   RIFLE AND PISTOL RANGE:
Rifle and pistol ranges:
   A.   Shall be designed with a backstop.
   B.   Shall be designed to avoid a line of fire that is directed toward any
residence or business within one mile.
   C.   Shall incorporate landscaping that is compatible with the surrounding
landscaping.
   D.   Shall provide supervision and security measures during periods of use.
(Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-7B-19:   SALVAGE YARD, WRECKING YARD, AUTOMOBILE SALVAGE YARD, OR AUTOMOBILE
WRECKING YARD:
Salvage yards:
   A.   Shall have a sight obscuring fence approved by the planning commission
meeting the terms of this title. Shall be constructed parallel to and ten feet
(10') back of the right of way line of any public street or highway for any
auto wrecking yard and salvage yard. Said fence shall be constructed along the
entire premises devoted to such auto wrecking or salvage yard.
   B.   Shall not result in the storage of automobiles, junk or salvage
material that is visible from any public right of way.
   C.   Shall not result in the storage of materials that exceed the height of
the fence.
   D.   Shall have landscaping that is compatible with the surrounding area.
   E.   Shall comply with other regulations or ordinances of Minidoka County.
(Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016; amd. Ord. 2019-11-18, 11-18-2019)
8-7B-20:   ABANDONED, JUNKED PROPERTY:
No person shall place, allow, discard, maintain, park or store for a period of
time exceeding forty eight (48) hours any dismantled, abandoned, junked,
damaged, unlicensed or destroyed motor vehicles, equipment, machinery or
miscellaneous property. The provisions of this article shall not apply to any
lawfully operated business when otherwise permitted and in compliance with this
and all other applicable ordinances, or when said motor vehicles, equipment,
machinery or miscellaneous property is housed entirely within an enclosed
building. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-7B-21:   LIVESTOCK:
Unless otherwise regulated in this title or any other applicable ordinance, the
keeping of livestock shall comply with the following provisions:
   A.   Number Of Livestock Limited: On any lots, tract or parcel not zoned
agricultural within city areas of impact, or any rural residential subdivision
having an enclosed pasture of at least one-half (1/2) acre, fenced to hold or
contain livestock, the owner, renter or occupant thereof may have not more than
one head of horses, mules, cattle or any combination of said animals for each
full one-half (1/2) acre of enclosed pasture; or, not more than two (2) swine
or three (3) sheep or goats, or combination thereof for each full one-half (1/
2) acre of enclosed pasture; or, such owner, occupant or renter may have and
keep one horse, mule or head of cattle, or any of the same, in combination with
two (2) swine or three (3) sheep or goats or combination thereof, on each full
one acre of enclosed pasture.
   B.   Confined Animal Feeding Operations: Livestock confined on any parcel or
tract shall not exceed the number allowed by an approved confined animal
feeding operation permit. In the absence of a confined animal feeding operation
permit on parcels or tracts within an agricultural zoning district with a
minimum of one acre of fenced pasture area, the maximum density of animal units
shall not exceed five (5) per acre in livestock density unless an approved
waste management plan is in place allowing a greater density.
   C.   Waste And Runoff: Waste and runoff shall be contained completely on the
premises and not allowed to enter any river, stream, drain ditch, canal, or
lateral. The keeping and maintaining of livestock and pets shall also comply
with other livestock and animal control provisions of this title. (Ord. 2016-
09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-7B-22:   SANITARY LANDFILL:
A sanitary landfill:
   A.   Shall conform to time limits for daily operation as defined by the
governing board.
   B.   Shall provide a bond, for privately owned sites, to ensure compliance
with the provisions of the zoning approval.
   C.   Shall provide for a paved street to the facility.
   D.   Shall be supervised during the hours of operation.
   E.   Shall be required to plan for, install and maintain such safeguards and
measures as the commission shall require to ensure that groundwater quality and
air quality are preserved and environmental hazards and nuisance and unsightly
areas are not created by the operation.
   F.   Shall comply with any other local, state or federal regulations or
ordinances. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-7B-23:   REFUSE, SOLID WASTE, STAGNANT WATER:
No person shall permit or suffer to be or accumulate in or upon any yard, lot,
place or premises, or upon any street or sidewalk adjacent to or abutting upon
any lot, block, place or premises, or in any building or shed owned or occupied
by him within the jurisdiction of the county, any stagnant or impure water,
refuse, vegetable decay or decaying substance, human or animal discharge,
garbage or filth of any kind, nor suffer such yard, lot, place, building or
premises to be or to remain in such condition as to cause or create a nuisance
or offensive smell, or to pollute or render unhealthful the atmosphere or the
premises, or thereby to be, become, cause or create a public nuisance. (Ord.
2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
ARTICLE C. SHORT-TERM RENTALS
SECTION:
8-7C-1: Purpose
8-7C-2: Definitions
8-7C-3: Permit Required
8-7C-4: Standards
8-7C-5: Violations; Penalties
8-7C-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   The purpose of this Article is to establish regulations for the use of
Residential Dwellings as Short-Term Rentals to safeguard the public health,
safety and general welfare, to protect the integrity of the County’s residence,
to establish a system to track the Short-Term Rental inventory in the County,
to ensure compliance with local performance standards, to provide a means of
contact for the Responsible Party of a Short-Term Rental, to establish a Good
Neighbor Policy for Occupants of Short-Term Rentals and their guests, and to
allow private property owners the right to fully and efficiently utilize their
property without undue regulation or interference.
   B.   Nothing in this section shall be construed so as to nullify or override
any lease agreements, or covenants, conditions, and restrictions applicable to
the property that may prohibit or restrict its use for Short-Term Rental
purposes. (Ord. 2019-11-18, 11-18-2019)
8-7C-2: DEFINITIONS:
OCCUPANT: The person or persons who contract with the Responsible Party for Use
of the Short-Term Rental.
RESIDENTIAL DWELLING: A single unit providing complete and independent living
facilities for one or more persons, including permanent provisions for living,
sleeping, eating, cooking, and sanitation. Tents, recreational vehicles,
campers, and similar units not designed for permanent residential use are
excluded from this definition.
RESPONSIBLE PARTY: The owner of a Residential Dwelling being used as a Short-
Term Rental, as well as any person designated by the owner who is responsible
for compliance with this Article by an Occupant and any guests utilizing the
Short-Term Rental. The Responsible Party shall provide for the maintenance of
the property and ensure compliance by the Occupant and any guests with the
provisions of this Article, or any other applicable law, rule, or regulation
pertaining to the use and occupancy of a Short-Term Rental. The owner of the
property shall not be relieved of responsibility or liability for noncompliance
with the provisions of this Article, or any other applicable law, rule, or
regulation pertaining to the use and occupancy of a Short-Term Rental because
of the designation of another Responsible Party. All Responsible Parties shall
be at least twenty-one (21) years old.
SELF-INSPECTION CHECKLIST: The current form approved by the County for use with
a Short-Term Rental application.
SHORT-TERM RENTAL: A Residential Dwelling which is rented for thirty (30) days
or fewer, and which is sometimes referred to as a “vacation rental.” This term
does not include a Bed-and-Breakfast facility, an RV Park or campground, or a
hotel or motel. (Ord. 2019-11-18, 11-18-2019)
8-7C-3: PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   An applicant for a Short-Term Rental permit must be the owner of the
Residential Dwelling to be offered for rent. No person with less than a fee
ownership interest may apply for a Short-Term Rental permit.
      1.   A Short-Term Rental permit is valid only for the Residential
Dwelling identified in the application. An applicant shall file a separate
application and obtain a separate permit for each Residential Dwelling to be
used as a Short-Term Rental.
      2.   A Short-Term Rental permit is non-transferable.
   B.   Prior to offering a Short-Term Rental to the public, the owner of the
Residential Dwelling shall complete an application on a form provided by the
County and file it with the County Clerk or his/her designee. The application
shall include:
      1.   The owner’s legal name, contact number, both physical and mailing
addresses, and email address;
      2.   If the Short-Term Rental is to be operated or managed by someone
other than the owner, the name, contact number, both physical and mailing
addresses, and email address for a Responsible Party with day-to-day authority
and/or control over the Short-Term Rental;
      3.   The address of the Short-Term Rental; and
      4.   The signatures of the owner and other Responsible Party, if any,
agreeing and acknowledging that they are jointly responsible for the compliance
by the Occupant and any guests with all applicable laws, rules, and regulations
pertaining to the use and occupancy of the Short-Term Rental, and for any
unreasonable noise, disturbances or disorderly conduct by the Occupant and/or
guests while utilizing while on the property of the Short-Term Rental.
      5.   The fee established by Resolution of the County.
   C.   If any information required by subsections B (1) through (4) hereof
changes, a responsible Party shall promptly advise the County.
   D.   At the time an application is filed with the County, a Responsible
Party shall complete and file with the County the Self-Inspection Check list. A
new Self-Inspection Checklist shall be completed and filed with the County each
year thereafter during which the Short-Term Rental will be offered to the
public.
   E.   Short-Term Rentals are not a grandfathered use. All Short-Term Rentals
in the County must have a permit to operate.
   F.   A Short-Term Rental permit expires on March 31 of each year; PROVIDED,
if the Residential Dwelling identified in the application is sold or title is
otherwise transferred, the permit shall automatically expire upon the transfer
of title.
      1.   To renew a Short-Term Rental permit, the holder shall submit an
application for renewal on a form provided by the County to the County Clerk or
his/her designee, together with the renewal fee.
      2.   The renewal application must be submitted by March 1 of each year. A
permit for which a renewal application is not submitted by March 1 shall expire
on March 31.
      3.   If a permit has expired, a new application shall be required.
   G.   Any Residential Dwelling in the County may be rented without a permit
for no more than sixteen (16) days per calendar year, where those sixteen (16)
days are divided into no more than four (4) stays. (Ord. 2019-11-18, 11-18-
2019)
8-7C-4: STANDARDS:
   A.   Accessory Dwelling Units and Properties with Multiple Dwelling Units.
      1.   An Accessory Dwelling Unit (ADU), as defined in 8-2-2 of this Code,
which existed on the effective date of this Article may be rented as a Short-
Term Rental, provided that either the principal dwelling or ADU on the property
must be occupied by a majority owner of the property or an immediate family
member of the property owner more than six (6) months out of any given year.
      2.   A principal dwelling and its associated ADU may not both be rented
out concurrently as Short-Term Rentals to separate individual parties.
   B.   Duplex and Multiple-family Housing.
      1.   The owner(s) of multiple units in a Duplex or Multiple-family
housing must designate which dwelling unit will be rented as a Short-Term
Rental and advise the County of said designation in the application for a
permit.
   C.   Duties of Responsible Party.
      1.   A Responsible Party must be available twenty-four (24) hours per
day, seven (7) days per week, for the purpose of responding within sixty (60)
minutes to complaints regarding the condition of the Short-Term Rental or the
conduct of the Occupant of the Short-Term Rental and/or their guests.
      2.    Responsible Party shall obtain the name, address, and contact
number of each Occupant of a Short-Term Rental.
      3.   A Responsible Party shall provide the information required in
section 8-7D-4 (C) (2) to the County at the County’s request, if available.
      4.   A Responsible Party, upon notification that any Occupant or guest
has created any unreasonable noise or disturbance, engaged in disorderly
conduct, or committed a violation of any applicable law, rule or regulation
pertaining to the use and occupancy of a Short-Term Rental, shall promptly
respond in an appropriate manner within sixty (60) minutes and require an
immediate halt to the conduct, and take such steps as may be necessary to
prevent a recurrence of such conduct. Failure of the Responsible Party to
respond to calls or complaints regarding the condition, operation, or conduct
of an Occupant or guest in a Short-Term Rental in an appropriate manner within
sixty (60) minutes shall constitute a violation of this Article.
      5.   A Responsible Party shall prepare a written notice, and shall mail
or deliver the notice to all residents and owners of property abutting or
across the street from the Short-Term Rental, which notice shall state the
intent to operate a Short-Term Rental and the number of bedrooms that will be
rented to overnight guests, and include information on how to contact the
Responsible Party by phone.
      6.   A Responsible Party shall post on or near the inside of the front
door of the Short-Term Rental a notice which includes the address of the
Rental, emergency contact numbers, and a diagram showing emergency exit route
(s) and extinguisher locations, approved by the Fire Department.
   D.   Information Provided to Occupants.
      1.   At the time of each occupancy of the unit, the Responsible Party
shall provide to the Occupant of a Short-Term Rental the following:
         a.   the name and contact number of all Responsible Parties;
         b.   a copy of the Good Neighbor Policy as approved by the County
Planning Department;
         c.   a notice of the trash pick-up day, and applicable rules and
regulations pertaining to leaving or storing trash on the exterior of the
dwelling; and
         d.   Parking locations and requirements as approved by the County.
   E.   Occupancy.
      1.   The maximum number of overnight guests occupying a Short-Term Rental
shall not exceed the definition of “family” as provided in Title 8 Chapter 2
Section 2.
      2.   Guests of an Occupant may use a Short Term Rental only when an
Occupant is present and may not stay overnight.
      3.   A Responsible Party may rent either the entire Residential Dwelling
or one (1) room of the Residential Dwelling to an Occupant. Under no
circumstances shall a Responsible Party rent individual rooms in a Short-Term
Rental to different Occupants for the same night or nights.
      4.   No recreational vehicle, travel trailer, tent, or other temporary
shelter shall be used as a Short-Term Rental or in conjunction therewith to
provide additional sleeping areas or otherwise, only by approval of the county.
   F.   Parking.
      1.   All Occupants and guests shall, to the greatest extent possible,
utilize any off-street parking of the Residential Dwelling which constitutes
the Short-Term Rental. On-street parking by Occupants and guests shall be
governed by the applicable provisions of this Title 8 Chapter 11.
      2.   An ADU, built after the effective date of this Article and used as a
Short-Term Rental, requires one off-street parking space in addition to parking
spaces required for the principal dwelling.
   G.   Signs and Advertising.
      1.   No sign indicating that the residence is a Short-Term Rental or that
it is for rent or lease shall be displayed such that it is visible from any
other public or private property.
      2.   The street number of a Short-Term Rental shall be posted in
accordance with Fire Department International Fire Code and Local International
Building Code requirements.
      3.   All advertising for the Short-Term Rental shall include the County
permit number and the maximum number of vehicles accommodated by off-street
parking spaces.
   H.   Trash.
      1.   Trash and refuse shall not be left stored within public view except
in proper containers for the purpose of collection by the authorized waste
hauler on scheduled trash collection days.
      2.   The Short-Term Rental property shall, at all times, be kept in a
neat and sanitary condition, in compliance with the requirements of Title 8 of
this Code.
   I.   Zoning.
      1.   Subject to the standards and restrictions applicable in each zone,
the standards and restrictions contained in this Article, and any permit
requirements, the use of a Residential Dwelling as a Short-Term Rental is
permitted as of right in all zones provided that the Residential Dwelling is
installed as required by State law, and local codes. (Ord. 2019-11-18, 11-18-
2019)
8-7C-5: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   Violations.
      1.   It is unlawful for any Responsible Party to offer for Rent a Short-
Term Rental or to operate a Short-Term Rental without a County registration
permit.
      2.   It is a violation of this Article if a Responsible Party, or an
Occupant or guest knowingly and willfully violates any provision of this
Article.
   B.   Penalty.
      1.   For a first offense, the violator shall be subject to a civil
penalty in an amount established by Resolution of the County Commissioners.
      2.   For any subsequent offense, the violator shall be subject to a
misdemeanor, pursuant to section Title 1 Chapter 4 Section 1 of this Code.
      3.   In addition to any other remedy or procedure authorized by law, for
three (3) or more violations of or failure to comply with any of the standards
of this Article in a calendar year, the County Clerk or his/her designee may
revoke any or all of the owner’s permits and, in addition, may order that no
new permit shall be issued for up to three (3) years pursuant to the following
procedures:
         a.   Prior to the revocation of any permit or the denial of a permit
for repeated violation of the provisions of this Article, written notice of the
reasons for such action shall be served on the Owner and/or Responsible Party
in person or by certified mail at the address on the permit application.
Revocation shall become final within ten (10) days of service unless the Owner
and/or Responsible Party appeals the action. The Owner and/or Responsible Party
shall provide the appeal in writing to the County Clerk or his/her designee
within ten (10) days of receipt of the notice. The written notice of appeal
must state the reasons for the appeal and the relief requested.
         b.   Should the owner and/or Responsible Party request an appeal
within the ten (10) day period, the County Clerk or his/her designee shall
notify the owner and/or Responsible Party in writing of the time and place of
the hearing.
         c.   Appeals shall be heard by a neutral hearing officer designated by
the County.
         d.   For good cause shown, the hearing officer may affirm or reverse
the decision to revoke a permit. The hearing officer may affirm, reverse, or
modify a decision to deny a new permit for upon a showing of good cause. (Ord.
2019-11-18, 11-18-2019)
CHAPTER 8
FLOOD DAMAGE PROTECTION
SECTION:
8-8-1: Statutory Authorization, Findings Of Fact, Purpose, And Objectives
8-8-2: Definitions
8-8-3: General Provisions
8-8-4: Administration
8-8-5: Provisions For Flood Hazard Reduction
8-8-6: Non-Liability Clause
8-8-7: Restrictions
8-8-8: Prohibited Uses
8-8-9: Legal Status Provisions
8-8-1: STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT, PURPOSE, AND OBJECTIVES:
   A.    Statutory Authority: The Legislature of the State of Idaho, pursuant
to Idaho Code sections 46-1020, 46-1023, and 46-1024, authorizes local
governments to adopt floodplain management ordinances that identify floodplains
and minimum floodplain development standards to minimize flood hazards and
protect human life, health, and property. Therefore, the Board of the Minidoka
County Idaho does hereby ordain as follows:
   B.    Findings Of Fact:
      1.    The flood hazard areas of Minidoka County are subject to periodic
inundation that results in:
         a.    Loss of life and property;
         b.    Health and safety hazards;
         c.    Disruption of commerce and governmental services;
         d.    Extraordinary public expenditures for flood relief and
protection; and
         e.    Impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely affect the
public health, safety, and general welfare.
      2.    These flood losses are caused by development in flood hazard areas,
which are inadequately elevated, flood-proofed, or otherwise unprotected from
flood damages, and by the cumulative effect of obstructions in floodplains
causing increases in flood heights and velocities.
      3.    Local government units have the primary responsibility for
planning, adopting, and enforcing land use regulations to accomplish proper
floodplain management.
   C.    Statement Of Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to promote public
health, safety, and general welfare and to minimize public and private losses
due to flood conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
      1.    Protect human life, health, and property;
      2.    Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
purification and sewage treatment plants, water and gas mains, electric,
telephone and sewer lines, streets, and bridges located in floodplains;
      3.    Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas;
      4.    Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
      5.    Minimize the need for rescue and emergency services associated with
flooding, generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
      6.    Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
      7.    Ensure potential buyers are notified the property is in an area of
special flood hazard; and
      8.    Ensure those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard assume
responsibility for their actions.
   D.    Objectives And Methods Of Reducing Flood Losses: In order to
accomplish its purpose, this chapter includes methods and provisions to:
      1.    Require that development which is vulnerable to floods, including
structures and facilities necessary for the general health, safety, and welfare
of citizens, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
      2.    Restrict or prohibit developments which are dangerous to health,
safety, and property due to water or erosion hazards, or which increase flood
heights, velocities, or erosion;
      3.    Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase flood damage or erosion;
      4.    Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers that will
unnaturally divert flood waters or that may increase flood hazards to other
lands;
      5.    Preserve and restore natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers which carry and store flood waters. (Ord. 19-06-18)
8-8-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter shall
be interpreted according to the meaning they have in common usage and to give
this chapter its most reasonable application.
ACCESSORY
STRUCTURE      A structure on the same lot or parcel as a principal structure, the use of which
(APPURTENANT   is incidental and subordinate to the principal structure.
STRUCTURE)
ADDITION (TO
AN EXISTING    An extension or increase in the floor area or height of a building or structure.
BUILDING):
APPEAL:        A request for review of the floodplain administrator's interpretation of
               provisions of this chapter or request for a variance.
               A designated AO, AH, AR/AO, or AR/AH zone on a community's flood insurance rate
AREA OF        map (FIRM) with a 1 percent (1%) or greater annual chance of flooding to an
SHALLOW        average depth of one (1) to three (3) feet where a clearly defined channel does
FLOODING:      not exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable, and where velocity flow
               may be evident. Such flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
AREA OF
SPECIAL FLOOD  See Special Flood Hazard Area (SFHA).
HAZARD:
BASE FLOOD:    The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
               given year.
               A determination by the Federal Insurance Administrator of the water surface
               elevations of the base flood, that is, the flood level that has a one percent
BASE FLOOD     (1%)or greater chance of occurrence in any given year. When the BFE has not been
ELEVATION      provided in a special flood hazard area, it may be obtained from engineering
(BFE):         studies available from a federal, state, or other source using FEMA-approved
               engineering methodologies. This elevation, when combined with the freeboard,
               establishes the flood protection elevation.
BASEMENT:      Any area of the building having its floor sub grade (below ground level) on all
               sides.
BUILDING:      See Structure.
               Facilities that are vital to flood response activities or critical to the health
               and safety of the public before, during, and after a flood, such as a hospital,
CRITICAL       emergency operations center, electric substation, police station, fire station,
FACILITIES:    nursing home, school, vehicle and equipment storage facility, or shelter; and
               facilities that, if flooded, would make the flood problem and its impacts much
               worse, such as a hazardous materials facility, power generation facility, water
               utility, or wastewater treatment plant.
               The vertical datum is a base measurement point (or set of points) from which all
               elevations are determined. Historically, that common set of points was the
DATUM:         National Geodetic Vertical Datum of 1929 (NGVD29). The vertical datum currently
               adopted by the federal government as a basis for measuring heights is the North
               American Vertical Datum of 1988 (NAVD88).
               Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate, including but not
DEVELOPMENT:   limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading,
               paving, excavation or drilling operations, or storage of equipment or materials.
               Any activity defined as Development which will necessitate a floodplain
               development permit; such as: the construction of buildings, structures, or
DEVELOPMENT    accessory structures; additions or substantial improvements to existing
ACTIVITY:      structures; bulkheads, retaining walls, piers, and pools; the placement of
               mobile homes; or the deposition or extraction of materials; the construction or
               elevation of dikes, berms and levees.
DIGITAL FLOOD  The digital official map of a community, issued by the Federal Insurance
INSURANCE RATE Administrator, on which both the special flood hazard areas and the risk premium
MAP (DFIRM):   zones applicable to the community are delineated.
ELEVATED       For insurance purposes, a non-basement building which has its lowest elevated
BUILDING:      floor raised above ground level by foundation walls, shear walls, posts, piers,
               pilings, or columns.
               The elevation certificate is an important administrative tool of the NFIP. It is
ELEVATION      used to determine the proper flood insurance premium rate; it is used to
CERTIFICATE:   document elevation information; and it may be used to support a request for a
               letter of map amendment (LOMA) or letter of map revision based on fill (LOMR-F).
               An area enclosed by solid walls below the BFE/FPE or an area formed when any
ENCLOSURE:     space below the BFE/FPE is enclosed on all sides by walls or partitions. Insect
               screening or open wood lattice used to surround space below the BFE/RFPE is not
               considered an enclosure.
               The advance or infringement of uses, fill, excavation, buildings, structures, or
ENCROACHMENT:  development into a floodplain, which may impede or alter the flow capacity of a
               floodplain.
               For the purposes of determining rates, structures for which the "start of
EXISTING       construction" commenced before the effective date of the FIRM or before January
CONSTRUCTION:  1, 1975, for FIRMs effective before that date. "Existing construction" may also
               be referred to as "existing structures."
EXISTING       A manufactured home park or subdivision where the construction of facilities for
MANUFACTURED   servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including,
HOME PARK OR   at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and
MANUFACTURED   final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the
HOME           effective date of the original floodplain management regulations adopted by the
SUBDIVISION:   community, December 2, 1974.
EXISTING       See Existing Construction.
STRUCTURES:
EXPANSION TO   The preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for
AN EXISTING    servicing the lots on which the manufacturing homes are to be affixed (including
MANUFACTURED   the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final
HOME PARK OR   site grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
SUBDIVISION:
FLOOD OR       A. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of
FLOODING:      normally dry land areas from:
                 1. The overflow of inland or tidal waters.
                 2. The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any
               source.
                  3. Mudslides (i.e., mudflows) which are proximately caused by flooding as
              defined in paragraph A.2. of this definition and are akin to a river of liquid
               and flowing mud on the surfaces of normally dry land areas, as when earth is
               carried by a current of water and deposited along the path of the current.
               B. The collapse or subsidence of land along the shore of a lake or other body of
               water as a result of erosion or undermining caused by waves or currents of water
               exceeding anticipated cyclical levels or suddenly caused by an unusually high
              water level in a natural body of water, accompanied by a severe storm, or by an
               unanticipated force of nature, such as flash flood or an abnormal tidal surge,
               or by some similarly unusual and unforeseeable event which results in flooding
               as defined in paragraph A.1. of this definition.
FLOOD BOUNDARY The FBFM shows how the floodplain is divided into the floodway and flood fringe
AND FLOODWAY   where streams are studied in detail. They also show general floodplain areas
MAP (FBFM):    where floodplains have been studied by approximate methods. (Old format Pre
               1986)
FLOOD
ELEVATION      See Base Flood Elevation (BFE)
DETERMINATION:
FLOOD
ELEVATION      See Flood Insurance Study (FIS)
STUDY:
FLOOD HAZARD   An official map of a community, issued by the Federal Insurance Administrator,
BOUNDARY MAP   where the boundaries of the flood, mudslide (i.e., mudflow) related erosion
(FHBM):        areas having special hazards have been designated as Zones A, M, and/or E.
FLOOD          An official map of a community, on which the Federal Insurance Administrator has
INSURANCE RATE delineated both the special flood hazard areas and the risk premium zones
MAP (FIRM):    applicable to the community. A FIRM that has been made available digitally is
               called a digital flood insurance rate map (DFIRM).
FLOOD          An examination, evaluation, and determination of flood hazards and, if
INSURANCE      appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations; or an examination,
STUDY (FIS):   evaluation and determination of mudslide (i.e., mudflow) and/or flood-related
               erosion hazards.
FLOOD          The base flood elevation plus the freeboard.
PROTECTION     A. In special flood hazard areas where base flood elevations (BFEs) have been
ELEVATION      determined, this elevation shall be the BFE plus two (2) feet of freeboard; and
(FPE):         B. In special flood hazard areas where no BFE has been established, this
               elevation shall be at least two (2) feet above the highest adjacent grade.
               Those physical structural works for which funds have been authorized,
               appropriated, and expended and which have been constructed specifically to
FLOOD          modify flooding in order to reduce the extent of the area within a community
PROTECTION     subject to a special flood hazard and the extent of the depths of associated
SYSTEM:        flooding. Such a system typically includes dams, reservoirs, levees, or dikes.
               These specialized flood modifying works are those constructed in conformance
               with sound engineering standards.
               A geographical area shown on a flood hazard boundary map (FHBM) or flood
FLOOD ZONE:    insurance rate map (FIRM) that reflects the severity or type of flooding in the
               area, and applicable insurance rate.
FLOODPLAIN OR  Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from any source (see
FLOOD-PRONE    definition of "flooding").
AREA:
FLOODPLAIN     The individual appointed to administer and enforce the floodplain management
ADMINISTRATOR: regulations.
FLOODPLAIN     Any type of permit that is required in conformance with the provisions of this
DEVELOPMENT    chapter prior to the commencement of any development activity.
PERMIT:
FLOODPLAIN     The operation of an overall program of corrective and preventive measures for
MANAGEMENT:    reducing flood damage, including but not limited to emergency preparedness
               plans, flood control works, and floodplain management regulations.
               Zoning ordinances, subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations,
FLOODPLAIN     special purpose ordinances (such as a floodplain ordinance, grading ordinance,
MANAGEMENT     and erosion control ordinance), and other applications of police power. The term
REGULATIONS:   describes such state or local regulations, in any combination thereof, which
               provide standards for the purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.
               Any combination of structural and non-structural additions, changes, or
FLOODPROOFING: adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to real estate
               or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities, structures and their
               contents.
               The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land areas that
FLOODWAY:      must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without cumulatively
               increasing the water surface elevation more than a designated height.
               A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level for the
               purposes of floodplain management. Freeboard tends to compensate for the many
               unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than the height
FREEBOARD:     calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such as wave
               action, obstructed bridge openings, debris and ice jams, and the hydrologic
               effects of urbanization in a watershed. The base flood elevation (BFE) plus the
               freeboard establishes the flood protection elevation (FPE). Freeboard shall be
               two (2) feet.
               A facility that cannot be used for its intended purpose unless it is located or
FUNCTIONALLY   carried out in close proximity to water, such as a docking or port facility
DEPENDENT USE: necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, shipbuilding, or
               ship repair facilities. The term does not include long-term storage,
               manufacture, sales, or service facilities.
HIGHEST        The highest natural elevation of the ground surface prior to construction,
ADJACENT GRADE adjacent to the proposed walls of a structure. Refer to the FEMA elevation
(HAG):         certificate for HAG related to building elevation information.
HISTORIC       A structure that is:
STRUCTURE:
               A. Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a listing
              maintained by the U.S. Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined by
               the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual listing
               on the National Register;
               B. Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as
              contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic district or
               to a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as a
               registered historic district;
               C. Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places and determined as
              eligible by states with historic preservation programs which have been approved
               by the Secretary of the Interior; or
               D. Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places and determined as
              eligible by communities with historic preservation programs that have been
               certified either:
                 1. By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of the
               Interior, or
                 2. Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without approved
               programs.
               A general term used to refer to the several types of revisions and amendments to
LETTER OF MAP  FIRMs that can be accomplished by letter. They include letter of map amendment
CHANGE (LOMC): (LOMA), letter of map revision (LOMR), and letter of map revision based on fill
               (LOMR-F)
               A. Letter Of Map Amendment (LOMA): an official amendment, by letter, to an
               effective National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) map. A LOMA establishes a
              property's or structure's location in relation to the special flood hazard area
               (SFHA). LOMAs are usually issued because a property or structure has been
               inadvertently mapped as being in the floodplain but is actually on natural high
               ground above the base flood elevation.
               B. Letter Of Map Revision (LOMR): FEMA's modification to an effective flood
               insurance rate map (FIRM) or a flood boundary and floodway map (FBFM) or both.
               LOMRs are generally based on the implementation of physical measures that affect
               the hydrologic or hydraulic characteristics of a flooding source and thus result
               in the modification of the existing regulatory floodway, the effective base
              flood elevations (BFEs), or the special flood hazard area (SFHA). The LOMR
               officially revises the flood insurance rate map (FIRM) or flood boundary and
               floodway map (FBFM), and sometimes the flood insurance study (FIS) report, and
               when appropriate, includes a description of the modifications. The LOMR is
               generally accompanied by an annotated copy of the affected portions of the FIRM,
               FBFM, or FIS report.
               C. Letter Of Map Revision Based On Fill (LOMR-F): FEMA's modification of the
              special flood hazard area (SFHA) shown on the flood insurance rate map (FIRM)
               based on the placement of fill outside the existing regulatory floodway. The
               LOMR-F does not change the FIRM, FBFM, or FIS report.
               D.Conditional Letter Of Map Revision (CLOMR): A formal review and comment as to
               whether a proposed flood protection project or other project complies with the
               minimum NFIP requirements for such projects with respect to delineation of
               special flood hazard areas. A CLOMR does not revise the effective flood
              insurance rate map (FIRM) or flood insurance study (FIS). Upon submission and
               approval of certified as-built documentation, a Letter of map revision (LOMR)
               may be issued by FEMA to revise the effective FIRM. Building permits and/or
               flood development permits cannot be issued based on a CLOMR, because a CLOMR
               does not change the NFIP map.
               A man-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and constructed
LEVEE:         according to sound engineering practices, to contain, control, or divert the
               flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary flooding.
               A flood protection system that consists of a levee, or levees, and associated
LEVEE SYSTEM:  structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are constructed and
               operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
LOWEST         The lowest point of the ground level next to the structure. Refer to the FEMA
ADJACENT GRADE elevation certificate for LAG related to building elevation information.
(LAG):
               The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including basement). An unfinished
               or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking of vehicles, building
LOWEST FLOOR:  access or storage in an area other than a basement area is not considered a
               building's lowest floor; provided, that such enclosure is not built so as to
               render the structure in violation of the applicable non-elevation design
               requirements of 44 CFR § 60.3 and this chapter.
               A structure, transportable in one (1) or more sections, built on a permanent
MANUFACTURED   chassis and designed to be used with or without a permanent foundation when
HOME:          connected to the required utilities. The term "Manufactured Home" does not
               include a "Recreational Vehicle."
MANUFACTURED   A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land divided into two (2) or more
HOME PARK OR   manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
SUBDIVISION:
               The building value, not including the land value and that of any accessory
               structures or other improvements on the lot. Market value may be established by
MARKET VALUE:  independent certified appraisal; replacement cost depreciated for age of
               building and quality of construction (actual cash value); or adjusted tax
               assessed values.
               For purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP), the National
MEAN SEA       Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 or other datum (such as North America
LEVEL:         Vertical Datum of 1988 - NAVD88) to which base flood elevations (BFEs) shown on
               a community's FIRM are referenced.
               Describes a condition where there is a river, flow, or inundation of liquid mud
               down a hillside usually as a result of a dual condition of loss of brush cover
MUDSLIDE       and the subsequent accumulation of water on the ground preceded by a period of
(I.E.,         unusually heavy or sustained rain. A mudslide (i.e., mudflow) may occur as a
MUDFLOW):      distinct phenomenon while a landslide is in progress, and will be recognized as
               such by the Administrator only if the mudflow, and not the landslide, is the
               proximate cause of damage that occurs.
MUDSLIDE       The operation of an overall program of corrective and preventive measures for
(I.E.,         reducing mudslide (i.e., mudflow) damage, including but not limited to emergency
MUDFLOW) AREA  preparedness plans, mudslide control works, and floodplain management
MANAGEMENT:    regulations.
MUDSLIDE
(I.E.,         An area with land surfaces and slopes of unconsolidated material where the
MUDFLOW) PRONE history, geology, and climate indicate a potential for mudflow.
AREA:
NATIONAL FLOOD The NFIP is a Federal program created by Congress to mitigate future flood
INSURANCE      losses nationwide through sound, community-enforced building and zoning
PROGRAM        ordinances and to provide access to affordable, federally backed flood insurance
(NFIP):        protection for property owners.
               For floodplain management purposes, a structure for which the start of
NEW            construction commenced on or after the effective date of a floodplain management
CONSTRUCTION:  regulation adopted by a community and includes any subsequent improvements to
               such structures.
               Any construction started after December 2, 1974 and before the effective start
              date of this floodplain management chapter is subject to the ordinance in effect
               at the time the permit was issued, provided the start of construction was within
               one hundred eighty (180) days of permit issuance.
NEW            A place where the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the
MANUFACTURED   manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum the installation of
HOME PARK OR   utilities, the construction of streets, and final site grading or the pouring of
SUBDIVISION:   concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective date of floodplain
               management regulations adopted by a community December 2, 1974.
POST-FIRM:     Construction or other development for which the "start of construction" occurred
               on or after the effective date of the initial flood insurance rate map (FIRM).
PRE-FIRM:      Construction or other development for which the "start of construction" occurred
               before 1977, the effective date of the initial flood insurance rate map (FIRM).
RECREATIONAL   A vehicle that is:
VEHICLE:
              A. Built on a single chassis, and
              B. Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
               horizontal projection, and
              C. Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towed by a light duty truck, and
              D. Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary
               living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
REGULATORY     See Floodway
FLOODWAY:
               To bring the structure or other development into compliance with State or local
               floodplain management regulations, or, if this is not possible, to reduce the
REMEDY A       impacts of its non-compliance. Ways that impacts may be reduced include
VIOLATION:     protecting the structure or other affected development from flood damages,
               implementing the enforcement provisions of the ordinance or otherwise deterring
               future similar violations, or reducing Federal financial exposure with regard to
               the structure or other development.
REPETITIVE     An NFIP-insured structure that has had at least two (2) paid flood losses of
LOSS           more than one thousand dollars ($1,000) each in any ten (10) year period since
STRUCTURE:     1978.
RIVERINE:      Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including tributaries), stream,
               brook, etc.
SPECIAL FLOOD  The land in the floodplain within a community subject to a one percent (1%) or
HAZARD AREA    greater chance of flooding in any given year. For purposes of these regulations,
(SFHA):        the term "special flood hazard area" is synonymous in meaning with the phrase
               "area of special flood hazard".
               Includes substantial improvement, and means the date the building permit was
               issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction,
               rehabilitation, addition placement, or other improvement was within one hundred
START OF       eighty (180) days of the permit date. The actual start means either the first
CONSTRUCTION:  placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the
               pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of
               columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a
               manufactured home on a foundation.
               Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
               grading, and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
               walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or
               foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
              installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
               not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
               substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first
               alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
               whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
STRUCTURE:     A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage tank that is
               principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home.
               Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the cost of restoring the
               structure to its before-damaged condition would equal or exceed fifty percent
               (50%) of its market value before the damage occurred. See definition of
SUBSTANTIAL    "substantial improvement". Substantial damage also means flood-related damage
DAMAGE:        sustained by a structure on two (2) separate occasions during a ten (10) year
               period for which the cost of repairs at the time of each such flood event, on
               the average, equals or exceeds twenty five percent (25%) of the market value of
               the structure before the damage occurred.
               Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other improvement of a
               structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the market
SUBSTANTIAL    value of the structure before the "start of construction" of the improvement.
IMPROVEMENT:   This term includes structures which have incurred "substantial damage",
               regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not, however,
               include either:
              A. Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing violations of
               state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which have
              been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are the minimum
               necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
               B. Any alteration of a "historic structure", provided that the alteration will
              not preclude the structure's continued designation as a "historic structure" and
               the alteration is approved by variance issued pursuant to this chapter.
               FEMA publications that provide guidance concerning the building performance
               standards of the NFIP, which are contained in Title 44 of the U S Code of
TECHNICAL      Federal Regulations § 60.3. The bulletins and fact sheets are intended for use
BULLETINS AND  primarily by state and local officials responsible for interpreting and
TECHNICAL FACT enforcing NFIP regulations and by members of the development community, such as
SHEETS:        design professionals and builders. New bulletins, as well as updates of existing
               bulletins, are issued periodically as needed. The bulletins do not create
               regulations. Rather they provide specific guidance for complying with the
               minimum requirements of existing NFIP regulations.
               It should be noted that Technical Bulletins and Technical Fact Sheets provide
               guidance on the minimum requirements of the NFIP regulations. State or community
               requirements that exceed those of the NFIP take precedence. Design professionals
              should contact the community officials to determine whether more restrictive
               State or local regulations apply to the building or site in question. All
               applicable standards of the State or local building code must also be met for
               any building in a flood hazard area. (This definition is OPTIONAL)
TEMPERATURE    Having the temperature regulated by a heating and/or cooling system, built-in or
CONTROLLED:    appliance.
VARIANCE:      A grant of relief by the governing body from a requirement of this chapter.
VIOLATION:     The failure of a structure or other development to be fully compliant with the
               community's floodplain management regulations. A structure or other
               development without the finished construction elevation certificate, other
              certifications, or other evidence of compliance required in 44 CFR section 60.3
               (b)(5), (c)(4), (c)(10), (d)(3), (e)(2), (e)(4), or (e)(5) is presumed to be in
               violation until such time as that documentation is provided.
               The height, in relation to the National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929
WATER SURFACE  or the North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988 (or other specified datum),
ELEVATION:     of floods of various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or
               riverine areas.
               A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel, or other topographic feature on or
WATERCOURSE:   over which waters flow at least periodically. Watercourse includes specifically
               designated areas in which substantial flood damage may occur. (Ord. 19-06-18)
 
8-8-3: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Lands To Which This Chapter Applies: This chapter shall apply to all
special flood hazard areas within the jurisdiction of Minidoka County. Nothing
in this chapter is intended to allow uses or structures that are otherwise
prohibited by the zoning ordinance.
   B.   Basis For Special Flood Hazard Areas: The special flood hazard areas
identified by the Federal Insurance Administrator on the flood insurance rate
maps (FIRMs) dated 10/1/1986, and other supporting data, are adopted by
reference and declared a part of this chapter. The FIRM is on file at the
office of the Minidoka County clerk, 715 G Street, Rupert, Idaho.
   C.   Establishment Of Floodplain Development Permit: A Floodplain
development permit shall be required in conformance with the provisions of this
chapter prior to the commencement of any development activities within special
flood hazard areas determined in accordance with the provisions of subsection
8-8-4B.
   D.   Compliance: No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended,
converted, altered, or developed in any way without full compliance with the
terms of this chapter and other applicable regulations.
   E.   Abrogation And Greater Restrictions: This chapter shall not in any way
repeal, abrogate, impair, or remove the necessity of compliance with any other
laws, ordinances, regulations, easements, covenants, or deed restrictions,
etcetera. However, where this chapter and another conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes more stringent or greater restrictions shall control.
   F.   Interpretation: In the interpretation and application of this chapter
all provisions shall be:
      1.   Considered as minimum requirements;
      2.   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
      3.   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
   G.   Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability: The degree of flood protection
required by this chapter is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and
is based on scientific and engineering considerations. Larger floods can and
will occur. Flood heights may be increased by man-made or natural causes. This
chapter does not imply that land outside the special flood hazard areas or uses
permitted within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This
chapter shall not create liability on the part of Minidoka County or by any
officer or employee thereof for flood damages that result from reliance on this
chapter or an administrative decision lawfully made hereunder.
   H.   Penalties For Violation:
      1.   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended,
converted, or altered unless in full compliance with the terms of this chapter
and other applicable regulations.
      2.   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply
with any of its requirements, including violation of conditions and safeguards
established in connection with grants of variance or special exceptions, shall
constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to
comply with any of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined
not more than $__ ($100 recommended) or imprisoned for not more than one
hundred eighty (180) days, or both. Each day the violation continues shall be
considered a separate offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent Minidoka
County from taking such other lawful actions as is necessary to prevent or
remedy any violation. (Ord. 19-06-18)
8-8-4: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Designation Of Floodplain Ordinance Administrator: The building
official, hereinafter referred to as the "floodplain administrator", is hereby
appointed to administer and implement the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Duties And Responsibilities Of The Floodplain Administrator: The
floodplain administrator shall perform, but not be limited to, the following
duties:
      1.   Review all floodplain development applications and issue permits for
all proposed development within special flood hazard areas to assure that the
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied.
      2.   Review all proposed development within special flood hazard areas to
assure that all necessary local, state, and federal permits have been received,
including Section 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of
1972, 33 USC 1334.
      3.   Notify adjacent communities and the Idaho Department of Water
Resources State Coordinator for the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP)
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse and submit evidence of
such notification to the Federal Insurance Administrator (FIA). (This is the
LOMC procedure.)
      4.   Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of any watercourse is maintained; (This is a Hydraulic &
Hydrology Analysis)
      5.   Prevent encroachments into floodways unless the certification and
flood hazard reduction provisions of subsection
8-8-5E are met.
      6.   Obtain and maintain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level)
of the lowest floor (including basement) and all attendant utilities of all new
and substantially improved structures, in accordance with the provisions of
subsection
8-8-4C.3.
      7.   Obtain and maintain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level)
to which all new and substantially improved structures and utilities have been
floodproofed, in accordance with the provisions of subsection
8-8-4C.3.
      8.   Review plans to verify public utilities are constructed in
accordance with the provisions of subsection
8-8-5A.5-7.
      9.   When floodproofing is utilized for a particular structure, obtain
and maintain certifications from a registered professional engineer or
architect in accordance with the provisions of subsections
8-8-4C.3. and
8-8-5B.2.
      10.   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of
boundaries of the special flood hazard areas, and floodways (for example, where
there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field
conditions), make the necessary interpretation. The person contesting the
location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the
interpretation as provided in this chapter.
      11.   When base flood elevation (BFE) data has not been provided in
accordance with the provisions of subsection
8-8-3B, obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any BFE data, along with
floodway data available from a federal, state, or other source, including data
developed pursuant to subsection
8-8-5C.2., in order to administer the provisions of this chapter.
      12.   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is provided but no floodway
data has been provided in accordance with the provisions of subsection
8-8-3B, require that no new construction, substantial improvements, or other
development (including fill) shall be permitted within Zones A1-30 and AE on
the community's FIRM, unless it is demonstrated that the cumulative effect of
the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated
development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the base flood
more than one (1) foot at any point within the community. (This is a Hydraulic
& Hydrology Analysis)
      13.   When the lowest floor and the lowest adjacent grade of a structure
or the lowest ground elevation of a parcel in a special flood hazard area
(SFHA) is above the base flood elevation (BFE), advise the property owner of
the option to apply for a letter of map amendment (LOMA) from FEMA. Maintain a
copy of the LOMA issued by FEMA in the floodplain development permit file.
      14.   Permanently maintain all records that pertain to the administration
of this chapter and make these records available for public inspection,
recognizing that such information may be subject to the Privacy Act of 1974, as
amended.
      15.   Make on-site inspections of work in progress. As the work pursuant
to a floodplain development permit progresses, the floodplain administrator
shall make as many inspections of the work as may be necessary to ensure that
the work is being done according to the provisions of the local ordinance and
the terms of the permit. In exercising this power, the floodplain administrator
has a right, upon presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises
within the jurisdiction of the community at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action.
      16.   Issue stop-work orders as required. Whenever a building or part
thereof is being constructed, reconstructed, altered, or repaired in violation
of this chapter, the floodplain administrator may order the work to be
immediately stopped. The stop-work order shall be in writing and directed to
the person doing or in charge of the work. The stop-work order shall state the
specific work to be stopped, the specific reason(s) for the stoppage, and the
condition(s) under which the work may be resumed. Violation of a stop-work
order constitutes a misdemeanor.
      17.   Revoke floodplain development permits as required. The floodplain
administrator may revoke and require the return of the floodplain development
permit by notifying the permit holder in writing stating the reason(s) for the
revocation. Permits shall be revoked for any substantial departure from the
approved application, plans, and specifications; for refusal or failure to
comply with the requirements of state or local laws; or for false statements or
misrepresentations made in securing the permit. Any floodplain development
permit mistakenly issued in violation of an applicable state or local law may
also be revoked.
      18.   Make periodic inspections throughout the special flood hazard areas
within the jurisdiction of the community. The floodplain administrator and each
member of his or her inspections department shall have a right, upon
presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises within the
territorial jurisdiction of the department at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action.
      19.   Follow through with corrective procedures of subsection
8-8-4D.
      20.   Review, provide input, and make recommendations for variance
requests.
      21.   Maintain a current map repository to include, but not limited to,
the FIS Report, FIRM and other official flood maps, and studies adopted in
accordance with the provisions of subsection
8-8-3B of this chapter, including any revisions thereto including letters of
map change, issued by FEMA. Notify the NFIP State Coordinator and FEMA of your
community's mapping needs.
      22.   Coordinate revisions to FIS reports and FIRMs, including letters of
map revision based on fill (LOMR-Fs) and letters of map revision (LOMRs).
      23.   A community's base flood elevations may increase or decrease
resulting from physical changes affecting flooding conditions. As soon as
practicable, but not later than six (6) months after the date such information
becomes available, a community shall notify the federal insurance administrator
(FIA) of the changes by submitting technical or scientific data in accordance
with this part. Such a submission is necessary so that upon confirmation of
those physical changes affecting flooding conditions, risk premium rates and
floodplain management requirements will be based upon current data.
      24.   Upon occurrence, notify the federal insurance administrator (FIA)
in writing whenever the boundaries of the community have been modified by
annexation or the community has otherwise assumed or no longer has authority to
adopt and enforce floodplain management regulations for a particular area. In
order that all FHBM's and FIRM's accurately represent the community's
boundaries, include within such notification a copy of a map of the community
suitable for reproduction, clearly delineating the new corporate limits or new
area for which the community has assumed or relinquished floodplain management
regulatory authority.
   C.   Floodplain Development Application, Permit, And Certification
Requirements:
      1.   Application Requirements: Application for a floodplain development
permit shall be made to the floodplain administrator prior to any development
activities located within special flood hazard areas. The following items shall
be presented to the floodplain administrator to apply for a floodplain
development permit:
         a.   A plot plan drawn to scale which shall include, but shall not be
limited to, the following specific details of the proposed floodplain
development:
            (1)   The nature, location, dimensions, and elevations of the area
of development/disturbance; existing and proposed structures, utility systems,
grading/pavement areas, fill materials, storage areas, drainage facilities, and
other development;
            (2)   The boundary of the special flood hazard area as delineated
on the FIRM or other flood map as determined in subsection
8-8-3B, or a statement that the entire lot is within the special flood hazard
area;
            (3)   The flood zone(s) designation of the proposed development
area as determined on the FIRM or other flood map as determined in subsection
8-8-3B;
            (4)   The boundary of the floodway(s) as determined in subsection
8-8-3B;
            (5)   The base flood elevation (BFE) where provided as set forth in
subsections
8-8-3B;
8-8-3C; or
8-8-5C;
            (6)   The old and new location of any watercourse that will be
altered or relocated as a result of proposed development; and
            (7)   The certification of the plot plan by a registered land
surveyor or professional engineer.
         b.    Proposed elevation, and method thereof, of all development
within a special flood hazard area including but not limited to:
            (1)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level of the proposed
lowest floor (including basement) of all structures;
            (2)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any non-
residential structure in Zone A, AE, AH, AO, or A1-30 will be floodproofed; and
            (3)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any proposed
utility equipment and machinery will be elevated or floodproofed.
         c.   If floodproofing, a floodproofing certificate (FEMA Form 086-0-
33) with supporting data, an operational plan, and an inspection and
maintenance plan that include, but are not limited to, installation, exercise,
and maintenance of floodproofing measures will be required prior to certificate
of occupancy/completion.
         d.   A foundation plan, drawn to scale, which shall include details of
the proposed foundation system to ensure all provisions of this chapter are
met. These details include but are not limited to:
            (1)   The proposed method of elevation, if applicable (i.e., fill,
solid foundation perimeter wall, solid backfilled foundation, open foundation,
or on columns/posts/piers/piles/shear walls); and
            (2)   Openings to facilitate automatic equalization of hydrostatic
flood forces on walls in accordance with subsection
8-8-5A.8.b when solid foundation perimeter walls are used in Zones A, AE, AH,
AO, and A1-30.
         e.   Usage details of any enclosed areas below the lowest floor.
         f.   Plans and/or details for the protection of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems to be located and
constructed to minimize flood damage.
         g.   Certification that all other local, state, and federal permits
required prior to floodplain development permit issuance have been received.
         h.   Documentation for placement of recreational vehicles and/or
temporary structures, when applicable, to ensure that the provisions of
subsections
8-8-5B.5 and 6 of this chapter are met.
         i.   A description of proposed watercourse alteration or relocation,
when applicable, including an engineering report on the effects of the proposed
project on the flood-carrying capacity of the watercourse and the effects to
properties located both upstream and downstream; and
         j.   A map (if not shown on plot plan) showing the location of the
proposed watercourse alteration or relocation.
(This is a Hydraulic & Hydrology Analysis, & may involve the LOMC procedure)
      2.   Permit Requirements: The floodplain development permit shall
include, but not be limited to:
         a.   A complete description of all the development to be permitted
under the floodplain development permit (i.e. house, garage, pool, septic,
bulkhead, cabana, pole barn, chicken coop, pier, bridge, mining, dredging,
filling, rip-rap, docks, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, or
storage of equipment or materials, etcetera).
         b.   The special flood hazard area determination for the proposed
development in accordance with available data specified in subsection
8-8-3B.
         c.   The flood protection elevation required for the lowest floor and
all attendant utilities.
         d.   The flood protection elevation required for the protection of all
utility equipment and machinery.
         e.   All certification submittal requirements with timelines.
         f.   A statement that no fill material or other development shall
encroach into the floodway of any watercourse, as applicable.
         g.   The flood openings requirements.
         h.   All floodplain development permits shall be conditional upon the
start of construction of work within one hundred eighty (180) days. A
floodplain development permit shall expire one hundred eighty (180) days after
issuance unless the permitted activity has commenced as per the start of
construction definition.
         i.   Fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor are usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access, or storage.
         j.   All materials below BFE/FPE must be flood resistant materials.
      3.   Certification Requirements:
         a.   Elevation Certificates:
            (1)   A construction drawings elevation certificate (FEMA Form 86-
0-33) is required prior to the actual start of any new construction. It shall
be the duty of the permit holder to submit to the floodplain administrator a
certification of the elevation of the lowest floor, in relation to mean sea
level. The floodplain administrator shall review the certificate data
submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the
permit holder prior to the beginning of construction. Failure to submit the
certification or failure to make required corrections shall be cause to deny a
floodplain development permit.
            (2)   A building under construction elevation certificate (FEMA
Form 86-0-33) is required after the lowest floor is established. Within seven
(7) calendar days of establishment of the lowest floor elevation, it shall be
the duty of the permit holder to submit to the floodplain administrator a
certification of the elevation of the lowest floor, in relation to mean sea
level. Any work done within the seven (7) day calendar period and prior to
submission of the certification shall be at the permit holder's risk. The
floodplain administrator shall review the certificate data submitted.
Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the permit holder
immediately and prior to further work being permitted to proceed. Failure to
submit the certification or failure to make required corrections shall be cause
to issue a stop-work order for the project.
            (3)   A final as-built finished construction elevation certificate
(FEMA Form 86-0-33) is required after construction is completed and prior to
certificate of compliance/occupancy issuance. It shall be the duty of the
permit holder to submit to the floodplain administrator a certification of
final as-built construction of the elevation of the lowest floor and all
attendant utilities. The floodplain administrator shall review the certificate
data submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the
permit holder immediately and prior to certificate of compliance/occupancy
issuance. In some instances, another certification may be required to certify
corrected as-built construction. Failure to submit the certification or failure
to make required corrections shall be cause to withhold the issuance of a
certificate of compliance/occupancy. (The finished construction elevation
certificate certifier shall provide at least two (2) photographs showing the
front and rear of the building taken within ninety (90) days from the date of
certification. The photographs must be taken with views confirming the building
description and diagram number provided in Section A. To the extent possible,
these photographs should show the entire building including foundation. If the
building has split-level or multi-level areas, provide at least two (2)
additional photographs showing side views of the building. In addition, when
applicable, provide a photograph of the foundation showing a representative
example of the flood openings or vents. All photographs must be in color and
measure at least 3" × 3". Digital photographs are acceptable.
THE FEMA ELEVATION CERTIFICATE IS OPTIONAL FOR FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT ELEVATION
DATA, BUT IS STATE RECOMMENDED.
THE USE OF THE FEMA ELEVATION CERTIFICATE IS REQUIRED FOR THE PURCHASE OF FLOOD
INSURANCE.
         b.   Floodproofing Certificate: If non-residential floodproofing is
used to meet the flood protection elevation requirements, design plans, with
supporting data, an operational plan, and an inspection and maintenance plan
are required prior to the actual start of any new construction. It shall be the
duty of the permit holder to submit to the floodplain administrator a
certification of the floodproofed design elevation of the lowest floor and all
attendant utilities, in relation to mean sea level. Floodproofing certification
shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a professional engineer
or architect and certified by same. The floodplain administrator shall review
the certificate data, the operational plan, and the inspection and maintenance
plan. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the applicant
prior to permit approval. Failure to submit the certification or failure to
make required corrections shall be cause to deny a floodplain development
permit. Prior to request for a certificate of compliance/occupancy a
floodproofing certificate (FEMA Form 086-0-34) shall be provided to the
floodplain administrator for review and approval.
         c.   If a manufactured home is placed within Zone A, AE, AH, AO, or
A1-30 and the elevation of the chassis is more than thirty six inches (36") in
height above grade, an engineered foundation certification is required in
accordance with the provisions of subsection
8-8-5B.3.b.
         d.   If a watercourse is to be altered or relocated, the following
shall all be submitted by the permit applicant prior to issuance of a
floodplain development permit:
            (1)   A description of the extent of watercourse alteration or
relocation; and
            (2)   A professional engineer's certified report on the effects of
the proposed project on the flood-carrying capacity of the watercourse and the
effects to properties located both upstream and downstream; and
            (3)   A map showing the location of the proposed watercourse
alteration or relocation; and
            (4)   An Idaho Stream channel alteration permit approval shall be
provided by the applicant to the floodplain administrator.
         e.   Certification Exemptions: The following structures are exempt
from the elevation/floodproofing certification requirements specified in items
a. and b. of this subsection:
            (1)   Recreational vehicles meeting requirements of subsection
8-8-5B.5.a;
            (2)   Temporary structures meeting requirements of subsection
8-8-5B.6; and
            (3)   Accessory structures less than two hundred (200) square feet
meeting requirements of subsection
8-8-5B.7.
      4.   Determinations For Existing Buildings And Structures: For
applications for building permits to improve buildings and structures,
including alterations, movement, enlargement, replacement, repair, change of
occupancy, additions, rehabilitations, renovations, improvements, repairs of
damage, and any other improvement of or work on such buildings and structures,
the floodplain administrator, in coordination with the building official,
shall:
         a.   Estimate the market value, or require the applicant to obtain an
appraisal of the market value prepared by a qualified independent appraiser, of
the building or structure before the start of construction of the proposed
work. In the case of repair, the market value of the building or structure
shall be the market value before the damage occurred and before any repairs are
made;
         b.   Compare the cost to perform the improvement, the cost to repair a
damaged building to its pre-damaged condition, or the combined costs of
improvements and repairs, if applicable, to the market value of the building or
structure;
         c.   Determine and document whether the proposed work constitutes
substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage; and
         d.   Notify the applicant if it is determined that the work
constitutes substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage and that
compliance with the flood resistant construction requirements of the adopted
Idaho Building Code and this chapter is required.
   D.   Corrective Procedures:
      1.   Violations To Be Corrected: When the floodplain administrator finds
violations of applicable state and local laws, it shall be his or her duty to
notify the owner or occupant of the building of the violation. The owner or
occupant shall immediately remedy each of the violations of law cited in such
notification.
      2.   Actions In Event Of Failure To Take Corrective Action: If the owner
of a building or property shall fail to take prompt corrective action, the
floodplain administrator shall give the owner written notice, by certified or
registered mail to the owner's last known address or by personal service,
stating:
         a.   That the building or property is in violation of the floodplain
management regulations;
         b.   That a hearing will be held before the floodplain administrator
at a designated place and time, not later than ten (10) days after the date of
the notice, at which time the owner shall be entitled to be heard in person or
by counsel and to present arguments and evidence pertaining to the matter; and
         c.   That following the hearing, the floodplain administrator may
issue an order to alter, vacate, or demolish the building; or to remove fill as
applicable.
      3.   Order To Take Corrective Action: If, upon a hearing held pursuant to
the notice prescribed above, the floodplain administrator shall find that the
building or development is in violation of the flood damage prevention
ordinance, he or she shall issue an order in writing to the owner, requiring
the owner to remedy the violation within a specified time period, not less than
sixty (60) calendar days, nor more than (180) calendar days. Where the
floodplain administrator finds that there is imminent danger to life or other
property, he or she may order that corrective action be taken in such lesser
period as may be feasible.
      4.   Appeal: Any owner who has received an order to take corrective
action may appeal the order to the local elected governing body by giving
notice of appeal in writing to the floodplain administrator and the clerk
within ten (10) days following issuance of the final order. In the absence of
an appeal, the order of the floodplain administrator shall be final. The local
governing body shall hear an appeal within a reasonable time and may affirm,
modify and affirm, or revoke the order.
      5.   Failure To Comply With Order: If the owner of a building or property
fails to comply with an order to take corrective action for which no appeal has
been made or fails to comply with an order of the governing body following an
appeal, the owner shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished at the
discretion of the court.
   E.   Variance Procedures:
      1.   The Minidoka planning and zoning commission as established by
Minidoka county, hereinafter referred to as the "appeal board", shall hear and
decide requests for variances from the requirements of this chapter.
      2.   Variances may be issued for:
         a.   The repair or rehabilitation of historic structures upon the
determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the
structure's continued designation as a historic structure and that the variance
is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the
structure;
         b.   Functionally dependent facilities, if determined to meet the
definition as stated in section
8-8-2 of this chapter, provided provisions of subsections
8-8-4E.8.b, c, and d, have been satisfied, and such facilities are protected by
methods that minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no
additional threats to public safety; or
         c.   Any other type of development, provided it meets the requirements
of this section.
      3.   In passing upon variances, the appeal board shall consider all
technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other
sections of this chapter, and:
         a.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
         b.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion
damage;
         c.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
         d.   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility
to the community;
         e.   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location as defined
under section
8-8-2 of this chapter as a functionally dependent facility, where applicable;
         f.   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to
flooding or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
         g.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and
anticipated development;
         h.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan
and floodplain management program for that area;
         i.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
         j.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
         k.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
      4.   The applicant shall include a written report addressing each of the
above factors in subsections
8-8-4E.3.a through k with their application for a variance.
      5.   Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the purposes of
this chapter, the appeal board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes and objectives of this
chapter.
      6.   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the base flood    elevation (BFE) and
the elevation to which the structure is to be built and that such construction
below the BFE increases risks to life and property, and that the issuance of a
variance to construct a structure below the BFE will result in increased
premium rates for flood insurance up to twenty five dollars ($25) per one
hundred dollars ($100) of insurance coverage. Such notification shall be
maintained with a record of all variance actions, including justification for
their issuance.
      7.   The floodplain administrator shall maintain the records of all
appeal actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management
Agency and the State of Idaho upon request.
      8.   Conditions for Variances:
         a.   Variances shall not be issued when the variance will make the
structure in violation of other federal, state, or local laws, regulations, or
ordinances.
         b.   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if
the variance would result in any increase in flood levels during the base flood
discharge.
         c.   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
         d.   Variances shall only be issued prior to development permit
approval.
         e.   Variances shall only be issued upon:
            (1)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
            (2)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in exceptional hardship; and
            (3)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not
result in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, or
extraordinary public expense, create nuisance, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      9.   A variance may be issued for solid waste disposal facilities or
sites, hazardous waste management facilities, salvage yards, and chemical
storage facilities that are located in special flood hazard areas provided that
all of the following conditions are met.
         a.   The use serves a critical need in the community.
         b.   No feasible location exists for the use outside the special flood
hazard area.
         c.   The lowest floor of any structure is elevated or floodproofed to
at least the flood protection elevation.
         d.   The use complies with all other applicable federal, state and
local laws.
      10.   Minidoka County will notify the State NFIP Coordinator of the Idaho
Department of Water Resources of its intention to grant a variance at least
thirty (30) calendar days prior to granting the variance.
      11.   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the appeal board may appeal
such decision to the Court, as provided in Idaho Code § 67-6535. (Ord. 19-06-
18)
8-8-5: PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION:
   A.   General Standards: In all special flood hazard areas the following
provisions are required:
      1.   All new construction, substantial improvements, and development
shall be designed (or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, and lateral movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and
hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
      2.   All new construction, substantial improvements, and development
shall be constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood
damage in accordance with the Technical Bulletin 2, Flood Damage-Resistant
Materials Requirements, and available from the federal emergency management
agency.
      3.   All new construction, substantial improvements, and development
shall be constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damages.
      4.   All new and replacement electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing,
air conditioning equipment, and other service facilities shall be designed and/
or located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding to the flood protection elevation.
These include, but are not limited to, HVAC equipment, water softener units,
bath/kitchen fixtures, ductwork, electric/gas meter panels/boxes, utility/cable
boxes, hot water heaters, and electric outlets/switches.
      5.   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
      6.   All new and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into flood waters.
      7.   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
      8.   A fully enclosed area, of new construction and substantially
improved structures, which is below the lowest floor used solely for parking,
access, and storage shall:
         a.   Be constructed entirely of flood resistant materials at least to
the flood protection elevation; and
         b.   Include, in Zones A, AE, AH, AO, and A1-30, flood openings to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on walls by allowing for the
entry and exit of floodwaters. To meet this requirement, the openings must
either be certified by a professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed
the following minimum design criteria:
            (1)   A minimum of two (2) flood openings on different sides of
each enclosed area subject to flooding.
            (2)   The total net area of all flood openings must be at least one
(1) square inch for each square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding;
            (3)   If a building has more than one (1) enclosed area, each
enclosed area must have flood openings to allow floodwaters to automatically
enter and exit;
            (4)   The bottom of all required flood openings shall be no higher
than one (1) foot above the interior or exterior adjacent grade;
            (5)   Flood openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or
other coverings or devices, provided they permit the automatic flow of
floodwaters in both directions; and
            (6)   Enclosures made of flexible skirting are not considered
enclosures for regulatory purposes, and, therefore, do not require flood
openings. Masonry or flood resistant wood underpinning, regardless of
structural status, is considered an enclosure and requires flood openings as
outlined above.
      9.   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements to a
structure, which is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, shall
meet the requirements of "new construction" as contained in this chapter.
      10.   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the repair, reconstruction,
or replacement of a building or structure existing on the effective date of
this chapter and located totally or partially within the floodway, or stream
setback, provided there is no additional encroachment below the flood
protection elevation in the floodway, or stream setback, and provided that such
repair, reconstruction, or replacement meets all of the other requirements of
this chapter.
      11.   New solid waste disposal facilities and sites, hazardous waste
management facilities, salvage yards, and chemical storage facilities shall not
be permitted, except by variance as specified in subsection
8-8-4E.9. A structure or tank for chemical or fuel storage incidental to an
allowed use or to the operation of a water treatment plant or wastewater
treatment facility may be located in a special flood hazard area only if the
structure or tank is either elevated or floodproofed to at least the flood
protection elevation and certified in accordance with the provisions of
subsection
8-8-4C.3.
      12.   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall be
consistent with the need to minimize flood damage and    determined to be
reasonably safe from flooding.
      13.   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall
have public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water
systems located and constructed to minimize flood damage.
      14.   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall
have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
      15.   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall
have received all necessary permits from those governmental agencies for which
approval is required by federal or state law, including Section 404 of the
Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, 33 USC 1334.
      16.   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals greater
than fifty (50) lots or five (5) acres, whichever is the lesser, shall include
within such proposals base flood elevation data.
      17.   When a structure is partially located in a special flood hazard
area, the entire structure shall meet the requirements for new construction and
substantial improvements.
      18.   When a structure is located in multiple flood hazard zones or in a
flood hazard risk zone with multiple base flood elevations, the provisions for
the more restrictive flood hazard risk zone and the highest base flood
elevation (BFE) shall apply.
   B.   Specific Standards: In all special flood hazard areas where base flood
elevation (BFE) data has been provided, as set forth in subsections
8-8-3B, or
8-8-5D, the following provisions, in addition to the provisions of subsection
8-8-5A, are required:
      1.   Residential Construction: New construction, substantial
improvements, and development of any residential structure (including
manufactured homes) shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated
no lower than the flood protection elevation, as defined in section
8-8-2 of this chapter.
      2.   Non-Residential Construction: New construction, substantial
improvements, and development of any commercial, industrial, or other non-
residential structure shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated
no lower than the flood protection elevation, as defined in section
8-8-2 of this chapter. Structures located in Zones A, AE, AH, AO, and A1-30 may
be floodproofed to the flood protection elevation in lieu of elevation provided
that all areas of the structure, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, below the flood protection elevation are watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water, using structural components
having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and the
effect of buoyancy. For AH and AO Zones, the floodproofing elevation shall be
in accordance with subsection
8-8-5F.2. A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the floodproofing standards of this subsection are satisfied. Such
certification shall be provided to the floodplain administrator as set forth in
subsection
8-8-4C.3, along with the operational plan and the inspection and maintenance
plan.
      3.   Manufactured Homes:
         a.   New and replacement manufactured homes shall be elevated so that
the lowest floor of the manufactured home is no lower than the flood protection
elevation, as defined in section
8-8-2 of this chapter.
         b.   Manufactured homes shall be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement, either
by certified engineered foundation system, or in accordance with the most
current edition of the Idaho Division of Building Safety's "Idaho Manufactured
Home Installation Standard" in accordance with Idaho Code § 44-2201(2).
Additionally, when the elevation would be met by an elevation of the chassis
thirty-six (36) inches or less above the grade at the site, the chassis shall
be supported by reinforced piers or engineered foundation. When the elevation
of the chassis is above thirty-six (36) inches in height, an engineering
certification is required.
         c.   All enclosures or skirting below the lowest floor shall meet the
requirements of subsection
8-8-5A.8.(a)(b).
         d.   An evacuation plan must be developed for evacuation of all
residents of all new, substantially improved, or substantially damaged
manufactured home parks or subdivisions located within flood prone areas. This
plan shall be filed with and approved by the floodplain administrator and the
local Emergency Management Coordinator.
      4.   Additions/Improvements:
         a.   Additions and/or improvements to pre-FIRM structures when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure are:
            (1)   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or
improvements must be designed to minimize flood damages and must not be any
more non-conforming than the existing structure; or
            (2)   A substantial improvement, both the existing structure and
the addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
         b.   Additions to non-compliant post-FIRM structures that are a
substantial improvement with no modifications to the existing structure other
than a standard door in the common wall shall require only the addition to
comply with the standards for new construction.
         c.   Additions and/or improvements to non-compliant post-FIRM
structures when the addition and/or improvements in combination with any
interior modifications to the existing structure are:
            (1)   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or
improvements only must comply with the standards for new construction; or
            (2)   A substantial improvement, both the existing structure and
the addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
      5.   Recreational Vehicles: Recreational vehicles shall be either:
         a.   Temporary Placement: Be on site for fewer than one hundred eighty
(180) consecutive days and be fully licensed and ready for highway use (a
recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking
system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities, and
has no permanently attached additions); or
         b.   Permanent Placement: Recreational vehicles that do not meet the
limitations of temporary placement shall meet all the requirements for new
construction, as set forth in subsection
8-8-5A.
      6.   Temporary Non-Residential Structures: Prior to the issuance of a
floodplain development permit for a temporary structure, the applicant must
submit to the floodplain administrator a plan for the removal of such structure
(s) in the event of a flash flood or other type of flood warning notification.
The following information shall be submitted in writing to the floodplain
administrator for review and written approval
         a.   A specified time period for which the temporary use will be
permitted. Time specified may not exceed six (6) months, renewable up to one
(1) year;
         b.   The name, address, and phone number of the individual responsible
for the removal of the temporary structure;
         c.   The time frame prior to the event at which a structure will be
removed (i.e., immediately upon flood warning notification);
         d.   A copy of the contract or other suitable instrument with the
entity responsible for physical removal of the structure; and
         e.   Designation, accompanied by documentation, of a location outside
the special flood hazard area, to which the temporary structure will be moved.
         f.   Temporary structures in the floodway must provide a hydraulic and
hydrology analysis along with a no-rise certification.
      7.   Accessory Structures (Appurtenant Structures): When accessory
structures (sheds, detached garages, etc.) used solely for parking, and storage
are to be placed within a special flood hazard area, elevation or floodproofing
certifications are required for all accessory structures in accordance with
subsection
8-8-4C.3, and the following criteria shall be met:
         a.   Accessory structures shall not be used for human habitation
(including working, sleeping, living, cooking, or restroom areas);
         b.   Accessory structures shall not be temperature-controlled;
         c.   Accessory structures shall be designed to have low flood damage
potential;
         d.   Accessory structures shall be constructed and placed on the
building site so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
         e.   Accessory structures shall be firmly anchored in accordance with
the provisions of subsection
8-8-5A.1;
         f.   All utility equipment and machinery, such as electrical, shall be
installed in accordance with the provisions of subsection
8-8-5A.4; and
         g.   Flood openings to facilitate automatic equalization of
hydrostatic flood forces shall be provided below flood protection elevation in
conformance with the provisions of subsection
8-8-5A.8.
         h.   Accessory structures not used solely for parking, access, and
storage must be elevated per subsections
8-8-5B.1. and 2.
An accessory structure with a footprint less than two hundred (200) square feet
and is a minimal investment of seven thousand five hundred dollars ($7,500.00)
or less and satisfies the criteria outlined in a - g above is not required to
provide the elevation certificate per subsection
8-8-5B.2.
      8.   Tanks: When gas and liquid storage tanks are to be placed within a
special flood hazard area, the following criteria shall be met:
         a.   Underground tanks in flood hazard areas shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement resulting from hydrodynamic
and hydrostatic loads during conditions of the base flood, including the
effects of buoyancy (assuming the tank is empty);
         b.   Elevated above-ground tanks, in flood hazard areas shall be
attached to and elevated to or above the design flood elevation on a supporting
structure that is designed to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement
during conditions of the base flood. Tank-supporting structures shall meet the
foundation requirements of the applicable flood hazard area;
         c.   Not elevated above-ground tanks may be permitted in flood hazard
areas provided the tanks are anchored or otherwise designed and constructed to
prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement resulting from hydrodynamic and
hydrostatic loads during conditions of the design flood, including the effects
of buoyancy assuming the tank is empty and the effects of flood-borne debris.
         d.   Tank inlets, fill openings, outlets and vents shall be:
            (1)   At or above the flood protection elevation or fitted with
covers designed to prevent the inflow of floodwater or outflow of the contents
of the tanks during conditions of the base flood; and
            (2)   Anchored to prevent lateral movement resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy, during
   conditions of the base flood.
      9.   Construction of Below-Grade Crawlspace:
         a.   The interior grade of a crawlspace must not be below the BFE and
must not be more than two (2) feet below the exterior lowest adjacent grade
(LAG).
         b.   The height of the below-grade crawlspace, measured from the
interior grade of the crawlspace to the top of the crawlspace foundation wall,
must not exceed four (4) feet at any point.
         c.   There must be an adequate drainage system that removes
floodwaters from the interior area of the crawlspace. The enclosed area should
be drained within a reasonable time after a flood event.
         d.   The velocity of floodwaters at the site should not exceed five
(5) feet per second for any crawlspace.
See Technical Bulletin 11 for further information.
Caution: Buildings that have below-grade crawlspaces will have higher flood
insurance premiums than buildings that have the preferred crawlspace
construction, with the interior elevation of the crawlspace soil at or above
the base flood elevation (BFE).
      10.   Other Development In Regulated Floodways:
         a.   Fences that have the potential to block the passage of
floodwaters, such as stockade fences and wire mesh fences, in regulated
floodways shall meet the limitations of subsection
8-8-5E of this chapter.
         b.   Retaining walls, bulkheads, sidewalks, and driveways that involve
the placement of fill in regulated floodways shall meet the limitations of
subsection
8-8-5E of this chapter.
         c.   Roads and watercourse crossings, including roads, bridges,
culverts, low-water crossings, and similar means for vehicles or pedestrians to
travel from one side of a watercourse to the other side, which encroach into
regulated floodways, shall meet the limitations of subsection
8-8-5E of this chapter.
         d.   Drilling water, oil, and/or gas wells including fuel storage
tanks, apparatus, and any equipment at the site that encroach into regulated
floodways shall meet the limitations of subsection
8-8-5E of this chapter.
         e.   Docks, piers, boat ramps, marinas, moorings, decks, docking
facilities, port facilities, shipbuilding, and ship repair facilities that
encroach into regulated floodways shall meet the limitations of subsection
8-8-5E of this chapter.
      11.   Subdivision Plats: Flood zones.
         a.   A note must be provided on the final plat documenting the current
flood zone in which the property or properties are located. The boundary line
must be drawn on the plat in situations where two (2) or more flood zones
intersect over the property or properties being surveyed.
         b.   FEMA FIRM panel(s): #160xxxxxxC, & 160xxxxxxE, etc.
            FIRM effective date(s): mm/dd/year
             Flood Zone(s): Zone X, Zone A, Zone AE, Zone AO, Zone AH, Zone D,
etc.
             Base Flood Elevation(s): AE ____.0 ft., etc.
            Flood Zones are subject to change by FEMA & all land within a
floodway or floodplain is regulated by Title 8
Chapter 8 of the County Code.
      12.   Critical Facilities: In existing facilities that have not been
substantially damaged, it may not be possible to floodproof or elevate to
provide protection from the two tenths percent (0.2%) annual-chance flood
event. In those instances, floodproofing or elevating as high as practical is
recommended. Three (3) feet is state-recommendation.
   C.   Standards For Floodplains Without Established Base Flood Elevations:
      Within the special flood hazard areas designated as Zone A (also known as
unnumbered A zones) and established in Subsection
8-8-3B, where no base flood elevation (BFE) data has been provided by FEMA, the
following provisions, in addition to the provisions of subsection
8-8-5A, shall apply:
      The BFE used in determining the flood protection elevation (FPE) shall be
determined based on the following criteria:
      1.   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is available from other
sources, all new construction and substantial improvements within such areas
shall also comply with all applicable provisions of this chapter and shall be
elevated or floodproofed in accordance with standards in subsections
8-8-5A and B.
      2.   When floodway data is available from a federal, state, or other
source, all new construction and substantial improvements within floodway areas
shall also comply with the requirements of subsections
8-8-5B and E.
      3.   Require that all new subdivision proposals and other proposed
developments (including proposals for manufactured home parks and subdivisions)
greater than fifty (50) lots or five (5) acres, whichever is the lesser,
include within such proposals base flood elevation data. Such base flood
elevation (BFE) data shall be adopted by reference in accordance with
Subsection
8-8-3B and utilized in implementing this chapter. The applicant/developer shall
submit an application for a conditional letter of map revision (CLOMR) prior to
preliminary plat approval and have obtained a letter of map revision (LOMR)
prior to any building permits for structures being issued. See FEMA 480 and/or
FEMA 265 for further information.
      4.   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is not available from a
federal, state, or other source as outlined above, the lowest floor shall be
elevated or floodproofed (non-residential) to two feet (2.0 ft.) above the
highest adjacent grade (HAG) at the building site or to the flood protection
elevation (FPE) whichever is higher, as defined in section
8-8-2. All other applicable provisions of subsection
8-8-5B shall also apply. (Ord. 19-06-18)
8-8-6: NON-LIABILITY CLAUSE:
The granting of approval of any structure or use shall not constitute a
representation, guarantee or warranty of any kind or nature of the county or
the commission, or by any officer or employee thereof, of the practicality or
safety of any structure or use proposed and shall create no liability upon or
cause action against such public body, officer or employee for any damage that
may result pursuant thereto. (Ord. 19-06-18)
8-8-7: RESTRICTIONS:
Restrictions regarding height, rear yards, side yards, front yard setback,
minimum lot area, signs, vision clearance and parking space shall be the same
as set forth in each specific district located within the floodplain overlay
zone area. (Ord. 19-06-18)
8-8-8: PROHIBITED USES:
It shall be unlawful to erect, alter, maintain or establish in a floodplain
overlay zone any building, use or occupancy not permitted or allowed in the
foregoing provision, except that existing nonconforming uses may continue as
herein provided. (Ord. 19-06-18)
8-8-9: LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS:
   A.   Effect On Rights And Liabilities Under The Existing Flood Damage
Prevention Ordinance: This chapter, in part, comes forward by re-enactment of
some of the provisions of the flood damage prevention ordinance enacted March
23, 1987 as amended, and it is not the intention to repeal but rather to re-
enact and continue to enforce without interruption of such existing provisions,
so that all rights and liabilities that have accrued thereunder are reserved
and may be enforced. The enactment of this chapter shall not affect any action,
suit, or proceeding instituted or pending. All provisions of the flood damage
prevention ordinance of Minidoka County enacted on March 23, 1987, as amended,
which are not reenacted herein are repealed.
   B.   Effect Upon Outstanding Floodplain Development Permits: Nothing herein
contained shall require any change in the plans, construction, size, or
designated use of any development or any part thereof for which a floodplain
development permit has been granted by the floodplain administrator or his or
her authorized agents before the time of passage of this chapter. Provided,
however, that when construction is not begun under such outstanding permit
within a period of one hundred eighty (180) days subsequent to the date of
issuance of the outstanding permit, construction or use shall be in conformity
with the provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Severability: The provisions of this chapter are severable and if any
provision, clause, sentence, subsection, word or part thereof is held illegal,
invalid, or unconstitutional or inapplicable to any person or circumstance,
such illegality, invalidity or unconstitutionality or inapplicability shall not
affect or impair any of the remaining provisions, clauses, sentences,
subsections, words or parts of this chapter or their application to other
persons or circumstances. It is hereby declared to be the legislative intent
that this chapter would have been adopted if such illegal, invalid or
unconstitutional provision, clause sentence, subsection, word, or part had not
been included therein. (Ord. 19-06-18; amd. Ord. 2019-11-18, 11-18-2019)
CHAPTER 9
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD)
SECTION:
8-9-1: Purposes
8-9-2: Governing Provisions
8-9-3: Minimum Area
8-9-4: Uses Permitted
8-9-5: Ownership Requirements
8-9-6: Common Open Space
8-9-7: Utility Requirements
8-9-8: Increased Residential Density
8-9-9: Arrangement Of Uses
8-9-10: PUD Approval Procedure
8-9-11: Preapplication Meeting
8-9-12: Application For Approval Of Preliminary Development Plan
8-9-13: Public Notice
8-9-14: Approval In Principle By Commission
8-9-15: Application For Approval Of Final Development
8-9-16: Recommendation By Commission
8-9-17: Action By Board
8-9-18: Expiration And Extension Of Approval Period
8-9-1: PURPOSES:
It shall be the policy to guide a major development of land construction by
encouraging planned unit development (PUD) to achieve the following:
   A.   A maximum choice of living environments by allowing a variety of
housing and building types and permitting an increased density per acre and a
reduction in lot dimensions, yards, building setbacks and acre requirements;
   B.   A more useful pattern of open space and recreation areas and, if
permitted as part of the project, more convenience in location of accessory
commercial uses, industrial uses and services;
   C.   A development pattern, which preserves and utilizes natural topography
and geological features, scenic vistas, trees and other vegetation and prevents
the disruption of natural drainage patterns;
   D.   A more efficient use of land than is generally achieved through
conventional development resulting in substantial savings through shorter
utilities and streets; and
   E.   A development pattern in harmony with land use density, transportation
and community facilities objectives of the comprehensive plan. (Ord. 2016-09-
13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-9-2: GOVERNING PROVISIONS:
Whenever there is a conflict or difference between the provisions of this
chapter and those of the other chapters of this title, the provisions of this
chapter shall prevail. Subjects not covered by this chapter shall be governed
by the respective provisions found elsewhere in this title. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J,
9-13-2016)
8-9-3: MINIMUM AREA:
A PUD for the following principal uses shall contain an area of not less than:
   A.   Two (2) acres for residential development;
   B.   Two (2) acres for residential use with subordinate commercial or
industrial uses;
   C.   Two (2) acres for commercial use; and
   D.   Ten (10) acres for industrial use. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-9-4: USES PERMITTED:
All uses that may be allowed within the land use district are permitted within
a PUD. Also, up to ten percent (10%) of the gross land area may be directed to
other commercial, industrial, public and quasi-public uses that are not allowed
within the land use district; provided, that there is a favorable finding by
the commission:
   A.   That the uses are appropriate with the residential uses;
   B.   That the uses are intended to serve principally the residents of the
PUD;
   C.   That the uses be located and so designed as to provide direct access to
a collector or an arterial street without creating congestion or traffic
hazards; and
   D.   That a minimum of fifty percent (50%) of the proposed residential
development occur prior to the development of the related commercial or
industrial land uses. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-9-5: OWNERSHIP REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   An application for approval of a PUD may be filed by a property owner
or a person having an existing interest in the property to be included in the
PUD. The PUD application shall be filed by the holder(s) of an equitable
interest in such property.
   B.   Before approval is granted to the final development plan, the entire
project shall be under single ownership or control and legal title must be
presented with the final development plan. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-9-6: COMMON OPEN SPACE:
   A.   A minimum of ten percent (10%) of the gross land area developed in any
residential PUD project shall be reserved for common open space and
recreational facilities for the residents or users of the area being developed.
   B.   The required amount of common open space land reserved under a PUD
shall either be held in corporate ownership by owners of the project area for
the use of each owner who buys property within the development, or be dedicated
to the public and retained as common open space for parks, recreation and
related uses. Public utility and similar easements and rights of way for
watercourses and other similar channels are not acceptable for common open
space dedication, unless such land or right of way is usable as a trail or
other similar purpose and approved by the commission.
   C.   The responsibility for the maintenance of all open space shall be
specified by the developer before approval of the final development plan.
   D.   Every property developed under the PUD approach should be designated to
abut upon common open space or similar areas. A clustering of dwellings is
encouraged. In areas where townhouses are used, there shall be no more than
eight (8) townhouses in any contiguous group. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-9-7: UTILITY REQUIREMENTS:
Underground utilities, including telephone and electrical systems, are required
within the limits of all PUDs. Appurtenances to these systems, which can be
effectively screened, may be exempted from this requirement if the commission
finds that such exemption will not violate the intent or character of the
proposed PUD. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-9-8: INCREASED RESIDENTIAL DENSITY:
To provide for an incentive for quality PUD, the commission may authorize an
increased residential density of up to fifteen percent (15%) of the allowable
number of dwelling units. Character, identity and architectural and siting
variation incorporated in a development shall be considered cause for density
increases, provided these factors make a substantial contribution to the
objectives of the PUD which are as follows:
   A.   Landscaping (a maximum increase of 5 percent), streetscape, open spaces
and plazas, use of existing landscaping, pedestrian way treatment and
recreational areas;
   B.   Siting (a maximum increase of 5 percent), visual focal points, use of
existing physical features such as topography, view, sun and wind orientation,
circulation pattern, physical environment, variation in building setbacks and
building grouping (such as clustering); and
   C.   Design features (a maximum increase of 5 percent), street sections,
architectural styles, harmonious use of materials, parking areas broken by
landscaping features and varied use of housing types. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-
2016)
8-9-9: ARRANGEMENT OF USES:
   A.   Commercial:
      1.   When PUD includes commercial uses, commercial buildings and
establishments shall be planned as groups having common parking areas and
common ingress and egress points in order to reduce the number of potential
accident locations at intersections. Planting screens or fences shall be
provided on the perimeter of the commercial areas abutting residential areas.
      2.   The plan of the project shall provide for the integrated and
harmonious design of buildings, and for adequate and properly arranged
facilities for internal traffic circulation, landscaping and such other
features and facilities as may be necessary to make the project attractive and
efficient from the standpoint of the adjoining and surrounding noncommercial
areas.
      3.   All areas designed for future expansion or not intended for
immediate improvement or development shall be landscaped or otherwise
maintained in a neat and orderly manner.
   B.   Industrial:
      1.   PUDs may include industrial uses if it can be shown that the
development results in a more efficient and desirable use of land.
      2.   Industrial uses and parcels shall be developed in parklike
surroundings utilizing landscaping and existing woodlands as buffers to screen
lighting, parking areas, loading areas or docks and/or outdoor storage of raw
materials or products. A planned industrial area shall provide for the harmony
of buildings and a compact grouping in order to economize in the provision of
such utility services as is required. Thoroughfares shall be kept to a minimum
throughout a planned industrial area in order to reduce through traffic.
      3.   Project side yards of forty feet (40') and a rear yard of fifty feet
(50') shall be required if the project is located adjacent to any residential
uses. All intervening spaces between the right of way line and project building
line and intervening spaces between buildings, drives, parking areas and
improved areas shall be landscaped with trees and plantings and properly
maintained at all times. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-9-10: PUD APPROVAL PROCEDURE:
When the PUD also qualifies as a subdivision, the processing of the special use
permit and subdivision application shall occur at the same time. The granting
of a special use permit for PUD shall require a preapplication, the submission
of a preliminary development plan and approval by the commission of a final
development plan as specified within this title. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-9-11: PREAPPLICATION MEETING:
The developer shall meet with the administrator prior to the submission of the
preliminary development plan. The purpose of this meeting is to discuss early
and informally the purpose and effect of this title and the criteria and
standards contained herein, and to familiarize the developer with the
comprehensive plan, zoning ordinance, subdivision ordinance and such other
plans and ordinances as deemed appropriate. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-9-12: APPLICATION FOR APPROVAL OF PRELIMINARY DEVELOPMENT PLAN:
   A.   Contents Of Application: An application for preliminary PUD shall be
filed with the administrator by a property owner or person having existing
interest in the property for which the PUD is proposed. At a minimum, the
application shall contain the following information filed in triplicate:
      1.   Name, address and phone number of applicant.
      2.   Name, address and phone number of registered surveyor, registered
engineer and/or urban planner assisting in the preparation of the preliminary
development plan.
      3.   Legal description of property.
      4.   Description of existing use.
      5.   Zoning districts.
      6.   A vicinity map at a scale approved by the administrator showing
property lines, streets, existing and proposed zoning and such other items as
the commission may require showing the relationship of the PUD to the
comprehensive plan and to existing schools and other community facilities and
services.
      7.   A preliminary development plan at a scale approved by the
administrator showing topography at two foot (2') intervals; location and type
of residential, commercial and industrial land uses; layout, dimensions and
names of rights of way; utility easements; parks and community spaces; layout
and dimensions of lots and building setback lines; preliminary improvements
drawings showing water, sewer, drainage, electricity, telephone and natural gas
and such other characteristics as the commission deems necessary.
      8.   Proposed schedule for the development of the site.
      9.   Evidence that the applicant has sufficient control over the land in
question to initiate the proposed development plan within two (2) years.
   B.   Statement By Developer: The application for preliminary PUD shall be
accompanied by a written statement by the developer setting forth the reasons
why, in his opinion, the PUD would be in the public interest. (Ord. 2016-09-13-
J, 9-13-2016)
8-9-13: PUBLIC NOTICE:
The same provision for public hearing and legal notifications as required for
special use permits shall be followed. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-9-14: APPROVAL IN PRINCIPLE BY COMMISSION:
   A.   Within twenty eight (28) days after the public hearing, the commission
shall review the preliminary development plan to determine if it is consistent
with the intent and purpose of this title; whether the proposed development
advances the general welfare of the community and neighborhood and whether the
benefits, combination of various land uses and the interrelationship with the
land uses in the surrounding area justify the deviation from standard district
regulations. The commission's approval in principle of the preliminary
development plan shall be necessary before an applicant may submit a final
development plan. Approval in principle shall not be construed to endorse a
precise location of uses, configuration of parcels or engineering feasibility.
   B.   The commission shall consider the general standards and criteria
applicable to special use permits and subdivisions before approving in
principle a preliminary development plan. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-9-15: APPLICATION FOR APPROVAL OF FINAL DEVELOPMENT:
Upon approval in principle of the development plan, an application for approval
of the final development plan may be filed with the administrator by at least
one property owner or person having a presently existing interest in the
property for which the PUD is proposed. Each application shall be signed by the
applicant, attesting to the truth and exactness of all information supplied on
the application for final development plan. Each application shall clearly
state that the approval shall expire and may be revoked if construction on the
project has not begun within two (2) years from the date of issuance of the
approval. At a minimum, the application shall contain the following
information:
   A.   A survey of the proposed development site, showing the dimensions and
bearings of the property lines, area in acres, topography, existing features of
the development site; including major wooded areas, structures, streets,
easements, utility lines and land uses.
   B.   All the information required on the preliminary development plan; the
location of lots, location and proposed density of dwelling units,
nonresidential building intensity and land use considered suitable for adjacent
properties.
   C.   A schedule for the development of units to be constructed in
progression and a description of the design principles for buildings and
streetscapes; tabulation of the number of acres in the proposed project for
various uses; the number of housing units proposed by type; estimated
residential population by type of housing; estimated nonresidential population;
anticipated timing for each unit and standards for height, open space, building
density, parking areas, population density and public improvements proposed for
each unit of the development whenever the applicant proposes an exception from
standard zoning districts or other ordinances governing development.
   D.   Engineering feasibility studies and plans showing necessary water,
sewer, drainage, electricity, telephone and natural gas installations; waste
disposal facilities; street improvements; and nature and extent of earthwork
required for site preparation and development.
   E.   Site plan showing building(s), various functional use areas,
circulation and their relationship.
   F.   Preliminary building plans, including floor plans and exterior
elevations.
   G.   Landscaping plans.
   H.   Deed restrictions, protective covenants and other legal statements or
devices to be used to control the use, development and maintenance of the land,
and the improvements thereon, including those areas that are to be commonly
owned and maintained. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-9-16: RECOMMENDATION BY COMMISSION:
   A.   Presenting Recommendation: Within sixty (60) days after receipt of the
final development plan, the commission shall recommend to the board that the
final development plan be approved as presented, approved with supplementary
conditions, or disapproved. The commission shall then transmit all papers
constituting the record and the recommendations to the board.
   B.   Findings Of Fact: The commission shall find that the facts submitted
with the application and presented to them establish that:
      1.   The proposed development can be initiated within two (2) years of
the date of approval.
      2.   Each individual unit of the development, as well as the total
development, can exist as an independent unit capable of creating an
environment of sustained desirability and stability or that adequate assurance
will be provided that such objective will be attained; the uses proposed will
not be detrimental to present or potential surrounding uses, but will have a
beneficial effect which would not be achieved under standard district
regulations.
      3.   The streets and thoroughfares proposed are suitable and adequate to
carry anticipated traffic, and increased densities will not generate traffic in
such amounts as to overload the street network outside the PUD.
      4.   Any proposed commercial development can be justified at the
locations proposed.
      5.   Any exception from standard district requirements is warranted by
the design and other amenities incorporated in the final development plan; in
accordance with the PUD and the adopted policy of the board.
      6.   The area surrounding said development can be planned and zoned in
coordination and substantial compatibility with the proposed development.
      7.   The PUD is in general conformance with the comprehensive plan.
      8.   The existing and proposed utility services are adequate for the
population densities and nonresidential uses proposed. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-
13-2016)
8-9-17: ACTION BY BOARD:
   A.   Specifications Regarding Decision: Within sixty (60) days after receipt
of the final recommendation of the commission, the board shall approve, approve
with supplementary conditions, or disapprove the application as presented. Upon
granting or denying the application, the board shall specify:
      1.   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the application;
      2.   The reason for approval or denial; and
      3.   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain a
permit.
   B.   Conditions For Issuance Of Zoning Permit: If the application is either
approved or approved with conditions, the board shall direct the administrator
to issue zoning permits only in accordance with the approved final development
plan and the supplementary conditions attached thereto. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-
13-2016)
8-9-18: EXPIRATION AND EXTENSION OF APPROVAL PERIOD:
The approval of a final development plan for a PUD shall be for a period not to
exceed two (2) years to allow for preparation and recording of the required
subdivision plat and the development of the project. If no construction has
begun within two (2) years after approval is granted, the approval of the final
development plan shall be void. An extension of time limit or modification of
the approved final development plan may be granted if the commission finds that
such extension or modification is not in conflict with the public interest.
(Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
CHAPTER 10
NONCONFORMING USES
SECTION:
8-10-1: Intent
8-10-2: Incompatibility Of Nonconforming Uses
8-10-3: Avoidance Of Undue Hardship
8-10-4: Single Nonconforming Lots Of Record
8-10-5: Nonconforming Lots Of Record In Combination
8-10-6: Nonconforming Uses Of Structures And Land
8-10-7: Repairs And Maintenance
8-10-8: Uses Under Special Use Provisions
8-10-1: INTENT:
It is the intent of this title to permit nonconforming uses to continue until
they are removed, but not to encourage their survival. It is further the intent
of this title that nonconforming uses shall not be enlarged upon, expanded or
extended, nor be used as grounds for adding other structures or uses prohibited
elsewhere in the same district. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-10-2: INCOMPATIBILITY OF NONCONFORMING USES:
Nonconforming uses are declared by this title to be incompatible with permitted
uses in the district in which such use is located. A nonconforming use shall
not be extended or enlarged after the effective date hereof by expansion of the
existing use or by alterations or additions to the existing buildings or
premises, or by the addition of other uses of a nature which would be generally
prohibited in the district in which such use is located. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-
13-2016)
8-10-3: AVOIDANCE OF UNDUE HARDSHIP:
To avoid undue hardship, nothing in this title shall be deemed to require a
change in the plans, construction or designated use of any building on which
actual construction was lawfully begun prior to the effective date of the
adoption of this title or adoption of a more restrictive amendment which would
be otherwise applicable to a previously permitted use, and upon which actual
building construction has been carried on diligently. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-
2016)
8-10-4: SINGLE NONCONFORMING LOTS OF RECORD:
In any district in which single-family dwellings are permitted, a single-family
dwelling and customary accessory buildings may be erected on any single lot of
record at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this title,
notwithstanding limitations imposed by the other provisions of this title. Such
lot must be in separate ownership and not of continuous frontage with other
lots in the same ownership. This provision shall apply even though such lot
fails to meet the requirements for area or width, or both, that are generally
applicable in the district; provided, that yard dimensions and requirements
other than those applying to area or width, or both, of the lot shall conform
to the regulation for the district in which such lot is located. (Ord. 2016-09-
13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-10-5: NONCONFORMING LOTS OF RECORD IN COMBINATION:
If two (2) or more lots or a combination of lots and portions of lots with
continuous frontage in single ownership are of record at the time of passage or
amendment of this title and if all or part of the lots with no buildings do not
meet the requirements established for lot width and area, the lands involved
shall be considered to be an undivided parcel for the purpose of this title,
and no portion of said parcel shall be used or sold in a manner which
diminishes compliance with lot width and area requirements established by this
title, nor any division of any parcel be made which creates a lot with a width
or area below the requirements stated in this title. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-
2016)
8-10-6: NONCONFORMING USES OF STRUCTURES AND LAND:
If a lawful use involving individual structures, of a structure and land in
combination, exists at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this
title that would not be allowed in the district under the terms of this title,
the lawful use may be continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject
to the following provisions:
   A.   An existing structure devoted to a use not permitted by this title in
the district in which it is located shall not be enlarged, extended,
constructed, reconstructed, moved or structurally altered, except in changing
the use of the structure to a use permitted in the district in which it is
located.
   B.   A nonconforming use shall not be extended to occupy any additional land
area.
   C.   If no structural alterations are made, any nonconforming use of a
structure or structure and land may, upon the issuance of a special use permit
by the commission, be changed to another nonconforming use; provided, that the
commission shall find that the proposed use is at least as appropriate to the
district as the existing nonconforming use. In permitting such change, the
commission may require appropriate conditions and safeguards in accord with
other provisions of this title.
   D.   Any structure, or structure and land in combination, in or on which a
nonconforming use is superseded by a permitted use shall thereafter conform to
the regulations for the district, and the nonconforming use may not thereafter
be resumed.
   E.   When a nonconforming use of a structure, or structure and land in
combination, is discontinued or abandoned for more than two (2) years (except
when government action impedes access to the premises), the structure, or
structure and land in combination, shall not thereafter be used except in
conformity with the regulations of the district in which it is located.
   F.   Where nonconforming use status applies to a structure, or a structure
and land in combination, removal or destruction of the structure shall
eliminate the nonconforming status of the land, and the nonconforming use shall
not be resumed. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-10-7: REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE:
On any nonconforming structure, or portion of a structure containing a
nonconforming use, work may be done on ordinary repairs or on repair or
replacement of nonbearing walls, fixtures, wiring or plumbing; provided, that
the cubic content existing when it became nonconforming shall not be increased.
Nothing in this section shall be deemed to prevent the strengthening or
restoring to a safe condition of any building or part thereof declared to be
unsafe by any official charged with protecting the public safety upon order of
such official. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-10-8: USES UNDER SPECIAL USE PROVISIONS:
Any use which is permitted as a special use in a district under the terms of
this title shall not be deemed a nonconforming use in such a district, but
shall, without further action, be considered a conforming use for the duration
of the special use permit. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
CHAPTER 11
OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING FACILITIES
SECTION:
8-11-1: General Requirements
8-11-2: Parking Standards
8-11-3: Loading Standards
8-11-4: General Standards For Parking And Loading Areas
8-11-5: General Interpretations
8-11-1: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   No building or structure shall be erected, substantially altered or its
use changed unless permanently maintained off street parking and loading spaces
have been provided in accordance with the provisions of this title.
   B.   The provisions of this chapter, except where there is a change of use,
shall not apply to any existing building or structure. Where the use of an
existing building or structure is changed, there shall be provided as many such
spaces as may be required by this title.
   C.   Whenever a building or structure constructed after the effective date
hereof is changed or enlarged in floor area, number of employees, number of
dwelling units, seating capacity or otherwise, to create a need for an increase
in the number of existing parking spaces, additional parking spaces shall be
provided on the basis of the enlargement or change. Whenever a building or
structure existing prior to the effective date hereof is enlarged to the extent
of fifty percent (50%) or more in floor area, number of employees, number of
housing units, seating capacity or otherwise, said building or structure shall
then and thereafter comply with the full parking requirements set forth
therein.
   D.   Except for residential uses and other uses that require all night
parking, the requirements of this chapter shall not apply to buildings and uses
located within a historical district as designated by the board of county
commissioners. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-11-2: PARKING STANDARDS:
   A.   Space And Area: The following regulations shall govern the location of
off street parking spaces and areas:
      1.   Parking spaces for all detached residential uses shall be located on
the same parcel as the use which they are intended to serve;
      2.   Parking spaces for commercial, industrial or institutional uses
shall be located not more than five hundred feet (500') from the principal use
if such parking is on the same parcel or a contiguous parcel, and not more than
three hundred feet (300') if the parking spaces are located on a noncontiguous
parcel; and
      3.   Parking spaces for apartments, dormitories or similar residential
uses shall be located not more than three hundred feet (300') from the
principal use. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
   B.   Parking Spaces Required: For the purpose of this title, the following
parking space requirement shall apply:
Type Of Use Parking Spaces Required
Type Of Use                              Parking Spaces Required
Commercial:
 Automobile service garages which also   1 for each 2 gasoline pumps and 3 for
 provide repair                          each service bay
 Banks, financial institutions and       1 for each 250 square feet of public
 similar uses                            floor area
 Funeral parlors, mortuaries and similar 1 for each 100 square feet of floor
 type uses                               area in slumber rooms, parlors or
                                         service rooms
 Hotels, motels                          1 for each sleeping room, plus 1 space
                                         for each 2 employees
 Offices, public or professional         1 for each 400 square feet of floor
 administration or service buildings     area
 Retail stores                           1 for each 250 square feet of retail
                                         floor area
 All other types of business or          1 for each 300 square feet of floor
 commercial uses permitted in any        area
 business district
Institutional:
                                         1 for each 5 seats; for areas having
                                         fixed benches or pews, the occupant
 Churches and other places of religious  load shall be not less than the number
 assembly                                of seats based on 1 person for each 18
                                         inches of length of pew or bench in
                                         the main area of occupancy
 Hospitals                               1 for each bed
 Libraries, museums and art galleries    1 for each 400 square feet floor area
                                         1 for each 200 square feet floor area
 Medical and dental clinics              of examination, treating room office
                                         and waiting room
 Sanatoriums, homes for the aged,
 nursing homes, children homes, asylums  1 for each 2 beds
 and similar uses
 Schools (public, parochial or private):
  Business, technical and trade schools  1 for each 2 students
  Colleges, universities                 1 for each 4 students
  Elementary and junior high schools     2 for each classroom and 1 for every 8
                                         seats in auditoriums or assembly halls
  High schools                           1 for every 8 students and 1 for each
                                         teacher and employee
  Kindergartens, childcare centers,      2 for each classroom, but not less
  nursery schools and similar uses       than 6 for the building
Manufacturing:
 All types of manufacturing, storage,    1 for every 2 employees (on the
 and wholesale uses permitted in any     largest shift for which the building
 manufacturing district                  is designed), plus 1 for each motor
                                         vehicle used in the business
                                         1 for every 2 employees (on the
 Express, parcel delivery and freight    largest shift for which the building
 terminal                                is designed), plus 1 for each motor
                                         vehicle maintained on the premises
Recreational or entertainment:
 Auditoriums, sports arenas, theaters    1 for each 4 seats
 and similar uses
                                         2 for each alley or lane, plus 1
 Bowling alleys                          additional space for each 100 square
                                         feet of the area used for restaurant,
                                         cocktail lounge or similar use
 Dance floors                            1 for each 50 square feet of floor
                                         area used for the activity
 Dining rooms, restaurants, taverns,     1 for each 100 square feet of dining
 nightclubs, etc.                        floor area
                                         1 for every 4 seats (every 18 inches
 Outdoor athletic fields                 of bleachers), but no less than 10 for
                                         each field
                                         1 for each 5 person's capacity, plus 1
 Outdoor swimming pools, (public,        for each 4 seats or 1 for each 30
 community, or club)                     square feet floor area used for
                                         seating purposes, whichever is greater
 Skating rinks                           1 for each 100 square feet of floor
                                         area used for the activity
Residential:
 Apartments, or multi-family dwelling    2 for each unit
 Boarding houses, rooming houses,        1 for each sleeping room or 1 for each
 dormitories and fraternity houses which permanent occupant
 have sleeping rooms
 Manufactured home (mobile home)         2 for each unit
 Single-family or two-family dwelling    2 for each unit
 
(Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016; amd. Ord. 2016-09-13-K, 9-13-2016)
   C.   Size: Parking spaces and aisleways required by this title for the
following types of parking shall be sized as follows:
 
Type              Length Width Aisle
Parallel          23'    9'    12'
Diagonal 45°     15'    13'   13'
Diagonal 60°     18'    10'   17'
Perpendicular 90°19'    9'    25'
 
(Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-11-3: LOADING STANDARDS:
   A.   Size: The size of an off street loading space shall not be less than
the following, exclusive of platform and loading area:
      1.   Type A: Sixty five feet (65') in length, twelve feet (12') in width.
      2.   Type B: Thirty five feet (35') in length, twelve feet (12') in
width.
   B.   Number Of Spaces: Off street loading spaces for commercial uses shall
be provided in accordance with the following table:
 
Gross Floor Area  Quantity And Type
(Square Feet)
10,000 to 20,000  1B
20,000 to 40,000  1B + 1A
40,000 to 100,000 2B + 2A
 
For each additional seventy five thousand (75,000) square feet, or fraction
thereof, an additional type A space will be provided.
   C.   Access: Convenient access to loading spaces from streets or alleys
shall be provided; they shall not be less than twelve feet (12') in width.
   D.   Location: The off street loading spaces required for the uses mentioned
shall not project into the public right of way. In no case shall the required
off street loading spaces be part of the area used to satisfy the off street
parking requirements. Spaces shall not be located where their use would cause
sight obstructions at intersections.
   E.   Entrances And Exits: Design and location of entrances and exits for
required off street loading areas shall be subject to review of the
administrator. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-11-4: GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PARKING AND LOADING AREAS:
   A.   Maintenance: The owner of property used for parking and/or loading
areas shall maintain such area in good condition without holes and free of all
obstructions, trash and other debris.
   B.   Drainage: All parking and loading areas shall provide for all weather
use and proper drainage of surface water to prevent the drainage of such water
onto adjacent properties or walkways.
   C.   Lighting: Any parking area, which is intended to be used during
nondaylight hours, shall be properly illuminated to avoid accidents. Any lights
used to illuminate a parking lot shall be so arranged as to reflect the light
away from the adjoining property.
   D.   Ingress And Egress: Any parking area shall be designed in such a manner
that any vehicle leaving or entering the parking area from or onto a public or
private street shall be traveling in a forward motion. Access driveways for
parking areas or loading spaces shall be located in such a way that any vehicle
entering or leaving such area shall be clearly visible by a pedestrian or
motorist approaching the access or driveway from a public or private street for
a reasonable distance considering the normal speed of such traffic.
   E.   Screening: Whenever a parking area is located in or adjacent to a
residential district, it shall be effectively screened on all sides which
adjoin or face any property used for residential purposes by an acceptably
designed wall, fence or planting screen. Such fence, wall or planting screen
shall be not less than four feet (4') nor more than six feet (6') in height and
shall be maintained in good condition. The space between such fence, wall or
planting screen and the lot line of the adjoining premises in any residential
district shall be landscaped with grass, hardy shrubs or evergreen ground
cover, and maintained in good condition. In the event that terrain or other
natural features are such that the erection of such fence, wall or planting
screen will not serve the intended purpose, then no such fence, wall or
planting screen and landscaping shall be required.
   F.   Vehicle Extending Beyond Property Line: Whenever a parking lot extends
to a property line, wheel blocks or other suitable devices shall be installed
to prevent any part of a parked vehicle from extending beyond the property
line.
   G.   Location Of Area: No part of any parking area for more than ten (10)
vehicles shall be closer than twenty feet (20') to any dwelling unit, school,
hospital or other institution for human care located on an adjoining lot,
unless, separated by an acceptably designed screen. If on the same lot with a
one-family residence, the parking area shall not be located within the front
yard required for such building. In no case shall any part of a parking area be
closer than four feet (4') to any established street or alley right of way.
   H.   Disabled Vehicles: The parking of a disabled vehicle within a
residential or commercial district for a period of more than two (2) weeks
shall be prohibited, unless such vehicle is stored in an enclosed garage or
other accessory building.
   I.   Joint Use Of Spaces: Two (2) or more nonresidential users may jointly
provide and use parking spaces when their hours of operation do not normally
overlap; provided, that a written agreement executed by each owner of the
properties involved, and duly recorded, establishes the unconditional right of
each owner to use the designated parking area during the permitted hours as
long as each structure to which the parking pertains remains in existence.
(Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-11-5: GENERAL INTERPRETATIONS:
In the interpretation of this chapter, the following shall govern:
   A.   Parking spaces for other permitted or conditional uses not listed in
this chapter shall be determined by the administrator;
   B.   Fractional numbers shall be increased to the next whole number; and
   C.   Where there is an adequate public transit system or where, for any
other reason, parking demand is unusually low, then the parking space
provisions cited may be reduced proportionately by the commission. (Ord. 2016-
09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
CHAPTER 12
CONFINED ANIMAL FEEDING OPERATIONS
SECTION:
8-12-1: Applicability
8-12-2: Regulations; Setbacks
8-12-3: Classification And Permitted Densities
8-12-4: Definitions
8-12-5: Location
8-12-6: Application For New CAFO Permit
8-12-7: Other Agencies Of Government
8-12-8: Application Referral To Commission; Hearing; Decision
8-12-9: Permit Development
8-12-10: Right To Occupy And Commence Operation
8-12-11: Transferability And Discontinuance
8-12-12: Modification Of Waste Management System
8-12-13: Animal Reporting Requirements; Random Inspections
8-12-14: County Officer Or Employee Entry Authorized
8-12-15: Existing Operations
8-12-16: Enhanced "Grandfather" Rights For Holders Of Prior Use CAFO Permits
8-12-17: Discontinuance Of Use
8-12-18: Appeals
8-12-1: APPLICABILITY:
This chapter shall apply to all confined animal feeding operations located in
Minidoka County. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-12-2: REGULATIONS; SETBACKS:
In addition to all other regulations specified in this title, all new confined
animal feeding operations (CAFOs) shall comply with the following setbacks and
other provisions:
   A.   City Areas Of Impact: All new industrial CAFOs shall be located not
less than one mile outside the defined areas of impact of any incorporated city
within Minidoka County as identified on the zoning map of Minidoka County. All
new commercial CAFOs shall be allowed to locate within a city's area of impact
only within the proper zoning district and with the granting of a special use
permit approved by the county planning and zoning commission.
   B.   Subdivisions: The closest inside edge of the retaining wall of any new
CAFO waste lagoon, or other structures containing liquid waste, and the outside
edge of any composting yard of any new CAFO shall be located at least one mile
from any legally platted subdivision or planned unit development with visible
improvements such as a highway district or county approved and accepted road.
   C.   Dwellings: The closest inside edge of the retaining wall of any new
CAFO waste lagoon or other structure containing liquid waste, or the outside
edge of any composting yard for the waste generated from a confined animal
feeding operation shall be located from any existing dwelling, church, school
or any other building designed for human occupancy, not located within the
designated CAFO site, the following distances for each CAFO category:
      1.   Industrial CAFO: One thousand three hundred twenty feet (1,320').
      2.   Commercial CAFO: One thousand feet (1,000').
      3.   Domestic CAFO: Five hundred feet (500').
   D.   Property Line: The closest inside edge of the retaining wall of the
waste lagoon, or other structures containing liquid waste, and the outside edge
of any composting yard of any new CAFO shall be located at least four hundred
feet (400') inside the existing property lines of the designated CAFO site.
   E.   Corrals: The outside edge of all corrals of any new CAFO shall be
located at least four hundred feet (400') from the nearest existing dwelling,
church, school, or any other building used for human occupancy, not located
within the designated CAFO site.
   F.   Proximity To Right Of Way: Any structure confining animals in a CAFO,
whether barn, corral, or other structure, must have external boundaries no less
than one hundred feet (100') from the external boundary of any public right of
way.
   G.   Health Authority: Locations of waste lagoons, corrals, wells, and
septic systems of any new CAFO shall conform to state of Idaho and health
authority regulations and specifications.
   H.   Lights: Lights for all new CAFOs shall be placed and shielded to direct
the light source down onto and inside the property lines of the CAFO.
   I.   Floodway: The external boundary of a CAFO shall not be less than one
thousand three hundred twenty feet (1,320') from any floodway as defined by the
Minidoka County flood damage prevention ordinance and accompanying map.
   J.   Water: No CAFO shall be located within an area that is a high water
table area or wetland area in regard to the water table level as determined by
a soil survey map from the natural resources conservation service (NRCS).
   K.   Proximity To Well: No barn, corral or other structure in which
livestock are confined in a CAFO, or any lagoon or other structure containing
liquid waste generated from a CAFO, or the outside edge of any composting yard
for the waste generated from a CAFO, shall be located nearer than four hundred
feet (400') from any domestic well and one thousand feet (1,000') from any
public water system not located within the boundaries of the designated CAFO
site.
   L.   Proximity To Residential Low Or Agricultural Low: Any structure
confining animals in a commercial CAFO or industrial CAFO, whether barn,
corral, or other structure, must have external boundaries no less than five
thousand two hundred eighty feet (5,280') from the external boundary of any
land in Minidoka County that is zoned residential low or agricultural low.
   M.   Located Within CAFO Site Boundaries: All barns, corrals or other
structures in which livestock are confined in a CAFO, or any lagoon or other
structure containing liquid waste generated from a CAFO, or any composting or
manure stacking yard for the waste generated from a CAFO, shall be located
within the boundaries of the designated CAFO site. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-
2016)
8-12-3: CLASSIFICATION AND PERMITTED DENSITIES:
Classes of confined animal feeding operations are classified in the different
levels as established in this chapter and chapter 2 of this title. Confined
animal feeding operations subject to the requirements of this chapter include
all new operations or expanding operations, which meet the definitions of
confined animal feeding operations as defined in this title.
   A.   Industrial CAFO: A contiguous parcel of land upon which there is one or
more confinement areas, and upon which there are confined one thousand (1,000)
or more livestock animal units of large livestock or eighty five thousand
(85,000) or more head of fowl and/or furbearers.
   B.   Commercial CAFO: A contiguous parcel of land upon which there is one or
more livestock confinement areas, and upon which there are confined more than
two hundred (200), but less than one thousand (1,000) livestock animal
equivalent units of large livestock or more than one thousand five hundred
(1,500), but less than eighty five thousand (85,000) head of fowl and
furbearers.
   C.   Domestic CAFO: A contiguous parcel of land upon which there is one or
more livestock confinement areas, and upon which there are confined at least
twenty five (25), but no more than two hundred (200), livestock animal
equivalent units of large livestock; and/or at least five hundred (500), but no
more than one thousand five hundred (1,500) head of fowl and/or furbearers.
   D.   Zoning: Confined animal feeding operations shall be permitted only as
established in the official schedule of zoning regulations – land uses. (Ord.
2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-12-4: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, certain terms, phrases or words used herein
shall be defined in chapter 2 of this title. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-12-5: LOCATION:
   A.   Proximity To Property Line: On parcels containing less than twenty (20)
acres where the numbers of livestock do not exceed the animal unit restrictions
for the zone in which they are located and where livestock are permitted, the
barn, corral, pen, coop, or hutch for the keeping of livestock shall not be
located closer than four hundred feet (400') from the nearest dwelling, church,
school, or other building used for human occupancy other than buildings owned
by the owner of the CAFO. Pastured animals may graze to the fence line.
However, pastured animals that are watered or supplemented with any feed shall
not be watered or fed in an area located closer than four hundred feet (400')
from the property line.
   B.   Location Of Facilities: On any lot on which livestock are permitted,
the location of the facilities necessary to house, feed, or care for such
animals shall comply with all regulations in regards to setbacks contained in
this title. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-12-6: APPLICATION FOR NEW CAFO PERMIT:
Owners of real property upon which a new confined animal feeding operation will
be established must file an application for such CAFO with the office of the
zoning administrator for Minidoka County, upon a form approved by the Minidoka
County planning and zoning commission. The application for a new CAFO permit
must be in writing and shall contain the following information:
   A.   Personal Information: Complete names, addresses and telephone numbers
of every owner of real property within the proposed confined animal feeding
operation. If applicant is not the owner of real property within the proposed
site of operation, applicant shall also disclose complete names, addresses and
telephone numbers of all applicants, and shall furthermore state and clarify
their interest(s) in the proposal.
   B.   Legal Description: The complete legal description of the real property
contained within the confined animal feeding operation, including the number of
acres for each description and the geographic information system (GIS) data and
global positioning satellite (GPS) data in digital file format that meets
county mapping department's requirements for each parcel.
   C.   Uses Of Property: A statement of the current and historical uses of the
real property described in the application.
   D.   Zoning: The present zoning district designation of all real property
within the CAFO.
   E.   Description Of Operation: A narrative description describing the
proposed CAFO, including the species of animals that will be confined, the
number of animals that will be confined and a description of the structures and
other facilities that will be required to confine, feed and care for the
animals and remove the solid and liquid waste produced from the CAFO.
   F.   Boundary Map: A map showing the boundaries of the real property
comprising the confined animal feeding operation, including any real property
within one mile of any external boundary of the confined animal feeding
operation. The map, which must be drawn to a scale of not less than eight
inches (8") to the mile, must show the following:
      1.   Land Uses: Existing land uses;
      2.   Water Bodies: Existing ditches, canals, live streams or other bodies
of water;
      3.   Wells: Wells (domestic or agricultural) within a one mile radius of
any proposed barn, corral, lagoon, other structure for containing liquid waste,
feed storage area or feed storage structure associated with the proposed CAFO;
      4.   Structures: The dimensions and locations of barns, corrals, lagoons,
other structures for containing liquid waste, compost yards, feed storage
areas, and feed storage structures on the proposed CAFO site;
      5.   Residences And Roads: The location of all residences, other
buildings intended for human occupancy, and all public roads on the CAFO site
and within a one mile radius of the CAFO boundaries;
      6.   Distances: The map must show the following distances expressed to
the nearest ten feet (10'):
         a.   External Boundaries To Residences: Distances from external
boundary lines of the confined animal feeding operation to residences or other
buildings intended for human occupancy outside the CAFO boundaries.
         b.   Lagoons: Distances from lagoons to external boundary lines of the
confined animal feeding operation area and to all residences or other buildings
intended for human occupancy shown on the map.
         c.   External Boundaries To Highways: Distances from external boundary
lines of the confined animal feeding operation to public highways or floodways.
   G.   Topographical Map: A separate topographical map shall be submitted
showing elevation contours at intervals of not less than twenty feet (20'), or
at such other intervals as approved by the zoning administrator.
   H.   Waste Management: A narrative concerning the waste management aspect of
the CAFO site, including, but not limited to, the exact means and methods by
which the applicant proposes to dispose of liquid and solid waste generated
from the confined animal feeding operation. The narrative statement shall
include a description of the means and methods by which the applicant will
ensure that solid and liquid waste will not escape the boundaries of the
confined animal feeding operation, or enter the waters of the United States Of
America.
   I.   Water Rights: A writing from the department of water resources of the
state of Idaho, including a profile of all water rights necessary for the
operation of the confined animal feeding operation or, if those rights have not
yet been granted, proof that an application for transfer or other suitable
application has been filed with the department of water resources which, if
granted, would allow sufficient water rights to permit a lawful operation of
the new confined animal feeding operation.
   J.   Siting Advisory Team Report: Written comment on, and the approval from,
the state of Idaho siting advisory team. The applicant will bear the
responsibility for any fees or costs incurred that are not part of the
application fee. Fees associated with any site advisory team are not part of
the initial CAFO permit application.
   K.   Statement Of Compliance: A notarized statement that the applicant will,
as a condition of permit approval, construct and operate the confined animal
feeding operation and nutrient management plan acres in keeping with the lawful
directives of the state of Idaho department of agriculture or state of Idaho
department of environmental quality with respect to location and construction
of lagoons, the application of liquid and solid waste from the CAFO and other
matters within the jurisdiction of the department of agriculture or DEQ.
   L.   Comment Letters: Applicant shall supply proof that letters have been
requested from the highway districts having jurisdiction over public roads
shown within or immediately adjacent to the CAFO site as designated on the
previously described map and from any canal company owning ditches or canals
that are within or immediately adjacent to the CAFO site as designated on the
previously described map, fire districts, as well as any utility company or
other easement holders of record pertaining to land within or abutting the
designated CAFO site. Response letters from highway districts, canal companies,
utility companies or other easement holders should recommend conditions that
the commission should consider imposing as conditions of approval, or provide
written comments otherwise relative to the proposal.
   M.   Lighting: The map accompanying the application must show the location
of all corral or yard lights, and the application shall otherwise demonstrate
that the lights have been designed to reflect downward and onto the CAFO to
prevent escape of light and glare outside the boundaries of the CAFO area.
   N.   Demonstration Of Setback Compliance: Compliance with all setback rules
under this chapter must be demonstrated.
   O.   Neighboring Property Owners: A list of names and addresses of all
property owners owning real property located within one mile of the external
boundaries of the CAFO.
   P.   County Weed Plan: A plan developed in conjunction with the Minidoka
County weed department setting forth suitable methods, managements and
practices for controlling weeds on and involved with the proposed development
herein. Weeds shall be defined by state of Idaho noxious weed statutes, laws
and regulations.
   Q.   Fee: A nonrefundable fee, in an amount set by the county, must be
included with any application for a new CAFO.
   R.   Requirements For Filing Application; Consideration: Until all items
listed herein are submitted to the satisfaction of the zoning administrator,
any application made with the zoning department is deemed only to be lodged,
but not to be filed. Applications shall be considered and determined based upon
the regulations existing as of the date of filing of the application, unless
otherwise provided for by action of the board of county commissioners. (Ord.
2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-12-7: OTHER AGENCIES OF GOVERNMENT:
It is recognized that CAFOs governed by this chapter are subject to the
scrutiny and regulation of other governmental agencies including, but not
limited to, the department of agriculture for the state of Idaho, the
department of environmental quality for the state of Idaho, environmental
protection agency of the United States Of America, and the Idaho state
department of water resources. In order to commence operation, the owners or
operators of a new CAFO must comply with the laws, rules and regulations
administered by those other agencies and remain in compliance therewith. It is
not the intention of this chapter to impose a redundant set of regulations on
CAFOs, but rather, it is intended that new CAFO owners demonstrate an ability
to comply with those laws, rules and regulations as a condition of the issuance
of a permit under this chapter. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-12-8: APPLICATION REFERRAL TO COMMISSION; HEARING; DECISION:
The zoning administrator shall review every application submitted under this
chapter. If the administrator determines that the application is complete, the
administrator shall refer the application to the planning and zoning commission
for a hearing on the CAFO application.
   A.   Hearing:
      1.   Prior to the hearing of a new CAFO application:
         a.   A written notice shall be published by the zoning administrator
at least thirty (30) days prior to the date of hearing; and
         b.   Notice shall be posted on the premises by the applicant not less
than one week prior to hearing; and
         c.   Written notice shall also be sent at least twenty (20) days prior
to the date of hearing by the zoning administrator by U.S. mail, first class
postage prepaid, to every person listed by the applicable county tax assessor
as owning real property located within one mile of any external boundary of the
CAFO described in the application notifying such persons and the public that:
            (1)   Submittal: A new application for a confined animal feeding
operation permit has been received;
            (2)   Date: The date upon which the application was received by the
county;
            (3)   Name And Address: The names and addresses of all of the
applicants;
            (4)   Legal Description: The exact legal description of the real
property comprising the proposed CAFO;
            (5)   Nature Of Operation: The nature of the proposed confined
animal feeding operation; and
            (6)   Animal Units: The number of animal units that will be
confined thereon.
      2.   The notice shall further state that a public hearing will be held
prior to the issuance of the permit and give the date, time and place of such
hearing. The zoning administrator shall prepare and file, at least two (2) days
prior to the hearing, an affidavit of publication, posting and mailing
indicating that the notice given is in compliance.
   B.   Support Or Objection: All persons to whom notice is mailed shall be
advised in that notice that they and others who can establish that their
substantial rights would be affected by the approval or denial of the permit
may file written objections or supporting statements with the planning and
zoning commission secretary no later than ten (10) days prior to the hearing
setting forth in that writing that person's support or objection to the
issuance of the new CAFO permit.
      1.   Written objections shall set forth each requirement of law (local,
state or federal) which the objecting party believes the CAFO permit would
violate.
      2.   Written statements shall also set forth either that the party making
the statement owns property within one mile of the external boundaries of the
CAFO site described in the application and/or otherwise setting forth the
substantial rights that would be affected by the approval or denial of the
permit.
      3.   Additionally, any party desiring to file any document(s) shall file
such document(s) at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing, with the planning
and zoning commission secretary.
   C.   Testimony At Hearing: Any person who files a statement in support or
objection to the issuance of a new CAFO permit may be allowed to testify at the
public hearing. In the written statement, the person making the statement shall
indicate whether or not such person desires to testify at the hearing.
      1.   Prior to the hearing, the planning and zoning commission shall
determine which of those persons who desire to testify will be permitted to
testify at the hearing. In this regard, Idaho Code section 67-6529 will be
utilized as a guideline, in providing that only members of the public with
their primary residence within one mile radius of the proposed site may provide
comment at the hearing. However, this distance may be increased by the
commission.
      2.   All statements of support or objections shall be made a part of the
record at the hearing, but no person except the applicant shall be permitted to
testify at the hearing unless they have previously filed a written statement of
support for or objection to the issuance of the permit.
      3.   A transcribable record of the hearing and the deliberation of the
commission toward a decision shall be kept for a period of time not less than
six (6) months, nor shall they be required to be kept for a period of time not
to exceed twelve (12) months, after the planning and zoning commission's final
decision on the matter.
      4.   Upon written request and within the time period provided for
retention of the record, any person may have the record transcribed at his
expense.
   D.   Rules Of Procedure: The planning and zoning commission may adopt rules
of procedure not inconsistent with the provisions of this title or state law
for the conduct of its business and procedures for hearings.
   E.   Decision: After the hearing, the planning and zoning commission shall
approve, disapprove, or approve with conditions the application by written
decision. If the application is approved or approved with conditions, a permit
shall be issued for the CAFO with such conditions as the commission determines.
   F.   State Approval Before Commencement Of Operations: If the CAFO is
approved, then the owner or operator shall submit a letter from the state of
Idaho department of agriculture approving the design of the waste management
system under grade A sanitation requirements in the case of a new dairy wishing
to produce grade A milk, and a letter approving the nutrient management plan,
in the case of all CAFOs. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-12-9: PERMIT DEVELOPMENT:
Any permit obtained under this chapter shall be valid for a period of three (3)
years from final written decision of the board. Any permit that was presented
as being phased over a longer period of time shall be considered commenced when
construction has started for the first phase of the project. Any permit
obtained under this chapter must be occupied by the operator within four (4)
years of issuance by the board. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-12-10: RIGHT TO OCCUPY AND COMMENCE OPERATION:
Any person to whom a new CAFO permit is issued shall not commence operations on
the new CAFO or allow animals to occupy the new CAFO without first having
submitted written proof to the satisfaction of the zoning administrator for
Minidoka County, Idaho, that the CAFO has been constructed in conformance with
the application and that the agencies deemed relevant to the new CAFO
application by the administrator which may include, but not be limited to, the
department of agriculture, the state of Idaho department of environmental
quality, the department of water resources for the state of Idaho, and the
United States Of America environmental protection agency have inspected the
completed facility and approved it ready for the commencement of use. (Ord.
2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-12-11: TRANSFERABILITY AND DISCONTINUANCE:
   A.   The ownership of a CAFO permit may be transferred to a new owner of the
CAFO by application to the zoning administrator stating that the new owner will
assume all duties and responsibilities of the previous owner under the existing
CAFO permit and any agreements then in force with respect to that permit.
   B.   The holder of an existing or new CAFO permit who, once having begun
operations, discontinues its operations for a period not in excess of ten (10)
years may reestablish such use without obtaining a new permit, as provided by
Idaho Code section 67-6538.
   C.   The holder of a CAFO permit that fails to install improvements with
which to commence operations for a period in excess of three (3) years from the
date the permit is authorized by the commission shall be required to qualify
for and obtain a permit as a new CAFO prior to commencement of operations.
(Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-12-12: MODIFICATION OF WASTE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM:
Any holder of a CAFO permit issued in and by Minidoka County may file an
application with the planning and zoning commission for an amendment to the
permit to allow for a new or modified waste management system component of the
CAFO permit. Such application must meet the requirements of section
8-12-6 of this chapter and must show all required approvals required by this
chapter for the new or modified waste management system. The planning and
zoning commission may issue an amended permit upon receiving satisfactory
evidence of the applicant's compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-12-13: ANIMAL REPORTING REQUIREMENTS; RANDOM INSPECTIONS:
Once approved and under operation, the owner or operator shall submit an annual
report to the Minidoka County administrative office describing the quantities
and types of animals confined on the facility, the number of acres required
under its currently approved nutrient management plan, including designation of
owned acreage and export acreage, including legal descriptions and the global
positioning satellite (GPS) data in format suitable to the county mapping
department for each parcel not previously reported. This report shall be filed
by December 31 of each year. Additionally, the owner or operator shall allow
any authorized county officer or employee to enter onto its facility for
purposes of ensuring compliance with county regulations which are applicable to
the operation and for purposes of ensuring the operation does not exceed the
permitted number and type of animal units. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-12-14: COUNTY OFFICER OR EMPLOYEE ENTRY AUTHORIZED:
It shall be unlawful and a misdemeanor to interfere with, hinder or refuse to
allow any authorized county officer or employee to enter upon private or public
property to enforce the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-
2016)
8-12-15: EXISTING OPERATIONS:
   A.   Prior Use Permit: Owners of CAFOs which were in existence prior to
February 12, 1992, were required to obtain a "prior use CAFO permit" to qualify
for the enhanced "prior use" or "grandfather" rights extended under section
8-12-16 of this chapter. Those existing CAFOs, to obtain a "prior use CAFO
permit", were required to submit applications that contained the following:
      1.   Description Of Operation: A full description of the operation and
facilities including location and maximum capacity of the facilities and the
numbers and type of livestock located on the parcel at the time of application.
      2.   Site Plan: The application was to be accompanied by an owner drawn
or owner submitted site plan of the facilities and structures located on the
CAFO.
   B.   Approval: A "prior use CAFO permit or update" was thereafter issued by
the zoning administrator upon receipt of a complete application and the fee.
Prior use CAFO permits were only issued for applications filed by January 1,
2000. After such date, no further prior use permits or updates were issued.
   C.   Transferability: A "prior use CAFO permit" may be transferred to a new
owner of the CAFO by application to the zoning administrator stating that the
new owner will assume all duties and responsibilities of the previous owner
under the existing CAFO permit and any agreements then in force with respect to
that permit. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-12-16: ENHANCED "GRANDFATHER" RIGHTS FOR HOLDERS OF PRIOR USE CAFO PERMITS:
   A.   Enhanced "Grandfather" Rights: Notwithstanding the provisions of
chapter 10 of this title regarding nonconforming uses, the holder of a prior
use CAFO permit shall be entitled to expand or increase the size of the CAFO
operation as follows:
      1.   A nonconforming confined animal feeding operation may be changed to
a conforming use by meeting the requirements of this chapter.
      2.   A nonconforming confined animal feeding operation may make
improvements; provided, that the number of animal units does not increase.
      3.   Any improvements made to a nonconforming confined animal feeding
operation shall not increase in any manner a noncomplying existing condition of
the operation.
      4.   A nonconforming confined animal feeding operation shall lose its
nonconforming or grandfather use rights if the operation ceases for more than
three (3) years.
   B.   Holders Of Prior Use CAFO Permits: Holders of prior use CAFO permits
who desire to expand their operations under this section shall file an
application for expansion of prior use CAFO permit with the office of the
zoning administrator which outlines the nature and size of the expansion. Such
applicants shall not be required to meet the standards for new CAFOs, except
they shall be required to demonstrate compliance with county livestock density
regulations and overall size of operations regulations, as well as all state
and federal regulations applicable to their operation.
   C.   Review Of Prior Use CAFO Permit: Upon receipt of an application to
expand a prior use CAFO permit, the zoning administrator shall review the same
for completeness and compliance with the limitations of this chapter and submit
the application to the planning and zoning commission for review and approval.
(Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-12-17: DISCONTINUANCE OF USE:
The holder of a "prior use" CAFO permit who discontinues its operations for a
period not in excess of ten (10) years may reestablish such use without
obtaining a new permit. Prior use CAFO uses that are discontinued for a period
in excess of ten (10) years shall be required to obtain a permit as a new CAFO
to reestablish operations. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-12-18: APPEALS:
An applicant, any person who receives a mailed notice of an application for
issuance of a CAFO permit under this chapter, or any person whose substantial
rights are affected by the issuance or denial of a CAFO permit may appeal the
decision of the planning and zoning commission by filing a notice of appeal
stating the basis for such appeal together with a specification of the
provisions of the law the decision is deemed to violate within fourteen (14)
days of the date of the signing of the planning and zoning commission decision,
and paying a fee set by the county. Appeals shall be filed and heard in
conformance with section
8-3-10 of this title. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
ARTICLE A. ENCLOSED AND TOTALLY CONFINED POULTRY CAFO OPERATIONS
SECTION:
8-12A-1: Applicability
8-12A-2: Procedure
8-12A-3: Definitions
8-12A-4: Zones Allowed
8-12A-5: Development Density
8-12A-6: Setbacks
8-12A-7: Application Requirements For New Poultry CAFO Permit
8-12A-8: Permit Hearing Process
8-12A-9: Right To Occupy And Commence Operation
8-12A-10: Transferability And Discontinuance
8-12A-11: Permit Development
8-12A-12: Reporting Requirements; Random Inspections
8-12A-13: County Officer Or Employee Authorized Entry
8-12A-14: Appeals
8-12A-1:   APPLICABILITY:
   A.   The regulations established in this article shall apply to all new
poultry confined animal feeding operations (P-CAFO), the operation's facilities
and to conversions and expansions of existing poultry CAFOs and facilities that
constitute a totally confined system and dry manure system. The zoning
administrator shall interpret this article and any applications made pursuant
thereto to ensure that said applications or permits issued thereafter under
this article are in accordance with the terms and provisions hereunder set
forth.
   B.   These regulations shall not apply to any unconfined or semiconfined
poultry CAFO or facility. Any poultry CAFO or facility not covered by this
article shall meet the requirements of this chapter. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-
2016)
8-12A-2:   PROCEDURE:
   A.   All newly proposed poultry CAFOs, and all conversions and expansions of
existing poultry CAFOs shall be required to obtain a poultry CAFO permit as is
hereinafter set forth in this chapter.
   B.   All newly proposed poultry CAFOs, and all conversions and expansions of
existing poultry CAFOs which exceed capacity to house fifty thousand (50,000)
poultry shall also be required to obtain a special use permit under chapter 3,
article B of this title before commencing any building or operations as a
poultry CAFO. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-12A-3:   DEFINITIONS:
   DRY LITTER OPERATION: Any poultry facility that does not use water or
wastewater to harvest or transport manure from poultry housing.
   ENCLOSED: Any poultry facility where all birds are housed within enclosed
structures and where no open pens are utilized, and where any activity
associated with poultry raising or waste management from poultry raising
activity is handled within a totally enclosed and confined structure.
   ENVIRONMENTALLY CONTROLLED: Poultry housing that has solid sides and end
walls with all openings sealed except for fan exits and ventilation intakes,
allowing no access to outside open pens. The housing is climate controlled for
temperature and moisture.
   HATCHERY: A commercial establishment dedicated to the hatching of poultry
eggs to provide day old chicks to the poultry industry.
   LARGE POULTRY CAFO: A poultry facility where more than one thousand five
hundred (1,500) birds can be housed. The birds are housed at a single physical
site and may include multiple buildings.
   LIQUID WASTE OPERATION: Any poultry facility that uses water or wastewater
to harvest or transport manure from poultry housing to a storage structure.
   POULTRY: Domesticated male or female chickens that are housed for the
production of meat or eggs, and includes commercial layers, layer breeder,
broiler, broiler breeder and pullets.
   POULTRY CAFO BOUNDARY: A legally described parcel or parcels of land
containing a poultry CAFO to be used for establishing setbacks between new and
existing facilities.
   POULTRY CAFO CLASSIFICATIONS:
   A.   Domestic Poultry CAFO: At least five hundred (500) but no more than one
thousand five hundred (1,500) head of fowl.
   B.   Commercial Poultry CAFO: More than one thousand five hundred (1,500)
but less than eighty five thousand (85,000) head of fowl.
   C.   Industrial Poultry CAFO: More than eighty five thousand (85,000) but
less than four million two hundred thousand (4,200,000) fowl.
   POULTRY FACILITY: Includes all coops, barns, pens, manure storage areas, and
dead poultry disposal areas used in conjunction with poultry production and
which are on the same site as the poultry operation. Adjacent sites under
common ownership are considered the same facility for purposes of this
definition.
   PRODUCTION AREA: The area expressed in square feet of poultry housing used
in the raising of poultry not including mechanical, worker or office space.
   UN-ENCLOSED: Any poultry CAFO or facility where any birds are raised in open
pens with or without shades and are subject to the elements, and also where any
function associated with poultry raising or waste management from poultry
raising activity is not handled in an enclosed facility. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-
13-2016; amd. Ord. 2019-11-18, 11-18-2019)
8-12A-4:   ZONES ALLOWED:
   A.   Large poultry CAFOs may be sited in the prime agricultural and multiple
use zones, as long as appropriate permits therefor are granted by the county.
   B.   Large poultry CAFOs will not be permitted nor sited in any zone other
than as listed in section
8-6-2 of this title.
   C.   Hatcheries will not be permitted nor sited in any zone other than as
listed in section
8-6-2 of this title. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-12A-5:   DEVELOPMENT DENSITY:
Based upon information presented to the county by industry experts, and in an
effort to avoid existing density requirements related to nutrient management
planning, the county will permit based on the following criteria:
   A.   A large poultry CAFO must own four (4) square feet of contiguous land
for every one square foot of production area, which land shall be designated to
the particular P-CAFO and may not be used to satisfy any other density
requirements of Minidoka County in siting any animal feeding operation. Any
reduction in land size for the poultry CAFO shall automatically require the
poultry CAFO to reduce numbers of birds to stay in balance.
   B.   A large poultry CAFO may not exceed maximum size of four million two
hundred thousand (4,200,000) birds at any one time. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-
2016)
8-12A-6:   SETBACKS:
   A.   The following minimum setbacks are applicable to all poultry operations
under this article. These minimum setbacks may be increased by action of the
planning and zoning commission, if in the determination of the commission,
additional setback is needed to provide for the protection of health, safety or
general welfare of the county.
      1.   Four hundred feet (400') from poultry housing or any poultry CAFO
structure to any dwelling, church, school or other building designed for human
occupancy not located on the designated CAFO site. One hundred foot (100')
setback from property line(s) and public rights of way to all poultry facility
buildings and storage areas.
      2.   Poultry facility improvements and storage areas under this article
shall only be built within flood zone C or those areas designated by D as
established by the most current version of the flood insurance rate map
produced by the federal emergency management agency (FEMA).
      3.   Four hundred foot (400') setback from poultry facility buildings and
storage areas to any water wells documented by Idaho department of water
resources, or any other wells known to the applicant or its agents, which are
located on the designated poultry CAFO site.
      4.   All lighting shall be placed and shielded to direct the light source
down onto and inside the property lines of the designated poultry CAFO site.
      5.   All facilities and storage areas for confining poultry and/or
poultry waste shall be located within the boundaries of the designated poultry
CAFO site.
      6.   The external boundaries of any large poultry CAFO must be at least
five thousand two hundred eighty feet (5,280') from the external boundary of
any property in Minidoka County that is zoned as agricultural low, residential
or city impact/buffer zone.
      7.   The external boundary of any large poultry CAFO structure under this
article must be located at least one thousand three hundred twenty feet
(1,320') from any existing legally platted subdivision or planned unit
development with visible improvements such as a highway district or county
approved and accepted road.
      8.   A large poultry CAFO must maintain a minimum biosecurity distance
between large poultry CAFOs to protect existing operations from the impacts of
new operations. This will be accomplished by each poultry CAFO of fifty
thousand (50,000) birds or less having a one mile buffer extending from its
external boundaries; any poultry CAFO in excess of fifty thousand (50,000)
birds shall have and provide a two (2) mile buffer extending from its external
boundaries. No proposed large poultry CAFO can be sited within an existing
biosecurity buffer area. No proposed biosecurity buffer may intersect an
existing biosecurity buffer area.
      9.   All poultry CAFO facilities shall have environmentally controlled
barns for all poultry housing.
      10.   All transport of litter to, from and between any poultry CAFO
facility which is permitted hereunder shall be fully covered during
transportation and holding.
      11.   Any land applied litter of a large poultry CAFO that is permitted
hereunder shall not be applied in the biosecurity area of another poultry CAFO
facility.
   B.   Additional setbacks and requirements for new poultry CAFOs or expanding
poultry CAFOs which exceed a capacity to house fifty thousand (50,000) poultry.
These additional setbacks are:
      1.   Poultry CAFOs under this subsection shall not propose a litter
disposal system that relies on land application of raw untreated litter or
application of composted poultry CAFO waste to land.
      2.   Poultry CAFOs under this subsection shall have a litter disposal
system that is fully enclosed and treats or manufactures the litter into a
usable commercial product which may include, but not necessarily be limited to,
energy or fertilizer pellets.
         a.   The treatment, processing, or manufacturing may be done on site
or off site;
         b.   Treatment, processing or manufacturing may be done by the poultry
CAFO permit holder or by contract through and with a third party;
         c.   Third party contracts hereunder must contain the conditions
imposed by the planning and zoning commission and be approved by the county
prosecuting attorney;
         d.   Any entity providing storage, treatment, processing and/or
manufacturing related hereto, that is located in Minidoka County must have
applied for and have been granted a conditional use permit under chapter 3 of
this title before commencing any such operation. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-12A-7:   APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS FOR NEW POULTRY CAFO PERMIT:
Owners of real property upon which a new poultry CAFO will be established must
file an application for such poultry CAFO with the office of the zoning
administration for Minidoka County. The application for a new poultry CAFO must
be in writing and shall contain the following information:
   A.   Personal Information: Complete names, addresses and telephone numbers
of every owner of real property within the proposed confined animal feeding
operation. If applicant is not the owner of real property within the proposed
site of operation, applicant shall also disclose complete names, addresses and
telephone numbers of all applicants, and shall furthermore state and clarify
their interest(s) in the proposal.
   B.   Legal Description: The complete legal description of the real property
contained within the confined animal feeding operation, including the number of
acres for each description and the geographic information system (GIS) data and
global positioning satellite (GPS) data in digital file format that meets
county mapping department's requirements for each parcel.
   C.   Use And Zoning: The present zoning district designation and a
description of the current and historical uses of the proposed CAFO site shall
be stated.
   D.   Site Map: A map showing the boundaries of the poultry CAFO site and all
improvements and storage areas on the poultry CAFO. The map must be drawn to a
standard scale of at least one inch equals one hundred feet (1" = 100') or as
approved by the zoning administrator. The map must show the following:
      1.   Water Bodies: Existing ditches, canals, live streams or other bodies
of water.
      2.   Wells: All wells located within the site as documented by Idaho
department of water resources (IDWR), or any other wells known to the applicant
or its agents.
      3.   Structures: The dimensions and locations of barns and waste storage
areas.
      4.   Lighting: The location of any light towers located on the site.
      5.   Residences And Roads: The location of all buildings intended for
human occupancy and roads on the poultry CAFO site.
      6.   Distances: The map must show the following distances expressed to
the nearest ten feet (10'):
         a.   Shortest distance from property line and public right of way to
facility barns and waste storage areas.
         b.   A note specifying the square footage of actual production space
for the site.
      7.   Flood Zones: Flood zones or designated areas as established by the
most current version of the flood insurance rate map produced by the federal
emergency management agency (FEMA).
   E.   Vicinity Map: A map showing the boundaries of the poultry CAFO site and
the surrounding property within two (2) miles of the poultry CAFO site. The map
must be drawn to scale of not less than eight inches equals one mile (8" = 1
mile or 1" = 660') and must show the following:
      1.   Water Bodies: Existing ditches, canals, live streams or other
bodies.
      2.   Wells: All wells located within the two (2) mile radius as
documented by Idaho department of water resources (IDWR), or any other wells
known to the applicant or its agents.
      3.   Residences And Roads: The approximate location of all buildings
intended for human occupancy and roads within two (2) miles of the poultry CAFO
site.
      4.   Distances: The map must show the following distances expressed to
the nearest ten feet (10'):
         a.   Shortest distance from the external poultry CAFO boundary to a
dwelling, church, school or other building designed for human occupancy not
located on the designated poultry CAFO site.
         b.   Shortest distance from any manure storage area to a dwelling,
church, school or other building designed for human occupancy not located on
the designated poultry CAFO site.
         c.   Shortest distance from the external boundaries of the poultry
CAFO to flood zones A or B, as designated by FEMA on the flood rate insurance
map. If this distance exceeds five thousand two hundred eighty feet (5,280'),
affixing a note to that effect on the map will be sufficient showing.
   F.   Topographical Map: A separate topographical map shall be submitted
showing elevation contours for the poultry CAFO site.
   G.   Waste Management: A narrative description of the waste management
system which includes the proposed means the facility will employ to dispose of
all waste including litter and dead animals. The narrative shall include a
description of the means and methods by which the applicant will ensure that
waste will not escape the boundaries of the poultry CAFO or enter the waters of
the U.S. This description shall include a copy of the facility's approved
nutrient management plan (NMP). The acres required for the waste management
system, as determined by the NMP, shall be identified and described as set
forth in subsection B of this section. Such identified acres shall not be used
for density or NMP purposes for any other poultry CAFO.
   H.   Third Party Contracts: Third party contracts for waste disposal shall
be allowed subject to the approval of the county prosecuting attorney for
facilities that are not included within, or governed by subsection
8-12A-6B of this article. All such third party contracts must remain in effect
during the term of the poultry CAFO permit; however, third party contracts may
be substituted during the term of the permit so long as they meet any
applicable governmental regulations for waste disposal. The applicant shall
also include the geographic information system (GIS) data and global
positioning satellite (GPS) data in digital file format that meets county
mapping department's requirements to identify the land in each third party
contract. Once land is contracted hereunder, it cannot be contracted at the
same time for any other operational density requirement or approved nutrient
management plan requirement for any other facility or use in Minidoka County.
If contracted land is withdrawn and the same amount of substitute land is not
contracted in its place, then the permit holder shall permanently reduce the
number of birds that can be housed at the poultry CAFO to meet density
requirements herein set out.
   I.   Neighboring Property Owners: A list of names and addresses of all
property owners owning real property located within one mile of the external
boundaries of the poultry CAFO.
   J.   Water Rights: A writing from the department of water resources of the
state of Idaho, including a profile of all water rights necessary for the
operation of the confined animal feeding operation or, if those rights have not
yet been granted, proof that an application for transfer or other suitable
application has been filed with the department of water resources which, if
granted, would allow sufficient water rights to permit a lawful operation of
the new confined animal feeding operation.
   K.   Fee: A nonrefundable fee, in an amount set by the county, must be
included with any application for a new poultry CAFO.
   L.   Filing Of Application; Consideration: Until all items listed herein are
submitted to the satisfaction of the zoning administrator, any application made
with the zoning department is deemed only to be lodged, but not to be filed.
Applications shall be considered and determined based upon the regulations
existing as of the date of filing of the application, unless otherwise provided
for by action of the board of county commissioners. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-
2016)
8-12A-8:   PERMIT HEARING PROCESS:
The zoning administrator shall review every poultry CAFO and SUP application
submitted under this article. If the administrator determines that the
applications are complete, the administrator shall refer the applications to
the planning and zoning commission for a hearing on the poultry CAFO and SUP
applications. Special use permits shall be reviewed, referred, noticed and
heard in accordance with provisions of chapter 3 of this title, and shall be
heard in conjunction with poultry CAFO permits hereunder.
   A.   Hearing:
      1.   Prior to the hearing of a new poultry CAFO permit, hearing and
notice procedures shall be in accordance with section
8-3-9 of this title and Idaho Code section 67-6529.
      2.   The notice shall further state that a public hearing will be held
prior to the issuance of the permit and give the date, time and place of such
hearing. The applicant shall prepare and file, with the planning and zoning
secretary, at least two (2) days prior to the hearing, an affidavit of
publication, posting and mailing indicating that the notice given is in
compliance with subsections A and B of this section.
   B.   Support Or Objection: All persons to whom notice is mailed shall be
advised in that notice that they and others who can establish that their
substantial rights would be affected by the approval or denial of the permit
may file written objections or supporting statements with the planning and
zoning commission secretary no later than ten (10) days prior to the hearing
setting forth in that writing that person's support or objection to the
issuance of the new poultry CAFO permit.
      1.   Written objections shall set forth each requirement of law (local,
state or federal) which the objecting party believes the poultry CAFO permit
would violate.
      2.   Written statements shall also set forth either that the party making
the statement owns property within one mile of the external boundaries of the
poultry CAFO site described in the application and/or otherwise setting forth
the substantial rights that would be affected by the approval or denial of the
permit.
      3.   Additionally, any party desiring to file any document(s) exceeding
one one-sided, eight and one-half inch by eleven inch (81/2" x 11") sized page,
shall file such document(s) at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing, with
the planning and zoning commission secretary. The planning and zoning
commission reserves the right to reject any proffered documentation that
violates the intent of this regulation.
   C.   Testimony At Hearing: Any person who files a statement in support or
objection to the issuance of a new poultry CAFO permit shall indicate in such
statement whether or not such person desires to testify at the hearing.
      1.   Prior to the hearing, the planning and zoning commission shall
determine which of those persons who desire to testify will be permitted to
testify at the hearing.
      2.   All statements of support or objections shall be made a part of the
record at the hearing, but no person except the applicant shall be permitted to
testify at the hearing unless they have previously filed a written statement of
support for or objection to the issuance of the permit.
      3.   A transcribable record of the hearing and the deliberation of the
commission toward a decision shall be kept for a period of time not less than
six (6) months, nor shall they be required to be kept for a period of time not
to exceed twelve (12) months, after the planning and zoning commission's final
decision on the matter.
      4.   Upon written request and within the time period provided for
retention of the record, any person may have the record transcribed at his
expense.
   D.   Rules Of Procedure: The planning and zoning commission may adopt rules
of procedure not inconsistent with the provisions of this title or state law
for the conduct of its business and procedures for hearings.
   E.   Decision: After the hearing, the planning and zoning commission shall
approve, disapprove, or approve with conditions the application by written
decision. If the application is approved or approved with conditions, a permit
shall be issued for the poultry CAFO with such conditions as the commission
determines. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-12A-9:   RIGHT TO OCCUPY AND COMMENCE OPERATION:
Any person to whom a new poultry CAFO permit is issued shall not commence
operations on the new poultry CAFO or allow poultry to occupy the new poultry
CAFO without first having submitted written proof to the zoning administrator
for Minidoka County that the poultry CAFO:
   A.   Has been constructed in conformance with the application; and
   B.   That the agencies deemed relevant to the new poultry CAFO application
by the administrator have inspected the completed facility and approved it
ready for the commencement of use; and
   C.   That the facility has in place a valid water right(s) to permit the
lawful operation of the facility. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-12A-10:   TRANSFERABILITY AND DISCONTINUANCE:
The ownership of a poultry CAFO permit may be transferred to a new owner of the
poultry CAFO by application to the zoning administrator stating that the new
owner will assume all duties and responsibilities of the previous owner under
the existing poultry CAFO permit and any agreements then in force with respect
to that permit. The holder of an existing or new poultry CAFO permit who
discontinues its operations for a period not in excess of ten (10) years may
reestablish such use without obtaining a new permit as provided by Idaho Code
section 67-6538. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-12A-11:   PERMIT DEVELOPMENT:
Any permit obtained under this article shall be valid for a period of three (3)
years from final written decision of the board. Any permit that was presented
as being phased over a longer period of time shall be considered commenced when
construction has started for the first phase of the project. Any permit
obtained under this article must be occupied by the operator within four (4)
years of issuance by the board. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-12A-12:   REPORTING REQUIREMENTS; RANDOM INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Once approved and under operation, the owner or operator shall submit
an annual report to the Minidoka County administrative office describing the
quantities and types of poultry confined on the facility, the number of acres
required under its currently approved nutrient management plan, including
designation of owned acreage and export acreage, including legal descriptions
and the global positioning satellite (GPS) data in format suitable to the
county mapping department for each parcel not previously reported. This annual
report shall also verify that any third party contracts for export concerning
waste management under this article remain in force; or alternatively, shall
detail any amendments, alterations or cancellations of such contracts. This
report shall be filed by June 1 of each year.
   B.   Additionally, the owner or operator shall allow any authorized county
officer or employee to enter onto its facility for purposes of ensuring
compliance with county regulations which are applicable to the operation. Any
county officer or employee acting hereunder shall follow the biosecurity plan
as established by the facility and as approved and accepted by the county
zoning administrator. If there is no mutually agreed upon biosecurity plan, the
county representative may enter the property immediately to ensure compliance
with public health and welfare issues. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-12A-13:   COUNTY OFFICER OR EMPLOYEE AUTHORIZED ENTRY:
It shall be unlawful and a misdemeanor to interfere with, hinder or refuse to
allow any authorized county officer or employee to enter upon private or public
property to enforce the provisions of this article, or to enforce any other
provision arising hereunder. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-12A-14:   APPEALS:
An applicant, any person who receives a mailed notice of an application for
issuance of a poultry CAFO permit under this article, or any person whose
substantial rights are affected by the issuance or denial of a poultry CAFO
permit may appeal the decision of the planning and zoning commission by filing
a notice of appeal stating the basis for such appeal together with a
specification of the provisions of the law the decision is deemed to violate.
Appeals shall be filed and heard in conformance with section 
8-3-10 of this title. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
CHAPTER 13
TELECOMMUNICATIONS TOWERS, ANTENNAS AND RELATED FACILITIES
SECTION:
8-13-1: Scope And Applicability
8-13-2: Definitions
8-13-3: Exemptions
8-13-4: Permits Required
8-13-5: Permitted And Prohibited Locations
8-13-6: Special Use Permit
8-13-7: Annual Information Report
8-13-8: Removal And Security For Removal
8-13-9: Preexisting Telecommunications Towers
8-13-10: Structural Design And Environmental Standards
8-13-11: Separation And Setback Requirements
8-13-12: Enforcement
8-13-1: SCOPE AND APPLICABILITY:
   A.   General: The purpose of this chapter is to provide a set of standards
for the development and installation of telecommunications towers, antennas and
related facilities. The regulations contained herein are designed to protect
and promote public health, safety and the community welfare of Minidoka County
and to encourage managed development of telecommunications infrastructure,
while not unduly restricting the development of needed telecommunications
facilities.
   B.   Scope And Applicability:
      1.   The county shall apply these regulations to accomplish the
following:
         a.   Minimize adverse visual effects of telecommunications towers,
antennas and related facilities through design and siting standards.
         b.   Maintain and ensure that a nondiscriminatory, competitive and
broad range of telecommunications services and high quality telecommunications
infrastructure consistent with the federal telecommunications act of 1996 are
provided to serve the community.
         c.   Provide a process for obtaining necessary permits for
telecommunications facilities while at the same time protecting the interests
of the Minidoka County citizens.
         d.   Protect environmentally sensitive areas of Minidoka County by
regulating the location, design and operation of telecommunications facilities.
         e.   Encourage the use of alternative support structures, collocation
of new antennas on existing telecommunications towers, camouflaged towers, and
construction of towers with the ability to locate more than one provider.
      2.   Furthermore, this chapter is not intended to regulate residential
satellite dishes or residential television antennas that are used privately.
Additionally, it is not intended to regulate satellite dishes/antennas whose
regulation is prohibited by Idaho statutes or as preempted by federal law.
(Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-13-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this title, definitions of certain words, terms or phrases
used herein shall be found in chapter 2 of this title. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-
13-2016)
8-13-3: EXEMPTIONS:
The following shall be permitted without county review and approvals:
   A.   The use of all television antennas, satellite dishes and receive only
antennas; provided, that the primary use of the property is not a
telecommunications facility and that the antenna use is accessory to the
primary use of the property.
   B.   Amateur radio. This chapter shall not govern the installation of any
antenna and their supporting towers, poles and masts that are owned and/or
operated by a federally licensed amateur radio operator, or is used exclusively
for receive only antennas.
   C.   Mobile services providing public information coverage of news events of
a temporary or emergency nature.
   D.   Freestanding (ground mounted antenna) antennas (not supported on or
attached to a building) and their supporting towers, poles or masts and their
equipment buildings one hundred twenty (120) square feet or less in size may be
installed without a zoning permit when the overall height of the antennas and
their supporting structures do not exceed a height of twenty feet (20') above
the original grade at the site of the installation.
   E.   Antennas installed on, or attached to, any existing building (building
mounted antenna), an existing telecommunications tower, or alternative support
structure and their equipment buildings one hundred twenty (120) square feet or
less in size, when the height of the antenna and its supporting tower, pole or
mast is twenty feet (20') or less above the highest part of the building or
alternative support structure to which it is attached. Antennas, installed on,
or attached to, any existing building, existing telecommunications tower, or
alternative support structure and their equipment buildings.
   F.   Utility pole mounted antennas if the height of the antenna is twenty
feet (20') or less above the highest part of the utility pole. (Ord. 2016-09-
13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-13-4: PERMITS REQUIRED:
   A.   Special Use Permit: A special use permit is required for all
telecommunications towers and associated structures as established by the
official schedule of zoning regulations. The administrator shall approve
collocation on facilities previously approved by the Minidoka County planning
and zoning commission administratively; provided, that the applicant complies
with the provisions of this chapter and provides a completed application and
permit fee.
   B.   Building Permit: A building permit will be required for all
telecommunications towers and associated structures. No building permit will be
required for the installation of additional equipment directly to the tower or
antenna for the purpose of collocation. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-13-5: PERMITTED AND PROHIBITED LOCATIONS:
   A.   Permitted Locations: Telecommunications facilities may be permitted in
zoning districts as established by the official schedule of zoning regulations.
   B.   Prohibited Locations: No telecommunications facilities will be allowed
in the following areas:
      1.   Historic sites, as defined by local, state and/or federal
regulations.
      2.   Critical species habitats, as defined by local, state and/or federal
regulations.
      3.   Wetlands, as defined by local, state and/or federal regulations.
      4.   Floodplains, as defined by local, state and/or federal regulations.
(Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-13-6: SPECIAL USE PERMIT:
When required by the official schedule of zoning regulations, an application
will be submitted for approval pursuant to the procedure established in chapter
3, article B of this title for the location and construction of
telecommunications towers or associated structures.
   A.   Submittal Information: Applications for telecommunications towers and
associated structures will provide the following information:
      1.   Completed special use permit application.
      2.   Original signature of applicant and landowner (if the
telecommunications facility is located in an easement or pursuant to a ground
lease, the beneficiaries of the easement or ground lease and underlying
property owner must authorize the application).
      3.   The identity of the carrier, provider, applicant, landowner and
service provider and their legal status.
      4.   The name, address and telephone number of the officer, agent and/or
employee responsible for the accuracy of the application.
      5.   A plat of survey showing the parcel boundaries, tower, facilities,
location, access, landscaping and fencing.
      6.   A written legal description of the site.
      7.   In the case of a leased site, a lease agreement or binding lease
memorandum, which shows on its face that it does not preclude the tower owner
from entering into leases on the tower with other provider(s) and the legal
description and amount of property leased.
      8.   A description of the telecommunications services that the applicant
offers or provides, to persons, firms, businesses or institutions.
      9.   Federal communications commission (FCC) license numbers and
registration numbers, if applicable.
      10.   Copies of finds of no significant impacts (FONSI) statement from
the federal communications commission (FCC) or environmental impact study
(EIS), if applicable.
      11.   An alternatives analysis prepared by the applicant or on behalf of
the applicant by its designated technical representative, subject to the review
and approval of the planning and zoning commission, which identifies all
reasonable, technically feasible, alternative locations and/or facilities which
could provide the proposed telecommunications service. The intention of the
alternatives analysis is to present alternative strategies that could minimize
the number, size, and adverse environmental impacts of facilities necessary to
provide the needed services to the county. The analysis shall address the
potential for collocation and the potential to locate facilities as close as
possible to the intended service area. It shall also explain the rationale for
selection of the proposed site in view of the relative merits of any of the
feasible alternatives. Approval of the project is subject to the review and
approval of the planning and zoning commission. The county may require
independent verification of this analysis at the applicant's expense; the
consultant will be chosen by the planning and zoning commission from a list
mutually agreed upon by the county and the telecommunications industry.
      12.   Plans indicating security measures (e.g., access, fencing,
lighting, etc.).
      13.   Tabular and map inventory of all of the applicant's existing
telecommunications towers that are located within Minidoka County and including
all of the applicant's existing towers within one thousand five hundred feet
(1,500') of the county boundary. The inventory shall specify the location,
height, type, and design of each of the applicant's existing telecommunications
towers, and the ability of the tower or antenna structure to accommodate
additional collocation antennas.
      14.   A report prepared by an engineer licensed by the state of Idaho
certifying the structural design of the tower and its ability to accommodate
additional antennas.
      15.   Proof of liability coverage.
      16.   Such other information as the planning and zoning commission may
require.
      17.   Proof of notification to, and request for, approval from the
federal aviation administration with respect to tower location, height and
lighting requirements.
   B.   Collocation:
      1.   As a condition of approval of the special use permit and/or building
permit, all tower owners shall make available unused space for collocation of
other telecommunications facilities, including space for those entities
providing similar, competing services. Collocation is not required if the host
facility can demonstrate that the addition of the new service or facilities
would impair existing service.
      2.   All telecommunications support facilities shall be designed to
facilitate site sharing. Special use permits or building permits for new
telecommunications towers will not be issued until the applicant demonstrates
that collocation on an existing facility is not feasible. Feasibility shall be
determined through a review process by the commission.
   C.   Technical Review: The planning and zoning department, upon direction of
the Minidoka County planning and zoning commission, shall employ on behalf of
the county an independent technical expert to review materials submitted. The
consultant will be chosen from a list mutually agreed upon by the county and
the applicant. The applicant shall pay all the costs of said review. The
payment to the planning and zoning department shall be due upon receipt of the
invoice. All fees and charges accumulated for the technical review must be paid
in full prior to the issuance of the special use permit.
   D.   Required Submittals Following Permit Approval: For each
telecommunications tower or associated structure special use permit approved by
the Minidoka County planning and zoning commission, the applicant shall submit
the following before the special use permit will be issued:
      1.   Copies of the determination of no hazard from the federal aviation
administration (FAA), including any aeronautical study determination or other
findings and other agencies, if applicable.
      2.   Copies of any environmental assessment (EA) reports on form 600 or
form 854 submitted to the federal communications commission (FCC), if
applicable.
      3.   Copies of any filings submitted to the federal communications
commission (FCC) shall be submitted within thirty (30) days of filing, subject
to the review of the administrator.
      4.   Proof of bond as security for removal. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-
2016)
8-13-7: ANNUAL INFORMATION REPORT:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of the annual review report is to provide the
county with accurate and current information concerning the telecommunications
tower owners and providers who offer or provide telecommunications services
within the county to assist the county in enforcement of this chapter, and to
assist the county in monitoring compliance with the special use permit.
   B.   Required Submittals: Upon request and when directed and authorized by
the board, all telecommunications tower owners of any new or existing
telecommunications tower shall submit annually, on or before January 31 of each
year, to the planning and zoning department a telecommunications facility
annual information report. The annual report shall include the following:
      1.   The tower owner name(s), address(es), phone number(s), contact
person(s).
      2.   Annual review fee.
      3.   Proof of bond as security for removal.
      4.   List of all collocating operators utilizing the tower.
   C.   Annual Report Fee: Following the special use permit approval, and every
year thereafter, the tower owner shall submit, on or before January 31 of each
year, to the planning and zoning department an annual review fee as established
by the Minidoka County board of county commissioners for each tower site. The
fee submittal is the responsibility of each tower owner. Failure to provide
this information shall result in a civil forfeiture of three hundred dollars
($300.00) per day until the administrator receives the information. (Ord. 2016-
09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-13-8: REMOVAL AND SECURITY FOR REMOVAL:
   A.   Removal: It is the express policy of Minidoka County that
telecommunications facilities be removed once they are no longer in use and not
a functional part of providing telecommunications service, and that it is the
telecommunications tower owner's responsibility to remove such facilities and
restore the site to its original condition or a condition approved by the
Minidoka County planning and zoning commission. This restoration shall include
removal of any subsurface structure or foundation, including concrete, used to
support the telecommunications facility down to five feet (5') below the
surface. After a telecommunications facility is no longer in operation, the
tower owner shall have ninety (90) days to effect removal and restoration
unless weather prohibits such efforts.
   B.   Security For Removal: The telecommunications tower owner shall provide
to Minidoka County, prior to the issuance of the special use permit or the
issuance of a building permit, a performance bond in the amount of twenty
thousand dollars ($20,000.00) or a bond equal to a written estimate from a
qualified tower removal contractor to guarantee that the telecommunications
facility will be removed when no longer in operation. Minidoka County will be
named as obligee in the bond and must approve the bonding company. (Ord. 2016-
09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-13-9: PREEXISTING TELECOMMUNICATIONS TOWERS:
   A.   Nonconforming And Conforming: Telecommunications towers and facilities
may add to, move or replace the tower and facilities upon approval of the
administrator. An existing tower may be replaced by the same size of tower,
increased in height a maximum of fifty feet (50'), and/or relocated or
reconstructed within fifty feet (50') of its existing location to accommodate
collocation subject to meeting all the applicable sections of this chapter.
Routine maintenance and repair on telecommunications facilities is permitted.
   B.   Existing Use Review:
      1.   Towers Structurally Capable For Collocation: Beginning the effective
date hereof, all telecommunications tower owners, applicable to the
requirements of this chapter operating in Minidoka County prior to the
effective date hereof, shall provide the information required under section
8-13-6 of this chapter (except proof of bond and proof of insurance), and pay
the annual fee for tower site on or before January 31 of each year. Failure to
provide this information shall result in a civil forfeiture of three hundred
dollars ($300.00) per day until the administrator receives the information.
      2.   Towers Structurally Incapable For Collocation: Beginning the
effective date hereof, all telecommunications tower owners, applicable to the
requirements of this chapter operating in Minidoka County prior to the
effective date hereof, shall provide the information required under section
8-13-6 of this chapter (except proof of bond and proof of insurance), and
submit documents that the tower is structurally incapable of collocation, and
pay a onetime fee equivalent to the annual fee for each tower site on or before
the following January 31. Failure to provide this information shall result in a
civil forfeiture of three hundred dollars ($300.00) per day until the
administrator receives the information. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-13-10: STRUCTURAL DESIGN AND ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARDS:
   A.   Tower, Antenna And Facilities Requirements: All telecommunications
facilities shall be designed to blend into the surrounding environment to the
greatest extent feasible. To this end, all of the following measures shall be
implemented:
      1.   All telecommunications facilities shall comply at all times with all
federal communications commission (FCC) rules, regulations, and standards. To
that end, no telecommunications facility or combination of facilities shall
produce at any time power densities in any inhabited area that exceeds the
federal communications commission (FCC) adopted standard for human exposure, as
amended, or any more restrictive standard subsequently adopted or promulgated
by the federal government. All telecommunications towers and antennas shall
meet or exceed the standards and regulations, in place at the time of the
issuance of the special use permit, of the federal aviation administration
(FAA), the Idaho state bureau of aeronautics, occupational safety and health
association (OSHA), the federal communications commission (FCC) and authority
to regulate towers and antennas.
      2.   Telecommunications towers shall be constructed out of metal or other
nonflammable material, unless specifically permitted for monopole applications.
      3.   All ground mounted telecommunications towers shall be self-
supporting monopoles or lattice towers, except where satisfactory evidence is
submitted to the planning and zoning commission that a guyed tower is required.
      4.   Satellite dish and parabolic antennas shall be situated as close to
the ground as possible to reduce visual impact without compromising their
function.
      5.   Telecommunications support facilities (e.g., equipment rooms,
utilities, and equipment enclosures) shall be constructed out of nonreflective
materials (visible exterior surfaces only). Telecommunications support
facilities shall be no taller than one story, fifteen feet (15') in height,
measured from the original grade at the base of the facility to the top of the
structure, and shall be designed to blend with existing architecture in the
area or shall be screened from sight by mature landscaping, and shall be
located or designed to minimize their visibility.
      6.   Telecommunications towers, facilities and antennas shall be designed
and constructed in accordance with the building code, and all other applicable
state and federal requirements.
      7.   The maximum height of an antenna platform located on a rooftop shall
be twenty feet (20') above the roof.
      8.   Telecommunications facilities shall not interfere with or obstruct
existing or proposed public safety, fire protection or supervisory controlled
automated data acquisition (SCADA) operation of telecommunications facilities.
The applicant, at no cost to the county shall correct any actual interference
and/or obstruction.
   B.   Height: The height of a telecommunications tower shall be measured from
the original grade at the base of said tower to the highest part of the tower
itself. In the case of building mounted towers, the height of the tower
includes the height of the portion of the building on which it is mounted. In
the case of "crank up" or other similar towers whose height can be adjusted,
the height of the tower shall be the maximum height to which it is capable of
being raised.
   C.   Lighting: Telecommunications towers shall not be artificially lighted
unless required by the federal aviation administration (FAA) or other
applicable regulatory authority. When required by the FAA, white strobe lights
during the day will be permitted with red flashing lights required from dusk to
dawn.
   D.   Site Development, Roads And Parking:
      1.   A leased parcel intended for the location of new telecommunications
tower(s) and associated structure(s) shall maintain a minimum parcel size of
two thousand five hundred (2,500) square feet. The Minidoka County planning and
zoning commission may modify the leased parcel size requirement after public
hearing and review.
      2.   A parcel owned by the telecommunications carrier and/or provider and
intended for the location of new telecommunications tower(s) and equipment
building(s) shall meet the minimum size requirement of this title.
      3.   All sites must be served by a minimum thirty foot (30') wide
easement with a turnaround. The Minidoka County planning and zoning commission
may modify the easement and turnaround requirement after public hearing and
review. All sites shall use existing access points and roads whenever possible.
The respective county highway district or the applicable road jurisdiction
shall approve the access point to the site.
   E.   Vegetation Protection And Facility Screening:
      1.   All telecommunications facilities shall be installed in such a
manner so as to minimize disturbance to existing native vegetation and shall
include suitable mature landscaping to screen the facility, where necessary, to
be compatible with adjoining and surrounding areas. For purposes of this
section, "mature landscaping" shall mean trees, shrubs or other vegetation of a
size that will provide the appropriate level of visual screening.
      2.   Upon project completion, the owner(s)/operator(s) of the facility
shall be responsible for maintenance and replacement of all required vegetation
and landscaping.
      3.   Facility structures and equipment, including supporting structures,
shall be located, designed and screened to blend with the existing natural or
built surroundings, so as to reduce visual impacts.
   F.   Fire Prevention: All telecommunications facilities shall be designed
and operated in accordance with all applicable codes regarding fire prevention.
   G.   Noise And Traffic: All telecommunications facilities shall be
constructed and operated in such a manner as to minimize the amount of
disruption caused to nearby properties. To that end, all the following measures
shall be implemented for telecommunications facilities:
      1.   Noise producing construction activities shall only take place on
weekdays (Monday through Saturday, nonholiday) between the hours of six o'clock
(6:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M., except in times of emergency repair.
      2.   Backup generators shall only be operated during power outages and
for testing and maintenance purposes. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-13-11: SEPARATION AND SETBACK REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Separation Requirements: Minimum separation required between
telecommunications towers (by tower type):
 
Tower Type        Lattice   Guyed     Monopole > 85 ft.
Lattice           1,500 ft. 1,500 ft. 750 ft.
Guyed             1,500 ft. 1,500 ft. 750 ft.
Monopole > 85 ft. 750 ft.   750 ft.   750 ft.
 
      1.   Two (2) or more towers may be permitted to be located within one
hundred feet (100') of each other, subject to approval of special use permit or
when located in a tower/antenna farm.
      2.   Camouflaged towers are exempt from separation between tower
requirements listed above.
      3.   Even when reductions in separations are allowed, location or
placement shall comply with separate setback requirements.
   B.   Setback Requirements: All setbacks shall be measured from the base of
the tower or structure and are required as follows:
      1.   Setback requirements shall apply to new towers and antennas;
existing towers or antennas are allowed to remain in present location.
      2.   Setbacks from all habitable residential buildings, except buildings
located on the subject parcel, shall be a distance equal to one hundred twenty
five percent (125%) of the height of the tower.
      3.   Setbacks from all historic sites and districts shall be a distance
equal to one hundred twenty five percent (125%) of the height of the tower from
historic sites and districts.
      4.   Setbacks from property lines shall be set back a minimum of fifty
feet (50') from all property lines. This requirement does not apply to the
boundary of the leased parcel unless the leased parcel boundary is also a
property line. Under special circumstances, the Minidoka County planning and
zoning commission may modify this setback requirement after public hearing and
review.
      5.   Setback from the high water mark of the Snake River shall be a
minimum of one hundred twenty five percent (125%) of the tower height measured
from the natural high water mark.
      6.   All guywire anchors shall be at least twenty five feet (25') from
all property lines. Under special circumstances, the Minidoka County planning
and zoning commission may modify this setback requirement after public hearing
and review. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-13-12: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Revocation Of Special Use Permit: Grounds for revocation of the special
use permit for telecommunications towers and associated structures shall be
limited to one of the following findings:
      1.   The owner of such site, service provider and/or tower owner fails to
comply with the requirements of this chapter.
      2.   The permittee has failed to comply with the conditions of approval
of the special use permit.
      3.   The facility has not been properly maintained.
   B.   Revocation Process: The following is the procedure for revocation of a
special use permit for telecommunications towers and associated structures:
      1.   The owner of such site, service provider and/or tower owner shall be
notified by certified mail of noncompliance by the Minidoka County planning and
zoning department.
      2.   The owner shall comply with such notice within thirty (30) days to
the satisfaction of the administrator.
      3.   If compliance is not obtained within thirty (30) days, the
administrator shall notify the Minidoka County prosecuting attorney of the
noncompliance and proceed with the revocation process. (Staff to adjust for
seasonal limitations may extend this time period.)
   C.   Abandonment: Any antenna or tower that is not operated for a continuous
period of twelve (12) months shall be considered abandoned. Time may be
extended upon review and approval of the administrator, if the tower owner
demonstrates a good faith effort to secure new tenants. In such circumstances,
the following shall apply:
      1.   The owner of such antenna or tower shall remove said antenna and/or
tower, including all supporting equipment and building(s), within ninety (90)
days of receipt of notice from the planning and zoning department notifying the
owner of such abandonment. If removal to the satisfaction of the planning and
zoning department does not occur within said ninety (90) days, the Minidoka
County board of county commissioners may order removal utilizing the
established bond, and salvage said antenna or tower and all supporting
equipment and building(s). If there are two (2) or more users of a single
tower, then this provision shall not become effective until all operations of
the tower cease.
      2.   The recipient of a conditional use permit for a telecommunications
facility under this title shall notify the planning and zoning department when
the facility is no longer in operation. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
CHAPTER 14
SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
SECTION:
8-14-1: Purpose And Intent
8-14-2: Scope And Interpretation
8-14-3: Definitions
8-14-4: Establishment And Location Of Businesses
8-14-5: Measurement Of Distance
8-14-6: Restrictions
8-14-7: Existing Businesses
8-14-8: Injunction; Penalty
8-14-9: Business Permit; Purpose And Intent
8-14-10: Permit Requirements
8-14-11: Investigation And Application
8-14-12: Issuance Of Permit
8-14-13: Annual Permit Fee
8-14-14: Inspection
8-14-15: Expiration Of Permit; Renewal
8-14-16: Suspension Of Permit
8-14-17: Revocation Of Permit
8-14-18: Review Of Permit Denial, Suspension Or Revocation
8-14-19: Transfer Of Permit
8-14-20: Business Employee License; Fees
8-14-21: Sexually Explicit Films Or Videos
8-14-22: Prohibitions Regarding Minors
8-14-23: Advertising And Lighting
8-14-24: Hours Of Operation
8-14-25: Public Nudity Prohibited
8-14-26: Live Adult Entertainment Prohibited
8-14-27: Operation Without Valid Permit
8-14-28: Exemptions
8-14-29: Distribution Of Sexual Devices
8-14-30: Penalties And Injunctive Relief
8-14-31: Immunity From Prosecution
8-14-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   A.   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate sexually oriented businesses
which sell, display, or distribute indecent materials, or which sponsor,
exhibit or engage in conduct which is indecent, but which is not obscene such
as to be prohibited by state law.
   B.   It is also the purpose and intent of this chapter to regulate sexually
oriented businesses to promote the health, safety, morals, and general welfare
of the citizens of the county and to establish reasonable and uniform
regulations to prevent any deleterious location and concentration of sexually
oriented businesses within the county, thereby reducing or eliminating the
adverse secondary effects from such sexually oriented businesses.
   C.   The provisions of this chapter have neither the purpose nor effect of
imposing a limitation or restriction on the content of any communicative
materials, including sexually oriented materials. Similarly, it is neither the
intent nor effect of this chapter to restrict or deny access by adults to
sexually oriented materials protected by the first amendment, or to deny access
by the distributors and exhibitors of sexually oriented entertainment to their
intended market. Neither is it the intent nor effect of this chapter to condone
or legitimize the distribution of obscene material. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-
2016)
8-14-2: SCOPE AND INTERPRETATION:
Notwithstanding the other provisions of this chapter, nothing in this chapter
shall apply to the sale, loan, distribution, dissemination, presentation or
exhibition of material or live conduct which is obscene, as defined under Idaho
Code title 18, chapter 41, unless such chapter, or any provision thereof, is
determined to be unconstitutional or unenforceable for any reason. This chapter
shall be interpreted to be consistent in all respects with the provisions of
Idaho Code section 18-4113 and shall be applicable only to the extent it
regulates the sale, loan, distribution, dissemination, presentation or
exhibition of material or live conduct that is not otherwise obscene, as
defined by Idaho Code section 18-4101; provided, however, if any provision of
such chapter of the Idaho Code is determined to be unconstitutional or
unenforceable for any reason, then this chapter shall be fully enforceable
notwithstanding such determination. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-14-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, certain terms and words are defined as
follows:
   COUCH OR STRADDLE DANCE: An employee of the establishment intentionally
touching or coming within ten feet (10') of any patron while engaged in the
display or exposure of any "specified anatomical area", or any "specified
sexual activity".
   EMPLOYEE: A person who works or performs in and/or for a sexually oriented
business, regardless of whether or not said person is paid a salary, wage or
other compensation by the operator of said business.
   ESTABLISHMENT: Means and includes any of the following:
   A.   The opening or commencement of any such business as a new business;
   B.   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not a sexually
oriented business, to any of the "sexually oriented businesses" defined in this
chapter;
   C.   The addition of any of the "sexually oriented businesses" defined in
this chapter to any other existing sexually oriented business; or
   D.   The relocation of any such sexually oriented business.
   LIVE ADULT ENTERTAINMENT: Any exhibition, dance, or performance for
consideration by a person who appears nude or seminude, or a performance, which
is characterized by the exposure of "specified anatomical areas" or by
"specified sexual activities", including the performance of a "straddle" or
"couch" dance.
   NUDITY OR STATE OF NUDITY: The appearance of human bare buttocks, anus, male
genitals, female genitals, or the areola or nipple of the female breast; or a
state of dress which fails to opaquely and fully cover a human buttocks, anus,
male or female genitals, pubic region or areola or nipple of the female breast.
   OPERATOR: The owner, permit holder, custodian, manager, operator or person
in charge of any permitted or licensed premises.
   PERMITTED OR LICENSED PREMISES: Any premises that requires a license and/or
permit and that is classified as a sexually oriented business.
   PERMITTEE AND/OR LICENSEE: A person in whose name a permit and/or license to
operate a sexually oriented business has been issued, as well as the individual
listed as an applicant on the application for a permit and/or license.
   PERSON: An individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation,
association, or other legal entity.
   PUBLIC BUILDING: Any building owned, leased or held by the United States,
the state, the county, any special district, school district, or any other
agency or political subdivision of the state or the United States, which
building is used for governmental purposes.
   PUBLIC PARK OR RECREATION AREA: Any public land which has been designated
for park or recreational activities including, but not limited to, a park,
playground, nature trails, swimming pool, reservoir, athletic field, basketball
or tennis courts, pedestrian/bicycle paths, open space, wilderness areas, or
similar public land within the county which is under the control, operation, or
management of the county park and recreation authorities.
   PUBLIC PLACE: All outdoor places owned by or open to the general public, and
all buildings and enclosed places owned by or open to the general public,
including, but not limited to, places of entertainment, taverns, restaurants,
clubs, theaters, dance halls, banquet halls, party rooms or halls limited to
specific members, restricted to adults or to patrons invited to attend, whether
or not an admission is charged. The term does not include private rooms used
primarily for residential purposes, hotel rooms or other private places used
for human habitation or bona fide dressing rooms or restrooms.
   RELIGIOUS INSTITUTION: Any church, synagogue, mosque, temple or building
which is used primarily for religious worship and related religious activities.
   RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT: Any district established by the zoning ordinance,
which is characterized by residential uses.
   RESIDENTIAL USE: A single-family dwelling, duplex, townhouse, multiple-
family, or mobile home park or subdivision and campground or other use
characterized by its devotion to human habitation, excluding hotels, motels,
boarding establishments or similar commercial establishments.
   SCHOOL: Any public or private educational facility including, but not
limited to, child daycare facilities, nursery schools, preschools,
kindergartens, elementary schools, primary schools, intermediate schools,
junior high schools, middle schools, high schools, vocational schools,
secondary schools, continuation schools, special education schools, junior
colleges, and universities. School includes the school grounds, but does not
include the facilities used primarily for another purpose and only incidentally
as a school.
   SEMINUDE: A state of dress in which clothing covers no more than the
genitals, pubic region, and areola of the female breast, as well as portions of
the body covered by supporting straps or devices.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS: An adult arcade, adult bookstore, adult novelty
shop, adult video store, adult cabaret, adult motel, adult motion picture
theater, adult theater, massage parlor, sexual encounter establishment, escort
agency or nude model studio.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES: Those businesses defined as follows:
    Adult Arcade: An establishment where, for any form of consideration, one or
more still or motion picture projectors, slide projectors, computers, or other
similar image producing machines, for viewing by five (5) or fewer persons
each, are regularly used to show films, motion pictures, videocassettes, DVDs,
CD-ROMs, slides, computer generated images, or other photographic reproductions
which are characterized by the depiction or description of "specified sexual
activities" or "specified anatomical areas".
    Adult Bookstore, Adult Novelty Store Or Adult Video Store: A commercial
establishment which has a significant or substantial portion of its stock in
trade or derives a significant or substantial portion of its revenues, or
devotes a significant or substantial portion of its interior business or
advertising to the sale, rental for any form of consideration, of any one or
more of the following:
      A.   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides, DVDs, CD-ROMs, or
other visual representations which are characterized by the depiction or
description of "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas".
      B.   Instruments, devices, or paraphernalia which are designed for use or
marketed primarily for stimulation of human genital organs or for
sadomasochistic use or abuse of themselves or others.
      C.   An establishment may have other principal business purposes that do
not involve the offering for sale, rental or viewing of materials depicting or
describing "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas", and
still be categorized as adult bookstore, adult novelty store, or adult video
store. Such other business purposes will not serve to exempt such
establishments from being categorized as an adult bookstore, adult novelty
store or adult video store so long as one of its business purposes is offering
for sale or rental, for some form of consideration, the specified materials
which depict or describe "specified anatomical areas" or "specified sexual
activities". For the purpose of determining whether a significant or
substantial portion of the stock in trade or revenues consist of or are derived
from the sale of materials which depict or describe "specified sexual
activities" or "specified anatomical areas", the amount of such stock in trade
or revenues shall be compared to the aggregate amount of revenues derived from
the sale of all such materials sold or displayed, and the revenues or amount of
stock in trade derived from or consisting of all materials described in
subsections A and B of this definition, over a period of at least one month.
    Adult Cabaret: A nightclub, bar, restaurant "bottle club", juice bar or
similar commercial establishment, whether or not alcoholic beverages are
served, which regularly features: a) persons who appear nude or in a state of
nudity or seminude; b) live performances which are characterized by the
exposure of "specified anatomical areas" or by "specified sexual activities";
or c) films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides, or other photographic
reproductions which are characterized by the depiction or description of
"specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas".
    Adult Motel: A motel, hotel or similar commercial establishment which: a)
offers public accommodations, for any form of consideration, which provides
patrons with closed circuit television transmissions, films, motion pictures,
videocassettes, slides, DVDs, CD-ROMs, or other photographic reproductions
which are characterized by the depiction or description of "specified sexual
activities" or "specified anatomical areas" and which advertises the
availability of this sexually oriented type of material by means of a sign
visible from the public right of way, or by means of any off premises
advertising including, but not limited to, newspapers, magazines, pamphlets or
leaflets, radio or television; or b) offers a sleeping room for rent for a
period of time less than ten (10) hours; or c) for any form of consideration,
allows a tenant or occupant to sublet the sleeping room for a time period of
less than ten (10) hours.
    Adult Motion Picture Theater: A commercial establishment where films,
motion pictures, videocassettes, slides, DVDs, CD-ROMs, or similar photographic
reproductions which are characterized by the depiction or description of
"specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas" are shown for any
form of consideration.
    Adult Theater: A theater, concert hall, auditorium, or similar commercial
establishment which, for any form of consideration, regularly features persons
who appear in a state of nudity or live performances which are characterized by
exposure of "specified anatomical areas" or by "specified sexual activities".
    Escort: A person who, for any form of consideration, agrees or offers to
act as a companion or date for another person, or who agrees or offers to
privately model lingerie or to privately perform a striptease for, or dance
with, another person.
    Escort Agency: A person or business association, who furnishes, offers to
furnish, or advertises to furnish escorts as one of its primary business
purposes for a fee, tip, or other consideration.
    Massage Parlor: Any place where, for any form of consideration or gratuity,
massage, alcohol rub, administration of fomentations, electric or magnetic
treatments, or any other treatment manipulation of the human body which occurs
as a part of or in connection with "specified sexual activities", or where any
person providing such treatment, manipulation, or service related thereto,
exposes his or her "specified anatomical areas". The definition of sexually
oriented businesses shall not include the practice of massage in any licensed
hospital, nor by a licensed hospital, nor by a licensed physician, surgeon,
chiropractor or osteopath, massage therapist, nor by any nurse or technician
working under the supervision of a licensed physician, surgeon, chiropractor or
osteopath, nor by trainers for any amateur, semiprofessional or professional
athlete or athletic team or school athletic program.
    Nude Model Studio: Any place where a person who regularly appears in a
state of nudity or displays "specified anatomical areas" is provided for money
or any form of consideration to be observed, sketched, drawn, painted,
sculptured, photographed, or similarly depicted by other persons.
    Sexual Encounter Establishment: A business or commercial establishment
that, as one of its primary business purposes, offers for any form of
consideration, a place where two (2) or more persons may congregate, associate,
or consort for the purpose of "specified sexual activities" or the exposure of
"specified anatomical areas" or activities when one or more of the persons is
in a state of nudity or seminude. The definition of sexually oriented
businesses shall not include an establishment where a medical practitioner,
psychologist, psychiatrist, or similar professional person licensed by the
state engages in medically approved and recognized sexual therapy.
   SIGNIFICANT OR SUBSTANTIAL: At least twenty five percent (25%).
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS: Means and includes any of the following:
   A.   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic region,
anus, or female breasts below a point immediately above the top of the areola;
or
   B.   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if completely
and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED CRIMINAL ACT: Any sexual crimes against children, sexual abuse,
rape or crimes connected with another sexually oriented business including, but
not limited to, distribution of obscenity or material harmful to minors,
prostitution, pandering, or tax violations.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES: As used in this chapter, means and includes any
of the following:
   A.   The fondling or other intentional touching of human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus, or female breasts;
   B.   Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation, or sodomy;
   C.   Masturbation, actual or simulated; or
   D.   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation, arousal or tumescence;
   E.   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
activities set forth in subsections A through D of this definition.
   SUBSTANTIAL ENLARGEMENT OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS: The increase in the
floor areas occupied by the business by more than fifteen percent (15%), as the
floor areas exist on the effective date hereof.
   TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS: Includes
any of the following:
   A.   The sale, lease or sublease of the business;
   B.   The transfer of securities which constitute a controlling interest in
the business, whether by sale, exchange or similar means;
   C.   The establishment of a trust, gift or other similar legal device which
transfers ownership or control of the business, except for transfer by bequest
or other operation of law upon the death of a person possessing the ownership
or control.
   ZONING ORDINANCE: This title as adopted by Minidoka County, Idaho, as
presently constituted or as may be amended hereafter. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-
2016)
8-14-4: ESTABLISHMENT AND LOCATION OF BUSINESSES:
   A.   Industrial Zones: The establishment and operation of a sexually
oriented business shall be permitted only in an IL industrial light zone or IH
industrial heavy zone, and shall be subject to the restrictions set forth in
this title.
   B.   Distance From Certain Businesses And Institutions: No person shall
cause or permit the establishment of a sexually oriented business within one
thousand feet (1,000') of another such business or within one thousand five
hundred feet (1,500') of any religious institution, school, boys' club, girls'
club, or similar existing youth organization, or public park or public
building, or within one thousand five hundred feet (1,500') of any property
zoned for residential use or used for residential purposes.
   C.   Retail Shopping Centers: Notwithstanding the distance requirements of
subsection B of this section, the location of sexually oriented businesses
within retail shopping centers in such zones is permitted where such activities
will have their only frontage upon enclosed malls or malls isolated from direct
view from public streets, parks, schools, religious institutions, boys' clubs,
girls' clubs, or similar existing youth organization, public buildings or
residential districts or uses. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-14-5: MEASUREMENT OF DISTANCE:
As regarding subsection
8-14-4B of this chapter, distance between any two (2) sexually oriented
businesses shall be measured in a straight line, without regard to intervening
structures, from the closest exterior structural wall of each business. The
distance between any sexually oriented business and any religious institution,
public or private elementary or secondary school, boys' club, girls' club, or
similar existing youth organization, or public park or public building, or any
properties zoned for residential use or used for residential purposes shall
also be measured in a straight line, without regard to intervening structures
or objects from the nearest point of the property line of the premises where
the sexually oriented business is conducted, to the nearest point of the
property line of the premises of a religious institution, public or private
elementary or secondary school, boys' club, girls' club, or similar existing
youth organization, or public park or public building or any properties zoned
for residential use or used for residential purposes. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-
2016)
8-14-6: RESTRICTIONS:
In the event of any conflict between this title and this chapter, then the
provisions of this chapter shall control. Permits for sexually oriented
businesses shall be required and governed by the procedures and policies
specified in section
8-14-10 of this chapter. In addition, any person who owns, operates or controls
a sexually oriented business shall be subject to the following restrictions:
   A.   The person commits a misdemeanor if he operates or causes to be
operated a sexually oriented business, except as provided in section
8-14-4 of this chapter.
   B.   The person commits a misdemeanor if he operates or causes to be
operated a sexually oriented business within one thousand five hundred feet
(1,500') of the following:
      1.   Any religious institution;
      2.   Any school;
      3.   The boundary of any residential zone;
      4.   A public park adjacent to any residential zone;
      5.   A property line of a lot devoted to residential use; or
      6.   A boys' club, girls' club, or similar existing youth organization,
except as provided in subsection
8-14-4C of this chapter.
   C.   A person commits a misdemeanor if he operates or causes to be operated
a sexually oriented business within one thousand feet (1,000') of another such
business, which will include any adult arcade, adult bookstore, adult video
store, adult cabaret, adult motel, adult motion picture theater, adult theater,
massage parlor or any sexual encounter establishment, except as provided in
subsection
8-14-4C of this chapter.
   D.   A person commits a misdemeanor if he causes or permits the operation,
establishment, or maintenance of more than one sexually oriented business
within the same building, structure, or portion thereof, except as provided in
subsection
8-14-4C of this chapter, or causes the substantial enlargement of any sexually
oriented business in any building, structure or portion thereof containing
another sexually oriented business.
   E.   It is a defense to prosecution under this section if a person appearing
in a state of nudity did so in a modeling class operated:
      1.   By a proprietary school, licensed by the state of Idaho; a college,
junior college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation;
      2.   By a private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or
      3.   In a structure:
         a.   Which has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure and
no other advertising that indicates a nude person is available for viewing;
         b.   Where, in order to participate in a class, a student must enroll
at least three (3) days in advance of the class; and
         c.   Where no more than one nude model is on the premises at any one
time. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-14-7: EXISTING BUSINESSES:
   A.   Considered Nonconforming:
      1.   Any sexually oriented businesses lawfully operating on the effective
date hereof that is in violation of sections
8-14-4 and
8-14-6 of this chapter shall be deemed a nonconforming use.
      2.   A nonconforming use will be permitted to continue for a period of
one year, with a possible extension of one year to be granted by the county
planning commission only upon a convincing showing of extreme financial
hardship which is defined as the recovery of the initial financial investment
in the nonconforming use, unless sooner terminated for any reason or
voluntarily discontinued for a period of thirty (30) days or more. Such
nonconforming uses shall not be increased, enlarged, extended or altered,
except that the use may be changed to a conforming use.
      3.   If two (2) or more sexually oriented businesses are within one
thousand feet (1,000') of one another and otherwise in a permissible location,
the sexually oriented business which was first established and continually
operating at the particular location is the conforming use and the later
established business(es) is nonconforming, except as provided in subsection
8-14-4C of this chapter.
   B.   Operation As Conforming Use:
      1.   A sexually oriented business lawfully operating as a conforming use
is not rendered a nonconforming use by the location, subsequent to the grant or
renewal of a sexually oriented business permit and/or license, of a church,
public or private elementary or secondary school, public park, public building,
residential district, or residential lot within one thousand five hundred feet
(1,500') of the sexually oriented business.
      2.   This provision applies only to the renewal of a valid permit and/or
license and does not apply when an application for a permit and/or license is
submitted after a permit and/or license has expired or has been revoked.
   C.   Time Limit For Compliance: Any establishment subject to the provisions
of this section shall apply for the permit provided for by section
8-14-10 of this chapter within thirty (30) days of the effective date hereof.
Any establishment, existing prior to the effective date hereof, shall comply
with the regulations pertaining to sections
8-14-21,
8-14-23, and
8-14-29 of this chapter within sixty (60) days of the effective date hereof,
and all other applicable permit regulations within thirty (30) days of the
effective date hereof. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-14-8: INJUNCTION; PENALTY:
A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented business
without having a valid permit due to locational restrictions is subject to a
suit for injunction as well as prosecution for the criminal violation. Such
violation shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, and if an injunction must be sought, attorney fees and
costs may be assessed by the court against the sexually oriented business.
(Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-14-9: BUSINESS PERMIT; PURPOSE AND INTENT:
It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate sexually oriented businesses to
promote the health, safety, morals and general welfare of the citizens of the
county, and to establish reasonable and uniform regulations to prevent
deleterious effects of sexually oriented businesses within the county. The
provisions of this chapter have neither the purpose nor effect of imposing a
limitation or restriction on the content of any communicative materials,
including sexually oriented materials. Similarly, it is neither the intent nor
effect of this chapter to restrict or deny access by adults to sexually
oriented materials protected by the first amendment, or to deny access by the
distributors and exhibitors of sexually oriented entertainment to their
intended market. Neither is it the intent or effect of this chapter to in any
way condone or legitimize the distribution of obscene or harmful material to
minors. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-14-10: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required: No sexually oriented business shall be permitted to
operate without a valid sexually oriented business permit issued by the county
for the particular type of business. It shall be unlawful and a person commits
a misdemeanor if he/she operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented
business without said permit.
   B.   Planning And Building Administrator Responsibilities:
      1.   The county planning and building administrator or his/her designee
is responsible for granting, denying, revoking, renewing, suspending, and
canceling sexually oriented business permits for proposed or existing sexually
oriented businesses.
      2.   The county planning and building administrator or his/her designee
is also responsible for ascertaining whether a proposed sexually oriented
business for which a permit is being applied for complies with all locational
requirements of sections
8-14-4,
8-14-6, and
8-14-7 of this chapter, all applicable zoning laws and/or regulations now in
effect or as amended or enacted subsequent to the effective date hereof in the
county comprehensive plan.
   C.   Law Enforcement Responsibilities: The sheriff shall be responsible for
enforcing all other provisions of this chapter. The applicable law enforcement
department shall, upon request from the county planning and building
administrator, provide information on whether an applicant has been convicted
of a specified criminal act during the time period set forth.
   D.   Inspection Of Business: The county planning and building administrator
and the applicable law enforcement department shall be jointly responsible for
inspecting a proposed, permitted or nonpermitted sexually oriented business in
order to ascertain whether it is in compliance with this chapter.
   E.   Filing Of Application: An application for a permit must be made on a
form provided by the county. Any person desiring to operate a sexually oriented
business shall file with the county clerk an original and two (2) copies of a
sworn permit application on the standard application form supplied by the
county or designee.
   F.   Information And Documents Required: The completed application shall
contain the following information and shall be accompanied by the following
documents:
      1.   If the applicant is:
         a.   An individual, the individual shall state his/her legal name and
any aliases and submit satisfactory proof that he/she is eighteen (18) years of
age;
         b.   A partnership, the partnership shall state its complete name, and
the names of all partners, whether the partnership is general or limited, and a
copy of the partnership agreement, if any;
         c.   A corporation, the corporation shall state its complete name, the
date of its incorporation, evidence that the corporation is in good standing
under the laws of Idaho, the names and capacity of all officers, directors and
principal stockholders, and the name of the registered corporate agent and the
address of the registered office for service of process.
      2.   If the applicant intends to operate the sexually oriented business
under a name other than that of the applicant; he must:
         a.   State the sexually oriented business's fictitious name; and
         b.   Submit documents evidencing compliance with Idaho Code title 53,
chapter 5.
      3.   Whether the applicant or any of the other individuals listed
pursuant to this section has, within the two (2) or five (5) year period as
specified in section
8-14-12 of this chapter immediately preceding the date of the application, been
convicted of a specified criminal act, and, if so, the specified criminal act
involved, the date of conviction and the place of conviction.
      4.   Whether the applicant or any of the other individuals listed
pursuant to this subsection F has had a previous permit under this chapter or
other similar sexually oriented business ordinances from another city or county
denied, suspended or revoked, including the name and location of the sexually
oriented business for which the permit was denied, suspended or revoked, as
well as the date of the denial, suspension or revocation, and whether the
applicant or any other individuals listed pursuant to this subsection F has
been a partner in a partnership or an officer, director or principal
stockholder of a corporation that is permitted under this chapter whose permit
has previously been denied, suspended or revoked, including the name and
location of the sexually oriented business for which the permit was denied,
suspended or revoked, as well as the date of denial, suspension or revocation.
      5.   Whether the applicant or any other individual listed pursuant to
this subsection F holds any other permits and/or licenses under this chapter or
other similar sexually oriented business ordinance from another county or city
and, if so, the names and locations of such other permitted businesses.
      6.   The single classification of permit for which the applicant is
filing.
      7.   The location of the proposed sexually oriented business, including a
legal description of the property, street address, and telephone number(s), if
any.
      8.   The mailing addresses and residential addresses of the applicant and
each partner, member, officer, director and shareholder listed in this
subsection F.
      9.   A recent photograph of the applicant(s) or its manager, partner,
member or president.
      10.   The driver's permit number, social security number, and/or state or
federally issued tax identification number of the applicant or its manager,
partner, member or president.
      11.   A sketch or diagram showing the configuration of the premises,
including a statement of total floor space occupied by the business. The sketch
or diagram need not be professionally prepared, but it must be drawn to a
designated scale or drawn with marked dimensions of the interior of the
premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches (±6").
      12.   A current certificate and straight line drawing prepared within
thirty (30) days prior to application by an Idaho registered land surveyor
depicting the property lines and the structures containing any established
existing uses regulated by this chapter within one thousand five hundred feet
(1,500') of the property to be certified; the property lines of any established
religious institution/synagogue, school, or public park or recreation area
within one thousand five hundred feet (1,500') of the property to be certified;
and the property lines of any residentially zoned area or residential property
within one thousand five hundred feet (1,500') of the property to be certified.
For purposes of this section, a use shall be considered existing or established
if it is in existence at the time an application is submitted. Sexually
oriented businesses allowed under subsection
8-14-4C of this chapter are exempt from this requirement.
      13.   If a person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is
an individual, he/she must sign the application for a permit as applicant. If a
person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is other than an
individual, each individual who has a ten percent (10%) or greater interest in
the business must sign the application for a permit as applicant. If a
corporation is listed as owner of a sexually oriented business or as the entity
which wishes to operate such a business, each individual having a ten percent
(10%) or greater interest in the corporation must sign the application for a
permit as applicant.
      14.   If a person wishes to operate a sexually oriented business which
shall exhibit on the premises films, videocassettes, DVDs, CD-ROMs, or other
video reproductions which depict specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas, then said person shall comply with the application
requirements stated at section
8-14-21 et seq., of this chapter.
   G.   Supplementing Application With Changes In Information: Applicants for a
permit under this section shall have a continuing duty to promptly supplement
application information required by this section in the event that said
information changes in any way from what is stated on the application. The
failure to comply with said continuing duty within thirty (30) days from the
date of such change, by supplementing the application on file with the county
clerk or his/her designee, shall be grounds for suspension of a permit.
   H.   Improper Completion Of Application: In the event that the county clerk
or his/her designee determines or learns at any time that the applicant has
improperly completed the application for a proposed sexually oriented business,
he/she shall promptly notify the applicant of such fact and allow the applicant
ten (10) days to properly complete the application. The time period for
granting or denying a permit shall be stayed during the period in which the
applicant is expressly allowed an opportunity to properly complete the
application.
   I.   Applicant And Premises; Compliance Required: The applicant must be
qualified according to the provisions of this chapter and the premises must be
inspected and found to be in compliance with all federal, state or county
health, fire and building codes and laws.
   J.   Application Fee: The applicant shall be required to pay a nonrefundable
application fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00) at the time of filing an
application under this chapter.
   K.   Certificate Of Compliance: Prior to obtaining any permit or license to
operate any "sexually oriented business" defined in this chapter, and as part
of any application for a permit under this section, the applicant shall obtain
from the administrator of planning and building, or his or her designee, a
certification that the proposed location of such business complies with the
locational requirements of sections
8-14-6 and
8-14-7 of this chapter.
   L.   Other Licenses Or Permits Not An Exemption: The fact that a person
possesses other types of state, county or city permits and/or licenses does not
exempt the applicant from the requirement of obtaining a sexually oriented
business permit.
   M.   Applicant Consent To Enforcement Provisions: By applying for a permit
under this chapter, the applicant shall be deemed to have consented to the
provisions of this chapter and to the exercise by the administrator of planning
and building or his/her designee, county sheriff and all other county agencies
charged with enforcing the laws, ordinances and codes applicable in the county
of their respective responsibilities under this chapter.
   N.   Names Of Employees Required: The applicant shall be required to provide
the county with the names of any and all employees who are required to be
licensed pursuant to section
8-14-20 of this chapter. This shall be a continuing requirement even after a
permit is granted or renewed. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-14-11: INVESTIGATION AND APPLICATION:
   A.   Investigation:
      1.   Upon receipt of an application properly filed with the county clerk
and upon payment of the nonrefundable application fee, the county clerk or his/
her designee, shall immediately stamp the application as received and shall
immediately thereafter send photocopies of the application to the applicable
law enforcement department and any other county divisions or agencies
responsible for enforcement of health, fire and building codes and laws.
      2.   Each division or agency shall promptly conduct an investigation of
the applicant, application and the proposed sexually oriented business in
accordance with its responsibilities under law and as set forth in this
chapter. Said investigation shall be completed within twenty (20) days of
receipt of the application by the county or its designee. At the conclusion of
its investigation, each department or agency shall indicate on the photocopy of
the application its approval or disapproval of the application, date it, sign
it, and, in the event it disapproves, state the reasons therefor.
      3.   The applicable law enforcement department shall only be required to
certify the NCIC records request check mentioned in section
8-14-12 of this chapter. The applicable law enforcement department shall not be
required to approve or disapprove applications.
   B.   Disapproval For Noncompliance: The county shall disapprove an
application if it finds that the proposed sexually oriented business will be in
violation of any provision of any statute, code, ordinance, regulation or other
law in effect in the county. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-14-12: ISSUANCE OF PERMIT:
   A.   Time Limit: The county commissioners shall grant or deny an application
for a permit within sixty (60) days from the date of its proper filing. Upon
the expiration of the sixtieth day, unless the applicant requests and is
granted a reasonable extension of time, the applicant shall be permitted to
begin operating the business for which the permit is sought, unless and until
the administrator of planning and zoning, or his/her designee, notifies the
applicant of a denial of the application and states the reason(s) for that
denial.
   B.   Grant Of Application For Permit; Posting:
      1.   The county commissioners shall grant the application unless one or
more of the criteria set forth in subsection C of this section is present.
      2.   The permit, if granted, shall state on its face the name of the
person or persons to whom it is granted, the expiration date, and the address
of the sexually oriented business. The permit shall also indicate that the
sexually oriented business, whether permitted or not, may be subject to
prohibitions against public nudity and indecency pursuant to the United States
supreme court decision in Barnes v. Glen Theatre, Inc., 501 U.S. 560 (1991).
The permit shall be posted in a conspicuous place at or near the entrance to
the sexually oriented business so that it can be read easily at any time.
   C.   Denial Of Application For Permit:
      1.   The county commissioners shall deny the application for any of the
following reasons:
         a.   An applicant is under eighteen (18) years of age.
         b.   An applicant or an applicant's spouse is overdue on his/her
payment to the county of any taxes, fees, fines, or penalties assessed against
him/her or imposed upon him/her in relation to a sexually oriented business.
         c.   An applicant is residing with a person who has been denied a
permit by the county to operate a sexually oriented business within the
preceding twelve (12) months, or residing with a person whose permit to operate
a sexually oriented business has been revoked by any other governmental or
regulatory agency within the preceding twelve (12) months.
         d.   An applicant has failed to provide information required by this
section or permit application for the issuance of the permit, or has falsely
answered a question or request for information on the application form.
         e.   The premises to be used for the sexually oriented business has
not been approved as being in compliance with health, fire and building codes
by the department or agency responsible under law for investigating said
compliance.
         f.   The application or permit fees required by this chapter have not
been paid.
         g.   An applicant of the proposed business is in violation of, or is
not in compliance with, any of the provisions of this chapter, including, but
not limited to, the zoning locational requirements for a sexually oriented
business under sections
8-14-4,
8-14-6, and
8-14-7 of this chapter.
         h.   The granting of the application would violate a statute,
ordinance, or court order.
         i.   The applicant has a permit under this chapter which has been
suspended or revoked.
         j.   An applicant has been convicted of a "specified criminal act" for
which:
            (1)   Less than two (2) years have elapsed since the date of
conviction or the date of release from confinement, whichever is the later
date, if the conviction is of a misdemeanor offense for the "specified criminal
acts" which are sexual crimes against children, sexual abuse, rape or crimes
connected with another sexually oriented business including, but not limited
to, distribution of obscenity or material harmful to minors, prostitution,
pandering, or tax violations;
            (2)   Less than five (5) years have elapsed since the date of
conviction or the date of release from confinement, whichever is the later
date, if the conviction is of a felony offense; for the "specified criminal
acts" which are sexual crimes against children, sexual abuse, rape or crimes
connected with another sexually oriented business including, but not limited
to, distribution of obscenity or material harmful to minors, prostitution,
pandering, or tax violations;
            (3)   Less than five (5) years have elapsed since the date of
conviction or the date of release from confinement, whichever is the later
date, if the convictions are of two (2) or more misdemeanor offenses for
"specified criminal acts" which are sexual crimes against children, sexual
abuse, rape or crimes connected with another sexually oriented business
including, but not limited to, distribution of obscenity or materials harmful
to minors, prostitution, pandering or tax violations; offenses occurring within
any twenty four (24) month period;
            (4)   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no
effect on disqualification of the applicant;
            (5)   An applicant who has been convicted of the above described
"specified criminal acts" may qualify for a sexually oriented business permit
only when the time period required in this subsection C1j has elapsed.
         k.   An applicant knowingly has in his or her employ, an employee who
does not have a valid license as required in section
8-14-20 of this chapter.
      2.   If the county commissioners deny the application, the county clerk
shall notify the applicant of the denial and state the reason(s) for the denial
within ten (10) days after the date of such denial.
      3.   If a person applies for a permit for a particular location within a
period of twelve (12) months from the date of denial of a previous application
for a permit at the location, and there has not been an intervening change in
the circumstances which could reasonably be expected to lead to a different
decision regarding the former reasons for denial, the application shall be
denied. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-14-13: ANNUAL PERMIT FEE:
The annual fee for a sexually oriented business permit is eight hundred fifty
dollars ($850.00). Such fee shall accompany the application filed under
subsection
8-14-10F of this chapter. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-14-14: INSPECTION:
   A.   Right Of Inspection: An applicant or permittee shall permit
representatives of the planning and building office, the county health
department, and the fire department to inspect the premises of a sexually
oriented business for the purpose of ensuring compliance with the law, at any
time it is occupied or open for business.
   B.   Failure To Allow Inspection: It shall be unlawful for a person who
operates a sexually oriented business, regardless of whether or not a permit
has been issued for said business under this chapter, or his/her agent or
employee, to refuse to permit such lawful inspection of the premises at any
time that it is occupied or open for business. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-14-15: EXPIRATION OF PERMIT; RENEWAL:
   A.   Each permit shall expire one year from the date of issuance and may be
renewed only by making application as provided in section
8-14-12 of this chapter (for renewals, filing of original survey shall be
sufficient). Application for renewal shall be made at least thirty (30) days
before the expiration date, and when made less than thirty (30) days before the
expiration date, the expiration of the permit will not be affected.
   B.   When the county commissioners deny renewal of the permit, the applicant
shall not be issued a permit under this chapter for one year from the date of
denial. If, subsequent to denial, the county commissioners find that the basis
for denial of the renewal of the permit has been corrected, the applicant shall
be granted a permit if at least ninety (90) days have elapsed since the date
denial became final. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-14-16: SUSPENSION OF PERMIT:
   A.   Causes For Suspension: The administrator of planning and zoning and/or
the sheriff shall suspend a permit for a period not to exceed thirty (30) days
if he/she determines that a permittee, or an employee of a permittee, has:
      1.   Violated or is not in compliance with any section of this chapter.
      2.   Been under the influence of alcoholic beverages while working in the
sexually oriented business premises.
      3.   Refused to allow an inspection of sexually oriented business
premises as authorized by this chapter.
      4.   Knowingly permitted gambling by any person on the sexually oriented
business premises.
      5.   Operated the sexually oriented business in violation of a building,
fire, health, or zoning statute, code, ordinance or regulation, whether
federal, state or local, said determination being based on investigation by the
division, department or agency charged with enforcing said rules or laws. In
the event of such statute, code, ordinance or regulation violation, the county
or its designee, shall promptly notify the permittee of the violation and shall
allow the permittee a seven (7) day period in which to correct the violation.
If the permittee fails to correct the violation before the expiration of the
seven (7) day period, the county, or its designee, shall forthwith suspend the
permit and shall notify the permittee of the suspension.
      6.   Engaged in permit transfer contrary to section
8-14-19 of this chapter. In the event that the administrator of planning and
zoning suspends a permit on the grounds that a permittee engaged in a permit
transfer contrary to section
8-14-19 of this chapter, the director or his/her designee shall forthwith
notify the permittee of the suspension. The suspension shall remain in effect
until the applicable section of this chapter has been satisfied.
      7.   Operated the sexually oriented business in violation of the hours of
operation required in section
8-14-24 of this chapter.
      8.   Knowingly employs a person who does not have a valid license as
required in section
8-14-20 of this chapter.
   B.   Remedial Action: The suspension shall remain in effect until the
violation of the statute, code, ordinance or regulation in question has been
corrected. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-14-17: REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
   A.   Recent Permit Suspension: The county commissioners shall revoke a
permit if a cause of suspension in section
8-14-16 of this chapter occurs and the permit has been suspended within the
preceding twelve (12) months.
   B.   Causes For Revocation: The county commissioners shall revoke a permit
upon determining that:
      1.   A permittee gave false or misleading information in the material
submitted during the application process that tended to enhance the applicant's
opportunity for obtaining a permit.
      2.   A permittee or an employee has knowingly allowed possession, use or
sale of controlled substances in or on the premises.
      3.   A permittee or an employee has knowingly allowed prostitution on the
premises.
      4.   A permittee or an employee knowingly operated the sexually oriented
business during a period of time when the permittee's permit was suspended.
      5.   A permittee has been convicted of a "specified criminal act" for
which the time period required in section
8-14-12 of this chapter has not elapsed.
      6.   On two (2) or more occasions within a twelve (12) month period, a
person or persons committed an offense, occurring in or on the permitted
premises, constituting a specified criminal act for which a conviction has been
obtained, and the person or persons were employees of the sexually oriented
business at the time the offenses were committed. The fact that a conviction is
being appealed shall have no effect on the revocation of the permit.
      7.   A permittee is convicted of tax violations for any taxes or fees
related to a sexually oriented business.
      8.   A permittee or an employee has knowingly allowed any act of sexual
intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation, or any other specified
sexual activities to occur in or on the permitted premises.
      9.   A permittee has been operating more than one sexually oriented
business under a single roof, except as provided in subsection
8-14-4C of this chapter.
   C.   Continuance Of Revocation: When the county commissioners revoke a
permit, the revocation shall continue for one year and the permittee shall not
be issued a sexually oriented business permit for one year from the date
revocation became effective. If, subsequent to revocation, the county
commissioners find that the basis for revocation under this section has been
corrected, the applicant shall be granted a permit if at least ninety (90) days
have elapsed since the date revocation became effective. If the permit was
revoked under this section, an applicant may not be granted another permit
until the number of years required under this section has elapsed. (Ord. 2016-
09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-14-18: REVIEW OF PERMIT DENIAL, SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION:
After denial of an application, or denial of a renewal of an application, or
suspension or revocation of a permit, the applicant or permittee may seek
review of such administrative action pursuant to and within the time frames
established by the Idaho administrative procedure act. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-
13-2016)
8-14-19: TRANSFER OF PERMIT:
   A.   Operation At Place Designated In Permit: A permittee shall not operate
a sexually oriented business under the authority of a permit at any place other
than the address designated in the application for permit.
   B.   Requirements For Transfer: A permittee shall not transfer his/her
permit to another person unless and until such other person satisfies the
following requirements:
      1.   Obtains an amendment to the permit from the county commissioners
which provides that he/she is now the permittee, which amendment may be
obtained only if he/she has completed and properly filed an application with
the county clerk or his/her designee, setting forth the information called for
under section
8-14-12 of this chapter in the application; and
      2.   Pays a transfer fee of twenty percent (20%) of the annual permit fee
set by this chapter.
   C.   Notice Of Suspension Or Revocation Proceedings: No permit may be
transferred when the administrator of planning and zoning, the sheriff or the
board of county commissioners have notified the permittee that suspension or
revocation proceedings have been or will be brought against the permittee.
   D.   Change Of Location Prohibited: A permittee shall not transfer his
permit to another location.
   E.   Unlawful Transfer: Any attempt to transfer a permit either directly or
indirectly in violation of this section is hereby declared void and the permit
shall be deemed revoked upon the date such transfer is made. (Ord. 2016-09-13-
J, 9-13-2016)
8-14-20: BUSINESS EMPLOYEE LICENSE; FEES:
   A.   License Required; Fee:
      1.   Each individual to be employed in a "sexually oriented business", as
defined in section
8-14-3 of this chapter, who engages in the services rendered by a nude model
studio, escort or escort agency, sexual encounter establishment, massage
parlor, or a live performer or entertainer shall be required to obtain a
sexually oriented business employee license.
      2.   Each applicant shall pay a permit fee of one hundred dollars
($100.00). Said fee is to cover reasonable administrative costs of the
licensing application process.
   B.   Information Required: Before any applicant may be issued a sexually
oriented business employee license, the applicant shall submit, on a form to be
provided by the county clerk or his/her designee, the following information:
      1.   The applicant's name or any other names (including "stage" names) or
aliases used by the individual.
      2.   Age, date, and place of birth.
      3.   Height, weight, hair and eye color.
      4.   Present residence address and telephone number.
      5.   Present business address and telephone number.
      6.   State driver's license or identification number.
      7.   Social security number.
      8.   Acceptable written proof that the individual is at least eighteen
(18) years of age.
      9.   Attached to the application form as provided above, a color
photograph of the applicant clearly showing the applicant's face, and the
applicant's fingerprints on a form provided by the applicable law enforcement
department. Any fees for the photographs and fingerprints shall be paid by the
applicant.
      10.   A statement detailing the license or permit history of the
applicant for the five (5) years immediately preceding the date of the filing
of the application, including whether such applicant previously operating or
seeking to operate, in this or any other county, city, state, or country has
ever had a license, permit, or authorization to do business denied, revoked, or
suspended, or had any professional or vocational license or permit denied,
revoked, or suspended. In the event of any such denial, revocation, or
suspension, state the date, the name of the issuing or denying jurisdiction,
and describe in full the reasons for the denial, revocation, or suspension. A
copy of any order of denial, revocation, or suspension shall be attached to the
application.
      11.   Whether the applicant has been convicted of a "specified criminal
act" as defined in section
8-14-3 of this chapter. This information shall include the date, place, nature
of each conviction or plea of nolo contendere and identifying the convicting
jurisdiction.
      12.   The county clerk or his or her designee shall refer the sexually
oriented business employee license application to the applicable law
enforcement department for an investigation to be made of such information as
is contained on the application. The application process shall be completed
within ten (10) days from the date the completed application is filed. After
the investigation, the county clerk or his or her designee shall issue a
license unless the report from the sheriff's department finds that one or more
of the following findings is true:
         a.   That the applicant has knowingly made any false, misleading, or
fraudulent statement of a material fact in the application for a license, or in
any report or record required to be filed with the sheriff's department or
other county department.
         b.   That the applicant is under eighteen (18) years of age.
         c.   That the applicant has been convicted of a "specified criminal
act", as defined in section
8-14-3 of this chapter.
         d.   That the sexually oriented business employee license is to be
used for employment in a business prohibited by local or state law, statute,
rule or regulation, or prohibited by particular provisions of this chapter.
         e.   That the applicant has had a sexually oriented business employee
license revoked by the county or any other governmental or regulatory agency
within two (2) years of the date of the current application.
   C.   Renewal Of License:
      1.   A license granted pursuant to this section shall be subject to
annual renewal by the county clerk or his or her designee upon the written
application of the applicant and a finding by the county clerk or his or her
designee and the applicable law enforcement department that the applicant has
not been convicted of any "specified criminal act", as defined in section
8-14-3 of this chapter or committed any act during the existence of the
previous license period which would be grounds to deny the initial permit
application.
      2.   The renewal of the license shall be subject to payment of a fee of
twenty five dollars ($25.00). (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-14-21: SEXUALLY EXPLICIT FILMS OR VIDEOS:
   A.   Requirements: A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually
oriented business, other than an adult motel and regardless of whether or not a
permit has been issued to said business under this chapter, and who exhibits on
the premises in a viewing room of less than one hundred fifty (150) square feet
of floor space, a film, videocassette, DVD, CD-ROM, or other video reproduction
which depicts specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, shall
comply with the following requirements:
      1.   Upon application for a sexually oriented business permit, the
application shall be accompanied by a diagram of the premises showing a plan
thereof specifying the location of one or more manager's stations, the location
of all overhead lighting fixtures and designating any portion of the premises
in which patrons will not be permitted. A manager's station may not exceed
thirty two (32) square feet of floor area with no dimension greater than eight
feet (8'). The diagram shall also designate the place at which this permit will
be conspicuously posted, if granted. A professionally prepared diagram in the
nature of an engineer's or architect's blueprint shall not be required;
however, each diagram should be oriented to the north or to some designated
street or object and should be drawn to a designated scale with marked
dimensions sufficient to show the various internal dimension of all areas of
the interior of the premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches (±6").
The administrator of planning and zoning or his/her designee may waive the
foregoing diagram for renewal applications if the applicant adopts a diagram
that was previously submitted and certifies that the configuration of the
premises has not been altered since it was prepared.
      2.   The application shall be sworn to be true and correct by the
applicant.
      3.   No alteration in the configuration or location of a manager's
station may be made without the prior approval of the administrator of planning
and zoning or his/her designee.
      4.   It is the duty of the owners and operators of the premises to ensure
that at least one employee is on duty and situated at each manager's station at
all times that any patron is present inside the premises.
      5.   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner
that there is an unobstructed view from a manager's station of every area of
the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose, excluding
restrooms. Restrooms may not contain video reproduction equipment. If the
premises has two (2) or more manager's stations designated, then the interior
of the premises shall be configured in such a manner that there is an
unobstructed view of each area of the premises to which any patron is permitted
access for any purpose from at least one of the manager's stations. The view
required in this subsection must be by direct line of sight from the manager's
station.
      6.   It shall be the duty of the owners and operators, and it shall also
be the duty of any agents and employees present on the premises, to ensure that
the view area specified in subsection A5 of this section remains unobstructed
by any doors, walls, merchandise, display racks or other materials or persons
at all times, and to ensure that no patron is permitted access to any area of
the premises which has been designated as an area in which patrons will not be
permitted in the application filed pursuant to this subsection A.
      7.   No viewing room may be occupied by more than one person at any one
time. No holes, commonly known as "glory holes", shall be allowed in the walls
or partitions which separate each viewing room from an adjoining viewing room
or restroom.
      8.   The premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting fixtures of
sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are permitted
access, and an illumination of not less than two (2) foot-candles as measured
at the floor level.
      9.   It shall be the duty of the owners and operators, and it shall also
be the duty of any agents and employees present on the premises, to ensure that
the illumination described in subsection A8 of this section is maintained at
all times that any patron is present on the premises.
   B.   Noncompliance A Misdemeanor: A person having a duty under subsection A
of this section commits a misdemeanor if he/she knowingly fails to fulfill that
duty. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-14-22: PROHIBITIONS REGARDING MINORS:
A person commits a misdemeanor if he/she operates or causes to be operated a
sexually oriented business, regardless of whether or not a permit has been
issued for said business under this chapter, and knowingly or with reasonable
cause to know, permits, suffers, or allows:
   A.   Admittance of a person under eighteen (18) years of age to the business
premises unless accompanied by a parent or guardian;
   B.   A person under eighteen (18) years of age to remain at the business
premises unless accompanied by a parent or guardian;
   C.   A person under eighteen (18) years of age to purchase goods or services
at the business premises without the specific consent of a parent or guardian;
or
   D.   A person who is under eighteen (18) years of age to work at the
business premises as an employee. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-14-23: ADVERTISING AND LIGHTING:
   A.   Advertising Prohibited Activities: It shall be unlawful and a person
commits a misdemeanor if he/she operates or causes to be operated a sexually
oriented business, regardless of whether or not a permit has been issued for
said business under this chapter, and advertises the presentation of any
activity prohibited by any applicable state statute or local ordinance.
   B.   Advertising Visible Outside Premises: It shall be unlawful and a person
commits a misdemeanor if he/she operates or causes to be operated a sexually
oriented business, regardless of whether or not a permit has been issued for
said business under this chapter, and displays or otherwise exhibits the
materials and/or performances at such sexually oriented business in any
advertising which is visible outside the premises. This prohibition shall not
extend to advertising of the existence or location of such sexually oriented
business.
   C.   Interior Of Premises Visible From Outside: It shall be unlawful for any
permittee to allow any portion of the interior premises of a sexually oriented
business to be visible from outside the licensed premises.
   D.   Lighting Outside Of Premises: All off street parking areas and premises
entries of the sexually oriented business shall be illuminated from dusk to
closing hours of operation with a lighting system which provides an average
maintained horizontal illumination of one foot-candle of light on the parking
surface and/or walkways. This required lighting level is established in order
to provide sufficient illumination of the parking areas and walkways serving
the sexually oriented business for the personal safety of patrons and employees
and to reduce the incidence of vandalism and criminal conduct. The lighting
shall be shown on the required sketch or diagram of the premises.
   E.   Compliance Required: Nothing contained in this section shall relieve
the operator(s) of a sexually oriented business from complying with the
requirements of the county zoning ordinance, as it may be amended from time to
time, or any subsequently enacted county ordinances or regulations. (Ord. 2016-
09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-14-24: HOURS OF OPERATION:
   A.   It shall be unlawful and a person commits a misdemeanor if he/she
operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented business, regardless of
whether or not a permit has been issued for said business under this chapter,
and allows such business to remain open for business, or to permit any employee
to engage in a performance, solicit a performance, make a sale, solicit a sale,
provide a service, or solicit a service on Sunday between the hours of one
o'clock (1:00) A.M. and nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. of the following Monday or
between the hours of one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. of
any other day.
   B.   It shall be unlawful and a person commits a misdemeanor if, working as
an employee of a sexually oriented business, regardless of whether or not a
permit has been issued for said business under this chapter, said employee
engages in a performance, solicits a performance, makes a sale, solicits a
sale, provides a service, or solicits a service on Sunday between the hours of
one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. of the following Monday or
between the hours of one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. of
any other day. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-14-25: PUBLIC NUDITY PROHIBITED:
   A.   Court Decisions; Findings: The United States supreme court decision in
Barnes v. Glen Theatre, Inc., 501 U.S. 560, 111 S. Ct. 2456, 115 L. Ed.2d 504
(1991), and Erie v. Pap's A.M., 120 S. Ct. 1382, 146 L. Ed.2d 265, upheld the
rights of cities to prohibit public nudity at any sexually oriented businesses,
regardless of whether or not a permit has been issued to said businesses,
including businesses where no alcoholic beverages are sold, served, or consumed
at the premises. The county expressly finds that the secondary effects
associated with live adult entertainment and public nudity adversely impact and
threaten to impact the public health, safety and welfare by providing an
atmosphere conducive to violence, sexual harassment, public intoxication,
prostitution, the spread of sexually transmitted disease and other deleterious
effects. Accordingly, consistent with such decisions, the county intends by
this chapter to prohibit public nudity within the county.
   B.   Prohibited Acts: No person shall knowingly or intentionally, in a
public place:
      1.   Engage in sexual intercourse;
      2.   Appear in a state of nudity;
      3.   Fondle his or her genitals or the genitals of another person; or
      4.   Engage in specified sexual activities.
   C.   Allowing Nudity Prohibited: No person who owns, operates or otherwise
controls a sexually oriented business shall permit, allow, hire, sponsor or
employ any other person for the purpose of appearing in a state of nudity at
any public building, public park or recreation area or public place.
   D.   Exceptions: The prohibitions set forth in subsections B and C of this
section shall not apply to:
      1.   Any child under ten (10) years of age;
      2.   Any individual exposing a breast in the process of breast feeding an
infant less than two (2) years of age;
      3.   Any person while performing any excretory function within a public
restroom;
      4.   Any person changing his or her clothing in a dressing room, the sole
purpose of which is to provide personal privacy for such purposes; or
      5.   Any person while receiving medical or therapeutic treatment from any
physician, paramedic, nurse or other medical practitioner licensed by the state
of Idaho. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-14-26: LIVE ADULT ENTERTAINMENT PROHIBITED:
   A.   No person shall perform, cause or allow the performance of live adult
entertainment in any public place within the county or at any private place or
location where any individual admissions charge or consideration is charged to
or collected from persons attending such performance.
   B.   No employee of a sexually oriented business shall engage in any
specified sexual activity or display or expose any specified anatomical area
while acting as a waiter, waitress, host, hostess, or bartender. (Ord. 2016-09-
13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-14-27: OPERATION WITHOUT VALID PERMIT:
   A.   Additional Criminal Prohibitions: In addition to the criminal
provisions in other sections of this chapter, the following additional criminal
provisions shall also apply to sexually oriented businesses.
   B.   Committing Misdemeanors: It shall be unlawful and a person commits a
misdemeanor if he/she operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented
business, regardless of whether or not a permit has been issued for said
business under this chapter, and said person knows or should know that:
      1.   The business does not have a sexually oriented business permit under
this chapter for any applicable classification;
      2.   The business has a permit, which is under suspension;
      3.   The business has a permit, which has been revoked; or
      4.   The business has a permit, which has expired. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-
13-2016)
8-14-28: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Modeling Class: It is a defense to prosecution for any violation of
this chapter that a person appearing in a state of nudity did so in a modeling
class operated:
      1.   By a college, junior college, or university supported entirely or
partly by taxation;
      2.   By a private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or
      3.   In a structure:
         a.   Which has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure and
no other advertising that indicates a nude person is available for viewing;
         b.   Where, in order to participate in a class, a student must enroll
at least three (3) days in advance of the class; and
         c.   Where no more than one nude model is on the premises at any one
time.
   B.   Actions Allowed By Employees: It is a defense to prosecution for a
violation of this chapter that an employee of a sexually oriented business,
regardless of whether or not it is permitted under this chapter, exposed any
specified anatomical area during the employee's bona fide use of a restroom, or
during the employee's bona fide use of a dressing room which is accessible only
to employees. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-14-29: DISTRIBUTION OF SEXUAL DEVICES:
It is unlawful for any person to distribute, for commercial purposes, sell or
offer for sale any device, instrument or paraphernalia designed or marketed
primarily for stimulation of human genital organs or for sadomasochistic use or
abuse of themselves or others. Such devices, instruments or paraphernalia
include, but are not limited to: phallic shaped vibrators, dildos, muzzles,
whips, chains, bather restraints, racks, nonmedical enema kits, body piercing
implements (excluding earrings or other decorative jewelry) or other tools
designed for sadomasochistic abuse. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-14-30: PENALTIES AND INJUNCTIVE RELIEF:
   A.   Penalty Imposed: In addition to whatever penalties are applicable under
the Idaho criminal code, if any person fails or refuses to obey or comply with
or violates any of the criminal provisions of this chapter, such person, upon
conviction of such offense, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, in the discretion of the court. Each violation or
noncompliance shall be considered a separate and distinct offense. Further,
each day of continued violation or noncompliance shall be considered as a
separate offense.
   B.   Injunctive Relief; Action At Law For Damages: Nothing herein contained
shall prevent or restrict the county from taking such other lawful action in
any court of competent jurisdiction as is necessary to prevent or remedy any
violation or noncompliance. Such other lawful actions shall include, but shall
not be limited to, an equitable action for injunctive relief or an action at
law for damages.
   C.   Penalties Cumulative: All remedies and penalties provided for in this
section shall be cumulative and independently available to the county and the
county shall be authorized to pursue any and all remedies set forth in this
section to the full extent allowed by law. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-14-31: IMMUNITY FROM PROSECUTION:
The county and its designee, the applicable law enforcement department and all
other departments and agencies, and all other county officers, agents and
employees, charged with enforcement of state and local laws and codes shall be
immune from prosecution, civil or criminal, for reasonable, good faith trespass
upon property owned or controlled by a sexually oriented business while acting
within the scope of authority conferred by this chapter. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-
13-2016)
CHAPTER 15
WELLHEAD PROTECTION
SECTION:
8-15-1: Purpose And Goals
8-15-2: Applicability
8-15-3: Establishment Of Wellhead Zones
8-15-4: Protection Of Water Supply; Notice Of Proposed Action
8-15-5: Allowed Uses And Notice Requirements By Zone
8-15-6: Amendments
8-15-1: PURPOSE AND GOALS:
   A.   Purpose: It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public
health, safety and general welfare of the residents of Minidoka County by
minimizing public and private losses due to contamination of the public water
supply, through a formalized groundwater protection/pollution abatement and
control plan.
   B.   Goals: The specific goals of the wellhead protection chapter, and the
formalized groundwater protection/pollution abatement and control plan are to:
      1.   Protect public water systems; and
      2.   Protect human life and health; and
      3.   Ensure that the public is provided with a sustainable safe potable
water supply; and
      4.   Minimize expenditure of public money for pollution remediation
projects; and
      5.   Minimize regulations and land use; and
      6.   Minimize business interruptions. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-15-2: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   This chapter and the regulation contained herein shall only apply to
public and private water system regulated by the division of environmental
quality areas within a public water system's source water protection area, as
established and certified by the Idaho department of environmental quality,
within the jurisdiction of Minidoka County and registered with the Minidoka
County recorder.
   B.   Private or individual wells shall be exempt from this chapter and
regulation. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-15-3: ESTABLISHMENT OF WELLHEAD ZONES:
This chapter shall establish the following wellhead zones:
   A.   "Wellhead protection zone IA", defined as a minimum fixed radius
extending no less than one hundred feet (100') radius from the wellhead
supplying potable water to the public water supplies; and
   B.   "Wellhead protection zone IB", defined as a three (3) year time of
travel district (TOT) as defined herein, which is the time required for
groundwater to move in the ground from a specific point to a well; and
   C.   "Wellhead protection zone II", defined as six (6) year time of travel
district (TOT); and
   D.   "Wellhead protection zone III", defined as a ten (10) year time of
travel district (TOT). (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-15-4: PROTECTION OF WATER SUPPLY; NOTICE OF PROPOSED ACTION:
Whenever there is a request which requires approval from the commission for
land lying within a wellhead protection zone, written notice of the hearing
shall be given to the entity operating the public or community water supply
within that district. The commission may require a granting of easements for
monitoring wells if the commission deems it appropriate for protection of the
public water supply. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-15-5: ALLOWED USES AND NOTICE REQUIREMENTS BY ZONE:
   A.   Wellhead Protection Zone IA:
      1.   Uses permitted within zone IA shall be limited to necessary public
water supply wellhead equipment including wellhead facility buildings, water
storage tanks, disinfection equipment, disinfection chemical storage and
landscaping as required by this title.
      2.   All other uses shall be prohibited.
   B.   Wellhead Protection Zone IB: Notice of proposed action to the operator
of a public or community water supply shall be required in a wellhead
protection zone IB if any of the following uses are proposed within a wellhead
zone IB:
      1.   Sanitary landfills; and
      2.   Livestock confinement operations; and
      3.   Hazardous waste disposal facility; and
      4.   Injection well is a prohibited use except for the following:
         a.   Closed systems or as approved by IDEQ.
      5.   All manufacturing or industrial businesses involving the collection,
handling, manufacture, use, storage, transfer or disposal of any hazardous
solid or liquid material or waste having potential impact on groundwater; and
      6.   Existing sewer lines shall not be closer than one hundred feet
(100') of a wellhead or of a new sanitary system and sewer lines shall not be
closer than one hundred fifty feet (150') of a wellhead; and
      7.   Existing septic tanks or drainfields shall not be closer than one
hundred feet (100') of a wellhead and new installation of septic tanks or
drainfields shall not be closer than two hundred feet (200') away from the
wellhead; and
      8.   Junk or salvage yards; and
      9.   Disposal of waste oil, oil filters, tires and all other petroleum
products; and
      10.   Land use activities posing a hazard or threat to existing
groundwater quality as deemed by the administrator, commission, or board during
review process of zoning and development applications may be prohibited.
   C.   Wellhead Protection Zone II: Notice of proposed action to the operator
of public or community water supply shall be required in a wellhead protection
zone II if any of the following uses are proposed within a wellhead zone II:
      1.   Sanitary landfills; and
      2.   Hazardous waste disposal facility; and
      3.   Injection well is a prohibited use except for the following:
         a.   Deep well injection (below 18 feet in depth):
            (1)   Geothermal heat; or
            (2)   Heat pump return; or
            (3)   Cooling water return;
         b.   Shallow well injection only (less than 18 feet in depth),
including:
            (1)   Storm runoff; or
            (2)   Agricultural runoff wastewater; or
            (3)   Special drainage water; or
            (4)   Aquifer recharge; or
            (5)   Aquifer remediation; or
            (6)   Septic systems (general).
      4.   Land use activities posing a hazard or threat to existing
groundwater quality as deemed by the director, commission, or board during
review process of zoning and development applications may be prohibited.
   D.   Wellhead Protection Zone III: Notice of proposed action to the operator
of public or community water supply shall be required in a wellhead protection
zone III if any of the following uses are proposed within a wellhead zone III:
      1.   Injection wells except for the following:
         a.   Deep well injection (below 18 feet in depth):
            (1)   Geothermal heat; or
            (2)   Heat pump return; or
            (3)   Cooling water return.
         b.   Shallow well injection only (less than 18 feet in depth):
            (1)   Storm runoff; or
            (2)   Agricultural runoff wastewater; or
            (3)   Special drainage water; or
            (4)   Aquifer recharge; or
            (5)   Aquifer remediation; or
            (6)   Septic systems (general).
      2.   Land use activities posing a hazard or threat to existing
groundwater quality as deemed by the administrator, commission, or board during
review process of zoning and development applications may be prohibited. (Ord.
2016-09-13-J, 9-13-2016)
8-15-6: AMENDMENTS:
Proposed amendments shall require notice to all entities operating public
community water supplies as defined by this chapter. (Ord. 2016-09-13-J, 9-13-
2016)
CHAPTER 16
AGRICULTURE PROTECTION AREAS (APA)
SECTION:
8-16-1: Purpose
8-16-2: Definitions
8-16-3: Creation And Designation Of APA
8-16-4: Review Process
8-16-5: Expansion Or Modification Of An APA
8-16-6: Termination Of An APA
8-16-7: Enrollment Duration And Review
8-16-8: Fees
8-16-9: Enforcement, Prohibitions, And Penalties
8-16-10: Allowable Building And Structures
8-16-11: APA Commission
8-16-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide for a voluntary process through which
agricultural and timber producers of Minidoka County may make application to
commit land actively devoted to agriculture for future agricultural use. An APA
designation aims to protect productive farmland, rangeland, and forest land;
promote farm viability; support the local agricultural economy; and provide for
long term planning stability. This chapter sets out the process for creation of
Agriculture Protection Areas. (Ord. 2024-12-2, 12-2-2024)
8-16-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this Chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
AGRICULTURE PRODUCTION: Activities or conditions conducted on land actively
devoted to agriculture as defined in section 63-604, Idaho Code, or on forest
land as defined in section 63-1701, Idaho Code.
AGRICULTURE PROTECTION AREA (APA): Specific parcels of land in a designated
geographic area voluntarily created under the authority of this chapter for the
purpose of protecting and preserving agricultural land.
AGRICULTURE PROTECTION AREA COMMISSION: The advisory board to the governing
body created pursuant to section 67-9705, Idaho Code.
APPLICANT: Anyone who owns twenty (20) contiguous acres or more of land that
has been in active agricultural or forest production for the previous three (3)
consecutive years, consistent with the provisions of sections 63-604 and 63-
1701, Idaho Code, and who voluntarily applies for the land to be part of an
agricultural protection area.
CITY BOUNDARY: The legal boundary of any city in the County.
HARDSHIP: Situation or circumstance over which a landowner in an agricultural
protection area has no control, that include but are not limited to; an adverse
result in litigation against the farm or landowner, death of a close family
member that would lead to unanticipated financial hardships, bankruptcy due to
another person's fraud, or any other illegal activity.
PROPOSAL: Written documents submitted to a governing body or agricultural
protection area commission from a landowner regarding his property. (Ord. 2024-
12-2, 12-2-2024)
8-16-3: CREATION AND DESIGNATION OF APA:
An Agriculture Protection Area shall be designated as an "APA". An APA
designation is a voluntary land use designation available to landowners who
wish to protect their agricultural land from future nonagricultural
development. To qualify for an APA designation, the land must be:
   A.   At least twenty (20) contiguous acres,
   B.   Actively devoted to an agricultural or forest purpose,
   C.   Assessed as agriculture or forest land, and
   D.   Located within an Agricultural Zoning District that allows for
agricultural or forest use.
   E.   Land must be located a minimum of one quarter (1/4) mile away from any
zoning designation other then agriculture and buffer zones around State roads
and the interstate as designated on Exhibit A.
   F.   Land must be located a minimum of one (1) mile away from the following
city boundaries, Burley, Paul, Heyburn, and Rupert.
Landowners wishing to establish an APA must submit an application to the
Minidoka County Planning and Zoning Department. At minimum, the application
shall include the following:
   A.   Name, phone number, email, and mailing address of the land owner;
   B.   Proof of land ownership;
   C.   Notaries signature of all ownership parties;
   D.   A legal description of the parcels, and a map showing the proposed APA;
   E.   A list of facilities and structures proposed to be included in the APA;
   F.   A statement outlining the current contiguous acreages of land, land
use, agricultural productivity, and other relevant characteristics of the land
to be included in the APA;
   G.   The number of years the land has been in agricultural or forest
production, and the applicant's plan to continue using the land for
agricultural or forest purposes';
   H.   The stated reasons for seeking an APA designation. (Ord. 2024-12-2, 12-
2-2024)
8-16-4: REVIEW PROCESS:
Upon receipt of a completed application, the APA commission shall post notice
of the date and time for review of the proposal and make a recommendation to
the Board of County Commissioners withing sixty (60) days of receiving the
application. The application shall be evaluated on the following criteria:
   A.   The total contiguous acreages of the land is at least twenty (20) acres
in size and is actively devoted to agricultural or forest production;
   B.   Meet the eligibility criteria in Section 8-16-3;
   C.   Viability of the proposed APA lands for continued use for agricultural
or forest production;
   D.   The Applicant's plan for continuity of operation over the twenty (20)-
year designation period;
   E.   Possible conflict with existing city annexation or development plans;
   F.   Proximity to existing public rights of way;
   G.   Proximity to planned transportation corridors or future public rights
of way;
   H.   Proximity to planned airport expansion or development;
   I.   Proximity to planned development with existing entitlements;
   J.   Agricultural production capability of the land within the proposed APA;
and
   K.   Other local impacts relevant to the proposed APA.
      Notwithstanding the criteria and review process outlined in this chapter,
the Board of County Commissioners may place additional conditions on lands
designated as an APA, including, but limited to, setbacks from existing public
rights of way, setbacks from existing public structures, and a review of the
land's APA designation after twenty (20) years.
      Once the APA commission makes its recommendations to the board of county
commissioners, the Board of County Commissioners shall hold a public hearing
and issue its decision within sixty (60) days. Failure to make a decision shall
render the APA commission's recommendations final. The board of county
commissioner's decision shall include findings and facts supporting its
decision.
      Upon making its decision, the Board of County Commissioners shall:
      1.   Record the designation of an APA, a legal description of the area;
and any findings and facts with the county recorder within ten (10) days;
      2.   Amend county land use planning maps to reflect the boundaries of the
APA; and
      3.   Notify relevant public officials and agencies of the designation.
(Ord. 2024-12-2, 12-2-2024)
8-16-5: EXPANSION OR MODIFICATION OF AN APA:
An expansion or modification of an existing APA shall follow the same
application, review, and hearing procedures outlined in this code. Any
expansion of an APA shall be contiguous to the APA. (Ord. 2024-12-2, 12-2-2024)
8-16-6: TERMINATION OF AN APA:
A landowner wishing to terminate an APA must request in writing a meeting with
the Board of County Commissioners. The meeting request shall include a proof of
hardship. The request and proof of hardship should be submitted to both the
County Clerk and Board of County Commissioners. Early termination of the APA
shall only occur upon the proving by land owner of an undue hardship as defined
in this code. The landowner seeking the termination of an APA is not taken
lightly, and will be carefully consider. (Ord. 2024-12-2, 12-2-2024)
8-16-7: ENROLLMENT DURATION AND REVIEW:
Lands designated as an APA will remain so designated for a period of twenty
(20) years. A landowner wishing to end an approved APA designation after twenty
(20) years must notify the Board of County Commissioners, County Clerk, and
Planning and Zoning Administrator in writing of their desire to not to renew
the land's APA designation, within ninety (90) days prior to the expiration of
the APA. Failure of the landowner to notify the county, or failure of the
county to review the APA terms, will result in the APA designation continuing
for another twenty (20) years. (Ord. 2024-12-2, 12-2-2024)
8-16-8: FEES:
An application fee shall be required to cover administrative costs, including,
but not limited to, reviewing materials, conducting public meetings and
hearings, noticing, processing and recording documents, and updating county
land use maps. The application fee may be set from time to time by the Board of
County Commissioners in an amount that is based on the County's actual Costs.
The initial application fee shall be eight hundred dollars ($800.00), plus
$100.00 per additional parcels. This fee shall automatically increase by three
percent (3%) each year. (Ord. 2024-12-2, 12-2-2024)
8-16-9: ENFORCEMENT, PROHIBITIONS, AND PENALTIES:
Unless otherwise approved by the Board of County Commissioners, the following
land uses are not allowed within an APA:
   A.   The siting of large confined animal feeding operations (CAFO);
   B.   The siting of residential, commercial, manufacturing, industrial, solar
energy, wind energy, or battery storage structures; or
   C.   Any other nonagricultural land uses.
The Board of County Commissioners or acting code enforcement officer shall be
responsible for enforcing the provisions of this chapter. Any person found to
be in violation of this code shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and punishable as
provided in Section 18-113, Idaho Code. (Ord. 2024-12-2, 12-2-2024)
8-16-10: ALLOWABLE BUILDING AND STRUCTURES:
Any building or structure that would fall under an ag exempt building permit,
and is not a place of regular employment or residence would be allowed to be
upon or placed upon APA lands. (Ord. 2024-12-2, 12-2-2024)
8-16-11: APA COMMISSION:
The Board of County Commissioners Shall appoint at least three (3) and no more
than five (5) members to the APA Commission to serve for a term or three (3)
years. Members shall be actively employed by or supporting production
agriculture as further defined in Idaho Code § 67-9705. APA Commission members
shall serve in an advisory role and have the following responsibilities:
   A.   Review and make recommendations on APA applications, APA members serve
in a volunteer capacity without pay, benefits, or other compensation. If a
member of the APA Commission is deemed unable to fulfill the duties of the APA
Commission or no longer is actively involved in agriculture, they may be
replaced at the will of the Board of County Commissioners. (Ord. 2024-12-2, 12-
2-2024)
TITLE 9
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL SUBDIVISION PROVISIONS; ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
9-1-1: Title
9-1-2: Authority
9-1-3: Purpose
9-1-4: Jurisdiction
9-1-5: Interpretation
9-1-6: Administration
9-1-7: Combining Of Permits
9-1-8: Severability
9-1-9: Enforcement
9-1-10: Violations; Penalties
9-1-1: TITLE:
This title shall be known and cited as the MINIDOKA COUNTY SUBDIVISION
ORDINANCE. (Ord., 3-2007)
9-1-2: AUTHORITY:
This title is adopted pursuant to Idaho Code title 50, chapter 13, and title
67, chapter 65. (Ord., 3-2007)
9-1-3: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this title is to promote the public health, safety, general
welfare, and to provide for:
   A.   The harmonious development of the county;
   B.   The coordination of streets, alleys and easements in new subdivisions
with existing and future development and improvements;
   C.   Adequate park and open spaces for travel, light, fresh air and
recreation;
   D.   Adequate transportation, water, sanitary drainage, irrigation and other
public facilities and services to meet the demands of growth;
   E.   Economical development and extension of public facilities and services
to meet the demands of growth;
   F.   An orderly and efficient procedure for the submission and disposal of
requests for approval of subdivision plats; and
   G.   The delegation of authority for administration of the regulations of
this title. (Ord., 3-2007)
9-1-4: JURISDICTION:
This title shall apply to the subdivision and development of all land within
the boundaries of Minidoka County, excluding the areas within the corporate
limits of each city. (Ord., 3-2007)
9-1-5: INTERPRETATION:
All subdivisions as herein defined shall be submitted for approval by the board
of county commissioners and shall comply with the provisions of this title.
This title shall supplement all other regulations, and, where at variance with
other laws, regulations, ordinances, or resolutions, the more restrictive
requirements shall apply. This title shall not apply to any subdivision created
and recorded prior to the effective date hereof, except for the further
dividing of lots; nor is it intended by this title to repeal, abrogate, annul
or in any way impair or interfere with existing provisions of other laws,
ordinances, or regulations, or with private restrictions placed upon property
by deed, covenant or other private agreements, or with restrictive covenants
running with the land to which the county is a party. (Ord., 3-2007)
9-1-6: ADMINISTRATION:
The board of county commissioners shall appoint a planning and zoning
commission to carry out the provisions as herein specified. The commission
shall receive and make recommendations on all subdivision applications. In the
event the commission fails to act or carry out its responsibilities according
to the regulations contained herein, the board shall assume all the duties of
the commission as herein specified in relation to the application concerned.
(Ord., 3-2007)
9-1-7: COMBINING OF PERMITS:
The commission is hereby required to combine all permits which may be required
in this title, and previously or subsequently adopted county ordinances, which
are relative to land development into one permit application procedure. In
conjunction with a combined permit, the commission shall coordinate methods of
approval with the respective departments for the purpose of reducing errors and
unnecessary delay in processing applications. (Ord., 3-2007)
9-1-8: SEVERABILITY:
Where any word, phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, or section, or other part
of this title is held invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, such
judgment shall affect only that part so held invalid. (Ord., 3-2007)
9-1-9: ENFORCEMENT:
No subdivision plat required by this title or the Idaho Code shall be admitted
to the public land records of the county or recorded by the county recorder
until such subdivision plat has received final approval by the board. No public
board, agency, commission, official or other authority shall proceed with the
construction of, or authorize the construction of, any of the public
improvements required by this title until the final plat has received approval
by the board. (Ord., 3-2007)
9-1-10: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
Penalties for failure to comply with the provisions of this title shall be as
follows:
Violation of any of the provisions of this title or failure to comply with any
of its requirements shall constitute a misdemeanor. Each day such violation
continues shall be considered as a separate offense. The landowner, tenant,
subdivider, builder, public official or any other person who commits,
participates in, assists in, or maintains such violation may each be found
guilty of a separate offense and suffer the penalties herein provided. Nothing
herein contained shall prevent the board or any other public official or
private citizen from taking such lawful action as is necessary to restrain or
prevent any violation of this title or of the Idaho Code. (Ord., 3-2007)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
9-2-1: Interpretation Of Terms Or Words
9-2-2: General Definitions
9-2-1: INTERPRETATION OF TERMS OR WORDS:
For the purpose of this title, certain terms or words used herein shall be
interpreted as follows:
   A.   The word "person" includes a firm, association, organization,
partnership, trust, company or corporation, as well as an individual;
   B.   The present tense includes the past or future tense, the singular
includes the plural and the plural includes the singular;
   C.   The words "shall" and "must" are always mandatory requirements, the
word "may" is a permissive requirement and the word "should" is a preferred
requirement;
   D.   The masculine shall include the feminine;
   E.   The words "used" or "occupied" include the words "intended, designed or
arranged to be used or occupied"; and
   F.   The word "lot" includes the words "plot", "parcel" and "tract". (Ord.,
3-2007)
9-2-2: GENERAL DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this title, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
   BLOCK: A group of lots, tracts, or parcels within well defined boundaries,
usually streets.
   BUILDING: Any structure designed or intended for the support, enclosure,
shelter or protection of persons, animals, chattels, or property of any kind,
but not including fences or advertising signs.
   BUILDING LINE: A line established by law or agreement and usually parallel
to property line beyond which a building or structure may not extend.
   BUILDING SITE: An area proposed or provided and improved by grading,
filling, excavation or other means for erecting pads for buildings.
   CEMETERY: Land used or intended to be used for the burial of humans or dead
animals and dedicated for cemetery purposes, including crematories, mausoleums
and mortuaries operated in connection with, and within the boundaries of, such
cemetery for which perpetual care and maintenance is provided.
   COMMISSION: The planning and zoning commission of Minidoka County as
appointed by the board of county commissioners.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: A plan, or any portion thereof, adopted by the board
including such things as the general location and extent of present and
proposed physical facilities including housing, industrial and commercial uses,
major transportation, parks, schools, and other community facilities.
   CONDOMINIUM: An estate consisting of: a) an undivided interest in common in
real property, in an interest or interests in real property, or in any
combination thereof, together with b) a separate interest in real property, in
an interest or interests in real property, or in any combination thereof.
   COUNTY RECORDER: The office of the Minidoka County recorder.
   COVENANT: A written promise or pledge.
   CULVERT: A drain that channels water under a bridge, street, road or
driveway.
   DEDICATION: The setting apart of land or interests in land for use by the
public. Land becomes dedicated when accepted by the county as a public
dedication, either by ordinance, resolution, or entry in the official minutes,
or by the recording of a plat showing such dedication.
   DEVELOPER: Authorized agent(s) of a subdivider or the subdivider himself.
   DEVELOPMENT, LARGE SCALE: A subdivision the size of which consists of thirty
(30) or more lots or dwelling units.
   DEVELOPMENT, MEDIUM SCALE: A subdivision the size of which consists of less
than thirty (30) but more than ten (10) lots or dwelling units.
   DEVELOPMENT, SMALL SCALE: A subdivision the size of which consists of up to
ten (10) lots or dwelling units.
   DWELLING UNIT: A suite of two (2) or more habitable rooms providing complete
living facilities for one family including permanent provisions for living,
sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation.
   DWELLING UNIT (PREFAB): A building or other structure, proposed or built for
occupancy by people that is designed for initial transportation on streets and
highways which arrives at a site where it is installed on a permanent
foundation.
   EASEMENT: Authorization by a property owner for the use by another, and for
a specified purpose, of any designated part of another person's property.
   ENGINEER: Any person who is licensed in the state to practice professional
engineering.
   GOVERNING BODY (AUTHORITY): The board of county commissioners of Minidoka
County.
   GOVERNMENT LOTS: Fractional sections in the rectangular government survey
system that are less than one quarter- section, generally a quarter-quarter
section with more or less than forty (40) acres and meets one or more of the
following criteria:
   A.   Found along the northern and western tier of townships;
   B.   Found where two (2) surveys meet each other; and/or
   C.   Found along "meanderable" rivers and lakes.
   HIGHWAY: A street designated as a highway by an appropriate local, state or
federal agency.
   IMPROVEMENT: Any alteration to the land or other physical constructions
associated with subdivision and building site developments.
   LOT: A parcel of land of sufficient size to meet minimum subdivision and
zoning requirements for use, coverage and area, and to provide such yards and
other open spaces as herein required. Such lot shall have frontage on an
improved public street or approved private street, or access to said lot will
be provided by means of an approved irrevocable dedicated easement.
   LOT AREA: The computed horizontal area contained within the lot lines.
   LOT TYPES: As used in this title, lot types are as follows:
    Corner Lot: A lot abutting upon two (2) or more streets at their
intersection or upon two (2) parts of the same street, such streets or parts of
the same street forming an interior angle of less than one hundred thirty five
degrees (135°). The point of intersection of the street lines is the "corner".
    Interior Lot: A lot bounded by a street on one side only.
    Reversed Lot: A lot with frontage on a side street or other right of way
other than an interior or corner lot.
    Through Lot: A lot having frontage on two (2) streets, which are parallel
or nearly so; also known as double frontage lot. Through lots are prohibited
under this title unless such a lot meets the criteria of lot access in
subsection
9-4-10F of this title.
   MANUFACTURED HOME (MOBILE HOME): A single-family dwelling designated for
transportation after fabrication on streets and highways on its own wheels or
on a flatbed or other trailer, and arriving at the site where it is to be
occupied as a dwelling complete and ready for occupancy, except for minor
incidental unpacking and assembly operations, located on jacks or other
temporary or permanent foundations, connections to utilities, and the like. A
prefab dwelling unit or travel trailer is not to be considered as a mobile
home. See the Minidoka County zoning ordinance for specific definitions and
classifications.
   MONUMENT: Any permanent marker either of concrete, galvanized iron pipe, or
iron or steel rods, used to permanently establish any tract, parcel, lot or
street lines, as specified in Idaho Code section 50-1303.
   OPEN SPACE: An area substantially open to the sky, which may be on the same
lot with a building. The area may include, along with the natural environmental
features, water areas, swimming pools, tennis courts and other recreational
facilities that the commission deems permissive. Streets, parking areas,
structures for habitation and the like shall not be included.
   ORIGINAL PARCEL OF LAND: A lot, tract or individual parcel as recorded on
any plat or recorded on file in the office of the Minidoka County recorder, any
unplatted contiguous parcel of land held in one ownership, or any platted
contiguous parcel of land comprised of or including government lots, and being
any such parcel of record as of March 18, 1982, the effective date of the
original subdivision ordinance.
   OWNER: Any individual, person, firm, association, syndicate, partnership,
corporation, or other entity having proprietary interest in real property
subject to this title.
   PARK, MANUFACTURED (MOBILE) HOME: Any area, tract, plot or site of land
developed as a planned unit development located and maintained for dwelling
purposes on a permanent or semipermanent basis for two (2) or more manufactured
(mobile) homes or travel trailers.
   PERFORMANCE BOND: An amount of money or other negotiable security paid by
the subdivider or his surety to the county clerk and recorder which guarantees
that the subdivider will perform all actions required by an approved plat, and
provides that if the subdivider defaults and fails to comply with provisions of
an approved plat, the subdivider or his surety will pay damages up to the limit
of the bond, or the surety will itself complete the requirements of the
approved plat. The board shall set the amount of the bond at its sole
discretion with regard to the recommendation of the commission.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT: An area of land in which a variety of residential,
commercial and industrial uses developed under single ownership or control are
accommodated in a preplanned environment with more flexible standards, such as
lot sizes and setbacks, than those restrictions that would normally apply under
this title.
   PLAT: The drawing, mapping, or planning of a subdivision, cemetery, townsite
or other tract of land or a replatting of such, including certifications,
descriptions and approvals.
   PLAT TYPES:
    Amended Plat: A revised plat correcting errors or making minor changes to
the original recorded final plat.
    Final Plat: The final and formal presentation by maps or drawings of an
approved subdivision development, the original and one copy of which is filed
with the county clerk and recorder.
    Preliminary Plat: The first formal presentation by maps or drawings of a
proposed subdivision, as required in this title.
   RESERVE STRIP: A strip of land between a dedicated street or partial street
and adjacent property, in either case, reserved or held in public ownership for
future street extension or widening.
   RIGHT OF WAY: A strip of land taken or dedicated for use as a public way. In
addition to the roadway, it normally incorporates the curbs, lawn strips,
sidewalks, lighting and drainage facilities, and may include special features
(required by the topography or treatment) such as grade separation, landscaped
area, viaducts, and bridges.
   SIDEWALK: That portion of the street right of way outside the street
pavement, which is improved for pedestrian use; also known as walkway.
   STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS: The specifications as may be specified in this
title or as officially adopted by the county.
   STATE: The state of Idaho.
   STREET: A right of way that provides access to adjacent properties, the
dedication of which has been officially accepted. The term "street" also
includes the terms highway, thoroughfare, parkway, road, avenue, boulevard,
lane, place, and similar terms. Some related terms and definitions are as
follows:
    Alley: A minor street providing secondary access at the back or side of a
property otherwise abutting a street.
    Arterial: A street, which is designated for the purpose of carrying fast
and/or heavy traffic.
    Collector: A street, which is designated for the purpose of carrying
traffic from minor streets or other collector streets and/or arterial streets.
    Commercial: A street, which is designated for the purpose of providing
traffic movement in a commercial area.
    Cul-De-Sac: A street, which is connected to another street at one end only
and provided with a turnaround space.
    Dead End: A street, which connects to another street at one end only and
not having provision for vehicular turnaround at its terminus.
    Frontage: A minor street, which is parallel to and adjacent to arterial or
collector streets, and has the primary purpose of providing access to abutting
properties.
    Industrial: A street, which is designated for the purpose of providing
traffic movement in an industrial area.
    Loop: A minor street with both terminal points on the same street origin.
    Minor: A street, which has the primary purpose of providing access to
abutting properties.
    Partial: A dedicated right of way providing only a portion of the required
street width, usually along the edge of a subdivision or tract of land.
    Private: A street that provides vehicular and pedestrian access to one or
more properties; however, not accepted for public dedication or maintenance.
    Side Street: A secondary street that provides access to a corner lot toward
which the principal building is not oriented.
   SUBDIVIDER: Shall be deemed to be the individual, firm, corporation,
partnership, association, syndicate, trust, or other legal entity that executes
the application and initiates proceedings for the subdivision of land in
accordance with the provisions of this title. The subdivider need not be the
owner of the property; however, he shall be an agent of the owner or have
sufficient proprietary rights in the property to represent the owner.
   SUBDIVISION: The division of an original lot, tract, or parcel of land into
more than four (4) parts for the purpose of transfer of ownership or
development; the dedication of a public street and the addition to, or creation
of, a cemetery. However, this title shall not apply to any of the following:
   A.   An allocation of land in the settlement of an estate of a decedent or a
court decree for the distribution of property;
   B.   The unwilling sale of land as a result of legal condemnation as defined
and allowed in the Idaho Code;
   C.   Widening of existing streets to conform to the comprehensive plan;
   D.   The acquisition of collector and arterial street rights of way by a
public agency in conformance with the comprehensive plan;
   E.   The exchange of land for the purpose of straightening property
boundaries that does not result in the change of the present land usage of the
properties involved; and
   F.   The acquisition of a parcel with the purpose of adding to an existing
parcel, lot or tract without any individual or separate development.
   SUBDIVISION, MOBILE HOME: A subdivision designed for manufactured or mobile
home residential use.
   SURVEYOR: A land surveyor or professional engineer registered in the state
of Idaho.
   UTILITIES: Installation for conducting water, sewage, gas, electricity,
television, communications, stormwater, ancillary facilities providing service
to and used by the public.
   VARIANCE: A modification of the strict terms of the relevant regulations
where such modification will not be contrary to the public interest and where,
owing to conditions peculiar to the property and not the result of the action
of the applicant, a literal enforcement of the regulations would result in
unnecessary and undue hardship.
   VICINITY MAP: A small scale map showing the location of a tract of land in
relation to a larger area. (Ord., 3-2007; amd. 2016 Code; Ord. 2019-11-18, 11-
18-2019)
CHAPTER 3
SUBDIVISION APPROVAL PROCEDURE
SECTION:
9-3-1: Subdivision Plat Approval Required
9-3-2: Preapplication
9-3-3: Preliminary Plat
9-3-4: Final Plat
9-3-5: Plat Amendment
9-3-1: SUBDIVISION PLAT APPROVAL REQUIRED:
Any person desiring to create a "subdivision" as herein defined shall submit
all necessary applications to the commission. No final plat shall be filed with
the county recorder until the plat has been acted upon by the commission and
approved by the board. No lot shall be sold from any plat until it has been
recorded in the office of the county recorder. (Ord., 3-2007)
9-3-2: PREAPPLICATION:
   A.   Application: Prior to the filing of an application for approval of a
preliminary plat, the subdivider shall submit a completed subdivision
preapplication form as provided by the county and with up to eight (8) copies,
as required by the administrator, of a sketch plan to the planning and zoning
office. The sketch plan shall include the entire development scheme of the
proposed subdivision, in schematic form including the area proposed for
immediate development in such a form and content as required by the commission,
and shall include the following:
      1.   The general layout of streets, blocks, and lots in sketch form.
      2.   The existing conditions and characteristic of the land adjacent to
the proposed subdivision.
      3.   Areas set aside for schools, park and other public facilities.
   B.   Fee: None required. (Ord. 07-01, 4-9-2007)
   C.   Preapplication Approval Procedure: The subdivider shall submit the
preapplication to the Minidoka County planning and zoning office. The planning
and zoning staff will schedule, within thirty (30) days, a meeting to review
the application before the administrator and representatives of the highway
district or road department, fire district or department, health district or
sewer department, as well as any other applicable utility, agency or
department.
   D.   Administrator Action: At the aforementioned meeting, the subdivider
shall present his preapplication and intent for review and comment by the
administrator with respect to the following: (Ord. 07-01, 4-9-2007; amd. 2016
Code)
      1.   Is the proposed subdivision in compliance with existing local or
state policies and regulations as well as with goals and objectives of the
Minidoka County comprehensive plan;
      2.   Are any special use permits, ordinances or map amendments, special
development permits or variances needed and may application for these processes
be combined into one permit;
      3.   What other agencies approvals or input are necessary for final
approval;
      4.   Do any unique environmental or hazardous concerns exist that may be
directly or indirectly associated with the subject property, such as areas that
have been designated by the state or federal government as areas of critical
environmental concern, unique plant or animal life, wetlands, floodplain,
airport flight pattern or like or similar conditions; and
      5.   May the preliminary and final plats be combined and what, if any,
additional issues need to be addressed for approval with all necessary forms
and submittals. (Ord., 3-2007)
9-3-3: PRELIMINARY PLAT:
   A.   Application: Upon completion of the preapplication procedures, the
subdivider may file with the planning and zoning office a completed subdivision
application form and preliminary plat data as required in this title in such
form and content as required by the commission. (Ord., 3-2007)
   B.   Combining Both Preliminary And Final Plats: The applicant may also
request that the subdivision application be processed as both a preliminary and
final plat if the following conditions are met:
      1.   The proposed subdivision does not exceed ten (10) lots;
      2.   No new street or major street widening is involved;
      3.   No major special development considerations are involved, such as
infrastructure development or the like; and
      4.   All required information submittals for both preliminary and final
plat are complete and in an acceptable form.
A request to combine both preliminary plat and final plat into one application
shall be acted upon by the administrator. (Ord. 07-01, 4-9-2007)
   C.   Content Of Preliminary Plat: Preliminary plat shall contain the
information required under subsection D of this section. Additional maps or
data deemed necessary by the commission might also be required. The subdivider
shall submit to the commission at least the following:
      1.   Four (4) copies of the preliminary plat of the proposed subdivision,
drawn in accordance with the requirements hereinafter stated;
      2.   Four (4) sets of preliminary engineering plans for streets, water,
sewers, sidewalks and other required public improvements, including a master
utility map; said engineering plans shall contain sufficient information and
detail to enable the commission to make a preliminary determination as to
conformance of the proposed improvements to applicable regulations, ordinances
and standards as outlined in the special development article of this title;
      3.   A written application requesting approval of the preliminary plat on
a form prescribed by the commission; and
      4.   Appropriate information that sufficiently details the proposed
development within any special development area, such as hillside, planned unit
development, floodplain, wetlands, cemetery, mobile home, large scale
development, hazardous and unique areas of development. (Ord., 3-2007)
   D.   Requirements Of Preliminary Plats And Plat Applications: The following
shall be shown on any preliminary plat submitted or shall be submitted with the
same:
      1.   The name of the proposed subdivision;
      2.   The names, addresses and telephone numbers of the present owners of
the property and the subdivider or subdividers, and the surveyor or engineer
who prepared the final plat; (Ord. 07-01, 4-9-2007)
      3.   The names and addresses of all adjoining property owners whether or
not bisected by a public right of way as shown on records in the county
assessor's office;
      4.   The legal description of the property of the proposed subdivision;
      5.   A statement of the intended use of the proposed subdivision, such as
residential single-family, two-family and multi-family housing, commercial,
industrial, recreational, or agricultural, and a showing of any sites proposed
for parks, playgrounds, schools, churches or other public uses;
      6.   A map of the entire area scheduled for development if the proposed
subdivision is a portion of a larger holding intended for subsequent
development;
      7.   A vicinity map showing the relationship of the proposed plat to the
surrounding area (1/2 mile minimum radius);
      8.   The land use and existing zoning of the proposed subdivision and the
adjacent land;
      9.   Streets, street names, right of way and roadway widths, including
adjoining streets and roadways;
      10.   Lot lines, dimensions and numbers, and the total number of lots by
block;
      11.   Contours, shown at five foot (5') intervals where land slope is
greater than ten percent (10%), with an established bench mark, including
location and elevation;
      12.   Any proposed or existing utilities, including, but not limited to,
storm and sanitary sewers, irrigation laterals, ditches, drainages, bridges,
culverts, water mains, fire hydrants, electric power lines, gas lines, cable
lines, and their respective profiles or indicated alternative methods;
      13.   A copy of any proposed restrictive covenants and/or deed
restrictions or, if none, a statement that none are proposed;
      14.   Any additional required information for special developments as
specified in chapter 6 of this title;
      15.   A statement as to whether or not a variance will be requested with
respect to any provision of this title describing the particular provision, the
variance requested, and the reasons therefor.
   E.   Fee: A nonrefundable fee as established by resolution of the board
shall be paid at the time of submission of an application for a preliminary
plat. There shall be no additional fee for the combining of the preliminary and
final plats.
   F.   Required Submittal: The subdivider shall submit the required four (4)
copies of the preliminary plat and supplemental material, and fee to the office
of the administrator prior to scheduling the hearing before the commission.
   G.   Public Notification: Notice complying with the following items shall be
given for the public hearing to consider the subdivision application and plat.
If the preliminary and final plats are being combined, hearings before both the
commission and board are required.
      1.   Posting For Commission And Board Hearings: The subdivider shall post
a reasonable number of posters on or near the object property under
consideration to be subdivided. Such poster and stated information shall be of
such size and content as may be approved by the commission. The location of the
posters shall be on the closest public roads in visible locations surrounding
the subject property and erected at least fifteen (15) days prior to the
commission and board hearings.
      2.   Notice In Newspaper: At least fifteen (15) days prior to the
hearings, notice of the time and place and a summary of the proposal shall be
published in the official newspaper or paper of general circulation.
      3.   Notice To Property Owners: Further, the subdivider shall give actual
written notice to every property owner as set forth as follows:
         a.   If the parcel borders on or is close to a city limits, notice
shall be provided to property owners or purchasers of record located in the
city limits within three hundred feet (300') of the external boundaries of the
land being considered. In addition, notice shall be provided to property owners
or purchasers of record located outside the city limits within one-half (1/2)
mile of the external boundaries of the land being considered.
         b.   If the parcel is completely outside and at least three hundred
feet (300') from a city limits, notice shall be provided to property owners or
purchasers of record located outside the city limits within one-half (1/2) mile
of the external boundaries of the land being considered.
      4.   Failure To Notify: The failure of the subdivider to comply with the
exact provisions of these procedures shall invalidate the commission's action.
   H.   Additional Procedures In City Areas Of Impact:
      1.   In cases where the parcel or property involved in the subdivision
application is located in an area of city impact, the applicable city shall
have thirty (30) days to review the application. The purpose of this review is
to allow the city time to review and evaluate the application with respect to
the possible impact on the city or compliance with the city's ordinances and
comprehensive plan. If the city deems that thirty (30) days are inadequate for
a thorough review, it may be granted a thirty (30) day extension upon written
request.
      2.   After the review, the city may make a recommendation to the county
to approve, conditionally approve, postpone decision for additional information
or disapprove the subdivision plat application. Upon making a recommendation,
the city shall specify:
         a.   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the application;
         b.   The reasons for the specific recommendation; and
         c.   The recommended actions, if any, that the applicant could take to
obtain a permit.
      3.   If the proposed subdivision is located within an area of city impact
and consists of lots of five (5) acres or less, the county shall require an
annexation consent agreement signed by the original subdivider and property
owners if so requested by the applicable city.
   I.   Commission Action: At the public hearing scheduled before the
commission, the subdivider shall present the preliminary plat for action. The
commission shall take action according to one of the following procedures:
      1.   Preliminary Plat: The commission may approve, approve conditionally,
disapprove, or table the preliminary plat for additional information. Such
action shall occur within thirty (30) days of the date of the public hearing.
The action, and the reasons for such action, shall be stated in writing by the
commission and forwarded to the applicant. The commission shall also forward a
statement of the action taken and the reasons for such action, together with a
copy of the preliminary plat to the board.
      2.   Combined Preliminary And Final Plat: The commission may approve,
approve conditionally, disapprove, or table the preliminary plat for additional
information. Such action shall occur within thirty (30) days of the date of the
public hearing. The action, and the reasons for such action, shall be stated in
writing by the commission and forwarded to the applicant. The commission shall
also forward a statement of the action taken and the reasons for such action,
together with a copy of the final plat for board action.
   J.   Board Action: The board shall act upon the preliminary or combined
plats with the following procedures:
      1.   Preliminary Plat: At the next regular board meeting after the
commission's decision, the subdivider shall present the preliminary plat to the
board. The board may approve, approve conditionally, disapprove, or table the
preliminary plat for additional information. Such action shall occur within
thirty (30) days of the date of the regular meeting at which the plat is first
considered. The action, and the reasons for such action, shall be stated in
writing by the board and forwarded to the applicant.
      2.   Combined Preliminary And Final Plat: After the commission's approval
or conditional approval, the subdivider shall present the final plat to the
board at a public hearing with public notification as established in subsection
G of this section. The board may approve, approve conditionally, disapprove, or
table the plat for additional information. Such action shall occur within
thirty (30) days of the date of the regular meeting at which the plat is first
considered. The action, and the reasons for such action, shall be stated in
writing by the board and forwarded to the applicant.
   K.   Appeals: Any person who appeared in person or by writing before the
commission or the subdivider may appeal in writing the decision of the
commission relative to any action taken by the commission. Such appeal must be
submitted to the board within fifteen (15) days from such commission action.
(Ord., 3-2007)
   L.   Approval Period:
      1.   Failure to file and obtain the certification of the acceptance of
the final plat application by the developer within one year after action by the
commission shall cause all approvals of said preliminary plat to be null and
void, unless an extension of time is applied for and granted by the commission
prior to the expiration date. The approval period for the final plat may be in
excess of one year if so requested in the application or in writing before the
expiration of the preliminary plat and approved by the commission and board.
(Ord. 09-04, 5-11-2009)
      2.   In the event that the development of the preliminary plat is made in
successive continuous segments in an orderly and reasonable manner, and
conforms substantially to the approved preliminary plat, such segments, if
submitted within successive intervals of one year, may be considered for final
approval without resubmission for preliminary plat approval. (Ord., 3-2007)
9-3-4: FINAL PLAT:
   A.   Application: After the approval or conditional approval of the
preliminary plat, the subdivider shall cause the subdivision, or any part
thereof, to be surveyed and a final plat prepared in accordance with the
approved preliminary plat. The subdivider shall submit to the commission the
following:
      1.   Three (3) copies and the original in black opaque image upon stable
base drafting film with a minimum base thickness of 0.003 inch, of the final
plat. The original plat shall be returned to the subdivider for other
approvals, if needed, and recording upon board approval.
      2.   If applicable, three (3) copies of the final engineering
construction drawings and/or specifications for the streets, water, sewers,
sidewalks and other public improvements.
   B.   Content Of Final Plat: The final plat shall include, and be in
compliance with, all items required under title 50, chapter 13 of the Idaho
Code and shall be drawn at a scale and contain lettering of such size as to
enable the same to be placed on one sheet of eighteen inch by twenty seven inch
(18" x 27") drawing paper, with a three and one-half inch (31/2") margin at the
left end and one-half inch (1/2") margin on all other edges. No part of the
drawing or certificates shall encroach upon the margins. The reverse of said
sheet shall not be used for any portion of the drawing, nor contain written
matter as to dedications, certifications and other information. The final plat
and/or accompanying submittals shall include at least the following:
      1.   A written application for approval of such final plat as stipulated
by the commission;
      2.   Proof of current ownership of the real property included in the
proposed final plat;
      3.   Such other and further information as the commission may deem
necessary to establish whether or not all proper parties have signed and/or
approved said final plat;
      4.   A site report and/or a nutrient pathogen evaluation when required by
the appropriate agency where individual wells or septic tanks are proposed;
      5.   Any dedications to the public and/or easements, together with a
statement of location, dimensions, and purpose of such;
      6.   Verification of conformance with the approved preliminary plat and
meeting all requirements or conditions thereof; and
      7.   Conform to all requirements and provisions of this title and
acceptable engineering practices and local standards.
   C.   Commission Review:
      1.   Submittal Of Final Plat: The subdivider shall submit the final plat
to the commission for review in a public hearing using the same procedures for
notification as used for the preliminary hearing. The commission shall review
the final plat for compliance with the approved or conditionally approved
preliminary plat. If the commission determines that there is substantial
difference in the final plat from that which was considered as a preliminary
plat, or conditions which have not been met, the commission may require that
the plat be resubmitted to the planning and zoning office and commission in the
same manner as required in the preliminary plat process.
      2.   Submission To Board: Upon the determination that the final plat is
in compliance with the preliminary plat and all conditional requirements have
been met, the commission shall place the final plat on the board agenda within
forty five (45) days from the date that an acceptable plat application was
received and approved by the commission.
   D.   Agency Review: The commission may transmit one copy of the final plat,
or other document submitted, for review and recommendation to the same
departments and agencies, or others, as they may deem necessary to ensure
compliance with the preliminary approval and/or conditions of preliminary
approval. Such agency review shall also include the construction standards of
improvements, compliance with health standards, the cost estimate for all
improvements, and the legal review of the performance bond.
   E.   Board Action: The board, at a scheduled public hearing following
receipt of the commission's report, shall consider the commission's findings
and comments from concerned persons and agencies to arrive at a decision on the
final plat. If said final plat conforms to the requirements of this title
applicable at the time of approval of the preliminary plat, all rulings made by
the commission on the preliminary plat, and the requirements of the Idaho state
law, the board shall approve, approve conditionally, disapprove or table the
final plat for additional information. The decision shall be made within thirty
(30) days of the date of the public hearing at which the plat is first
considered.
   F.   Approval Period: Final plat and covenants, if any, shall be filed by
the subdivider/developer with the county recorder within ninety (90) days after
written approval by the board; otherwise, such approval shall become null and
void unless, prior to said expiration date, an extension of time is applied for
and granted by the commission.
   G.   Plat Endorsements: Upon approval of the final plat by the board, the
subdivider shall obtain the following signatures of approval on the final plat.
Signatures shall be in reproducible black ink:
      1.   Certification of owner or owners of the land included in the plat,
with correct legal description of the land, certifying their intentions to
include the same in the plat, and make a dedication of all public streets,
rights of way, and easements shown on said plat; which certifications shall be
acknowledged before an officer duly authorized to take acknowledgments and
shall be endorsed on the plat;
      2.   Certification of the Idaho professional surveyor, who prepared the
plat, certifying the correctness of said plat, with his signature he shall
place his seal and date on the plat;
      3.   Certification and signature of an Idaho professional surveyor chosen
by the county verifying compliance of the plat to county and state
requirements;
      4.   Certification and signature of the chairman of the planning and
zoning commission verifying that the subdivision has been approved by the
commission;
      5.   Certification and signature of the chairman of the board of county
commissioners verifying that the subdivision has been approved by the board;
      6.   Certification and signature of a local or state health agency that
all health requirements have been complied with or the required sanitary
restriction set forth in title 50, chapter 13, Idaho Code has been placed
thereon;
      7.   Certification of approval and acceptance of the local fire
protection district or department;
      8.   Certification of approval and acceptance of dedication of public
streets and rights of way and means of lot ingress and egress by the Minidoka
County highway district or department having jurisdiction over such streets or
rights of way;
      9.   Certification and signature of the local irrigation district or
company verifying the irrigation water rights when applicable; and
      10.   Minidoka County treasurer certification that all property taxes
have been paid on the land included in the plat.
   H.   Method Of Recording: Upon approval of the final plat by the board, and
the inclusion of the aforementioned signatures on the final plat, the
subdivider shall deliver the final plat, one photographic copy using a silver
emulsion image process, and one blue line or bond copy to the Minidoka County
recorder for recording, and any additional copies that the subdivider may want
to have certified by the county recorder. Recording fees will be charged
pursuant to the number of copies and by the established fee schedule.
   I.   Developer Agreements: The commission or the board may require the
subdivider to enter into a developer's agreement to assure that the subdivider
complies with all objectives of this title and provisions of the subdivision
approval. Provisions that may be covered in such agreement include, but are not
limited to, the following:
      1.   Time schedules for development;
      2.   Special allowances for development in stages;
      3.   If developed in stages, all work that is to be completed in each
stage;
      4.   Annexation and utility connection agreements if the proposed
subdivision is located in an area of city impact, and when requested by that
specific city; and
      5.   Special provisions to protect the public interests and assure the
goals and objectives of the Minidoka County comprehensive plan, Minidoka County
zoning ordinance, this title, and subdivision approval conditions. (Ord., 3-
2007)
9-3-5: PLAT AMENDMENT:
   A.   Plat amendments will be reviewed for the purpose of correcting errors,
or making minor changes to the original recorded final plat and will not be
reviewed to increase subdivision density. 1
   B.   Upon approval, the applicant shall prepare the plat in accordance with
the provisions of this title, title 8 of this ordinance and Idaho Code title 50
chapter 13. The final plat shall be submitted to the zoning administrator for
final review. After review, the plat will be noticed to the county planning and
zoning commission in accordance with this title, for public hearing review and
recommendation to the board of County Commissioners. The planning and zoning
commission may recommend the application to the County Commissioners for final
public hearing. The applicant shall be responsible to file the plat, create the
necessary deeds and any other documents required by Idaho Code.
   C.   In the presence of opposition the applicant shall obtain written
consent from 2/3 the current property holders of the platted subdivision
including owners of the lots directly adjacent the area of plat amendment
within the platted subdivision. (Ord. 2019-11-18, 11-18-2019)
 
Notes
1 1. Reference Idaho Code Title 50 Chapter 13 for Plats and Vacations
  Procedures.
CHAPTER 4
DESIGN STANDARDS
SECTION:
9-4-1: Minimum Design Standards Required
9-4-2: Dedications
9-4-3: Location
9-4-4: Street Right Of Way Standards
9-4-5: Street Names
9-4-6: Intersections
9-4-7: Pedestrian Walkways
9-4-8: Easements
9-4-9: Blocks
9-4-10: Lots
9-4-11: Planting Strips And Reserve Strips
9-4-12: Public Sites And Open Spaces
9-4-13: Large Scale Developments
9-4-1: MINIMUM DESIGN STANDARDS REQUIRED:
All plans submitted pursuant to the provisions of this title, and all
subdivisions, improvements and facilities done, constructed or made in
accordance with said provisions, shall fully comply with the minimum design
standards set forth hereinafter in this chapter; provided, however, that any
higher standards adopted by any highway district, state department of
transportation or health agency shall prevail over those set forth herein.
(Ord., 3-2007)
9-4-2: DEDICATIONS:
Arterial and collector streets shall be dedicated to the public in all cases;
in general, all other streets shall also be dedicated to public use. (Ord., 3-
2007)
9-4-3: LOCATION:
Street and road location shall conform to the following:
   A.   Street Location And Arrangements: When a major street plan or
comprehensive development plan has been adopted, subdivision streets shall
conform to such plans.
   B.   Local Or Minor Streets: Such streets shall be so arranged as to
discourage their use by through traffic.
   C.   Street Continuation And Extension: The arrangement of streets shall
provide for the continuation of existing streets from adjoining areas into new
subdivisions unless otherwise approved by the board and the highway district or
department having jurisdiction over such streets.
   D.   Stub Streets: Where adjoining areas are not subdivided, the arrangement
of streets in new subdivisions shall be such that said streets extend to the
boundary line of the tract to make provisions for the future extension of said
streets into adjacent areas. A reserve strip may be required and held in public
ownership.
   E.   Dead End Streets: Dead end streets are prohibited in all cases unless
specifically approved utilizing a cul-de-sac.
   F.   Relation To Topography: Streets shall be arranged in proper relation to
topography so as to result in usable lots, safe streets and acceptable
gradients.
   G.   Alleys: Alleys shall be provided in multiple dwelling or commercial
subdivisions unless other provisions are made for service access and off street
loading and parking. Dead end alleys shall be prohibited in all cases.
   H.   Frontage Roads: Where a subdivision abuts or contains an arterial
street, it may be required at the discretion of the commission that there be
frontage roads approximately parallel to and on each side of such arterial
street, and that there be such other treatment as is necessary for the adequate
protection of residential properties, and to separate through traffic from
local traffic.
   I.   Cul-De-Sac: Cul-de-sac streets are only allowed when circumstances
require, at the discretion of the county. When allowed, a cul-de-sac shall have
a turnaround at the end of at least one hundred feet (100') in diameter.
   J.   Half Streets: Half streets shall be prohibited, except where unusual
circumstances make such necessary to the reasonable development of a tract in
conformance with this title, and where satisfactory assurance for dedication of
the remaining part of the street is provided. Whenever a tract to be subdivided
bordering on an existing half or partial street, the other part of the street
shall be dedicated with such tract.
   K.   Private Streets: Private streets and roads shall be prohibited, except
within planned unit developments or where ongoing owners' associations are
provided for maintenance and upkeep. (Ord., 3-2007)
9-4-4: STREET RIGHT OF WAY STANDARDS:
   A.   Street and road right of way widths shall conform to the adopted major
street plan or comprehensive development plan, and the rules of the state
department of transportation, and the Minidoka County highway district or
department having jurisdiction; and minimum right of way standards as follows:
 
Street Types   Widths   Widths Of Pavement
Major arterial 100 feet 48 feet divided
Collector      60 feet  50 to 60 feet
Local street   60 feet  30 feet minimum
 
   B.   Curbs will be required if the lot sizes of the subdivision are less
than one acre. If required or provided with curbs, local streets shall be at
least forty feet (40') apart as measured from the back of the curbs on the
opposite sides of the street, with pavement from curb to curb.
   C.   The subdivider shall install the streets to the standards as adopted by
the Minidoka County highway district or department having jurisdiction. When
the standards of this title conflict with those of the highway district, the
more stringent standard will apply. (Ord., 3-2007)
9-4-5: STREET NAMES:
The naming of streets shall conform to the following: Street names shall not
duplicate any existing street name, except where a new street is a continuation
of an existing street. Street names that may be spelled differently but sound
the same as existing streets shall not be used. (Ord., 3-2007)
9-4-6: INTERSECTIONS:
Intersections shall conform to the following:
   A.   Angle Of Intersection: Streets shall intersect at ninety degrees (90°)
or as closely thereto as possible, and in no case shall streets intersect at
less than eighty degrees (80°).
   B.   Number Of Streets: No more than two (2) streets shall cross at any one
intersection.
   C.   "T" Intersections: "T" intersections may be used wherever such design
will not unduly restrict the free movement of traffic.
   D.   Vertical Alignment Of Intersection: A nearly flat grade with
appropriate drainage slopes is desirable within intersections. This plat
section shall extend fifty feet (50') to one hundred feet (100') each way from
the intersection. An allowance of two percent (2%) maximum intersection grade
in rolling terrain, and four percent (4%) in hilly terrain, will be permitted.
(Ord., 3-2007)
9-4-7: PEDESTRIAN WALKWAYS:
Right of way for pedestrian walkways in the middle of long blocks may be
required where necessary to obtain convenient pedestrian circulation to
schools, parks or shopping areas. The right of way shall be at least ten feet
(10') wide and shall extend entirely through the block. (Ord., 3-2007)
9-4-8: EASEMENTS:
Unobstructed utility easements shall be provided along rear lot lines and side
lot lines when necessary. Total easement width shall be not less than twelve
feet (12') where lot easements adjoin or twenty feet (20') for single lot
easements. Unobstructed drainageway easements shall be provided as required by
the commission. (Ord., 3-2007)
9-4-9: BLOCKS:
   A.   Every block shall be so designed as to provide two (2) tiers of lots,
except, where lots back onto an arterial street, natural feature or subdivision
boundary. Blocks shall not be less than three hundred feet (300') long in most
cases.
   B.   The length, width and shape of blocks shall be determined with due
regard to adequate sites suitable to the special needs of the type of use
contemplated; the zoning requirements as to lot size and dimensions; the need
for convenient access, circulation, control and safety of street traffic; and
the limitations and opportunities of topography. (Ord., 3-2007)
9-4-10: LOTS:
Lots shall conform to the following:
   A.   Lot Sizes: No subdivision plat in the area included in an AL
agricultural low district shall hereafter be approved by the county unless all
interior lots shown thereon shall have a frontage of one hundred twenty five
feet (125') or more and a minimum area of one acre, unless central sewer is
provided. In the event a cul-de-sac variance is granted, lots fronting on cul-
de-sac circles may have reduced frontage as approved by the commission, but
shall not be less than fifty feet (50').
   B.   Lot Lines: Side lot lines shall be essentially at right angles to
straight streets and shall generally conform to the radius of curved streets.
   C.   Width Related To Length: Narrow, deep lots shall be avoided.
   D.   Corner Lots: Corner lots shall have sufficient extra width to permit
appropriate building setback from either streets or orientation to both
streets.
   E.   Uninhabitable Areas: Land subject to flooding or which shall otherwise
be deemed to be uninhabitable shall not be platted for residential purposes or
for any other uses that may increase or create a danger to health, life or
property, or which may increase or create a flood hazard. Such land within a
subdivision shall be set aside for other uses such as parks or other open
space.
   F.   Lot Access: Lots shall be designed to allow for vehicular ingress and
egress to eliminate the need for vehicles to back onto any dedicated streets,
except local streets within the subdivision. Lots extending through a block and
having frontage on two (2) local streets are to be discouraged and may be
prohibited by the commission.
   G.   Further Subdivision:
      1.   Further Subdivision Of Lots: In order to protect the easements,
traffic density and utility service plans of the county and the general plans
of ingress and egress from a subdivision, the platted lots, as depicted on the
final plat and as approved by the county, shall not be further subdivided to
create additional lots or a higher density of development without a submission
of an amended subdivision plat and conforming with the requirements of this
title for submission and approval of amended plats.
      2.   Variance To Prohibition Of Further Subdivision Of Lots: A lot owner
who, because the prohibition against further subdivision, is placed in a
position of hardship due to the unique circumstances of the lot in question as
defined in the Minidoka County zoning ordinance, may make written application
to the county for a variance in the same manner and providing the same
information as required in the Minidoka County zoning ordinance. In addition
thereto, the application shall provide the following:
         a.   An accurate survey with the proposed subdivision of the lot in
question depicted thereon;
         b.   An accurate depiction of changes, additions or deletions of
utility easements;
         c.   A verified statement why the application for an amended
subdivision plat is either not feasible or impractical, which shall include a
statement as to why the request either does or does not affect other lot owners
in the subdivisions and whether, in the opinion of the applicant, there are
other lots in the subdivision that require similar variance or further
subdivisions.
      3.   Variance Procedure: The procedure for granting such a variance shall
be as follows: The written petition, accompanied with payment of a fee in the
amount set by resolution of the board, shall first be presented to the office
of the administrator. The commission shall then hold a public hearing on the
petition, after giving notice by mail to the last known address to all owners
of lots within the subdivision as well as giving notice as provided in the
Minidoka County zoning ordinance. If the commission determines that it will
waive the requiring of submission and approval of an amended subdivision plat,
then it shall refer the matter to the board for approval. (Ord., 3-2007; amd.
Ord. 2019-11-18, 11-18-2019)
9-4-11: PLANTING STRIPS AND RESERVE STRIPS:
Planting strips and reserve strips shall conform to the following:
   A.   Planting Strips: Planting strips shall be required to be placed next to
incompatible features such as highways, railroads, commercial or industrial
uses to screen the view from residential properties. Such screens shall be a
minimum of twenty feet (20') wide, and shall not be a part of the normal
roadway right of way or utility easement.
   B.   Reserve Strips: Privately held reserve strips controlling access to
streets shall be prohibited. (Ord., 3-2007)
9-4-12: PUBLIC SITES AND OPEN SPACES:
Public sites and open spaces shall conform to the following:
   A.   Public Uses: Where a proposed park, playground, school or other public
use shown on the comprehensive development plan is located in whole or part
within a subdivision, a suitable area for this purpose shall be dedicated to
the public or reserved for public purchase. If, within two (2) years of plat
recording, the purchase is not agreed upon, the reservation shall be canceled
or shall automatically cease to exist.
   B.   Natural Features: Existing natural features which add value to
residential development and enhance the attractiveness of the community (such
as trees, watercourses, historic spots and similar irreplaceable assets) shall
be preserved, insofar as possible, in the design of the subdivision. (Ord., 3-
2007)
9-4-13: LARGE SCALE DEVELOPMENTS:
Large scale developments shall be governed by the following provisions:
   A.   Modification: This title may be modified in accordance with the
variance provisions of this title in the case of a subdivision large enough to
constitute a complete community or neighborhood, consistent with the
comprehensive development plan, which provides and dedicates adequate public
open space and improvements for circulation, recreation, education, light, air
and service needs of the tract when fully developed and populated.
   B.   Neighborhood Characteristics: A community or neighborhood under this
provision shall be consistent with the comprehensive development plan, bounded
by major streets or natural physical barriers, and shall contain public areas
of sufficient size for schools, playgrounds, parks and other public facilities
to serve its population. (Ord., 3-2007)
CHAPTER 5
IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS
SECTION:
9-5-1: Purpose
9-5-2: Responsibility For Plans
9-5-3: Required Public Improvements
9-5-1: PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this chapter to establish and define the public
improvements which will be required to be constructed by the subdivider as
conditions for final plat approval, and also to outline the procedures and
responsibilities of the subdivider and the various public officials and
agencies concerned with the administration, planning, design, construction, and
financing of public facilities and to further establish procedures for assuring
compliance with these requirements. (Ord., 3-2007)
9-5-2: RESPONSIBILITY FOR PLANS:
It shall be the responsibility of the subdivider of every proposed subdivision
to have prepared by a registered engineer, a complete set of construction
plans, including profiles, cross section, specifications, and other supporting
data, for all required public streets, utilities and other facilities. Such
construction plans shall be based on preliminary plans that have been approved
with the preliminary plat, and shall be prepared in conjunction with the final
plat. Construction plans are subject to approval by an engineer designated by
the county for compliance verification and other responsible public agencies.
All construction plans shall be prepared in accordance with the public
agencies' standard or specifications. (Ord., 3-2007)
9-5-3: REQUIRED PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS:
Every subdivider shall be required to install the following public and other
improvements in accordance with the conditions and specifications as follows:
   A.   Monuments: Monuments shall be set in accordance with Idaho Code section
50-1331.
   B.   Streets And Alleys: All streets and alleys shall be constructed in
accordance with the standards and specifications adopted by the board or
highway district. Vertical curbs and gutters shall be constructed on arterial
streets.
   C.   Curbs And Gutters: Curbs and gutters shall be required on local streets
when lot sizes are less than one acre and shall be constructed in accordance
with the standards and specifications adopted by the board.
   D.   Installation Of Public Utilities: Underground utilities are recommended
and may be required by the board in areas where overhead facilities would not
be compatible with the surrounding properties.
   E.   Driveways: All driveway openings in curbs shall be as specified by the
board, highway district or state highway department.
   F.   Water Supply System: When a proposed subdivision is to be serviced by a
public water supply system, fire hydrants and other required water system
appurtenances shall be provided by the subdivider. If there is no existing or
accessible public water supply system, the subdivider shall be required to
install a water supply system for the common use of the lots within the
subdivision as approved by the Idaho department of environmental quality.
Individual wells may be permitted in accordance with the density requirements
and requirements of the appropriate health district.
   G.   Irrigation Water System: In a proposed subdivision with lots greater
than one-half (1/2) acre, the developer shall provide irrigation water rights
and a delivery system to each individual lot. The irrigation water delivery
system shall be maintained within approved easements and with approved owner's
agreement for ongoing maintenance of the system, if necessary.
   H.   Sanitary Sewer System: A proposed subdivision shall be served by a
public sanitary sewage system, sanitary sewers and other required appurtenances
thereto, and shall be provided by the subdivider as approved by the Idaho
department of environmental quality. When it is determined by the commission,
based upon the advice of the appropriate health district, that a subdivision
cannot feasibly be connected to an existing public or private sewer system or
that a public or private sewer system cannot feasibly be provided for the
subdivision, approved individual disposal systems may be authorized which shall
comply with the requirements of the appropriate health district.
   I.   Sidewalks And Pedestrian Walkways: Sidewalks shall be required on one
side of the street when the street or collector that provides access to the
subdivision has or is required to have sidewalks. Pedestrian walkways, when
required, shall have easements at least ten feet (10') in width and include a
concrete walk at least five feet (5') in width, located generally along the
centerline of the easement, dedicated as a public pedestrian walkway. Sidewalks
and crosswalks, when required, shall be constructed in accordance with the
standards and specifications as adopted by the board.
   J.   Greenbelt: Greenbelt or landscaping screening may be required for the
protection of residential properties from adjacent major arterial streets,
waterways, railroad rights of way or other features. Subdivision plats shall
show the location of any greenbelt areas.
   K.   Street Lighting: Streetlights shall be required to be installed at
intersections throughout the subdivision. In these cases, a subdivider shall
conform to the requirements of the county and the public utility providing such
lighting.
   L.   Bicycle Paths: Bicycle paths should be considered in all developments
and may be required by the board and/or commission.
   M.   Responsibility For Private Improvements And Public Utilities: It shall
be the responsibility of the subdivider to arrange and provide for the
development, installation, construction or other improvement of private
facilities and public utilities within and for the subdivision in accordance
with applicable standards and requirements.
   N.   Responsibilities For Construction Of Public Works: The scope of this
section is to define the respective areas of responsibility of the subdivider
and the county relative to the installation, construction, or other
improvements of public works en route to and within the boundaries of a
subdivision. In certain instances, the county may require formal written
agreements with the subdivider that more fully and specifically describe their
respective obligations and responsibilities.
      1.   General: It shall be the responsibility of the subdivider to
complete, at his sole expense, all the development and construction of public
works for and within his subdivision, except as specifically provided otherwise
to be the obligation and responsibility of the county, other governmental
entity or purchaser of any lot as may be provided for in any legal and county
approved purchase agreement.
      2.   Completion Of Public Works: The subdivider shall complete the
installation or construction of all the different phases of public works for
which he is responsible before the county will approve any of them. This
requirement may be satisfied by completion of a stage if a staged development
is called for in the approved development plan.
      3.   Guarantee Of Completion: Until the public works for which the
subdivider is responsible are complete, or an acceptable stage of the
development is completed, the county will issue no building permit for private
construction therein, unless a satisfactory performance bond or other suitable
guarantee of performance acceptable to the county is provided by the
subdivider.
      4.   Evidence Of Completion: The subdivider shall notify the county in
writing when the public works for which he is responsible have been completed.
      5.   Certify Inspection: The county engineer or the zoning administrator
shall also certify in writing, a copy of which shall be sent to the subdivider,
that the said public works have been inspected by him or his authorized
representative, and that the said public works have been completed in
accordance with applicable standards and specifications. As built construction
plans shall be submitted to the county upon completion.
      6.   Acceptance Of Public Works: Compliance with the foregoing provisions
shall constitute the county's acceptance of the public works. The county shall
thereby accept said public works and be responsible for their operation and
maintenance in accordance with county policies.
      7.   Approval Of Facilities: In absence of a municipality to accept the
public works, a homeowners' association or utility district bylaws and other
similar deed restrictions, which provide for the control and maintenance of all
public works facilities, shall meet with the approval of the board. Any and all
powers as specified in such agreements may be required to also be assigned to
the jurisdictional agency to ensure continued and adequate maintenance of all
such facilities.
   O.   Streets; Subdivider Requirements: The subdivider shall perform,
install, construct, or otherwise complete, at his sole expense, the following
items relative to street improvements within the boundaries of the subdivision:
      1.   Route (or boundary) surveys of the dedicated rights of way;
      2.   Construction surveys of line and grade;
      3.   Installation of sidewalks, if applicable;
      4.   Installation of curb and gutters, if applicable;
      5.   Preparation of the subgrade;
      6.   Installation of the roadway base course;
      7.   Inspection of all phases of construction to assure compliance with
applicable standards and specifications;
      8.   Installation of a crushed gravel leveling course to be used as a
temporary wearing surface until a permanent asphalt pavement is installed;
      9.   Installation of asphalt pavement;
      10.   Adequate runoff, storm sewers, pipes, culverts, ditches or other
drainage facilities as designated by the commission; and
      11.   Installation of traffic control signs and street name signs.
   P.   Sanitary Sewage Collection System: Except when individual sewer systems
are approved, the subdivider shall be responsible for the installation of a
sanitary sewage collection system within the boundaries of the subdivision. The
subdivider shall perform, install, construct or otherwise complete, at his sole
expense, the following items relative to sanitary sewers:
      1.   Preparation of plans and specifications for the construction of the
sanitary sewer system, including extensions from the existing collection
system, and the approval of said plans and specifications by the Idaho
department of environmental quality;
      2.   Construction surveys of line and grade within the subdivision;
      3.   Installation of the sewer system within the subdivision, including
sewers, manholes and other appurtenances, and, if applicable, sewage pumping
stations;
      4.   If sewer mains are located in a dedicated street, installation of a
sewer service line to the property line of each lot;
      5.   Inspection of construction to assure compliance with the plans,
specifications, and applicable standards; and
      6.   Installation of a sewer extension from the existing collection
system to a designated point of connection near the subdivision.
   Q.   Water Distribution System: When required, the subdivider shall be
responsible for the installation of a culinary water distribution system within
the boundaries of the subdivision. The subdivider shall perform, install,
construct, or otherwise complete, at his sole expense, the following items
relative to a culinary water distribution system:
      1.   Preparation of plans and specifications for the construction of the
water distribution system, and the approval of said plans and specifications by
the Idaho department of health and welfare;
      2.   Construction surveys of line and grade within the subdivision;
      3.   Installation of the water distribution system within the
subdivision, including water lines, control valves, fire hydrants, and
appurtenant facilities;
      4.   If water mains are located in a dedicated street, installation of a
water service line to the property line of each lot;
      5.   Inspection of construction to assure compliance with the plans,
specifications, and applicable standards;
      6.   Installation of a water line extension or extensions as indicated in
this section.
   R.   Building Line Setback: In all new subdivisions, the building line
setback from any street shall be a minimum of twenty feet (20') from the
property line. In the event that a new subdivision is located along a street
with existing residences, the setback line shall be not less than other
structures along the street and preferably should be set back as an average of
the existing structures.
   S.   Side And Rear Lot Line Clearance: In all new subdivisions, no building
of any nature shall be placed or constructed nearer than five feet (5') of the
property line. In subdivisions that are not required to have a water system
providing fire flow, no building of any nature shall be placed or constructed
nearer than twenty five feet (25') to the property line to provide safe
distances between structures for fire protection purposes. Where utility rights
of way or other rights of way or easements are provided along property lines
and lot lines, no structure of any nature shall be permitted in such rights of
way or easements, except for the purpose for which they are provided. (Ord., 3-
2007)
CHAPTER 6
SPECIAL DEVELOPMENTS
SECTION:
9-6-1: Purpose
9-6-2: Planned Unit And Condominium Developments
9-6-3: Cemeteries
9-6-4: Mobile Home Parks
9-6-5: Recreational Vehicle Parks
9-6-6: Large Scale Development Required Information
9-6-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to identify the various types of special
developments that normally pose special concerns to the commission and elected
officials when reviewing and acting upon subdivision requests. Therefore, this
chapter outlines the general plan submittal requirements and design standards
that shall be taken into consideration when acting on special developments. The
provisions of this chapter are in addition to the plan requirements and design
standards that are required by other chapters of this title. The required
information shall be submitted to the commission with the preliminary plat.
(Ord., 3-2007)
9-6-2: PLANNED UNIT AND CONDOMINIUM DEVELOPMENTS:
   A.   Site Development Plan: The developer shall provide the commission with
a colored rendering of adequate scale to show the completed development that
will include at least the following:
      1.   Architect style and building design;
      2.   Building materials and color;
      3.   Landscaping;
      4.   Screening;
      5.   Garbage areas;
      6.   Parking; and
      7.   Open space.
   B.   Private Streets: Private street construction standards shall be based
upon recommendations from the commission. Adequate construction standards may
vary depending on the size of the development and the demands placed on such
improvements.
   C.   Homeowners' Association: Homeowners' association bylaws and other
similar deed restrictions, which provide for the control and maintenance of all
common areas, recreation facilities or open space shall meet with the approval
of the board. Any and all powers as specified in such agreements may be
required to also be assigned to the jurisdictional agency to ensure continued
and adequate maintenance of all such common areas, recreational facilities and
open spaces, ability to assess property for delinquencies and enforcement of
motor vehicle speed to the best interest of the owners involved and of the
general public.
   D.   Storage Areas: Storage areas shall be provided for the anticipated
needs of boats, campers and trailers. For typical residential development, one
adequate space shall be provided every three (3) living units. The board may
reduce this if there is a showing that the needs of a particular development
are less.
   E.   Parking Area: One additional parking space beyond that which is
required by the zoning ordinance may be required for every three (3) dwelling
units to accommodate visitor parking.
   F.   Maintenance Building: A maintenance building shall be provided, size
and location to be determined by the type and service needed for the necessary
repair and maintenance of all common areas.
   G.   Open Space: The location of open space shall be appropriate to the
development and shall be of such shape and area to be usable and convenient to
the residents of the development.
   H.   Control During Development: Single ownership or control during
development shall be required and a time limit may be imposed to guarantee the
development is built and constructed as planned. (Ord., 3-2007)
9-6-3: CEMETERIES:
   A.   Function: The developer shall provide the commission with written
documentation that will sufficiently explain if the proposed cemetery will be
used for either human or animal remains and the functions that are anticipated
on the property.
   B.   Compliance With Idaho Code: The developer shall submit a written
statement that has been prepared by an attorney that adequately assures the
compliance of the proposed cemetery with the procedural platting requirements
that are outlined in Idaho Code title 27. (Ord., 3-2007)
9-6-4: MOBILE HOME PARKS:
Mobile home parks shall in general be treated the same as any residential
subdivision, subject to any special requirements set forth in the zoning
ordinance and also subject to the following special requirements:
   A.   Developed as a planned unit development with a minimum lot area for the
planned development of two (2) acres;
   B.   Essential community facilities and services for the type of development
under consideration is available, or provisions shall be made to assure that
these facilities will be provided;
   C.   The site shall be suitable for residential development and not be
subject to hazards such as insect or rodent infection, objectionable smoke,
noxious odors, unusual noise, or the probability of flooding or erosion;
   D.   Adequacy of provisions for drainage of surface waters and for waste
disposal;
   E.   Protection of existing ground cover;
   F.   Screening from adjacent areas, other than subdivisions of the same type
and agricultural uses, by aesthetically acceptable fences, walls, living plant
areas, and existing natural or manmade barriers;
   G.   The width and construction of access streets shall be suitable for the
vehicular traffic requirements of the property served. No lot within the
development shall have direct vehicular access to a street bordering the
development; and
   H.   Creation of a homeowners' association, if lots are not held in common
ownership to assure that all common open areas are adequately maintained.
(Ord., 3-2007)
9-6-5: RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKS:
Recreational vehicle parks shall, in general, be treated the same as any
residential subdivision, subject to any special requirements set forth in the
zoning ordinance, and also subject to the following special requirements:
   A.   Recreational vehicle parks shall be developed as a planned unit
development with a minimum lot area for the planned development of two (2)
acres;
   B.   Essential community facilities and services for the type of development
under consideration shall be included in the plans or there shall be reasonable
assurance that the facilities and services are available, or provisions shall
be made to assure that these facilities will be provided;
   C.   There shall be adequate provisions for drainage of surface waters and
for waste disposal;
   D.   There shall be adequate protection of existing ground cover;
   E.   There shall be adequate screening from adjacent areas, other than
subdivisions of the same type and agricultural uses, by aesthetically
acceptable fences, walls, living plant areas, and existing natural or manmade
barriers; and
   F.   There shall be adequate provision for width and construction of access
streets that shall be suitable for the vehicular traffic requirements of the
property served. No lot within the development shall have direct vehicular
access to a street bordering the development. (Ord., 3-2007)
9-6-6: LARGE SCALE DEVELOPMENT REQUIRED INFORMATION:
Due to the impact that large scale development would have on public utilities
and services, the developer shall submit the following information along with
the preliminary plat:
   A.   Identification of all public services that would be provided to the
development that will occur as a result of the subdivision (regarding: fire
protection, police protection, central water, central sewer, road construction,
recreation, maintenance, schools and other);
   B.   Estimate the public service costs to provide adequate service to the
development;
   C.   Estimate the tax revenue that will be generated from the development;
and
   D.   Public means of financing the services for the development, if any
public services would not be offset by tax revenue received from the
development. (Ord., 3-2007)
CHAPTER 7
VACATIONS, DEDICATIONS, VARIANCES AND ADMINISTRATIVE APPROVALS
SECTION:
9-7-1: Application Procedure
9-7-2: Purpose Of Variances
9-7-3: Topographical Or Physical Limitation Variance
9-7-4: Planned Unit Development Variance
9-7-5: Administrative Approval For Divisions Of Land
9-7-1: APPLICATION PROCEDURE:
   A.   Application: Any property owner desiring to vacate an existing
subdivision, public right of way or easement, or desiring to dedicate a street
right of way, or easement shall complete and file an application with the
commission and also file such other applications as are otherwise required by
law. These provisions shall not apply to the widening of any street that is
shown in the comprehensive development plan, or the dedication of streets,
rights of way, or easements to be shown on the recorded plat of a subdivision.
   B.   Board Action:
      1.   When considering an application for vacation procedures, the board
shall establish a date for a public hearing and give such public notice as
required by law. The board may approve, deny, or modify the application.
Whenever public rights of way or lands are vacated, the board shall provide
adjacent property owners with a quitclaim deed for said vacated rights of way
in such proportions as are prescribed by law.
      2.   When considering an application for dedication procedures, the board
may approve, deny, or modify the application. When a dedication is approved,
the required street improvements shall be constructed or a bond furnished
assuring the construction prior to acceptance of the dedication. To complete
the acceptance of any dedication of land, the owner shall furnish to the board
a deed describing and conveying such lands to be recorded with the county
recorder. (Ord., 3-2007)
9-7-2: PURPOSE OF VARIANCES:
The commission may recommend to the board a variance from the provisions of
this title on a finding that undue hardship may result from strict compliance
with specific provisions or requirements of this title, or that application of
such provisions or requirements is impracticable. The commission shall only
recommend variances that it deems necessary to or desirable for the public
interest. In making its findings, the commission shall take into account the
nature of the proposed use of land and the existing use of land in the
vicinity, the number of persons to reside or work in the proposed subdivision,
and the probable effect of persons to reside or work in the proposed
subdivision, and the probable effect of the proposed subdivision upon traffic
conditions in the vicinity. No variance shall be recommended unless the
commission finds, after a public hearing:
   A.   That there are such special circumstances or conditions affecting said
property that the strict application of the provisions of this title would
clearly be impractical, or unreasonable; in such cases, the subdivider shall
first state his reasons in writing as to the specific provisions or requirement
involved;
   B.   That the granting of the specified variance will not be detrimental to
the public welfare or injurious to other property in the area in which said
property is situated;
   C.   That such variance will not violate the provisions of the Idaho Code;
and
   D.   That such variance will not have the effect of nullifying the interest
and purpose of this title and the comprehensive development plan. (Ord., 3-
2007)
9-7-3: TOPOGRAPHICAL OR PHYSICAL LIMITATION VARIANCE:
Where, in the case of a particular proposed subdivision, it can be shown that
strict compliance with the requirements of this title would result in
extraordinary hardship to the subdivider because of unusual topography, other
physical conditions, or other such conditions which are not self- inflicted, or
that these conditions would result in inhibiting the achievement of the
objectives of this title, the commission may recommend to the board that
variance modification or a waiver of these requirements be granted. (Ord., 3-
2007)
9-7-4: PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT VARIANCE:
The developer may request a variance from specified portions of this title in
the case of a planned unit development. Upon considering the requested
variance, the commission shall take into account the nature of the proposed use
of the land and existing use of land in the vicinity, the number of persons to
reside or work in the proposed subdivision, the probable effect of the proposed
subdivision upon traffic conditions in the vicinity, adequate open space,
light, air and other needs. The commission's findings and report to the board
shall include whether:
   A.   The proposed project will constitute a desirable and stable community
development and be in compliance with the comprehensive development plan;
   B.   The proposed project will be in harmony with adjacent areas; and
   C.   The proposed project will be served with adequate public facilities.
(Ord., 3-2007)
9-7-5: ADMINISTRATIVE APPROVAL FOR DIVISIONS OF LAND:
All divisions of land for development purposes shall be submitted to the
administrator for approval subject to the following conditions, procedures and
requirements:
   A.   The division of land is for development purposes;
   B.   Approval of a subdivision plat is not required;
   C.   There is legal ingress and egress to the parcel from a public way;
   D.   There is an established water right and delivery system;
   E.   If necessary, applicable easements are prepared for utilities;
   F.   Plat and legal description is prepared by a licensed state of Idaho
surveyor;
   G.   Approved plat is recorded in the office of the Minidoka County record;
and
   H.   Parcel is surveyed by a licensed state of Idaho surveyor. (Ord., 3-
2007)
 
