CITY CODE
OF
MOYIE SPRINGS
IDAHO
2019
Code current through:
Ord. 86B, passed August 7, 2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street Suite 310 Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
 
PREFACE
   This code of the City of Moyie Springs, as supplemented, contains ordinances
up to and including ordinance 86B, passed August 7, 2024. Ordinances of the
City adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the
extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the City
office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has
been amended, superseded or repealed.
      American Legal
       Publishing
      Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not amend the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
 
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
MOYIE SPRINGS CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon adoption by the City Council, this Code is hereby declared to be and shall
hereafter constitute the official City Code of the City of Moyie Springs. This
Code shall be known and cited as the MOYIE SPRINGS CITY CODE, and it is hereby
published by authority of the City Council and shall be kept up to date as
provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this Code by title in any legal document. (2019 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This Code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in all administrative tribunals of this
State as the ordinances of the City of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2019 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this Code shall set forth the title, chapter and section
number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall constitute a
sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to the
amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this Code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers and the ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in its
proper place in each copy of this Code. Each such replacement page shall be
properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of this Code.
(2019 Code)
1-1-4: ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this Code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
City Council. The City Clerk shall see that the replacement pages are properly
inserted in the official copies maintained in the Office of the City Clerk. Any
person having custody of a copy of this Code shall make every effort to
maintain said Code current as to the most recent ordinances passed. Such person
shall see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages when such are
delivered or made available to such person through the Office of the City
Clerk. Said Code books, while in actual possession of officials and other
interested persons, shall be and remain the property of the City and shall be
returned to the Office of the City Clerk when directed so to do by order of the
City Council. (2019 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the City passed prior to the adoption of this Code
are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this Code or are by
necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation
ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations; franchise
ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
City; and all special ordinances. (2019 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroads or railroad crossings with streets and other
public ways, or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public
utilities shall be replaced by virtue of the preceding section, excepting as
this Code may contain provisions for such matters, in which case this Code
shall be considered as amending such ordinance or ordinances in respect to such
provisions only. (2019 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former
ordinance, whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to
any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any
penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such
offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that proceedings thereafter shall conform to
the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as practicable.
If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment be mitigated by any provision of a new
ordinance, such provision may be, by the consent of the party affected, applied
to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes effect.
   B.   This section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed as abating any
action now pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of the City
herein repealed and the provisions of all general ordinances contained in this
Code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions and not a new enactment of the
same provision; nor shall this chapter be deemed as discontinuing, abating,
modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the
liability of any person, firm or corporation, or as waiving any right of the
City under any ordinance or provision thereof in force at the time of the
adoption of this Code. (2019 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this Code, or any part thereof, is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this Code, or any part thereof. The City Council
hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection,
subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the
fact that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs,
sentences, clauses or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or
ineffective. (2019 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: General Definitions
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
   A.   Liberal Construction: All general provisions, terms, phrases and
expressions contained in this Code shall be liberally construed in order that
the true intent and meaning of the City Council may be fully carried out.
   B.   Interpretation: In the interpretation and application of any provision
of this Code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the
promotion of the public health, safety and general welfare. Where any provision
of a code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than the general
provision imposed by this Code, the provision imposing the greater restriction
or regulation shall be deemed to be controlling.
   C.   Additional Interpretations:
      1.   Computation Of Time: Whenever a notice is required to be given or an
act to be done in a certain length of time before any proceeding shall be had,
the day on which such notice is given or such act is done shall not be counted
in computing the time but the day on which such proceeding is to be held shall
be counted.
      2.   Delegation Of Authority: Whenever a provision appears requiring the
head of a department or some other City officer to do some act or perform some
duty, it is to be construed to authorize the head of the department or other
officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the
required act or perform the duty unless the terms of the provision or section
specify otherwise.
      3.   Gender: A word importing the masculine gender only shall extend and
be applied to females and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well as to
males.
      4.   Joint Authority: All words giving a joint authority to three (3) or
more persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a
majority of such persons or officers.
      5.   May/Shall: The word "may" is permissive; the word "shall" is
mandatory.
      6.   Nontechnical And Technical Words: Words and phrases shall be
construed according to the common and approved usage of the language, but
technical words and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and
appropriate meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such
meaning.
      7.   Number: A word importing the singular number only may extend and be
applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing.
      8.   Officers Generally: Whenever any officer is referred by title, such
as "Clerk", "Treasurer", etc., such reference shall be construed as if followed
by the words "of the City of Moyie Springs, Idaho".
      9.   Tense: Words used in the past or present tense include the future as
well as the past and present. (2019 Code)
1-3-2: GENERAL DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this Code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
CITY CODE: The City Code of the City of Moyie Springs, Idaho, and amendments
thereto.
COUNTY: The County of Boundary, State of Idaho.
FEE: A sum of money charged by the City for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation, or other activity subject to City regulation,
authorization or limitation.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
REASONABLE TIME: In all cases where any ordinance requires that an act be done
in a reasonable time or that reasonable notice be given, such reasonable time
for such notice shall be deemed to mean such time as may be necessary for the
expeditious performance of such duty or compliance with such notice.
STATE: The State of Idaho.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person, or in case such person is unable to write, by such
person's proper mark. (2019 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when
any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted. (2019
Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Violations; Abatement
1-4-3: Application Of Provisions
1-4-4: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY 1 :
   A.   Misdemeanor: Except in cases where a different punishment is hereafter
prescribed by City ordinance, every offense declared to be a misdemeanor is
punishable by a fine not exceeding one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or by
imprisonment in jail not exceeding six (6) months, or by both, together with
such costs as may be required by law. These punishments shall comply with Idaho
Code section 18-113, as amended. If a penalty is limited by State law, such
violations shall be punishable by not to exceed the maximum permitted by State
law. (Ord. 76, 2-5-1997; amd. 2019 Code)
   B.   Infraction: When the offense is designated as an infraction by any
section or provision of this Code or by State law, it is punishable only by a
penalty not exceeding three hundred dollars ($300.00) and no incarceration may
be imposed. (2019 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 50-302.
1-4-2: VIOLATIONS; ABATEMENT:
The violation of any ordinance of the City and/or the failure and/or refusal to
maintain and/or pay for available City services necessary for the health and
safety of persons or property, i.e., water, fire, sewage and/or garbage
disposal, or the maintenance of any condition on the premises which constitutes
a hazard to the health and safety of the persons and/or property within the
corporate limits of the City, the Mayor and City Council shall have the
following powers and authority to abate or eliminate such hazards:
   A.   Immediate Action: Without prior notice, enter the premises and
eliminate the hazard and thereafter serve upon both the landowner and/or
occupant an order to show cause before the City Council why the cost of such
should not be charged to them jointly or either of them separately.
   B.   Notice Of Order To Show Cause: If the Council determines that the
hazard or damage to the public health and safety is not sufficiently imminent
as to preclude notice and hearing before the elimination thereof, then the
Council shall serve both the occupant and the property owner with an order to
show cause why the hazard should not be abated and the cost thereof charged to
either or both shall be issued to the occupant and/or property owner.
   C.   Issuance Of Order To Show Cause: Orders to show cause shall be issued
by the Mayor or the President of the Council, upon the advice and consent of a
majority of the Council.
   D.   Time Specified For Issuance, Service: Orders to show cause may be
issued and served not less than ten (10) days nor more than twenty (20) days
prior to hearing.
   E.   How Served: Service of orders to show cause and supportive documents
shall be served either by personal service or by posting a copy in a
conspicuous place on the property and mailing a copy by certified mail, return
receipt requested, to the address of the property owner at the address shown in
the record of the Boundary County Assessor and Treasurer's Office for the
mailing of tax assessments and bills. Notice will be complete upon posting and
deposit in the U.S. mail.
   F.   Hearing: Orders to show cause hearing shall be held before the Mayor or
President of the Council and the City Council at any regular or specially
scheduled meeting. The respondent may be represented by an attorney at his own
expense and the City Attorney shall represent the City in support of the order.
The respondent may elect to have the hearing conducted in executive session
pursuant to Idaho Code section 67-2345. Within ten (10) days following the
hearing, the City Council shall issue its findings and order, which shall be
signed by the presiding officer and all Council members supporting such
decision and shall be attested to by the Clerk. Such order may then be recorded
in the records of Boundary County, Idaho. Recording shall constitute a lien on
the real property until the costs or charges therein be satisfied and fully
paid. (Ord. 76, 2-5-1997)
1-4-3: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Application Of Penalty Provisions:
      1.   The penalty provided in this chapter shall be applicable to every
section of this Code the same as though it were a part of each and every
separate section. Any person convicted of a violation of any section of this
Code where any duty is prescribed or obligation imposed or where any action
which is of a continuing nature is forbidden or is declared to be unlawful
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor unless otherwise provided. A separate
offense shall be deemed committed upon each day such duty or obligation remains
unperformed or such act continues, unless otherwise specifically provided in
this Code.
      2.   Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act
constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this Code, and there shall
be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of
this chapter shall apply.
   B.   One Recovery For Same Offense: In all cases where the same offense is
made punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of this Code,
the Prosecuting Officer may elect under which to proceed, but not more than one
recovery shall be had against the same person for the same offense; provided,
that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be considered a recovery
or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced. (2019 Code)
1-4-4: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this Code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the City Council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or employee is
specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the duty. (2019
Code)
CHAPTER 5
OFFICIAL AND CORPORATE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
1-5-1: Depositing City Funds
1-5-1: DEPOSITING CITY FUNDS:
   A.   Scope: The City Clerk/Treasurer will deposit the funds of the City in
such place or places as the Mayor and Council shall direct.
   B.   Authority Of Mayor And Council: By resolution, the Mayor and Council
may approve the establishment of such accounts with one or more financial
institutions as such may best meet the needs and facilitate purposes and
requirements of the various funds of the City. The accounts, institutions and
investments wherein the funds of the City shall be placed, shall be those that
are authorized by law, including, but not limited to, Idaho Code section 50-
1013, as it is now in effect or may hereafter be amended or superseded. (Ord.
101, 4-7-2004)
CHAPTER 6
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-6-1: Composition
1-6-2: Meetings
1-6-3: Nonattendance; Electronic Attendance And Participation
1-6-4: Salaries
1-6-1: COMPOSITION:
The government of the City of Moyie Springs, incorporated under the general and
amended laws of the State of Idaho, shall be vested in one Mayor and four (4)
Council members. (Ord. 1A, 6-4-1947; amd. 2019 Code)
1-6-2: MEETINGS:
   A.   Purpose: This section is passed for the purpose of fixing the time and
place of holding the stated meetings of the City Council, as required by Idaho
Code section 29-704. (Ord. 69, 1-4-1995)
   B.   Meetings Specified: The City Council shall meet once each calendar
month on the first Wednesday of each month not falling on the first or second
day of said month or holiday, at the hour of seven o'clock (7:00) P.M., at what
is known as the City Hall in the City of Moyie Springs, Boundary County, Idaho.
(Ord. 69, 1-4-1995; amd. 2019 Code)
1-6-3: NONATTENDANCE; ELECTRONIC ATTENDANCE AND PARTICIPATION:
   A.   Compel Attendance: The members of the Council present at any regularly
or specially called meeting of the Council, may by majority vote of those
present, whether or not a quorum is present, compel the attendance of an absent
member or members and may recess proceedings until the absent member or members
shall be present.
   B.   Definitions: As used in this section:
   COUNCIL MEMBER OR COUNCIL: Shall include the Mayor.
   PRESENT: Shall include electronic and/or telephonic participation as
provided in this section.
   C.   Imposition Of Penalty: A majority of the Council members personally
present or present by telecommunication devices may impose upon absent members
a penalty equal to the monthly salary, plus the costs of benefits paid by the
City, of the absent Council member for the month in which the Council member
was absent. The Council may additionally assess against said absent Council
member costs incurred by the City due to inability to conduct the business of
the Council due to the lack of a quorum due to the Council member's absence. No
penalty shall be imposed upon a Council member without prior notice of ten (10)
days and opportunity to be heard at a hearing to be conducted by the Council at
any regular or special meeting of the Council called in the manner provided by
law.
   D.   Exception For Good Cause: The Council, at its discretion, may elect not
to impose a penalty upon an absent member upon a showing of good cause due to
personal illness, death of a close friend or family member, attending the
bedside of a gravely ill close friend or family member and/or celebrations of a
major event in the life of a close family member and/or close friend. Where two
(2) or more Council members are absent from the same Council meeting, each
absent member will be penalized, or not penalized depending upon the merits, or
lack thereof, of the reason for their absence. Only upon three (3) or more
consecutive absences or four (4) absences in a six (6) month period shall a
Council member be penalized as provided herein and only if two (2) or more
absences are without excuse, as provided for in this section, shall a Council
member be penalized. The penalties provided for herein shall only apply to an
absence from the regular monthly meeting of the Council and shall not apply to
special meetings called by the Mayor and Council.
   E.   Participation By Electronic Or Telecommunication Devices: A Council
member may elect to be present and participate in any meeting of the Council by
electronic and/or telecommunication devices from a location other than Council
Chambers. To participate telephonically, the Council member must have the
necessary equipment available to permit them to participate in the discussion
so that the Council member can be heard by all in attendance and can hear
comments of all engaged in discussion. To participate by telecommunication
devices, a Council member shall provide the City Clerk with no less than three
(3) business days' prior notice of his or her intent to participate
telephonically and inform the Clerk of the most efficient means and/or address
to forward to the Council member copies of the agenda and all other documents
which the Council will be expected or asked to consider at the meeting. The
Council member shall bear the expense of participation by telecommunication
device and shall be solely responsible to initiate the contact, to participate
not later than the time scheduled for the meeting, and shall remain in contact
until the meeting is officially adjourned and/or he or she is excused.
   F.   Time Limit For Submitting Documents; Waiver: All documents to be
considered at a meeting of the Council shall be submitted to the City Clerk not
later than four (4) business days prior to the date of the meeting. This
deadline may be waived by the unanimous vote of the Council only when no member
has requested to be scheduled to participate by telecommunications device,
unless the Council member has available facilities to electronically receive
documents from the City Clerk. (Ord. 119, 1-15-2013)
1-6-4: SALARIES:
Effective January 1, 2002, each Council member shall receive for his services
as Council member the sum of seventy five dollars ($75.00) per month, and the
Mayor shall receive for his services as Mayor the sum of ninety five dollars
($95.00) per month. The Mayor and each Council member shall receive twenty five
dollars ($25.00) for attendance at any regularly called special meeting of the
Council. (Ord. 97, 8-8-2001; amd. 2019 Code)
CHAPTER 7
AREA OF IMPACT
SECTION:
1-7-1: Authority
1-7-2: City Area Of Impact Boundaries; Adoption Of Map
1-7-3: Comprehensive Plan Applicable
1-7-4: Zoning, Subdivision Ordinances Applicable
1-7-5: Notice Of Development, Changes In Plans And Ordinances
1-7-1: AUTHORITY:
This chapter is adopted pursuant to authority granted in Idaho Code title 67,
chapter 65. (Ord. 68, 12-28-1994)
1-7-2: CITY AREA OF IMPACT BOUNDARIES; ADOPTION OF MAP:
   A.   The Moyie Springs Area of Impact is established within the boundaries
of the map entitled "Area of City Impact Map for the City of Moyie Springs"
which is adopted hereby, made a part of this chapter, and on file in the City.
(Ord. 68, 12-28-1994)
   B.   The Area of City Impact Map is available for public review at the
Office of the City Clerk during all regular office hours during any business
day. (Ord. 67, 10-27-1994)
1-7-3: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN APPLICABLE:
The Boundary County Comprehensive Plan, including future amendments, shall
apply within the Area of Impact established by this chapter, and depicted on
the "Area of City Impact Map for the City of Moyie Springs". (Ord. 68, 12-28-
1994)
1-7-4: ZONING, SUBDIVISION ORDINANCES APPLICABLE:
The zoning and subdivision ordinances adopted by Boundary County, and including
future amendments, shall apply in the Area of Impact established by this
chapter and depicted on the "Area of City Impact Map for the City of Moyie
Springs". (Ord. 68, 12-28-1994)
1-7-5: NOTICE OF DEVELOPMENT, CHANGES IN PLANS AND ORDINANCES:
   A.   Boundary County hereby agrees to provide the City with written notice
of all applications for zoning changes, subdivisions and other significant land
development activity as may be proposed within the Area of Impact established
by this chapter.
   B.   Boundary County and the City do each hereby agree to provide the other
with one copy of all changes in its comprehensive plan, zoning ordinance and
subdivision ordinance, and with full opportunity to comment, orally or in
writing, upon such changes. (Ord. 68, 12-28-1994)
TITLE 2
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
SECTION:
2-1-1: Definitions
2-1-2: License Required
2-1-3: Days, Hours When Alcoholic Beverages May Be Sold
2-1-4: Misrepresentation Of Age
2-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms, as used in this chapter, are hereby defined as follows:
COMMISSIONER: The Commissioner of Law Enforcement of the State of Idaho.
PERSON: Includes an individual, firm, co-partnership, association, corporation,
or any group or combination acting as a unit, and includes the plural as well
as the singular unless the intent to give a more limited meaning is disclosed
by the context in which it is used.
RETAILER: A person to whom a retail license has been issued.
WINE: Any alcoholic beverage containing not more than fourteen percent (14%)
alcohol by volume obtained by the fermentation of the natural sugar content of
fruits or other agricultural products containing sugar. (Ord. 47, 9-3-1980;
amd. 2019 Code)
2-1-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   Purpose: This chapter is passed to provide for the licensing and
regulating of the retail sale of beer, wine or liquor by the drink within the
City.
   B.   License Required: No person, individual, firm, co- partnership,
association or corporation shall sell beer, wine or liquor by the drink within
the City without first obtaining a license therefor as herein provided.
   C.   Application For License: All applications for license must be in
writing, filed with the City Clerk and accompanied by the affidavit of the
applicant showing such applicant to be qualified by this section, and the laws
of the State, to receive a license, must state the place of business with
respect to which the license is to be issued, and must be accompanied by a
receipt from the City Treasurer for the amount of the license fee. Provided,
however, that before a license shall be issued, the licensee must have procured
the proper license from the proper officials of Boundary County, Idaho.
   D.   Issuance; Term: All licenses shall be granted by the Mayor and City
Clerk for a period of one year beginning January 1 and ending December 31. All
licenses shall be issued by the City Clerk.
   E.   Class Next Above: The Mayor and City Council may grant to any person
theretofore procuring a license to sell beer, wine or liquor by the drink as
herein provided, a license provided for the class next above the license of
said licensee upon his paying to the City Treasurer the difference between the
license for which he has already paid and the license which he seeks.
   F.   Fees: The license fees for any such person, individual, firm, co-
partnership, association or corporation is hereby set by ordinance or
resolution.
   G.   Licenses After January 1: A full year's license fee shall be collected
for each license issued, notwithstanding the fact that such license may have
been issued after January 1.
   H.   Place Of Sale Designated; License Posted: The license fee shall permit
the sale by one place of business, such place of business to be designated in
the license issued. It shall be the duty of the licensee to keep posted in a
conspicuous place in the place of business for which the license is granted,
such license. (Ord. 3, 1947; amd. 2019 Code)
   I.   Number Permitted; Transferability: No person shall be granted more than
one license for any one year and such license shall be nontransferable without
the consent of the Mayor and City Council, and upon payment of a transfer fee.
(Ord. 3, 1947; amd. Ord. 6, 8-6-1947; 2019 Code)
   J.   Penalty; Revocation:
      1.   Any person violating any of the provisions of this section, upon
conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code, and in addition thereto, the Mayor and City Council may
revoke the license of the licensee. (Ord. 3, 1947; amd. 2019 Code)
      2.   The right shall be and remain at all times vested in the Mayor and
Council, and the Mayor and Council may, as hereinafter provided, revoke or
cancel any license for fraud or misrepresentation in its procurement, or for a
violation of any of the provisions of this section, or for any conduct or act
of the licensee or his employees, or any conduct or act permitted by him or
them on the premises where such business is conducted, or in connection
therewith or adjacent thereto, tending to render such business or such premises
where the same is conducted as a public nuisance or a menace to the health,
peace, safety or general welfare of the City; provided, that revocation or
suspension of the State license by the Commissioner of Law Enforcement shall be
deemed prima facie evidence for revocation or suspension of the license issued
herein. (Ord. 47, 9-3-1980; amd. 2019 Code)
2-1-3: DAYS, HOURS WHEN ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES MAY BE SOLD:
   A.   Alcoholic beverages may be sold within the limits of the City at any
and all times when permitted by State law in all parts of the State, not
limited by local, City and County ordinances.
   B.   Pursuant to the authority of Idaho Code section 23-927(2), hours of
sale of alcoholic beverages are lawful within the City until two o'clock (2:00)
A.M. and also on Sundays, Memorial Day and Thanksgiving to the full extent the
City is authorized by law to extend the days and times of service of alcoholic
beverages. (Ord. 120, 4-10-2013; amd. 2019 Code)
2-1-4: MISREPRESENTATION OF AGE:
   A.   No person under the age of twenty one (21) years may purchase, consume
or possess alcoholic beverages.
   B.   No person shall give, sell or deliver alcoholic beverages to any person
under the age of twenty one (21) years.
   C.   No person under the age of twenty one (21) years shall by any means
represent to any retailer or distributor or to any agent or employee of such
retailer or distributor that he or she is twenty one (21) years or more of age
for the purpose of inducing such retailer or distributor, or his agent or
employee, to sell, serve or dispense alcoholic beverages to such person.
   D.   No person shall, by any means, represent to any retailer or distributor
or the agent or employee of such retailer or distributor, that any other person
is twenty one (21) years or more of age, when in fact such other person is
under the age of twenty one (21) years, for the purpose of inducing such
retailer or distributor, or the agent or employee of such retailer or
distributor, to sell, serve or dispense alcoholic beverages to such other
person. (Ord. 47, 9-3-1980; amd. 2019 Code)
TITLE 3
HEALTH AND SANITATION
CHAPTER 1
GARBAGE AND REFUSE
SECTION:
3-1-1: Police Power Exercised
3-1-2: Definitions
3-1-3: Burning
3-1-4: Accumulation Of Garbage
3-1-5: Dumping Regulations
3-1-6: Rules And Regulations
3-1-1: POLICE POWER EXERCISED:
This chapter shall be deemed an exercise of the police power of the City acting
in its governmental capacity for the protection and preservation of the health,
welfare, morals, safety and cleanliness, and all of its provisions shall be
liberally construed for the accomplishment of that purpose. (Ord. 17, 11-1967)
3-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
GARBAGE: All putrescible wastes, except sewage and body wastes, but excluding
recognizable industrial byproducts, and shall include all such substances from
public and private establishments and from all residences.
REFUSE AND TRASH: Nonputrescible wastes. (Ord. 17, 11-1967)
3-1-3: BURNING:
It shall be unlawful for any person to burn garbage, refuse or chemicals within
the City, except waste paper, boxes, brush, grass, weeds and cuttings from
trees, lawns and gardens. Site specific burn permits may be issued by the City.
(Ord. 17, 11-1967; amd. 2019 Code)
3-1-4: ACCUMULATION OF GARBAGE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit, collect or accumulate or permit
the depositing, collecting or accumulating of any garbage on property owned or
occupied by him within the City. (Ord. 17, 11-1967)
3-1-5: DUMPING REGULATIONS:
It is unlawful to deposit in the City limits refuse, trash, animal carcasses or
car bodies. (Ord. 17, 11-1967; amd. 2019 Code)
3-1-6: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The Governing Body of the City shall have power to make such further rules and
regulations for the storage and disposal of rubbish and garbage as may be
necessary to effectuate and facilitate the provisions of this chapter. (Ord.
17, 11-1967)
CHAPTER 2
NUISANCES
SECTION:
3-2-1: Scope
3-2-2: Notice Of Nuisance
3-2-3: Service, Posting Of Notice
3-2-4: Authority Of City
3-2-5: Costs Of Abatement
3-2-1: SCOPE:
Any public official of the City, or peace officer having authority within the
City, upon observing a condition which poses a threat to persons or property,
or creates a disturbance of the peace and quiet of the neighborhood, may
proceed as provided in this chapter. (Ord. 102, 6-9-2004)
3-2-2: NOTICE OF NUISANCE:
The City Clerk shall send written notice to any person believed to be
responsible for the creation or permitting of a nuisance, or to the owner of
real property upon which an activity or condition believed to be a nuisance
exists. The notice shall include the following:
   A.   Describe the condition, event or activity that is alleged to be a
nuisance.
   B.   The authority of the Council to determine such to be a nuisance.
   C.   That a hearing will be held before the City Council providing the date,
time and place for such hearing.
   D.   That the Council will be requested to determine the activity, event or
conditions to be a nuisance.
   E.   What remedies the Council may consider to abate the nuisance.
   F.   That the person notified has the right to appear before the Council,
with or without legal counsel and present evidence.
   G.   That to present evidence in response to the allegation of a nuisance,
written notice must be given the City Clerk and/or City Attorney of intent to
do so not later than five o'clock (5:00) P.M. of the business day prior to the
hearing date. That in the absence of such notice, the Council may proceed to
hear the matter without accepting evidence or argument of the person to whom
notice is given. (Ord. 102, 6-9-2004)
3-2-3: SERVICE, POSTING OF NOTICE:
   A.   Time Of Notice: Notice shall be given not less than ten (10) business
days prior to the scheduled hearing, excluding Saturday, Sunday and national
holidays.
   B.   Temporary Abatement: In the event of a temporary abatement of nuisance
as provided in section
3-2-4 of this chapter, notice shall be given within forty eight (48) hours of
temporary abatement and shall call for hearing at the next regular or special
Council meeting, even though such may be within less than ten (10) business
days. In the event of less than ten (10) business days' notice of hearing, the
person or entity to whom notice is given shall, upon written request, be
granted a continuance of the hearing up to the next regular or special meeting
of the Council in the following calendar month. The Council may, as a condition
of such continuance, require the abatement continue until the hearing and
require the posting of a cash bond to cover costs estimated to be incurred by
the City for continued abatement until the hearing can be held. (Ord. 102, 6-9-
2004; amd. 2019 Code)
   C.   Means Of Service: Notice shall be served by one or more of the
following means:
      1.   Personal service as provided for service of a complaint and summons
as provided by Idaho Rules of Civil Procedure.
      2.   Service by registered or certified mail to the address of the person
to be notified as shown by the County Assessor and Treasurer records for
Property Tax notices, the City Clerk's records for billing for City services,
motor vehicle records of registered owner of a nuisance vehicle or any other
address known to the City Clerk.
      3.   Service by mail shall be effective and complete upon posting in the
U.S. mail, postage prepaid.
      4.   Posting of the property in a conspicuous location and affixed in a
manner to come to the attention of anyone obtaining access thereto in a normal
manner. (Ord. 102, 6-9-2004)
3-2-4: AUTHORITY OF CITY:
If the official determines there to be an imminent threat to the health and
safety of any person or property, or the creation of a disturbance of the peace
and quiet of any neighborhood, they may proceed as follows:
   A.   Abatement: Upon authority of the Mayor, or if unavailable, the
President of the Council or, if also unavailable, two (2) Council members, may
take such action as appropriate and necessary to temporarily abate such as
being a nuisance until notice and opportunity to be heard as herein provided
can occur. If the condition is a fire hazard or hazardous material, the Fire
Chief or in his absence the Assistant Fire Chief will have authority to act
without prior authorization of the above referenced Mayor or Council members.
   B.   Action To Abate: Actions to temporarily abate a nuisance prior to
notice and hearing shall be such as are necessary and reasonable to protect the
health and safety of persons and property, or to maintain the peace and quiet
of the neighborhood until further proceedings, as provided for herein, can be
conducted. Such actions may include, but are not limited to, capture and
containment of pets, livestock and other animals, removal of combustible
material, creation of firebreaks to reduce risk of fire, restricting access to
hazardous conditions and/or removal of contaminated and/or hazardous materials,
which are not otherwise subject to State and/or Federal laws and regulations.
It is the intent and purpose that the authority provided herein shall be in
addition to all other applicable State or Federal regulatory and/or statutory
authority.
   C.   Costs And Expenses: The costs and expenses of temporary abatement may
be advanced by the City if the person responsible for the nuisance is not
immediately identifiable or available or will not either comply with the
recommended or requested abatement or advancement of requested costs. All costs
and expenses advanced by the City for the temporary or permanent abatement of
nuisances shall be assessed against the owners of the property and/or the
person or persons responsible for the creation of the nuisance, who shall be
jointly and severally liable to reimburse the City therefor. (Ord. 102, 6-9-
2004)
3-2-5: COSTS OF ABATEMENT:
   A.   Scope: Costs incurred by the City in the abatement of any nuisance,
including all hearings and legal expenses, shall be assessed jointly and
severally against the person causing or permitting the nuisance to occur.
However, costs and expenses incidental to a temporary abatement shall not be
assessed if the Council, after hearing, determines there to have been no
nuisance or the responsible party made a good faith effort to avoid the
occurrence of the nuisance and took reasonable efforts to mitigate or terminate
the nuisance.
   B.   Waiver: The Council retains discretion to waive in whole or in part the
assessment of costs incurred where it determines hardship or equity would be
served by such.
   C.   Property Lien: Costs assessed by the Council shall constitute a lien
upon the property and enforced as provided by Idaho Code title 45, chapter 5,
concerning real property and chapter 8 as to personal property and Idaho Code
section 45-805b as to livestock and pets of all species.
   D.   Affidavit Of Costs; Objection: Costs shall be established by affidavit
or evidence as the Mayor or presiding officer of the hearing shall direct with
opportunity for the party against whom costs are to be assessed to object.
(Ord. 102, 6-9-2004)
TITLE 4
PUBLIC SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
FIRE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
4-1-1: Created
4-1-2: Appointment Of Officials
4-1-3: Authority Of Fire Chief
4-1-1: CREATED:
There is hereby created a Fire Department for the City. (Ord. 65, 6-8-1994)
4-1-2: APPOINTMENT OF OFFICIALS:
The Mayor, with the approval of the Council, shall appoint a Chief of the Fire
Department and such assistants as found necessary, who shall hold office for
the duration of the term outlined in the appointment or until such time as he/
she may be removed. (Ord. 65, 6-8-1994)
4-1-3: AUTHORITY OF FIRE CHIEF:
The Chief of the Fire Department shall have, subject to approval of the City
Council, supervision of all the affairs and business of the Department, control
of all Fire Department property and equipment, and the work of all the members,
assistants and employees thereof, and while attending fires, answering fire
calls and returning therefrom, shall have the authority of a police officer.
(Ord. 65, 6-8-1994)
CHAPTER 2
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
4-2-1: Purpose; Title
4-2-2: Definitions
4-2-3: Rabies Control And Vaccination Requirements
4-2-4: Care And Control Of Animals
4-2-5: Vicious Dogs
4-2-6: Penalty
4-2-1: PURPOSE; TITLE:
   A.   Statement Of Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to provide
standards and procedures for responsible care and ownership of dogs and other
domestic animals within the incorporated areas of the City. This chapter does
not address all aspects of animal ownership, rather, it establishes some
minimum standards for animal care, control and treatment in the interest of
public safety and animal welfare. The responsibility for actions and behavior
of domestic animals remains with the owner.
   B.   Title: This chapter shall be referred as the CITY OF MOYIE SPRINGS,
IDAHO, ANIMAL CONTROL ORDINANCE. (Ord. 108, 10-4-2006)
4-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
ANIMAL: Shall include, but not be limited to, birds, fish, reptiles, mammals
and nonhuman primates.
AT LARGE: Being on any private property, without the permission of the person
who owns or has a right to possess or use the property, or unrestrained by a
leash on either public property or private property, or in any other place or
manner which presents substantial risk or interference with animal or public
health, safety or welfare.
ATTACK: Hitting, attempted biting, acting in a threatening manner, aggressively
pursuing with a present ability to bite or injure a person. A "threatening
manner" is defined as any action by the animal towards a person that instills a
well founded apprehension of fear in the person because of the animal's
actions, coupled with the present ability of the animal to do harm.
DOG: Any Canis Familiaris of either sex.
LEASH: Any rope, leather strap, chain or any other material, being held in the
hand of a person capable of controlling, and actually controlling, the animal
to which it is attached.
MAYOR AND COUNCIL: The Mayor and Council of the City of Moyie Springs, Idaho.
OWNER: Any person who is the legal owner, or any person who keeps, harbors,
takes care of for another person, or possesses or controls in any manner any
animal on such premises shall be considered the owner of said animal.
RABIES CERTIFICATE FORM: A rabies certificate form issued by a licensed
veterinarian.
SHERIFF: The Boundary County Sheriff, his agents, deputies or other persons
designated by the Sheriff. (Ord. 108, 10-4-2006)
4-2-3: RABIES CONTROL AND VACCINATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Vaccination Required: Dog owners shall obtain a rabies vaccination for
each dog they own, keep, harbor or possess within thirty (30) days after it
becomes six (6) months of age, or within thirty (30) days of obtaining any dog
over six (6) months of age. It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, harbor
or possess any dog, as required above, unless such dog has a current rabies
vaccination, administered by a licensed veterinarian, with a rabies vaccine
approved for use in a dog. Such vaccination shall be repeated at such intervals
as determined by the type of vaccine used and licensing requirements of said
vaccine.
   B.   Vaccination Certificate: Any veterinarian who vaccinates a dog for
rabies shall also certify, by properly completing a rabies vaccine certificate,
that the dog has been vaccinated against rabies.
   C.   Reporting Suspected Cases Of Rabies: Any person having care and custody
of an animal which shows symptoms of rabies or which acts in any manner that
would lead to a reasonable suspicion that the animal may have rabies shall
notify the Sheriff and the Panhandle Health District.
   D.   Reporting Of Bites: All persons bitten, and parents or guardians of
children bitten, by a dog, cat, skunk, fox, coyote, bobcat, or other animal of
a species subject to rabies, shall notify the Sheriff and the Panhandle Health
District as soon as possible thereafter. Physicians treating such bites and
other persons having knowledge of such bites shall also notify the Sheriff and
the Panhandle Health District.
   E.   Isolation Of Suspected Rabid Animals: Upon the order of the Sheriff or
the Panhandle Health District, a suspected rabid animal shall be isolated in
strict confinement under the proper care and observation of a licensed
veterinarian, in a veterinary hospital, animal shelter or other facility,
approved by the Sheriff or the Panhandle Health District. Such animal shall not
be killed or released for at least ten (10) days after the onset of symptoms,
unless permission is obtained from the owner or responsible health agency to
kill the animal for purposes of laboratory examination. All costs incurred
associated with this subsection shall be paid by the animal's owner.
   F.   Rabies Tag Affixed: Every dog owner shall securely affix the current
rabies tag to collar or harness of the dog for which it was issued, and shall
ensure that the dog wears such rabies tag at all times.
   G.   Removal Of Tag: No person shall remove a rabies tag or identification
tag from any dog which is not owned by that person unless the person removing
said tag is a licensed veterinarian. (Ord. 108, 10-4-2006)
4-2-4: CARE AND CONTROL OF ANIMALS:
   A.   Restraint Of Dogs By Owners: Dog owners shall at all times prevent
their dogs from being at large, and from being in violation of other sections
of this chapter. Failure of an owner or handler to comply with any provision of
this chapter shall be a violation. Dogs may be free from a leash while
participating in field trials and obedience trials, while actively engaged in
herding livestock, while assisting a peace officer engaged in law enforcement
duties, or while hunting pursuant to Idaho Fish and Game regulations, or under
the immediate control of the owner when the animal is on property open to the
public. Dogs shall not be allowed to run at large in the vicinity of any farm,
pasture, ranch, dwelling, house or cultivated fields of another, without a
competent and responsible attendant or owner, or fail to keep such dog securely
confined within the limits of an owner's premises when not under the immediate
care and control of a competent and responsible attendant or owner. In addition
to the forgoing, any animal which is injurious to the health, or acts in a
threatening manner to any person, or is an obstruction to the free use of
property so as to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property
by any person or any animal who obstructs unlawfully the free passage or use of
any navigable lake, river, stream, channel or basin, or any public park,
square, street, highway or road, whether it be County or State, said dog's
owners shall be subject to the penalties identified in section
4-2-6 of this chapter.
   B.   Dogs Running At Large Seized; Disposition Of Unclaimed Dogs: The
Sheriff of Boundary County may seize all dogs running at large when not under
the immediate care and control of a competent and responsible attendant or
owner and impound the same. Wherein such dog remains unclaimed after actual
notice to the owner, if known, for a period of fourteen (14) days, it shall be
the duty of the Sheriff of Boundary County to cause such dog to be disposed of.
All costs associated with the boarding and disposal of said animal shall be
born by the owner. (Ord. 108, 10-4-2006)
   C.   Fees To Reclaim Dogs: The owner or any other person on the owner's
behalf, or absent a showing of ownership any other person seeking to reclaim a
dog which has been seized for running at large without being under the
immediate care and control of a competent and responsible attendant or owner,
shall pay a fee as established by the City. When the same dog has been seized a
second time, the owner or other person seeking to reclaim the dog shall pay a
fee as established by the City. When the same dog has been seized a subsequent
time, the owner or person seeking to reclaim the dog shall pay a fee as
established by the City. Such fees shall be in addition to any fine and/or jail
term imposed, if criminal proceedings are commenced in accordance with this
chapter. Said fee shall be paid to the Sheriff prior to retrieval of the dog.
(Ord. 108, 10-4-2006; amd. 2019 Code)
   D.   Cruel Treatment And Abandonment: No person shall treat an animal in a
cruel manner as defined in Idaho Code title 25, chapter 35. No person shall
abandon any animal on any public or private property, or allow an animal to be
without potable water and food.
   E.   Animals In Unattended Vehicles: No person shall leave an animal in any
unattended vehicle without adequate ventilation or security to protect the
public, or in any manner as to subject the animal to extreme temperatures which
adversely affect the health or welfare of the animal.
   F.   Authority To Impound: Any peace officer, animal control officer, or any
other person designated by the Sheriff, may seize and impound any animal
running at large without a collar or harness bearing evidence of current
vaccination as required by this chapter, as well as any and all dogs or other
animals found running at large upon the public streets, alleys or other public
places, or private premises without the permission of the owner of said
premises. (Ord. 108, 10-4-2006)
4-2-5: VICIOUS DOGS:
   A.   Scope: Any dog which, when not physically provoked, attacks as defined,
wounds, bites, or otherwise injures any person that results in lacerations,
puncture wounds, muscle tears or disfiguration, or requires any sutures, or
corrective or cosmetic surgery to a person, or any dog not physically provoked,
physically attacks, wounds, bites, threatens to bite or attack, or otherwise
injures any person or livestock, poultry, domesticated animals or animals kept
in captivity for commercial purposes is vicious. Working dogs, including, but
not limited to, guard dogs, police dogs and stock dogs, are exempt from this
classification, while performing their specified duties. Once a dog is deemed
vicious by the court or by the Sheriff, it shall be unlawful for the owner of
the vicious dog to allow the dog to be present outside a secured enclosure
unless it is restrained as required by this section.
   B.   Secured Enclosure: A secured enclosure is one from which the animal
cannot escape and for which exit and entry is controlled by the owner of the
premises or the owner of the animal. A secure enclosure shall, at a minimum,
either be confined indoors in a manner where escape is not possible or outdoors
in a locked pen or enclosure designed to keep the animal from escaping and
shall have secure sides with a secure top and a concrete floor that is attached
to the sides of the pen or structure. All pens or structures must be kept clean
and sanitary and must protect the animals from the elements.
   C.   Leash And Muzzle: The owner of a vicious dog shall not allow the dog to
go outside its kennel, pen or structure, unless the dog is muzzled, restrained
by a chain or leash not more than four feet (4') in length and under the
physical control of an owner. The muzzle must not cause injury to the dog or
interfere with its vision or respiration, but must prevent the dog from biting
any human or animal.
   D.   Signage: The owner of a vicious dog shall display in a prominent place
on the owner's premises a clearly visible warning sign of two feet by two feet
(2' x 2') in dimension indicating that there is a vicious dog on the premises.
The sign must be readable from the public highway or thoroughfare and posted at
the entrance of the owner's property. The owner shall also display a sign with
a symbol warning children of the presence of a vicious dog. Similar signs shall
be posted on the dog's kennel, pen and enclosed structure.
   E.   Insurance: The owner of a vicious dog must provide proof to the City
Clerk that the owner has procured public liability insurance of at least five
hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00) insuring the owner for any damage or
personal injury which may be caused by his or her vicious dog. If at any time
the insurance, as provided herein, is not in effect, the dog may be picked up
and placed in protective custody at a place designated by the City. The dog
owner is required to have his insurance company notify the City if the
insurance expires or lapses. (Ord. 108, 10-4-2006)
   F.   Inspection Of Premises: The owner of a vicious dog shall contact the
Sheriff's Department on an annual basis and shall arrange for an inspection of
the premises wherein the vicious dog is confined. The inspection shall deal
with the security of the confinement and all other items listed above,
including the insurance. The fee for such inspection shall be as established by
the City. (Ord. 108, 10-4-2006; amd. 2019 Code)
   G.   Identification: The owner shall provide front and profile pictures of
any animal declared to be vicious, to be kept on file at the Boundary County
Sheriff's Office. (Ord. 108, 10-4-2006)
   H.   Penalty: Persons guilty of a violation of any portion of this section,
in addition to any civil liability available and in accordance with law, shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to penalty as provided in Idaho Code
section 25-2811. The court may, in the interest of public safety, order the
owner to have the vicious dog destroyed or may direct the appropriate
authorities to destroy the dog. (Ord. 108, 10-4-2006; amd. 2019 Code)
4-2-6: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor, punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code and Idaho Code title 25, chapter 35. In addition to the
misdemeanor penalty provision identified, said person may be subject to civil
remedies available at law and the owner's dog, as identified above, may be
destroyed upon court order. (Ord. 108, 10-4-2006; amd. 2019 Code)
CHAPTER 3
FIREWORKS
SECTION:
4-3-1: Prohibited Acts And Activities
4-3-2: Penalty
4-3-1: PROHIBITED ACTS AND ACTIVITIES:
   A.   Sales: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to sell
fireworks of any kind on any day of any year.
   B.   Use: It shall be unlawful for any person to use or set off fireworks of
any kind on any day of any year. (Ord. 7, 4-18-1949)
4-3-2: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 7, 4-18-1949; amd. 2019 Code)
TITLE 5
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
SECTION:
5-1-1: Speed Limitations
5-1-2: Traffic On Specific Streets And Highways
5-1-3: Blocking Lanes Of Travel
5-1-4: Compression Brakes
5-1-1: SPEED LIMITATIONS:
This section provides for the establishment of motor vehicle speed limitations
on alleys, streets, highways and other public ways as follows:
   A.   Basic Rules: No person shall drive a vehicle at a speed greater than is
reasonable and prudent under the conditions and having regard to the actual and
potential hazards then existing. Consistent with the foregoing, every person
shall drive at a safe and appropriate speed when approaching and crossing an
intersection or railroad grade crossing, when approaching and going around a
curve, when approaching a hill crest, when traveling upon any narrow or winding
roadway, and when special hazards exist with respect to pedestrians or other
traffic, or by reason of weather or highway conditions.
   B.   Maximum Speed Limits: The maximum speed on streets and highways within
the City shall be twenty five (25) miles per hour, unless otherwise posted.
(Ord. 80, 11-5-1997)
5-1-2: TRAFFIC ON SPECIFIC STREETS AND HIGHWAYS:
This section provides for regulating the kinds and classes of traffic on
certain streets and highways as follows:
   A.   Load Restrictions Upon Vehicles Using Certain Streets: When signs are
erected by authority of the City Council giving notice thereof, it shall be
unlawful for any person to operate any vehicle with a gross weight in excess of
twenty six thousand (26,000) GVW on any residentially zoned street without a
written permit from the City; and no vehicle with a gross weight in excess of
twenty six thousand (26,000) GVW shall operate on West Railroad Street, Brink
Street and/or Moyie Street.
   B.   Hauling Hazardous Materials: When signs are erected by authority of the
City Council giving notice thereof, it shall be unlawful for any person to haul
any hazardous material not allowed on the Federal highway system within the
City limits.
   C.   Change To Regulatory Signs: Regulatory signs may be changed because of
increased traffic, weather conditions, road surface or other reasons determined
by the City Council. (Ord. 80, 11-5-1997)
5-1-3: BLOCKING LANES OF TRAVEL:
   A.   Prohibition: It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct lanes of
travel upon the public streets and rights- of-way by any means, including, but
not limited to, the parking or stopping of motor vehicles and/or equipment
thereon, except as provided herein.
   B.   Exception: This section will not prohibit the stopping of traffic by
lawful traffic control signs and devices by barriers and flag persons to permit
repairs or construction of utilities and streets on the public rights-of-way.
However, such obstructions shall be marked in accordance with the signing
requirements as adopted by the State of Idaho Department of Transportation.
   C.   Permits: Upon application to the Mayor, with approval of the Council,
permits may be issued granting the right to temporarily obstruct rights-of-way
for such purposes as the Council shall deem in the best interest of the
citizens and businesses of the City, and subject to such conditions as shall be
necessary to maintain the safety of persons and property using the streets and
rights-of-way in the City. (Ord. 92, 1-5-2000)
5-1-4: COMPRESSION BRAKES:
   A.   No person operating a motor vehicle, including a motorcycle, within the
incorporated limits of the City of Moyie Springs, which vehicle is equipped
with a compression brake that has not been properly modified and/or muffled, so
as to quiet the noise made by such brakes, shall not use that brake within the
City at any time.
   B.   This section shall not be interpreted or applied to permit the sounds
emitted by the exhaust system of any motor vehicle to exceed that as provided
by Idaho Code section 49-937.
   C.   Prior to enforcing the provisions of this section, agents of the City
shall post an appropriate sign prohibiting the use of unmuffled compression
brakes at the existing entrances to the City of Moyie Springs, and then file
with the City Clerk an affidavit that the warning signs have been properly
erected at the entrances with a detailed description of their exact location.
(Ord. 126, 10-4-2017)
   D.   After unmuffled compression brake prohibition signs have been erected
by agents of the City, any person who violates the provisions of this section
shall be considered guilty of an infraction, and shall be subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 126, 10-4-2017; amd. 2019 Code)
CHAPTER 2
PARKING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
5-2-1: Prohibited Parking
5-2-1: PROHIBITED PARKING:
Parking by vehicles is prohibited on either side of Canyon View Street between
its intersection with the Union Pacific Railroad tracks and Spring Street.
(Ord. 50, 1-6-1982; amd. 2019 Code)
TITLE 6
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
ACCESSING RIGHTS-OF-WAY
SECTION:
6-1-1: Application For Permit; Fee
6-1-2: Review Of Application
6-1-3: Violation; Penalty
6-1-1: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT; FEE:
Before any person and/or organization shall develop any access from private
property onto the rights-of-way and/or City streets, they shall file an
application for a permit for such with the City Clerk on a form to be provided
by the City and pay a fee as set by resolution. (Ord. 77, 7-9-1997)
6-1-2: REVIEW OF APPLICATION:
   A.   The City Clerk shall promptly provide a copy of such application to the
designated City official, who shall cause the proposed access to be examined to
determine the following:
      1.   Traffic safety hazards;
      2.   Load impact on streets and rights-of-way;
      3.   Increased street and right-of-way maintenance;
      4.   Impact on utility service.
   B.   If, in the judgment of the City official, the access will materially
impact one or more of the foregoing criteria, then the official shall, in
writing, state in what respect said items are impacted and state the manner
which, if possible, such impact may be cured or reduced to an acceptable level.
   C.   In such case no permit shall thereafter be issued for such access
without the property owner further negotiating a cure at his own expense with
the Mayor and City Council. (Ord. 77, 7-9-1997)
6-1-3: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
It shall be unlawful for a person to create or construct an access onto the
City streets or rights-of-way without compliance with this chapter and a
violation of this chapter shall constitute a misdemeanor and, upon conviction,
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. The City may take such action as they deem appropriate to
obstruct such access until compliance with this chapter be complied with. (Ord.
77, 7-9-1997; amd. 2019 Code)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC UTILITIES
CHAPTER 1
WATER USE AND SERVICE
SECTION:
7-1-1: Police Power
7-1-2: Definitions
7-1-3: Use Of System Mandatory
7-1-4: Application For Service
7-1-5: Fees And Charges
7-1-6: Meters And Payment
7-1-7: Extent Of Service
7-1-8: Permits; Inspections
7-1-9: Interference
7-1-10: Tampering Or Obstructing
7-1-11: Waste Of Water
7-1-12: Contamination
7-1-13: Water Flowing Upon Streets
7-1-14: Penalty
7-1-1: POLICE POWER:
This chapter is adopted by the Council under its police powers with the purpose
being to protect the health and general welfare of the citizens of the City.
(Ord. 41, 1-19-1978)
7-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the following
meanings unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
CLERK: City Clerk.
COUNCIL: City Council of Moyie Springs, Idaho.
PRIVATE WATER SYSTEM: Any water system other than the water system of the City
of Moyie Springs.
SUPERVISOR: The Public Works Supervisor, his authorized deputy or
representative.
SYSTEM: The water system of the City of Moyie Springs.
WATER DEPARTMENT: The Water Department of the City of Moyie Springs. (Ord. 41,
1-19-1978; amd. Ord. 41B, 8-7-2024)
7-1-3: USE OF SYSTEM MANDATORY:
The owner of each lot or parcel of real property within the City not already
connected to the system upon which lot or parcel there is a habitable structure
or a structure for use by humans for any purpose shall install suitable water
and plumbing fixtures and facilities therein; and shall connect such fixtures
and facilities with the system at his own expense (except as otherwise
determined herein or by Council resolution). Water hookon will need to be
purchased at time of beginning of construction or issuance of site permit. This
provision shall not apply to any such owner whose property line when measured
from its closest point to the system pipeline is more than two hundred feet
(200') from that system pipeline; provided, this exception no longer applies if
the system later develops lines within two hundred feet (200') of said
property. A property owner's water meter may be moved only if the parcel does
not have a habitable structure, they own both properties and all expenses for
the meter relocation including any necessary equipment updates to be paid by
the property owner and only City personnel may do the relocation. (Ord. 41, 1-
19-1978; amd. 2019 Code; Ord. 41B, 8-7-2024)
7-1-4: APPLICATION FOR SERVICE:
   A.   Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to make any connection to
any water main or service pipe through which water is supplied by the City to
water consumers or to interfere or tamper in any manner with such mains or
pipes, or to use any water supplied by the City without first having made
application to the Clerk on forms furnished by the City and having received
written consent.
   B.   Use Specified: The applicant must state fully and truthfully all
purposes for which water is to be used, and must agree to conform to the rules
and regulations as a condition for the use of water.
   C.   The property owner is responsible for installation, maintenance and
repair or replacement as necessary for the private water line that connects a
dwelling or business to the City's water meter. Any work within the public
right of way or public utility easements must be approved by the City's Public
Works Supervisor prior to the commencement of work.
   D.   Water Connections cannot be sold, traded or encumbered except by the
City of Moyie Springs.
(Ord. 41, 1-19-1978; amd. Ord. 41B, 8-7-2024)
7-1-5: FEES AND CHARGES:
The hookup fee, monthly charge for water service and method of hooking on to
the system shall be determined from time to time by resolution of the Council.
(Ord. 41, 1-19-1978; amd. Ord. 41B, 8-7-2024)
7-1-6: METERS AND PAYMENT:
All water used for other than Fire Department uses shall be metered. Payment of
water charges shall be due monthly and on the tenth day of the month following
that in which the service is rendered. (Ord. 41, 1-19-1978; amd. Ord. 41B, 8-7-
2024)
7-1-7: EXTENT OF SERVICE:
The service pipes must be so arranged that the supply to each separate house or
premises may be controlled by a separate water meter and valve. One ADU
(Accessory Dwelling Unit) will be permitted per residential lot; and must
follow all applicable City Codes, including
8-5A-2. Where water is already supplied through one service to several houses
or families, the Clerk may, at their discretion, either decline to furnish
water until separate services are provided, or continue the supply upon
condition that one person shall pay for all on the same service. (Ord. 41, 1-
19-1978; amd. 2019 Code; Ord. 41B, 8-7-2024)
7-1-8: PERMITS; INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Requirements: An application for any permit shall be made on a form
furnished by the City, which the applicant shall supplement with such plans,
specifications and other information as deemed necessary by the Council.
   B.   Access: The Public Works Supervisor shall have free access at proper
hours to all buildings or premises served by the system for the purpose of
inspecting the pipes and fixtures, and the manner in which the provisions of
this chapter are being complied with.
(Ord. 41, 1-19-1978; amd. 2019 Code; Ord. 41B, 8-7-2024)
7-1-9: INTERFERENCE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to uncover, make any connection with or
opening into, use, alter or disturb the system without first obtaining a
written permit from the Public Works Supervisor. It shall be unlawful for any
person to open, alter or disturb the streets or alleys of the City for the
purpose of making connection with the system without first obtaining a written
permit therefor. (Ord. 41, 1-19-1978; amd. Ord. 41B, 8-7-2024)
7-1-10: TAMPERING OR OBSTRUCTING:
No person, except a firefighter in the performance of his duty, shall open or
in any way tamper with any fire hydrant connected with the water system unless
permission first be obtained from the Public Works Supervisor and it is an
authorized meter location. No person shall place upon or about any water gate
connected with the water system any material substance whatsoever which will
prevent access at all times to such hydrant or gate and no vehicle shall be
allowed to stand within eight feet (8') of such hydrant. The use of a private
hose in time of or during an alarm of fire is unlawful and is strictly
prohibited unless for protection of property. (Ord. 41, 1-19-1978; amd. Ord.
41B, 8-7-2024)
7-1-11: WASTE OF WATER:
It shall be unlawful for any person to permit water to run or waste; all
outlets must be kept closed except during the time which water is being drawn
for necessary use. (Ord. 41, 1-19-1978; amd. 2019 Code; Ord. 41B, 8-7-2024)
7-1-12: CONTAMINATION:
No person shall contaminate or befoul any reservoir, stream or watershed,
spring, or other source from which the supply of water for the City is
obtained, nor any pipe, fountain or any other device forming a part of the City
water system. (Ord. 41, 1-19-1978; amd. Ord. 41B, 8-7-2024)
7-1-13: WATER FLOWING UPON STREETS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to allow any water to flow into or upon any
public thoroughfare. (Ord. 41, 1-19-1978; amd. Ord. 41B, 8-7-2024)
7-1-14: PENALTY:
Any violation of any provision of this chapter shall be an offense against the
City and the penalty, upon conviction, shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00).
Each day of a continuing offense shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 41,
1-19-1978; amd. Ord. 41B, 8-7-2024)
CHAPTER 2
WATER RESTRICTIONS
SECTION:
7-2-1: Purpose
7-2-2: Applicability
7-2-3: Definitions
7-2-4: Authority During Emergency
7-2-5: Reporting; System Of Rationing
7-2-6: Notice And Publication
7-2-7: Action By Council
7-2-8: Violation; Penalty
7-2-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is:
   A.   The protection of the City's water system from damage in times of
emergency;
   B.   The redirecting of the City's water resources to the highest priority
uses in times of emergency;
   C.   The establishment of priority uses in times when the demand for water
service exceeds the capacity of the system to deliver water to the users served
by the system; and
   D.   To grant authority to the Mayor or, if unavailable, the President of
the Council, to establish an orderly system to ration or limit the delivery of
water to users in the event of emergency or inability of the system to supply
the expected demand for water.
(Ord. 96, 6-13-2001; amd. Ord. 41B, 8-7-2024)
7-2-2: APPLICABILITY:
Any customer purchasing water from the City by written agreement, in addition
to its duties under its contract with the City, shall be subject to the
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 96, 6-13-2001; amd. Ord. 41B, 8-7-2024)
7-2-3: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the following
meanings unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
EMERGENCY: An unexpected event not routinely occurring in the course of the
operation of the system resulting from damage to or failure of the system, or
some part thereof, or a users system attached thereto and supplied by the
system or an event in the area surrounding the system that either causes damage
to or contamination of the system or threatens such damage or contamination. Or
an event that requires a major portion of the water delivery capacity of the
system be diverted and applied to the protection of persons or property against
an event damaging or threatening damage to the health and welfare of persons or
property served by the system.
SHORTAGE: Any circumstances resulting in the actual or reasonably expected
demand for water exceeding the capacity for the system to deliver water to the
users and maintain sufficient reserves for the public health and safety of
persons and/or property served by the system. (Ord. 96, 6-13-2001; amd. Ord.
41B, 8-7-2024)
7-2-4: AUTHORITY DURING EMERGENCY:
   A.   Specified: The Public Works Supervisor and/or Mayor may, without prior
notice, immediately take such action as is necessary to:
      1.   Protect the system from further damage or harm; and/or
      2.   Prevent the system from causing damage or harm to persons or
property; and/or
      3.   Limit and direct the system's capacity to deliver water both in
sufficient quantity and at sufficient pressure to any portion of the system as
they deem necessary to protect persons or property from events threatening
their health and safety.
      In the exercise of this authority, it shall be recognized that protecting
the integrity of the system from damage or destruction is of primary importance
to enable the City to continue, with minimal disruption, the delivery of water
to the users as is necessary for the protection of the health and public safety
of the persons or property within City and served by the system.
   B.   Shutting Off Service: This authority shall include the authority to
summarily, without prior notice, shut off service to all or any portion of the
system or any user without prior notice as they shall deem necessary or
redirect the capacity of the system to deliver water to avoid or minimize the
anticipated or occurring damage or hazard to the system and/or persons or
property in the service area or the loss or waste of water.
   C.   Report Of Action: The person exercising this emergency authorization
shall as promptly as reasonably possible report these events and the action
taken to the Mayor, President of the Council or Public Works Supervisor, who
shall report such to the Council at the next regular or special meeting of the
Council. (Ord. 96, 6-13-2001; amd. Ord. 41B, 8-7-2024)
7-2-5: REPORTING; SYSTEM OF RATIONING:
   A.   Report: In the event of a shortage or anticipated shortage of water,
the Public Works Supervisor shall report the shortage or anticipated shortage
to the Mayor, or if he be unavailable, the Council, who is empowered to
establish a system of rationing or limiting the delivery of water to the users.
   B.   Priority: In establishing such system of rationing, priority shall be
given to the use of water for the following purposes stated in order of
descending priority:
      1.   Sufficient reserves for emergency uses and emergency facility (i.e.,
firefighting, fire stations, hospitals, nursing homes, etc.).
      2.   Residential inside building use and residential outside potable and
sanitary uses.
      3.   Commercial inside building use and commercial outside for potable
and sanitary uses; and industrial inside building use and industrial outside
potable and sanitary use.
      4.   Commercial outside nonportable and no sanitary uses and residential
outside nonportable and no sanitary use.
      5.   Industrial outside nonportable and no sanitary uses.
   C.   Special Agreements, Contracts: Additionally, where consumers are
purchasing water pursuant to special written agreement with the City that
provide for reduction of delivery to the customers, these contract provisions
may be an additional criteria for consideration.
   D.   Restrictions Or Limitations: The system of rationing may either
restrict or limit lower priority uses in favor of higher priority uses, or
rationing may be applied to more than one class of users to permit continued
but reduced usage for several levels of priority uses. Any rationing system may
provide that a class of use may be restricted to use on certain days of the
week, times of the day, or quantities of water as may be determined to be fair
and equitable and in consideration of the use priorities herein established.
   E.   Diameter Of Service Connection: Because of the potential for larger
diameter service connections to draw a disproportionate quantity of water from
the system, each diameter size of service connection shall constitute a
separate class of service connection and the larger service connections may be
shut off or otherwise restricted to limit or stop the flow of water to ensure
adequate quantity and pressure is maintained to users with smaller diameter
connections applying the water to uses of an equal or higher priority.
(Ord. 96, 6-13-2001; amd. Ord. 41B, 8-7-2024)
7-2-6: NOTICE AND PUBLICATION:
   A.   Notice: Notice of the system for limitation or rationing of service
shall be given as follows:
      1.   If the restriction affects less than twelve (12) service
connections, oral notice shall be followed by written notice hand delivered or
mailed to the person or organization shown by the City's billing records as
responsible for payment for the service within forty-eight (48) hours.
      2.   Restrictions applicable to more than twelve (12) users or if twelve
(12) or less users and when actual notice is not practical, shall be published
in the following manner:
         a.   Notice given not less than twice per day for not less than one
week on the commercial radio station operated in Boundary County, Idaho; and
         b.   Publication in the official newspaper of Boundary County, Idaho,
once a week for three (3) consecutive weeks; and
         c.   Posting in a public location at the Moyie Springs City Hall.
   B.   Expiration: No posting or notice shall be required to continue beyond
the termination of the rationing. (Ord. 96, 6-13-2001; amd. Ord. 41B, 8-7-2024)
7-2-7: ACTION BY COUNCIL:
The Mayor or President of the Council establishing a system to allocate water
in times of shortage shall report such action to the Council at its next
special or regular meeting. After considering the facts, the Council shall, by
resolution, take action either terminating the rationing system, continue the
rationing system as established or continue the rationing system with
modification to the policy as established by the Mayor or President of the City
Council. Failure of the Council to take such action shall result in automatic
termination of the rationing system as established by the Mayor or President of
the Council. A modification or termination by vote or inaction of the Council
shall not bar the Mayor or President of the Council, upon a finding of
additional facts and circumstances, from again exercising their authority to
again establish a system of rationing following such meeting of the Council.
(Ord. 96, 6-13-2001; amd. Ord. 41B, 8-7-2024)
7-2-8: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
A violation of a system of water rationing in time of shortage as declared
under the authority of this chapter will constitute a misdemeanor and
punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code, and the Public Works Supervisor and/or the Mayor may direct
service be immediately terminated or restricted to the user through its service
outlet where the violation occurs. A user whose service has been so terminated
or restricted shall not have service restored until he comes before the
Council, who shall hear the facts as to why service was terminated and what the
customer's defense to the accusation is. The Council may continue the
termination or restore service upon such terms and conditions as they deem
appropriate, including: Reimbursement to the City for shutoff and reconnect
fees and costs;
   A.   Requirements to provide, at customers' expense, assurance against
further violations, including, but not limited to:
      1.   Posting of a bond;
      2.   Installation, at customer's expense, of equipment to restrict or
shutoff and lock out service or downsize the service connection to the
customer. (Ord. 96, 6-13-2001; amd. 2019 Code; Ord. 41B, 8-7-2024)
CHAPTER 3
SEWER SYSTEM AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
7-3-1: Sewer Department Established
7-3-2: Definitions
7-3-3: Connection Required; Notice; Fee
7-3-4: Permit Required
7-3-5: Application For Permit; Inspection; Fee
7-3-6: Usage Rates And Charges
7-3-7: Private Sewer Systems; Connection To Public System
7-3-8: Privies Prohibited
7-3-9: Excavations
7-3-10: Unlawful Discharges
7-3-11: Property Damage
7-3-1: SEWER DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED:
A Sewer Department is hereby established. The officers and other employees
shall consist of a Public Works Supervisor and such other personnel as the City
Council may from tine to time deem necessary for the efficient administration
of the Sewer Department. (Ord. 12, 2-1971; amd. Ord. 12B, 8-7-2024)
7-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the following
meanings unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
BUILDING SEWER: The extension from the public sewer to the building drainage
system.
CLERK: The City Clerk.
DOMESTIC WATER OR DOMESTIC WATER SYSTEM: That water, or water system in which
it is carried, which is for human consumption and normal household and business
or industrial uses provided by the Water Department of the City, either
directly or through other distributing facilities owned or controlled by any
person.
PRIVATE SEWER: Shall be construed to mean the sewer line and disposal system
constructed, installed or maintained where connection with the public sewer is
not required herein.
PUBLIC SEWER: A sewage transporting and disposal system owned or controlled by
the City of Moyie Springs.
SEWAGE: A combination of the water carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions and industrial establishments, which wastes contain
polluted matter subject to treatment at the sewage treatment plant.
SEWER LATERAL: The connection line running from the City's sewer main line to
the private structure or residence.
SUPERVISOR: The Public Works Supervisor of the City, or his authorized deputy
or representative. (Ord. 12, 2-1971; amd. Ord. 12B, 8-7-2024)
7-3-3: CONNECTION REQUIRED; NOTICE; FEE:
To promote the health and safety of the public and residents of the City, it is
necessary to develop and extend the sewage disposal system and service to the
residences and businesses within the City, is provided as follows:
   A.   Connection Required; Measuring: Each dwelling and business situated on
property, the boundary of which is not more than two hundred feet (200') from
the City's sewage collection line as the system is now situated, or may
hereafter be extended, shall be connected to and served by the City's sewage
collection and disposal system. Distance shall be as measured across the
nearest and most accessible sewer line right-of-way to the boundary.
   B.   Connection Fee: The owner shall pay a fee as established by the City to
the City Clerk for each single-family unit or equivalent unit for the right to
connect to the sewer system. The property owner shall bring their service line
to the City sewer main at their own expense and pay the cost of connection in
addition to the connection fee.
   C.   The Responsibility for Individual Sewer Laterals: The property owner is
responsible for maintenance and replacement as necessary for the private sewer
lateral that connects a dwelling or business to the connection (tee) at the
public sewer main including any necessary maintenance and/or replacement within
the public right of way and public utility easements. Any work within the
public right of way or public utility easements must be approved by the City's
Public Works Supervisor prior to the commencement of work
   D.   Payment Required Prior To Issuance Of Building Permit: No building
permit for the construction or modifications of any structure will be issued
for any structure within two hundred feet (200') of the City's sewage
collection line as defined in subsection A of this section without first paying
for a sewer hookup fee, unless the structure is already served by the City
sewer system and the modification is not one which will increase the
structure's occupancy or requirement for sewage disposal. Existing structures
within the area presently served or where the collection lines are extended to
a point where the property boundaries are within two hundred feet (200') of the
City's sewage collection lines (as measured in subsection A of this section)
and which are served with a private sewage disposal system, shall be required
to connect to the City's sewer system within thirty-six (36) months of written
notification that the system is within two hundred feet (200') of their
property boundaries. The property owner shall pay not less than one-third (1/3)
of the connection fee each fiscal year or part thereof after notice is given
and shall connect to the system and discontinue use of the private sewage
disposal system within thirty (30) days of full payment. All of which shall be
completed within the time above stated.
   E.   Connection By City; Lien For Costs: Failure to comply by timely payment
and connection to the City's sewer system, the City may cause the connection to
be completed and assess all costs and the hookup fee against the property as
provided in section
7-1-14 of this title, which shall constitute a lien upon the property and
collected in the manner provided by law. (Ord. 83, 6-17-1998; amd. 2019 Code;
Ord. 12B, 8-7-2024)
7-3-4: PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   Public Sewer: It shall be unlawful for any person to uncover, make any
connection with or opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer
without first obtaining a written permit from the Clerk. It shall be unlawful
for any person to open, alter, or disturb the streets or alleys of the City for
the purpose of making connection with the public sewer system, without first
obtaining a written permit therefor.
   B.   Private Systems; Building Sewer: It shall be unlawful for any person to
construct nor commence the construction of a private sewer or private sewage
disposable system without first obtaining a written permit from the Panhandle
Health District. It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, extend,
relay, or connect a building sewer without first obtaining a written permit
therefor. (Ord. 12, 2-1971; amd. Ord. 12B, 8-7-2024)
7-3-5: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT; INSPECTION; FEE:
   A.   Application; Fee: An application for any permit shall be made on a form
furnished by the City, which the applicant shall supplement with such plans,
specifications and other information as deemed necessary by the Public Works
Supervisor. A permit and inspection fee shall be paid to the Clerk at the time
the application is filed. No permit shall become effective until after the
Public Works Supervisor has inspected and approved the construction or
installation as completed before any underground portions are covered.
Inspection and approval or disapproval shall be made by the Public Works
Supervisor within forty-eight (48) hours after receipt of notice by him.
   B.   Inspections: The Public Works Supervisor shall have free access at
proper hours to all buildings or premises served by the sewerage system for the
purpose of inspecting the pipes and fixtures, and the manner in which the
provisions of this chapter are being complied with. (Ord. 12, 2-1971; amd. 2019
Code; Ord. 12B, 8-7-2024)
7-3-6: USAGE RATES AND CHARGES:
   A.   Schedule: The charges for public sewer service shall be upon a schedule
of rates to be determined and fixed by the Public Works Supervisor and approved
by the City Council.
   B.   Vacant, Unoccupied Premises: There shall be no credit for vacant or
unoccupied premises as to public sewer service.
   C.   Public Buildings And Parks: The City shall pay to the Sewer Department
from the current expense fundthe following:
      1.   For all sewer service used in public buildings and parks, an amount
figured at regular rates for each service installed.
   D.   Payable: All charges for sewerage service shall be due and payable at
the Office of the Clerk on or before the tenth day of each month, and shall
become delinquent after the fifteenth day. Sewerage bills shall cover periods
of one month. All payments and collections for sewerage service shall be paid
into the Sewer Revenue Fund.
   E.   Lien For Nonpayment: All unpaid charges for sewer connections and
service, and all service charges, provided in this chapter, or as may be
amended hereafter, together with penalties and interest thereon, shall be a
lien upon the property with which such connections are made or to which such
sewerage service is rendered, superior to all other liens and encumbrances
whatsoever, except for general taxes and local special assessments. Enforcement
of such lien or liens shall be in the manner provided by law.
   F.   Discontinuance Of Water Services: As an additional and concurrent
method of enforcing the lien of said City for sewerage charges, the Public
Works Supervisor is hereby authorized and directed at the end of sixty (60)
days after the date of first delinquency of any of such charges in the case of
sewerage charges to cut off the water services from the premises where such
services are provided until such time as all such charges, plus penalties have
been paid. (Ord. 12, 2-1971; amd. 2019 Code; Ord. 12B, 8-7-2024)
7-3-7: PRIVATE SEWER SYSTEMS; CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SYSTEM:
Where a public sewer line is not available under the provisions hereinabove
mentioned, a private sewer and sewage disposal system shall be constructed,
connected and maintained.
   A.   Compliance With State Requirements: The type, capacities, location and
layout of a private sewage system shall comply with all recommendations and
regulations of the Department of Public Health of the State of Idaho. No septic
tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any public sewer or natural
outlet, or to ground surface. The owner shall operate and maintain the private
sewage disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to
the City.
   B.   Availability Of Public Sewer: Whenever a public sewer becomes available
to a lot or parcel of land served by a private sewage disposal system, a direct
connection shall be made to the public sewage disposal system in compliance
with this chapter, and, any septic tanks, cesspools, and similar private sewage
disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material.
   C.   Separate, Independent Line: A separate and independent building sewer
line shall be provided for each building for connection with the public sewer
system; provided, that where feasible, this requirement may be waived upon
submission of alternate plans approved by and thereafter constructed under the
supervision of the Public Works Supervisor.
   D.   Construction; Installation: All connections and building sewer lines
connected with the public sewer system shall be constructed, installed and
connected in such a manner as to ensure a permanent and sanitary sewer
watertight throughout. The pipe used in the installation thereof shall be equal
in quality to the pipe used in the general sewer system, and not less than four
inches (4") in diameter. The joining compound, where mechanical joints are not
used, shall be equal in quality to that used in the general or public sewer
system. Where mechanical joints are used, they shall be of such construction
that an absolutely tight joint is ensured. The building sewer shall be
sufficient to carry all sewage into the general sewer system, and each toilet,
sink, stationary wash stand, and every other piece or type of equipment or
facility having waste fluids or sewage shall be connected therewith. The slope
of the building sewer shall be subject to the approval of the Public Works
Supervisor; the pipe in the building sewer where applicable shall be laid so
that the flow line therein will be at a depth of not less than thirty inches
(30") from the surface of the ground. All connections with the public sewer
system shall be made where wyes have been provided or by approved tapping
saddles installed by qualified personnel where wyes are not present or cannot
be located. (Ord. 12, 2-1971; amd. Ord. 12B, 8-7-2024)
7-3-8: PRIVIES PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic
tank, cesspool or other facility intended or used for the disposal of sewage,
except as herein provided; however commercial, rented and maintained portable
potties are permitted for temporary use. (Ord. 12, 2-1971; amd. 2019 Code; Ord.
12B, 8-7-2024)
7-3-9: EXCAVATIONS:
All excavations for building sewer installations shall be properly safeguarded
with lights and barricades so that the same may not be a menace to public
safety. All streets, sidewalks, alleys, parkways and other public property
disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory
to the City. (Ord. 12, 2-1971; amd. Ord. 12B, 8-7-2024)
7-3-10: UNLAWFUL DISCHARGES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge or cause to be discharged into
the public sewer system any flammable or explosive liquid, solid or gas, any
garbage not properly shredded, any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, oil, grease,
straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar, plastics, wood or any other
solid or viscous substance capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers
or other interference with the proper operation of the sewage treatment plant;
provided, that waste fluids containing minute portions of commercial petroleum
oils may be discharged into the public sewer system after the installation of a
grease trap inspected and approved by the Public Works Supervisor. (Ord. 12, 2-
1971; amd. Ord. 12B, 8-7-2024)
7-3-11: PROPERTY DAMAGE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to maliciously, willfully or negligently
break, damage, destroy, uncover or tamper with any structure, appurtenances or
equipment which is a part of the public sewer and sewage disposal system. (Ord.
12, 2-1971; amd. Ord. 12B, 8-7-2024)
CHAPTER 4
LIEN FOR DELINQUENT WATER, SEWER FEES
SECTION:
7-4-1: Scope
7-4-2: Transfer Of Ownership; Satisfaction Of Unpaid Fees
7-4-3: Certification Of Current Fees And Assessments
7-4-4: Notice To Interested Persons
7-4-1: SCOPE:
All property within the corporate limits of the City be and are hereby subject
to a lien for the payment of all fees and assessments due and payable by reason
of water and sewer service provided, or available to the property in accordance
with the rules, regulations and ordinances of the City. (Ord. 85; amd. Ord.
12B, 8-7-2024; Ord. 41B, 8-7-2024)
7-4-2: TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP; SATISFACTION OF UNPAID FEES:
Upon the transfer of ownership of the property, water and sewer service will
not be provided to a new owner or occupant thereof without satisfaction of any
unpaid fees or assessments for such service available or provided to the
property prior to such transfer. (Ord. 85; amd. Ord. 12B, 8-7-2024; Ord. 41B,
8-7-2024)
7-4-3: CERTIFICATION OF CURRENT FEES AND ASSESSMENTS:
The City Clerk is authorized, upon request made by any interested person when
all water and sewer fees and assessments are current, to provide certification
of such. The City will be bound by such certification to any good faith
transferee for value, title insurance company or closing agent, which, in good
faith, relied on said certification. (Ord. 85; amd. Ord. 12B, 8-7-2024; Ord.
41B, 8-7-2024)
7-4-4: NOTICE TO INTERESTED PERSONS:
A true and correct copy of this chapter shall be recorded by the Clerk in the
records of Boundary County and shall thereby serve as notice to all interested
persons of the City's claim of lien. (Ord. 85; amd. Ord. 12B, 8-7-2024; Ord.
41B, 8-7-2024)
TITLE 8
LAND USE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
8-1-1: Title
8-1-2: Zoning Map Adopted
8-1-3: Existing Acts Not Repealed
8-1-4: Application Held To Minimum Requirements
8-1-5: Penalty
8-1-1: TITLE:
This title shall be known as the ZONING ACT OF THE CITY OF MOYIE SPRINGS. (Ord.
19, 12-5-1973; amd. Ord. 19B, 8-7-2024)
8-1-2: ZONING MAP ADOPTED:
This title shall consist of the text hereof, as well as that certain map
identified by the approving signatures of the City Council, marked and
designated as “Map of the Zoning Act,” which said map is now on file in the
Office of the Clerk. Said map has been heretofore examined in detail by the
City Council and is hereby adopted as a part of this title, but this title and
said map shall be subject to change from time to time as may be determined by
the City Council by amendment of this title. (Ord. 19, 12-5-1973; amd. Ord.
19B, 8-7-2024)
8-1-3: EXISTING ACTS NOT REPEALED:
The Mayor and City Council hereby declare that it is their intention that this
title does not repeal any existing act or acts in regard to fire limits,
sanitation or otherwise. (Ord. 19, 12-5-1973; amd. Ord. 19B, 8-7-2024)
8-1-4: APPLICATION HELD TO MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS:
In interpreting and applying the provisions of this title, the provisions
hereof shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted by the City Council
for the promotion of the health, safety, morals, comfort and convenience of
residents of the City, and to promote the general welfare. (Ord. 19, 12-5-1973;
amd. Ord. 19B, 8-7-2024)
8-1-5: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provision of this title shall be punished as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (2019 Code; amd. Ord. 19B, 8-7-2024)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
8-2-1: Definitions
8-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
Words not defined herein shall be given the meaning ordinarily applied to such
words as used herein.
ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT: A smaller, secondary dwelling, structure, residence on
the same lot or parcel as the primary dwelling that is independently habitable
and provides the basic requirements of a residential shelter, including
heating, cooking, and sanitation.
ACCESSORY USE OR BUILDING: A subordinate use or building customarily incidental
to and located upon the same lot occupied by the main building or utilized for
the main purpose.
ALLEY: A street or way shown on the official plat of the City or its additions
and designated thereon as an alley.
APARTMENT HOUSE: A building or portion thereof used or intended to be used as
the home of three (3) or more families or households living independently of
each other.
BOARDING HOUSE: A house where lodgers rent one (1) or more rooms for a nightly
basis and sometimes for extended periods of time.
BUILDING: Any structure designed or intended for the support, enclosure,
shelter or protection of persons, animals, chattels, storage of property of any
kind.
COMMISSION: Whenever the words "commission", "Planning Commission", and
"Planning and Zoning Commission" are used in this Code, they shall be deemed to
refer to the City Council, as applicable, unless otherwise provided by Idaho
Code.
DUPLEX: A building arranged or designed to be occupied by two (2) families.
DWELLING: A structure design for human occupancy.
ESTABLISHED GRADE: The sidewalk line grade at the front lot line as established
by the City Council or as given and established by the engineer or Public Works
Supervisor under the direction of the Council.
FAMILY: Any number of individuals living together as a single housekeeping
unit.
FRONT PROPERTY LINE: The front property line shall be the front lot line as
shown upon the official plat of the property in question.
FRONT YARD: Any open unoccupied space on the same lot with a building between
the front line of the building (exclusive of steps) and the front property
line.
HEIGHT OF STRUCTURE: The height of a building is the vertical distance of the
center of a building's principal front measured from the established grade to
the highest point of the roof, beams or in case of a flat roof, to the deck
line or mansard, or to the center height between eaves and ridges for gables,
hip or gambrel roof line. The height may be measured from the average elevation
of the finished sidewalk grade along the front of the building.
HUMAN OCCUPANCY: Use of a building by people for sleeping, cooking, bathing,
and or using sanitary facilities.
LOTS: Land occupied or to be occupied by a building and its accessory
buildings, including such open spaces as are required under this title and
having a street or alley where not appearing on any dedicated plat by a number.
But where appearing on a dedicated official plat by a number, a lot shall mean
the area and surface as shown on said plat and given a prescribed number,
excepting whereby any lot is subdivided and occupied by separate buildings or
units, then the term "lot" shall include each subdivision of the dedicated lot.
OUTBUILDING: A subordinate building detached from, but located on, the same lot
as the principal building, the use of which is incidental and accessory to that
of the main building or use. Outbuildings or sheds are not allowed for the
purpose of human occupancy.
PUBLIC GARAGES: Any premises used for the storage or use of more than three (3)
motor vehicles, or where such vehicles are repaired or kept for hire, use or
sale.
REAR YARD: An open unoccupied space on the same lot with a building between the
rear line of the building and rear line of the lot.
RESIDENCE: A person's home.
SETBACK: The space on a lot required to be left open and unoccupied by
buildings and structures, either by the front, side, or rear yard requirements
of the ordinance or by delineation on a recorded subdivision map. (measures
from the property line to the closest part of the structure).
SIDE YARD: An open unoccupied space on the same lot with the building between
the side wall line of the buildings and side lines of the same lot.
SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING: A building arranged or designed to be occupied by not
more than one family.
STORY: That portion of a building included between the surface of any floor and
the surface of the floor next above it, or if there be no floor above it, then
the surface between such floor and the ceiling next above.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires a
permanent location on the ground or attachment to something having a fixed
location on the ground. This includes portable sheds. (Ord. 19, 12-5-1973; amd.
Ord. 19B, 8-7-2024)
CHAPTER 3
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
SECTION:
8-3-1: Duties
8-3-2: Maps, Plats And Replats
8-3-3: Employees And Expenditures
8-3-4: Acquisition And Disposition Of Property
8-3-5: Authority To Cooperate With Other Commissions
8-3-1: DUTIES:
It shall be the duty of the commission to recommend and make suggestions to the
City Council for the adoption of coordinated plans for the physical development
of the City, for recommending the formation of zoning districts; to make
suggestions concerning the laying out, widening, extending and location of
streets, roads and highways for the relief of traffic; to make suggestions
concerning density of population and development of land; to make suggestions
concerning the future growth, development and beautification of said City in
respect to its public buildings, streets, parks, grounds and lands in order to
promote the public health, morals, safety and welfare of the inhabitants of
said City; to give suggestions and advice to individual citizens concerning
landscaping and location of buildings, structure of works to be erected,
constructed or altered by or for such individuals. (Ord. 19, 12-5-1973; amd.
Ord. 19B, 8-7-2024)
8-3-2: MAPS, PLATS AND REPLATS:
Any and all maps, plats and replats of lands which require the approval of the
City Council or of any officer or employee shall first be submitted to the
commission for its suggestions and the commission shall have a reasonable time
to be fixed by the Council within which to examine such maps, plats or replats
before returning the same with its suggestions. (Ord. 19, 12-5-1973; amd. Ord.
19B, 8-7-2024)
8-3-3: EMPLOYEES AND EXPENDITURES:
Any expenditures of the commission, exclusive of gifts, shall be within the
amounts appropriated and set aside by the City Council for the purposes of the
commission as set forth in this title. Within such limits, the commission is
authorized to employ such employees and technical advisors as it deems
necessary for the accomplishment of its authorized purposes and work. (Ord. 19,
12-5-1973; amd. Ord. 19B, 8-7-2024)
8-3-4: ACQUISITION AND DISPOSITION OF PROPERTY:
The commission is authorized to acquire by gift, devise or bequest lands or
other property to carry out the purposes of this title and shall likewise have
power to sell or to otherwise dispose of property so acquired. (Ord. 19, 12-5-
1973; amd. Ord. 19B, 8-7-2024)
8-3-5: AUTHORITY TO COOPERATE WITH OTHER COMMISSIONS:
The Planning and Zoning Commission is hereby granted full authority to
cooperate with any Planning or Zoning Commission formed or to be formed for
Boundary County and any other municipal or quasi-municipal corporation, and to
join with such Planning or Zoning Commission in the setting up or establishing
such coordinating commission or overall commissions as the two (2) Planning
Commissions may determine. (Ord. 19, 12-5-1973; amd. Ord. 19B, 8-7-2024)
CHAPTER 4
BUILDING CODES AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-4-1: Codes Adopted
8-4-1: CODES ADOPTED:
In accordance with Idaho Code section 50-901, the City adopts the nationally
recognized codes as are adopted and may be amended by the State or such
nationally recognized institutions, such as, but not limited to, those
establishing rules and regulations for the construction, alteration or repair
of buildings, the installation of plumbing, the installation of electric wiring
and gas piping installations. Amendments to such codes, as adopted and enforced
by the State, shall become effective by the City. (2019 Code; amd. Ord. 19B, 8-
7-2024)
CHAPTER 5
ZONING DISTRICTS
SECTION:
8-5-1: Zoning Districts Established
8-5-2: Boundaries Established On Zoning Map
8-5-1: ZONING DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED:
For the purpose of this title, the City shall be and is divided into zoning
districts as follows; and it shall be unlawful to construct, erect, build or
move upon land within a zoning district, a building not conforming to the
hereinafter described regulations of the district.
   Residence A Zone
   Suburban B Zone
   Commercial C Zone
   Industrial D Zone
(Ord. 19, 12-5-1973; amd. Ord. 19B, 8-7-2024)
8-5-2: BOUNDARIES ESTABLISHED ON ZONING MAP:
The boundaries of the zones as designated by this chapter shall be established
by indicating said boundaries upon the "Map of the Zoning Act" as adopted in
this title; provided, that such established boundaries shall be first approved
by the City Council and Mayor, and after a public hearing is held. (Ord. 19,
12-5-1973; amd. Ord. 19B, 8-7-2024)
ARTICLE A. RESIDENCE A ZONE
SECTION:
8-5A-1: Uses Permitted
8-5A-2: Accessory Dwelling Units (ADUs)
8-5A-3: Setbacks And Height Regulations
8-5A-1: USES PERMITTED:
In the Residence A Zone no building or premises shall be used or occupied or
hereafter be erected, or structurally altered except for the following uses
herein otherwise provided: (Additional Residential Dwellings may be considered
by special use permit, and must be approved by the City Council):
   Billboards, sign board. Billboards and sign board may be erected in Zone A
only by special permit of the Planning and Zoning Commission and there is filed
in the Office of the Clerk the consent of the owners of at least seventy five
percent (75%) of the frontage of the property on both sides of the street for a
distance of three hundred feet (300') each way from the proposed board.
   Boarding houses.
   Camp Trailers and RV's can be occupied by visitors for a maximum of two
weeks without prior Council approval unless in an authorized RV Park. No
Campers or RV's can be occupied in an enclosed structure.
   Daycare
   Duplex - One per lot
   Dwellings, including manufactured homes.
   Fire station.
   Greenhouse.
   Home occupation. Offices of professional persons and customarily home
occupants, if carried on in a part of the residence building, and which occupy
not over fifty percent (50%) of such residence building, and which activity is
clearly incidental to the use of said residence as a dwelling and does not
change the residential character thereof, is conducted in such a manner as to
not give any outward appearance of a business in the ordinary meaning of the
term, and does not infringe upon the right of neighboring residents to enjoy a
peaceful occupancy of their homes.
   Isolated private garage. Private garage for use of occupants of a building
or buildings on the same premises, may be built upon lots isolated or detached
from the dwelling or apartment house.
   Libraries.
   Livestock. No livestock shall be raised in the A Zone, except rabbits and
poultry (excluding roosters) may be maintained in buildings or enclosures when
approved by the City and when the facilities for operating any such animals
meet the approval of the City and does not cause offensive odors or noise or
disturbances to people in the neighborhood.
   Museums.
   Outbuildings. Shed for tools, accessory to and used in connection with the
residence building or other building allowed in the A Zone.
   Parks.
   Playgrounds.
   Retail shops, if built in residence style by a special permit of the
Planning and Zoning Commission after a public hearing.
   Storage for trucks, cars, building material and contractors' equipment shall
not be permitted within the A Zone unless stored within a building or stored or
piled for actual construction purposes then going on or about to be initiated.
   Swimming pools.
   Truck gardening.
(Ord. 19, 12-5-1973; amd. 2019 Code; Ord. 19B, 8-7-2024)
8-5A-2: ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS (ADUs):
   A.   Purpose: To provide an additional, affordable housing option that meets
changing family and community needs while keeping the character of the single-
family developments by setting minimum and maximum standards.
   B.   Eligibility: An accessory dwelling unit (ADU) is permitted in all the
zoning districts.
   C.   Density: One ADU is permitted per parcel or lot. Construction or
placement may occur before, during, or after construction of the primary
dwelling.
   D.   Design: ADUs may be attached to the primary dwelling or detached, new
construction or conversion of an existing structure and shall meet the
following standards:
      1.   Maximum size of the accessory dwelling unit square footage on the
lot or parcel shall not exceed one thousand (1,000) square feet living,
sleeping, eating or cooking, but exclude garages, decks, covered porches, and
utility spaces.
      2.   A minimum livable floor space of not less than five hundred (500)
square feet is required for all ADUs.
      3.   Provisions for adequate additional on-site parking space dedicated
for the ADU.
      4.   Approved building permit demonstrating construction or modification
complies with applicable building and fire codes.
      5.   No Camp Trailers or RV's or Sheds will be allowed as an ADU.
      6.   Confirmation from the respective agency or department that the
existing utilities are adequate to accommodate the future ADU.
      7.   Occupancy and use shall be the same standards as those applied to
primary dwelling unit.
      8.   Compliance with setback, height, and lot coverage of the respective
zoning district. (Ord. 19B, 8-7-2024)
8-5A-3: SETBACKS AND HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
   A.   Front Setback: In Residence A Zone, every building hereafter erected or
structurally altered shall have a setback of at least twenty feet (20') from
the street property line on which the building fronts; provided however, that
in each block in which fifty percent (50%) or more of the lots on the same side
of the street have been built upon in conformity with a fairly even and
determinable front building line of less than twenty feet (20') from the street
line, all buildings thereafter erected, established or rebuilt may be in
conformity with said front building line as shown by fifty percent (50%) of the
buildings erected on any such lots. In determining whether or not a front
building line has been determined or established, the fair intents and purposes
shall be considered and minor irregularities ignored and where any dispute
arises in the determining of any such front building line, the determination of
the Planning and Zoning Commission shall be final. No part of the building
excepting unenclosed and unroofed porches not to exceed four feet (4') above
the established grade shall extend in front of the setback line.
   B.   Side Yards:
      1.   Houses: In Residence A Zone, every building hereafter erected or
structurally altered shall have a side yard of not less than five feet (5') in
the case of single-family houses and double houses.
      2.   Apartments: Apartment houses, wherever erected or established as
such, shall have a side yard of not less than one-fourth (1/4) of the height of
the building to the eaves or top of coping, or five feet (5') whichever is
greater.
   C.   Distance Separation: In Residence A Zone, structures built on one lot
shall be separated by a distance of not less than one- fourth (1/4) of the
height to the eaves or top of coping and not in any case less than eight feet
(8') for a one-story building, and twelve feet (12') for a two-story building.
   D.   Outbuildings shall be constructed or installed at least five feet (5')
from the line of any lot and back at least twenty feet (20') from the street
front.
   E.   Walls, Obstructions: For the purposes of this title, walls or other
obstructions over four feet (4') in height above the established grade shall be
regarded as a structure.
   F.   Fences, over four feet (4') in height shall require a site permit and
are allowed on the property line.
(Ord. 19, 12-5-1973; Ord. 19B, 8-7-2024)
ARTICLE B. SUBURBAN B ZONE
SECTION:
8-5B-1: Uses Permitted
8-5B-1: USES PERMITTED:
In the Suburban B Zone, all buildings or premises may be used or occupied for
any use permitted in the Residence A Zone and for any of the following uses
only:
Churches
Colleges
Cultivation of land for production of agricultural products.
Fruit raising, agricultural nursery, tree farming and vineyards.
Golf courses.
Keeping of animals. An occupant or resident may keep or maintain primarily for
his own personal use, animals and fowl on the premises of his dwelling as
follows below. Any building housing animals or fowl, yards or runways shall be
not less than twenty-five feet (25') from any dwelling other than the dwelling
of the owner. If any complaints result from noise, odor or other potential
hazards the nuisance code may be enforced:
   A.   Poultry and rabbits for use of occupant of premises.
   B.   On a parcel of land having an area of not less than one (1) acre, two
(2) sheep or two (2) goats, or two (2) miniature animals with young not over
one year of age. Each additional one (1) acre allows for two (2) additional
sheep, goats or miniature animals. 4-H, FFA, and Open market animals raised for
show are allowed short term with City Council approval.
   C.   On a parcel of land having an area of not less than two (2) acres, a
combination of two (2) large animals, with young not over one year of age.
   D.   On a parcel of land having an area of not less than three (3) acres,
four (4) large animals or combination of large animals with young not over one
(1) year of age.
   E.   On a parcel of land having an area of not less than four (4) acres, six
(6) animals or combination of large animals with young not over one (1) year of
age.
   F.   On a parcel of land having an area of five (5) acres or more, eight (8)
animals or a combination of large animals with young not over one (1) year of
age.
   G.   Each additional acre over two (2) acres allows for two (2) additional
large animals.
   H.   The grazing of cattle (including sheep and goats) or horses, or both,
on a parcel of land having an area of not less than ten (10) acres, including
the supplementary feeding of such cattle or horses, or both; provided, that
such grazing is not a part of, nor conducted in conjunction with any dairy,
livestock feed yard, livestock sales yard, or commercial riding academy located
on the same premises. The animals permitted are for the primary use of the
occupant of the premises only.
   I.   Birds kept for rehabilitation or for falconry purposes.
   J.   Any other animal combinations or variables may be considered by the
City Council. (Ord. 19, 12-5-1973; amd. Ord. 19B, 8-7-2024)
ARTICLE C. COMMERCIAL C ZONE
SECTION:
8-5C-1: Uses Permitted
8-5C-1: USES PERMITTED:
In the Commercial C Zone, all buildings or premises may be used or occupied for
any use permitted in the A and B Zones, and for any of the following uses only:
   Automobile salesrooms, automobile repair shops, filling, greasing and
washing stations, laundries, carpenter shops, fruit packing stands, machine
shops, drying and cleaning establishments, paint stores, light manufacturing
which shall not be dangerous or offensive by reason of dust, gas, smoke or
excessive noise, may be permitted in Commercial C Zone only with the permission
of the Planning and Zoning Commission and then under such restrictions and
regulations for their operation as may be determined from time to time by the
City Council.
   Apartment House.
   Armories.
   Automobile gas stations. Filling stations and all stations may be erected
and operated by special permit of the Planning and Zoning Commission after
consent of property owners has been filed as provided in the case of public
garages, and also subject to the same restrictions as public garages as to
location, and if a permit is issued therefor, such building must conform to
residence style architecture, and there shall be no advertising signs for
advertising except of the kind and character permitted in the area by the City
Council.
   Bakeries.
   Billboard and signboards.
   Dairy.
   Dancing academies.
   Duplexes.
   Light manufacturing, which is not dangerous or offensive on account of dust,
gas, smoke or noise, and in cases where the major portion of the product is
sold on the premises to the ultimate consumer.
   Manufactured Home Parks (see Chapter 7).
   Multi-Family Dwellings.
   Newspaper printing plants.
   Office buildings.
   Photograph galleries.
   Places of amusement.
   Printing and bookbinding establishments.
   Public garages/Storage Units. A public garage for storage purposes.
   Restaurants.
   Retail commercial business.
   RV Parks (see Chapter 7).
   Schools.
   Studios.
   Undertaking parlors.
   Wholesale commercial business. (Ord. 19, 12-5-1973; amd. Ord. 19B, 8-7-2024)
ARTICLE D. INDUSTRIAL D ZONE
SECTION:
8-5D-1: Uses Permitted
8-5D-1: USES PERMITTED:
In the Industrial D Zone, all buildings or premises may be used or occupied for
any uses permitted in A, B and C Zones, and for any of the following uses:
   Auto wrecking establishments.
   Courthouse.
   Creameries.
   Flammable liquids in underground storage, for retail use.
   Flour mills.
   Gas plants.
   Gravel Pits.
   Heavy industrial uses.
   Heavy manufacturing.
   Ice plants.
   Iron foundries.
   Lumber yards.
   Planers.
   Poultry and egg industries.
   Public auction or sales yard.
   Railroad yards, stockyards upon hearing and permit granted by Planning and
Zoning Commission.
   Sawmills.
   Wood yards. (Ord. 19, 12-5-1973; amd. Ord. 19B, 8-7-2024)
CHAPTER 6
LAND USE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-6-1: Stands For Sales Of Merchandise
8-6-2: Front, Side And Rear Yard Requirements
8-6-3: Nonconforming Uses
8-6-4: Permits
8-6-5: Special Use Permit
8-6-6: Appeals
8-6-7: Alteration Of Setback Lines
8-6-8: Existing Agreements Not Altered
8-6-9: Existing Construction Not Affected
8-6-10: Violations
8-6-11: Change Of Use Requires A Permit
8-6-12: Manufactured Homes
8-6-13: Variances
8-6-1: STANDS FOR SALES OF MERCHANDISE:
Stands for the sale of merchandise or produce are prohibited without a permit
from the City Council. (Ord. 19, 12-5-1973; amd. Ord. 19B, 8-7-2024)
8-6-2: FRONT, SIDE AND REAR YARD REQUIREMENTS:
Dwellings herein erected in Zones B, C, and D shall have the same front, side
and rear yard requirements as those required for dwellings in Zone A. (Ord. 19,
12-5-1973; amd. Ord. 19B, 8-7-2024)
8-6-3: NONCONFORMING USES:
A present nonconforming use or occupancy at variance with the provisions of
this title may be continued, but the nonconforming use or occupancy shall not
be extended excepting with the approval of the City Council; provided, however,
that a nonconforming use or occupancy at the time of the passage and taking
effect of this title may not be reconstructed or structurally altered to an
extent exceeding an aggregate cost of fifty percent (50%) of the value of which
such building is assessed on the records in the Office of the County Assessor,
unless such building is changed to conform to the provisions of this title
relating to the zone in which such building is located. A nonconforming
occupancy or use may not be changed unless changed to a higher use. Unless
herein otherwise provided, nothing in this title shall require the change of
any building now constructed. Provided, however, any wrecking yard, other
junkyard or yard, or any nonconforming building with an assessed valuation of
less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) in existence for one year after
the date of this chapter shall be prohibited and unlawful for use and shall be
discontinued. (Ord. 19, 12-5-1973; amd. Ord. 19B, 8-7-2024)
8-6-4: PERMITS:
   A.   Required: A permit must be issued for the construction, alteration,
repair, of any structure, or any part thereof, as provided in this title, or as
restricted thereby. Fences over four feet (4') in height shall require a site
permit and are allowed on the property line.
   B.   Conditions Under Which Permit Issued; Fee:
      1.   Application for a permit may be made to the Clerk, setting forth the
type of construction, alterations or changes. The Clerk will require the
applicant to submit a plan showing the proposed improvements and all other
information pertinent to the proposed project. A fee set by resolution of City
Council shall accompany each application for a permit.
      2.   On all matters of concern or interest to citizens generally which
would involve the issuance of a permit for a purpose to which there might be
general objection, the City Council may order public notices to be given of not
less than five (5) days of a hearing on such application to be had and, at such
hearing, all interested parties shall be heard and then a decision shall be
made by the City Council on the question of issuing such permit or imposing
such restrictions or conditions as the City Council shall require after such
hearing. (Ord. 19, 12-5-1973; amd. Ord. 19B, 8-7-2024)
8-6-5: SPECIAL USE PERMIT:
When in its judgment, the public convenience and welfare will be substantially
served, regulations, restrictions and boundaries may from time to time be
amended, supplemented, changed, modified or repealed. In cases, however, of a
protest against such change signed by the owners of twenty percent (20%) or
more either of the area of the lots included in such proposed change, or of
those immediately adjacent in the rear thereof extending three hundred feet
(300') from the street frontage of such opposite lots, such amendment shall not
become effective except by the favorable vote of three-fourths (3/4) of all
members of the legislative body of such City. However, no such regulation,
restriction or boundary shall become effective until after a public hearing in
relation thereof, at which parties in interest and citizens shall have an
opportunity to be heard. Notice of the time and place of such hearing shall be
published in an official paper or paper of general circulation and in
accordance with Idaho Code section 67-6509. (Ord. 19B, 8-7-2024)
8-6-6: APPEALS:
Any applicant who is dissatisfied with any zoning decision may, within ten (10)
days after the decision is made, appeal to the City Council and the decision of
three-fourths (3/4) of the Council on appeal shall decide the question
appealed. (Ord. 19, 12-5-1973; amd. Ord. 19B, 8-7-2024)
8-6-7: ALTERATION OF SETBACK LINES:
The yard areas required by this title for a particular building shall not be
diminished and shall not be included as a part of the required lot or yard
areas of any other building, excepting the City Council shall have the power to
alter the required setback line in restricted districts in the case of public
or semipublic buildings, after a public hearing, and after showing that such
action will not cause damage, and will be in accord with the general purpose of
this title. The yard areas of buildings existing at the time of the adopting of
this title shall not be diminished below the requirements herein provided for
buildings hereafter erected, excepting as provided herein, and such required
areas of any building hereafter erected. (Ord. 19, 12-5-1973; amd. Ord. 19B, 8-
7-2024)
8-6-8: EXISTING AGREEMENTS NOT ALTERED:
It is not intended by this title to alter or change an existing agreement
between parties where this title imposes a greater restriction upon the height
of buildings or requires larger lots or yards than are imposed or required by
existing permits, easements, covenants or agreements, but where there is such
variation, then this title shall be liberally constructed to promote the best
interest and purpose of the public and the general welfare. (Ord. 19, 12-5-
1973; amd. Ord. 19B, 8-7-2024)
8-6-9: EXISTING CONSTRUCTION NOT AFFECTED:
Nothing herein contained shall require any change in the principal construction
or designated use of a building for which a permit has been heretofore issued,
and the construction of which such building shall have been actually begun at
the time of the passage of this title. If any area in any particular zone is
hereafter transferred to another zone by change in zone boundaries, the
provisions of this section with regard to buildings or premises then existing,
or building permits then issued at the time of the adoption of this title,
shall apply to buildings or premises existing or building permits issued in
such transferred area at the time of such transfer. (Ord. 19, 12-5-1973; amd.
Ord. 19B, 8-7-2024)
8-6-10: VIOLATIONS:
Any building or structure which may be constructed, repaired or remodeled
contrary to the terms of this chapter, or the commencement of construction of
any building or structure or the repairing or remodeling thereof, contrary to
the terms of this Code, is hereby declared to be unlawful. In addition to the
penalties provided for herein the City Attorney shall commence a proper action
in the District Court to abate such violation and, in addition thereto,
criminal prosecution shall be brought. (Ord. 19, 12-5-1973; amd. 2019 Code;
Ord. 19B, 8-7-2024)
8-6-11: CHANGE OF USE REQUIRES CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE:
The use of a building already erected at the time of the passage of this title
shall not be changed to some other use or occupied for any other purpose,
without the owner or his agent applying for and receiving a permit. (Ord. 19,
12-5-1973; amd. Ord. 19B, 8-7-2024)
8-6-12: MANUFACTURED HOMES:
   A.   Applicability: Except as provided herein no manufactured homes shall be
located within the City.
   B.   Requirements And Restrictions: In all areas within the corporate limits
of the City wherein the City zoning ordinances permit the location, occupation
and use of single- family dwellings, manufactured homes meeting or exceeding
the following specifications will be a permitted and authorized use, subject to
the following restrictions on the placement of said homes:
      1.   "Manufactured homes" as the term is used in this section, is defined
in Idaho Code 39-4105(8).
      2.   Manufactured homes shall be multi-sectional, enclosing a space of
not less than one thousand (1,000) square feet and when assembled on site, they
shall be not less than twenty feet (20') both in length and width. They shall
also either have been certified as having been constructed in accordance with
the Standards for Certification of Mobile Homes by the U.S. Department of
Housing and Urban Development and Mobile Home Construction and Safety Standards
or, if manufactured prior to June 15, 1976, have received a certificate of
compliance from the Administrator of the Division of Building Safety of the
State of Idaho that they meet the rehabilitation requirements of Idaho Code
title 44, chapter 25.
      3.   Manufactured housing shall be installed in accordance with Idaho
Code title 44, chapter 22, "Manufactured Home Installation Standard".
      4.   The manufactured home shall be placed on an excavated and backfilled
foundation and enclosed at the perimeter such that the home is located not more
than twelve inches (12") above grade.
      5.   The manufactured home shall have a pitched attached roof with a
slope of not less than three feet (3') in height for each twelve feet (12') in
width.
      6.   The manufactured home shall have exterior siding and roofing
material commonly used on the residential dwellings and which is comparable to
the predominant materials used on the buildings within the area. The Public
Works Supervisor charged with the approval of building permits will determine
compliance with this provision.
      7.   The manufactured home shall have a garage or carport constructed of
like materials if zoning ordinances would require a newly constructed
nonmanufactured home to have a garage or carport.
      8.   Manufactured homes and the lots upon which they are sited shall be
subject to any development standard, architectural requirement and minimum size
requirements to which a conventional single-family residential dwelling on the
same lot would be subjected.
   C.   Lower Standards: The provisions of this section shall not permit
manufactured homes or the lot upon which it is sited to any development
standard, architectural requirements and/or minimum size requirements, which
are lower or less than that which is or would be applicable to a conventional
single- family residential dwelling constructed on the same lot.
   D.   Exceptions To Applicability: This section shall not apply to the
regulation of mobile homes situated or to be situated in mobile home parks
which the City has approved as a mobile home park, nor shall this apply to
lands falling within an area defined as a historic district under Idaho Code
section 67-4607, nor shall this section be applied to modify or abrogate any
recorded restrictive covenant applicable to any land within the jurisdiction of
the City.
(Ord. 109, 1-10-2007; amd. Ord. 19B, 8-7-2024)
8-6-13: VARIANCES:
Application for variances may be applied for per Idaho code 67-65-16. (Ord.
19B, 8-7-2024)
CHAPTER 7
RV PARKS AND MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS
SECTION:
8-7-1: Applicability
8-7-2: Definitions
8-7-3: Site Selection
8-7-4: Site Improvements
8-7-5: Site Planning
8-7-6: Site Engineering
8-7-7: Water Requirements
8-7-8: Fire Prevention
8-7-9: Regulations Generally
8-7-10: Conflicts
8-7-11: Inspections
8-7-12: Enforcement
8-7-1: APPLICABILITY:
Every trailer and trailer court hereafter constructed shall be regulated by
this chapter. (Ord. 19, 12-5-1973; amd. Ord. 19B, 8-7-2024)
8-7-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the following
meanings unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
DEPENDENT TRAILER COACH: One which does not have a water closet and a bathtub
or shower.
INDEPENDENT TRAILER COACH: One that has a water closet and a bathtub or shower.
LOCAL ADMINISTRATIVE AUTHORITIES: The individual official, board, department or
agency established and authorized by a state, county, city or other political
subdivision of the local codes and ordinances as adopted or amended.
RV: A recreational vehicle is a motor vehicle or trailer that includes living
quarters designed for accommodations including motorhomes campervans, coaches,
caravans, fifth wheel trailers, popup campers, and truck campers.
SERVICE BUILDING: A building housing communal toilet, laundry and other
sanitary facilities necessary for the health and convenience of the trailer
occupants. (Ord. 19, 12-5-1973; amd. Ord. 19B, 8-7-2024)
8-7-3: SITE SELECTION:
   A.   Location: The site must not be:
      1.   Close to swamps or other potential breeding places for insects or
rodents;
      2.   Subject to flooding, fire or other safety hazards; or
      3.   Exposed to chronic nuisances, such as noise, smoke, fumes and odors.
      The site should be bounded on at least one side by a public street or
highway.
   B.   Topography: The topography must be favorable to good site drainage,
minimum grading, trailer placement and ease of maintenance. Initial site grades
exceeding eight percent (8%), or rock formation close to the surface, are
likely to cause high development costs. Sparsely wooded sites providing shade
trees are often advantageous.
   C.   Availability Of Utilities: The site must be readily accessible to
public utilities, including water, sewerage and electricity.
   D.   Necessary Land Area: The area of the trailer court must be sufficient
in size to accommodate:
      1.   The number of trailer coach spaces desired;
      2,   The roads and parking areas for motor vehicles;
      3.   Service areas, buildings and playgrounds; and
      4.   On site utilities where public utilities are not available. (Ord.
19, 12-5-1973; amd. Ord. 19B, 8-7-2024)
8-7-4: SITE IMPROVEMENTS:
The physical improvements of the site must be arranged to provide:
   A.   A convenient means of pedestrian and vehicular access to each trailer
coach space, parking areas and accessory buildings;
   B.   An adequate supply of potable water;
   C.   A safe method of sewage disposal;
   D.   Electrical service for lighting and power; and
   E.   Diversion of surface water away from buildings, trailer coach spaces,
service and recreational areas, and its disposal from the site. (Ord. 19, 12-5-
1973; amd. Ord. 19B, 8-7-2024)
8-7-5: SITE PLANNING:
   A.   Plan Required: A plan of the proposed trailer court must be developed
by an engineer for approval of the City Council, indicating the layout of
trailer coach spaces, roads, walks, service buildings, service areas, utilities
and necessary grading.
   B.   Density: Determination must be made in the initial planning stage on
the number of dependent and independent coaches to be accommodated.
   C.   Trailer Coach Space Sizes: Each trailer coach space must be not less
than one thousand two hundred fifty (1,250) square feet in area and should be
at least twenty-five feet (25') wide.
   D.   Spacing Of Trailers: The minimum spacing between trailer coaches and
between trailer coaches and buildings must be:
      1.   Side to side spacing: Fifteen feet (15');
      2.   End to end spacing: Ten feet (10');
      3.   Space between end of trailer bodies, not chassis;
      4.   No trailer should be located closer than twenty-five feet (25') from
the right-of-way line of a public road or ten feet (10') from the trailer court
property line.
   E.   Roads, Walks And Parking Areas:
      1.   General Circulation: Safety and convenience must be a major
consideration in the layout of roads, walks and parking areas within the
trailer court. All roads must be continuous.
      2.   Servicing: Suitable vehicular access for firefighting equipment,
delivery of fuel, removal of garbage and refuse, and for other necessary
services must be provided. Minimum service distances as required by local
regulations or accepted practice must control.
      3.   Width Of Roads And Parking Areas: Main access roads, excluding
parking, two (2) lane: Twenty feet (20').
      4.   Parking Area: The same number of motor vehicles parking spaces must
be provided as the number of special parking areas.
      5.   Walks: The trailer park walk system must include a walk from the
entrance to each trailer to service facilities.
 
WIDTH OF WALKS
Public walks, minimum                             4 feet
Entrance walks (from public walk to trailer door) 2 feet
 
   F.   Service Buildings: Each trailer court must be provided with one or more
service buildings containing the requisite number of plumbing fixtures and
other service equipment. The service buildings must conform in general to the
following requirements:
      1.   Location: The building should be located not more than two hundred
feet (200') from any dependent trailer coach space.
      2.   Construction: The materials and methods used in the construction of
service buildings must conform to local Building Codes for buildings of this
nature. It must have an interior finish which is moisture resistant and can be
easily cleaned. All rooms of service buildings must be ventilated and all
exterior openings provided with screens.
      3.   Facilities:
         a.   Separate men's and women's toilet rooms must be provided and
distinctly marked. These rooms must be separated by a sound resistant wall. A
vestibule or screen wall must be provided to prevent direct view into the
toilet rooms when exterior doors are open.
         b.   Every trailer court must provide adequate toilet and laundry
facilities. In no instances should there be less than one laundry unit (laundry
tray or washing machine); one water closet, one lavatory and one shower for
women; and one water closet, one lavatory and one shower for men. A slop water
closet (water closet with seat removed) must be provided in each service
building. The slop water closet should be in a separate room of the service
building with a single direct opening to the outside.
         c.   The facilities listed above will accommodate any number of
independent trailer coaches, and up to ten (10) dependent trailer coaches. One
water closet must be provided for each sex for every ten (10) additional
dependent trailer coaches. (Urinals for men may be substituted for 1/3 of these
water closets.)
         d.   One lavatory must be provided for each sex for every ten (10)
additional dependent coaches; and one shower or bathtub for each sex for every
twenty (20) additional dependent coaches. A laundry unit must be provided for
every twenty (20) additional trailer coaches.
         e.   Trailer courts shall be served by a public sewer system, or by a
private disposal system which has the approval of the Health Officer. Each
trailer coach space shall be provided with a satisfactory sewer connection. All
sewage disposal apparatus, including appurtenances thereto, shall be provided,
maintained and operated so as not to create a nuisance or health hazard.
         f.   All water closets and bathtubs or showers for women, and all
water closets, and bathtubs for men, must be located in separate compartments,
with self-closing doors. Gang type shower compartments may be used for men.
Individual shower stalls must be approximately three feet by three feet (3' x
3'). Showers for women must have a dressing compartment with stool or bench.
The room containing the laundry units must be separated from the toilet rooms,
and have an exterior entrance only.
         g.   Heating facilities capable of maintaining a temperature of
seventy degrees (70°) in cold weather should be provided.
         h.   Facilities shall provide hot water for shower and laundry
services.
   G.   Laundry Drying Facilities: Mechanical laundry drying equipment or
laundry drying yards must be provided. Laundry drying machines must be located
in service buildings. Where laundry drying yards are used, they must be located
convenient to service buildings and have an area of approximately fifty (50)
square feet per trailer coach space.
   H.   Refuse Collection: Refuse must be stored in rodent proof containers.
Each coach space will require from four (4) to six (6) gallons of refuse
storage capacity per day. Refuse container stations, where used, should be
located a maximum of two hundred feet (200') from any trailer coach space and
preferably not more than one hundred fifty feet (150').
   I.   Recreation Areas: At least one hundred (100) square feet per trailer
coach space must be made available in one or more areas for recreational uses.
These areas should be located so as to be free of traffic hazards.
(Ord. 19, 12-5-1973; amd. Ord. 19B, 8-7-2024)
8-7-6: SITE ENGINEERING:
Grading and drainage must be performed so that water will drain away from
trailer coach spaces, buildings, service and recreational areas, and off the
site in a manner which will provide reasonable freedom from erosion. Walks,
driveways and retaining walls must be so constructed as not to interfere with
drainage.
   A.   Slopes Of Trailer Spaces, Roads, Walks And Service Areas:
      1.   Trailer coach spaces must be graded toward abutting roadway to
prevent surface water draining across adjacent coach spaces. Grading under
trailers must be provided to prevent puddling of water.
      2.   Where swales for the carriage of stormwater are needed between the
trailer coach space and the roadway, they must be of a shallow type, generally
not to exceed eight inches (8") in depth, to permit the parking of the trailer
without damage to the undercarriage.
      3.   The following minimum and maximum slope values will usually give
satisfactory results:
 
                                         Minimum Percent Maximum Percent
Roads                                    0.50            8
Walks                                    0.50            10
Recreation area and laundry drying yards 0.50            4
Sodded and planted areas                 1.00            10
Grade of coach space                     0.50            5
 
   B.   Construction Of Roads, Parking Areas, Walks And Service Areas:
      1.   Roads And Parking Areas: Road must be constructed of concrete or
macadam, or of gravel, crushed stone, sand-clay slag, or other locally
available suitable materials, with a light bituminous surface treatment, oil
coating or other dust preventive material. Roads must be crowned at center to
shed water to drainage facilities.
      2.   Walks: Walks must be constructed of concrete, macadam, gravel, fine
stone, cinders or other materials providing a stable footing. Stepping stones
may be used from main walks to trailers.
      3.   Recreation Areas And Laundry Drying Yards: Surfacing may be natural
ground cover, sand-clay, or other suitable local materials.
(Ord. 19, 12-5-1973; amd. Ord. 19B, 8-7-2024)
8-7-7: WATER REQUIREMENTS:
An accessible, adequate, safe, and potable supply of water shall be provided in
each trailer court, capable of furnishing a minimum of one hundred twenty-five
(125) gallons per day per trailer coach space. Where a public supply of water
of such quality is available, connection shall be made thereto and its supply
shall be used exclusively. The development of an independent water supply to
serve the trailer court shall be made only after express approval has been made
by the Health Officer. (Ord. 19, 12-5-1973; amd. Ord. 19B, 8-7-2024)
8-7-8: FIRE PREVENTION:
The trailer court area shall be subject to the rules and regulations of the
City fire prevention authority. (Ord. 19, 12-5-1973; amd. Ord. 19B, 8-7-2024)
8-7-9: REGULATIONS GENERALLY:
No permanent additions of any kind shall be built onto, nor become a part of,
any trailer coach. Skirting of coaches is permissible, but such skirting shall
not permanently attach the coach to the ground, provide a harborage for
rodents, or create a fire hazard. The wheels of a coach shall not be removed,
except temporarily when necessary for repairs. Jacks or stabilizers may be
placed under the frame of the coach to prevent movement on the springs while
the coach is parked and occupied. No owner or person in charge of a dog, cat or
other pet animal shall permit it to run at large, or to commit any nuisance
within the limits of any trailer court. (Ord. 19, 12-5-1973; amd. Ord. 19B, 8-
7-2024)
8-7-10: CONFLICTS:
In any case where a provision of this chapter is found to be in conflict with a
provision of any zoning, building, fire, safety or health ordinance or code of
this City existing on the effective date hereof, the provision which
establishes the higher standard for the promotion and protection of the health
and safety of the public shall prevail. (Ord. 19, 12-5-1973; amd. Ord. 19B, 8-
7-2024)
8-7-11: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   The Panhandle Health Office is hereby authorized and directed to make
inspections to determine the condition of trailer courts located within the
City in order that he may perform his duty of safeguarding the health and
safety of occupants of trailer courts and of the general public.
   B.   The Panhandle Health Office shall have the power to enter at reasonable
times upon any private or public property for the purpose of inspecting and
investigating conditions relating to the enforcement of this chapter or of
regulations promulgated thereunder. (Ord. 19, 12-5-1973; amd. Ord. 19B, 8-7-
2024)
8-7-12: ENFORCEMENT:
The Panhandle Health Office is hereby authorized to make, and after public
hearing, to adopt such written regulations as may be necessary for the proper
enforcement of the provisions of this chapter; provided, that such regulations
shall not be in conflict with the provisions of this chapter. Such regulations
shall have the same force and effect as the provisions of this chapter, and the
penalty for violation thereof shall be the same as the penalty for violation of
the provisions of this title. (Ord. 19, 12-5-1973; amd. Ord. 19B, 8-7-2024)
CHAPTER 8
RADIO AND TELEVISION INTERFERENCE
SECTION:
8-8-1: Prohibition Of Interference
8-8-2: Inspection
8-8-1: PROHIBITION OF INTERFERENCE:
It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly to operate, cause to be operated
or permit the operation of any wire or wires for carrying electric energy, or
any fixtures, machine, device, apparatus or other instrument, the operation of
which shall cause reasonable preventable electrical interference with radio or
television. (Ord. 19, 12-5-1973; amd. Ord. 19B, 8-7-2024)
8-8-2: INSPECTION:
The Clerk or any officer or any other designated person of the City shall have
the right at any reasonable hour to enter upon and into any premises for the
purpose of inspecting or locating any wires, fixtures, machines, devices,
apparatus or other instruments which are or may be kept or operated in
violation of the provisions of this chapter. Should any inspection disclose
that any equipment described in this chapter is defective, then the Clerk shall
notify in writing the owner or occupant of said premises, or the operator of
said equipment, of the defects and suggest steps to be taken to remedy such
defects. Upon receipt of such written notice, the owner, occupant or operator
shall forthwith take effective steps to remedy such defects. (Ord. 19, 12-5-
1973; amd. Ord. 19B, 8-7-2024)
TITLE 9
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE
SECTION:
9-1-1: Subdivision Defined
9-1-2: Authority
9-1-3: Requirements For Division Of Land
9-1-4: Purposes
9-1-1: SUBDIVISION DEFINED:
A subdivision will be the division of a tract of land into two (2) or more
parcels or sites for the purpose of conveying title or an interest in one or
more parcels or sites for the purpose of sale or building development, whether
immediate or future. (Ord. 19B, 8-7-2024; amd. Ord. 86B, 8-7-2024)
9-1-2: AUTHORITY:
These regulations are authorized by Idaho Code, title 50, chapter 13 and title
67, chapter 65 and the Idaho constitution. (Ord. 19B, 8-7-2024; amd. Ord. 86B,
8-7-2024)
9-1-3: REQUIREMENTS FOR DIVISION OF LAND:
No plot or subdivision shall be approved by the Mayor and Council providing for
the division of a tract of land into parcels smaller than 0.75 acres (32,670
square feet), nor shall the width of any parcel be less than one-half (1/2) the
length except that if, at the time said subdivision is approved, each parcel
created by said subdivision shall be served by an existing water and sewer main
line at a distance of not more than fifty feet (50') of the boundary of each
parcel, then in such event parcels less than 0.75 acres (32,670 square feet) in
size may be approved. A plat may be approved establishing lots less than 0.75
acres (32,670 square feet) in size where, at the time of approval, existing
water and sewer lines do not come within fifty feet (50') of the boundary of
each parcel unless the developer shall execute his written agreement to, at the
developer's expense, extend the City's water and sewer lines to within fifty
feet (50') of each lot within the subdivision. Any agreement executed by the
developer with the City shall:
   A.   Meet qualifications and specifications for construction set out by
Idaho Code.
   B.   Provide reimbursement to the City for costs incurred by the City in the
inspection, construction, supervision, engineering and legal expenses
incidental to the construction project.
   C.   Provide that the developer shall provide to the City a performance and
payment bond in a form acceptable to the City in an amount equal to one and
one-half (11/2) times the estimated cost of the project. (Ord. 19B, 8-7-2024;
amd. Ord. 86B, 8-7-2024)
9-1-4: PURPOSES:
   A.   The purpose of these regulations is to promote the public health,
safety and general welfare while providing for the harmonious development of
the area.
   B.   Land proposed for subdivision must be suitable and safe for building
without danger from flood, or other natural or manmade hazard. Proposed public
improvements shall conform to any standards adopted by the City and not be in
conflict with goals and policies set forth in the comprehensive plan. It is
intended that these regulations complement and implement provisions and
standards contained in or referenced in building codes, zoning ordinances and
the comprehensive plan.
   C.   These provisions are adopted to provide for the orderly division of
land within the City, and:
      1.   To protect and provide for the public health, safety, and general
welfare of the City of Moyie Springs.
      2.   To guide the future growth and development of the City in accordance
with the comprehensive plan.
      3.   To protect the character and the social and economic stability of
all parts of the City and to encourage the orderly and beneficial development
of the community's lands.
      4.   To guide public and private policy in order to provide adequate and
efficient streets, water, sewerage, drainage, parks, open space, and other
public facilities.
      5.   To provide coordination of streets and roads with existing or
planned streets and roads.
      6.   To establish reasonable standards of design and procedures for
subdivisions in order to further the orderly layout and use of land, and to
ensure proper legal description of subdivided land.
      7.   To ensure that public facilities and services are available
concurrent with development and will have sufficient capacity to serve the
subdivision.
      8.   To provide the procedures for approval, the manner and form of
filing of any plat, and the administration of these regulations. (Ord. 19B, 8-
7-2024; amd. Ord. 86B, 8-7-2024)
CHAPTER 2
GENERAL SUBDIVISION PROVISIONS
SECTION:
9-2-1: Applicability
9-2-2: Exemptions
9-2-3: Amendments
9-2-4: Fees
9-2-5: Enforcement And Penalties
9-2-6: Interpretation, Conflict, And Severability
9-2-7: Exception To Subdivision Regulations
9-2-8: Development And Construction Agreements Required
9-2-9: Time Limits
9-2-1: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   All divisions of land into two (2) or more lots, tracts, parcels,
sites, or divisions, regardless of lot size for purpose of sale, lease,
transfer, etc., within the City must proceed in accordance with this title as
prescribed by Idaho Code. Divisions which meet the criteria set forth for
streetless subdivisions may proceed in compliance with the streetless
subdivision requirements in this title.
   B.   It shall be unlawful to transfer ownership of lots constituting the
subdivision of land as defined and regulated by this title before a plat has
been prepared and recorded pursuant to Idaho Code and has been accepted by the
City.
   C.   All improvements shall be made to City standards as outlined in chapter
8 of this title and otherwise adopted by the City. (Ord. 19B, 8-7-2024; amd.
Ord. 86B, 8-7-2024)
9-2-2: EXEMPTIONS:
Exemptions from this subdivision ordinance include:
   A.   The transfer of land between two (2) adjacent property owners does not
result in the creation of any additional building site.
   B.   Divisions made for the purpose of lot line adjustments where no
additional lots are created and where the resultant tracts comply with the
requirements of the underlying zoning classification, including minimum lot
size.
   C.   Any acquisition of land by a public agency for public right of way or
public utility purposes.
   D.   Divisions made as the result of exercise of the powers of eminent
domain as defined and allowed for by Idaho Code.
   E.   Divisions for conveyance of land to the City, a public entity, or
homeowners' association for a public or common purpose. (Ord. 19B, 8-7-2024;
amd. Ord. 86B, 8-7-2024)
9-2-3: AMENDMENTS:
The City Council may, from time to time, amend, supplement, or repeal the
regulations and provisions of this title in the manner prescribed by Idaho
Code. (Ord. 19B, 8-7-2024; amd. Ord. 86B, 8-7-2024)
9-2-4: FEES:
The City Council may, by resolution, adopt reasonable fees related to the cost
of services associated with review, processing and inspection of subdivisions
of land. Such fees charged by the City may be reviewed periodically by the City
Council and changed by Council resolution and in accordance with Idaho Code.
(Ord. 19B, 8-7-2024; amd. Ord. 86B, 8-7-2024)
9-2-5: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
   A.   It shall be the authority of the City Council or his designees to
enforce the provisions of this title.
   B.   No building permit shall be issued for the construction of any building
or structure located on a lot or plat subdivided or sold in violation of the
provisions of this title. Nor shall the City have any obligation to extend
utility services to any parcel created or established in violation of these
provisions.
   C.   No developer shall offer to the county recorder, for recording a plat
which does not conform in all respects to this title and which has not been
given final plat approval by the City Council after complying with all required
administrative and review procedures.
   D.   Violations of the provisions of this title shall be deemed a
misdemeanor crime, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, with each day such violation continues constituting a
separate offense. The landowner, tenant, developer, builder or any other person
who commits, participates in, assists in or maintains such violation may each
be found guilty of a separate offense. The City shall have recourse to such
civil remedies in law and equity as may be necessary to ensure compliance with
the provisions of these regulations. (Ord. 19B, 8-7-2024; amd. Ord. 86B, 8-7-
2024)
9-2-6: INTERPRETATION, CONFLICT, AND SEVERABILITY:
   A.   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this title
shall be held to be the minimum requirements. More stringent provisions may be
required if it is demonstrated that such standards are necessary to protect the
public health, safety and welfare.
   B.   Where any provision of these regulations imposes restrictions different
from those imposed by any other provision of these regulations or any other
ordinance, rule, regulation, or other provision of law, the provision which is
more restrictive or imposes the standards most likely to protect the public
health, safety and general welfare shall control.
   C.   The provisions of this title are severable. If any section, sentence,
clause, or phrase of this title is adjudged by a court of competent
jurisdiction to be invalid, the decision shall not affect the remaining
portions of this title. (Ord. 19B, 8-7-2024; amd. Ord. 86B, 8-7-2024)
9-2-7: EXCEPTION TO SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS:
   A.   Where strict compliance with these regulations and/or the purposes of
these regulations may be better served by an alternative proposal, the City
Council may approve an exception to these regulations. The granting of an
exception shall not have the effect of nullifying the intent and purpose of
these regulations. The City Council shall not permit exceptions unless it
finds, based upon the evidence presented to it in each specific case, that:
      1.   The granting of the exception will not be detrimental to the public
safety, health, or welfare, or injurious to other property; and
      2.   The conditions upon which the request is based are somewhat unique
to the property for which the relief is sought, are not applicable generally to
other property, and are not as a result of any action taken by the owner; and
      3.   Because of the particular physical surroundings, shape, or
topographical conditions of the specific property involved, a particular and
unnecessary hardship to the owner, or environmental damage would result if the
strict application of these regulations is applied; and
      4.   The change sought will not be contrary to the zoning ordinance or
comprehensive plan.
   B.   In considering exceptions, the City Council may require conditions that
will secure the purposes of this title. An exception is an alternative design,
or deviation from subdivision ordinance requirements or standards that is
requested by the developer. The exception requested must be presented to the
Council and the request shall specify which ordinance provisions shall be
subject to exception along with the proposed changes and the reasons why the
changes are necessary. The request will be reviewed, and a decision rendered by
the City Council as an integral part of the overall review process as outlined
in this title. (Ord. 19B, 8-7-2024; amd. Ord. 86B, 8-7-2024)
9-2-8: DEVELOPMENT AND CONSTRUCTION AGREEMENTS REQUIRED:
It shall be a requirement of compliance with this title that a development plan
must be approved by the City Council prior to initiating physical construction
of subdivision improvements or recordation of a subdivision plat. A capital
facilities guarantee agreement may be entered into prior to acceptance of the
improvements by the City Council. No construction of subdivision improvements
shall begin without the final plat being approved and signed by the Council.
(Ord. 19B, 8-7-2024; amd. Ord. 86B, 8-7-2024)
9-2-9: TIME LIMITS:
Time limits contained within this title are directory. Violation of time limits
established in this title shall not be the basis for damages and shall have no
effect on the approval or disapproval of a subdivision. Time limits provided
herein may be extended for good cause. (Ord. 19B, 8-7-2024; amd. Ord. 86B, 8-7-
2024)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
9-3-1: Words Defined
9-3-2: Interpretation
9-3-1: WORDS DEFINED:
For this title, the following terms, phrases, and words shall have the meanings
given in this chapter:
ALLEY: A right of way not intended for general traffic circulation that is
designed to serve as secondary access to the side or rear of those properties
whose principal frontage is on some other street.
APPROACH: The location at which a driveway intersects with a public street.
BLOCK: A contiguous group of lots with defined boundaries established by plat.
Such boundaries are street rights of way, railroad rights of way, waterways,
parks, undivided acreage, or a combination thereof.
BUILDING: A structure designed or used as the living quarters for one or more
families, or a structure designed or used for occupancy by people, animals, or
material goods.
CITY: The City of Moyie Springs, Idaho; the City Council; mayor; or staff.
CITY ATTORNEY: A person qualified to practice law in the state, employed or
contracted by the City for the position of City attorney or his designated
representative.
CITY ENGINEER: A person qualified to practice engineering and registered by the
state, employed or contracted by the City for the position of City engineer or
his designated representative.
CODE: The municipal code for the City of Moyie Springs, of which this title is
included, in its most current form.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: That plan adopted, and occasionally amended, by the City
Council as the comprehensive plan for the City of Moyie Springs.
CONCEPT PLAN: A preliminary presentation and documentation of a proposed
subdivision of sufficient accuracy to be used for the purpose of discussion and
classification.
CONSTRUCTION IMPROVEMENT AGREEMENT: An agreement that more particularly
describes the duties and obligations of the parties for the development of a
subdivision or portion of a subdivision. The purpose is to establish specific
construction details and guarantees necessary for the timely construction of
public infrastructure improvements and such other improvements as may be
necessary. The construction improvement agreement may be an addendum to the
development agreement.
COUNTY RECORDER: The recorder of Boundary County.
COVENANT: An agreement, promise or guarantee made between two (2) or more
parties.
CUL-DE-SAC: A street designed to provide access to adjoining properties which
is closed at one end by a circular area of a sufficient size for turning
vehicles around.
DEDICATION: The deliberate appropriation of land by its owner for any general
or public use, reserving unto himself no other right than such as are
compatible with the full exercise and enjoyment of the public uses to which
property has been appropriated. Land dedicated to the public becomes public
land upon acceptance by the City Council and recording of the final plat.
DEVELOPER: The legal or beneficial owner or owners of any land undertaking the
subdividing of land.
DEVELOPMENT: A project involving substantial property improvement and, usually,
a change of land use character within the site; the act of using land for
building or extractive purposes.
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT: A written agreement setting forth the responsibilities
of the City and developer, conditions applicable to the development, and
development schedules, which is entered into after subdivision approval has
been granted but prior to construction. Entering into a development agreement
shall be a condition of approval of any subdivision unless no improvements are
to be made. A development agreement is typically not required for a streetless
subdivision.
EASEMENT: A grant by a property owner to the public or another party of the
right to use defined or described land for a specific use and purpose.
FINAL APPROVAL: The official action, after the City Council has approved a
subdivision after all conditions, engineering plans, and other requirements
have been completed or fulfilled and the required improvements have been
installed or guarantees properly posted for their completion.
FINAL PLAT: The final drawing of the subdivision and dedication prepared for
filing for record with the county recorder and containing all elements and
requirements set forth in Idaho Code and this title (see also definition of
Plat).
FIRE CHIEF: The chief of the Moyie Springs fire department.
GENERAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN: A plan outlining general, rather than detailed,
development intentions. It describes the basic parameters of a development
proposal, rather than giving full engineering details. As such, it allows
general intentions to be proposed and discussed without the extensive costs
involved in submitting a detailed proposal.
INTERSECTION: The location at which two (2) streets intersect, whether public
or private.
LOT: A designated parcel, tract, or area of land established by a plat to be
used, developed, or built upon as a unit.
LOT FRONTAGE: That portion of a lot extending along an adjacent primary platted
right of way.
LOT LINE: A line of record bounding a lot that divides one lot from another lot
or from a public or private street or any other public space and that
constitutes part of the perimeter.
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING: A document that memorializes the review process
and sets forth the conditions of approval of a streetless subdivision that is
signed by the Mayor after approved by the City Council.
OFF SITE: Not located on the property that is the subject of a development
application or on a contiguous portion of a street or right of way.
OFF STREET PARKING SPACE: A parking space provided in a parking lot or private
driveway.
ON SITE: Located on the lot in question or on the property being developed.
ON STREET PARKING SPACE: A parking space that is located on a dedicated street
right of way.
OPEN SPACE: Land, essentially free of structures, set aside, dedicated,
designated, or reserved for the public or private use or enjoyment or for the
use and enjoyment of owners and occupants of land adjoining or neighboring such
open space.
PARCEL: A unit of land of contiguous quantity in the ownership of one person or
entity and constituting a separate tract of land.
PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE: Security in a form that serves as a guarantee that the
public or identified common improvements required as a part of the approval of
a development are satisfactorily completed.
PLAT: A reproducible and permanent drawing of a subdivision and dedications and
easements, including certificates, descriptions, and approvals, prepared in
accordance with Idaho Code and this title.
PRE-APPROVAL CONFERENCE: A meeting among developers, City staff, and other
representatives which affords developers the opportunity to present their
proposals informally.
PRIVATE STREET: A street, road, or drive, constructed on private property which
is not dedicated and accepted as a public right of way for public use, and is
not maintained by the City.
PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT: That department of the City of Moyie Springs which is
responsible for the operations and maintenance of public streets, parks, water,
sewerage, and other similar facilities.
RESTRICTIVE COVENANT: A covenant that runs with the land made by the developer
and made part of the purchase agreement or deed to restrict specific activities
in a development which are civilly enforced.
RIGHT OF WAY: A portion of property reserved for public or shared use and
approved for such use by the City Council to provide circulation and travel to
abutting properties and including, but not limited to, streets, sidewalks,
provision for public utilities, cut and fill slopes, and public open spaces.
ROADWAY: The portion of right of way developed as a street for the purpose of
vehicular travel.
SETBACK LINE: An imaginary line established by zoning ordinance that requires
all buildings to be set back a certain distance from lot lines.
STATE: The State of Idaho.
STREET: A public right of way, which provides vehicular and pedestrian
circulation, primary access to abutting properties, and parking, that
dedication of which has been officially accepted by the City. The term street
also includes the terms highway, parkway, road, avenue, and other such terms.
STREETLESS - SUBDIVISION: A subdivision containing five (5) or fewer lots and
proposing no new streets, extensions to existing streets, and where
infrastructure is in place or available.
SUBDIVISION: The division of a lot, tract, or parcel of land into two (2) or
more lots, tracts, parcels, or other divisions of land for sale or development,
subject to the exemptions set forth in this title.
SUBDIVISION PLAN: A neat and approximate drawing of the proposed layout of
streets, blocks, lots, proposed utilities, and other elements of a plat or
subdivision which shall furnish a basis for approval or disapproval of the
general layout of the plat or subdivision.
UTILITIES: Installations for conducting water, sewage, electricity, storm
water, telephone, television and similar facilities providing service to and
used by the public.
VICINITY MAP: A small-scale map showing the location of a tract of land in
relation to a larger area.
WARRANTY GUARANTEE: A percentage of the cost of public subdivision improvements
provided as cash in escrow, bond, or irrevocable letter of credit to warrant
the design, construction materials, and workmanship of the improvements for a
specified period of time.
ZONING ORDINANCE: The zoning ordinance of the City of Moyie Springs. (Ord. 19B,
8-7-2024; amd. Ord. 86B, 8-7-2024)
9-3-2: INTERPRETATION:
   A.   When not inconsistent with the context, words in the plural number
include the singular number, and words in the singular number include the
plural number.
   B.   The word "shall" is always mandatory and not merely directory. The word
"may" is permissive.
   C.   The masculine shall include the feminine.
   D.   The present tense includes the past or future tense.
   E.   Except as expressly defined herein, words used in this title shall be
given their ordinary meaning consistent with common usage and context. (Ord.
19B, 8-7-2024; amd. Ord. 86B, 8-7-2024)
CHAPTER 4
STREETLESS - SUBDIVISIONS
SECTION:
9-4-1: Purpose
9-4-2: Pre-approval
9-4-3: Subdivision Plan; Required Content
9-4-4: Review And Approval
9-4-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of streetless subdivision review is to provide a simplified
procedure for processing streetless subdivisions. "Streetless subdivisions" are
subdivisions of five (5) or fewer lots that create no new streets. The process
is intended for the creation of lots along existing streets where
infrastructure is available. A developer proposing to create additional lots on
the same original parcel within a single five (5) year period as a streetless
subdivision may be required by the City Council to use the full subdivision
review process if the City Council determines that the multiple streetless
subdivisions may have a significant impact on public facilities to be used by
the development. (Ord. 19B, 8-7-2024; amd. Ord. 86B, 8-7-2024)
9-4-2: PRE-APPROVAL:
   A.   For approval of a streetless subdivision, the developer must submit a
concept plan and meet with the City Council to review the proposal.
   B.   There is no fee required for a streetless subdivision. (Ord. 19B, 8-7-
2024; amd. Ord. 86B, 8-7-2024)
9-4-3: SUBDIVISION PLAN; REQUIRED CONTENT:
The subdivision plan shall be submitted electronically and drawn to scale, and
shall include the following elements:
   A.   Requested name of subdivision.
   B.   Name, address, and phone number of the developer and engineer or
surveyor who prepared the plat. Name and address of the record owner of the
property.
   C.   Legal description of subdivision.
   D.   Vicinity map.
   E.   North arrow and scale.
   F.   Lot lines showing dimensions of each lot with proposed lot numbers. All
lots shall be numbered in a systematic order.
   G.   Current land use and existing or proposed subdivision and adjacent
land. Statement of the intended use of the proposed subdivision.
   H.   Location, width, and names of all adjacent streets or other public
rights of way. Location of existing streetlights, fire hydrants, water lines,
sewer lines, and other utilities. Streams,
   I.   Any existing or proposed easements and right of way dedications.
   J.   Location of existing structures and setbacks from proposed lot lines.
(Ord. 19B, 8-7-2024; amd. Ord. 86B, 8-7-2024)
9-4-4: REVIEW AND APPROVAL:
The completed preliminary plat must be approved by the City Council. (Ord. 19B,
8-7-2024; amd. Ord. 86B, 8-7-2024)
CHAPTER 5
SUBDIVISION APPROVAL
SECTION:
9-5-1: Purpose
9-5-2: Pre-Approval
9-5-3: Preliminary Plat; Required Elements
9-5-4: Other Items May Include
9-5-5: Subdivision Review And Approval
9-5-6: Zoning And Subdivision Regulations
9-5-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this process is to provide a timely and efficient review of
subdivisions. A subdivision is any division of a lot, tract, or parcel of land
into two (2) or more lots and accompanied by proposed new streets or extensions
to existing streets, and/or extensions of municipal sewer and water services.
(Ord. 19B, 8-7-2024; amd. Ord. 86B, 8-7-2024)
9-5-2: PRE-APPROVAL:
   A.   For approval of a subdivision, the developer must submit a concept plan
and meet with the City Council to review the proposal
   B.   There is no fee required for a subdivision. (Ord. 19B, 8-7-2024; amd.
Ord. 86B, 8-7-2024)
9-5-3: PRELIMINARY PLAT; REQUIRED ELEMENTS:
The preliminary plat shall be submitted electronically and drawn to scale, and
shall include the following elements:
   A.   Proposed name of subdivision.
   B.   Name, address, and phone number of the developer and engineer or
surveyor who prepared the plat. Name and address of the record owner of the
property.
   C.   Legal description of subdivision including a metes and bounds
description with dimensions of the site. Acreage of the tract to the nearest
tenth of an acre.
   D.   Vicinity map.
   E.   North arrow and scale. Contour lines, shown at five-foot (5') intervals
where land slope is greater than ten percent (10%) and at two foot (2')
intervals where land slope is ten percent (10%) or less, references to a bench
mark, including location and elevation.
   F.   Lot lines showing dimensions of each lot, and blocks when applicable,
with proposed lot and block numbers. All lots and blocks shall be numbered in a
systematic order.
   G.   Current land use and existing or proposed subdivision and adjacent
land. Statement of the intended use of the proposed subdivision. Existing and
proposed zoning.
   H.   Location, width, and names of all adjacent streets or other public
rights of way. Location of existing streetlights, fire hydrants, water lines,
sewer lines, and other utilities. Streams, watercourses, natural drainage
patterns, drainage ditches, culverts, wetland, or floodplains.
   I.   Location and width of proposed streets and proposed street names.
   J.   Location of proposed water and sewer lines, drainage ditches, culverts,
and other utilities.
   K.   Any existing or proposed easements and right of way dedications.
   L.   Location of existing structures and setbacks from proposed lot lines.
   M.   Development phases, or stages, if the project will be done over several
years. (Ord. 19B, 8-7-2024; amd. Ord. 86B, 8-7-2024)
9-5-4: OTHER ITEMS MAY INCLUDE:
   A.   Proposed utility infrastructure plans, including sanitary sewer, water,
and storm water management.
   B.   Street improvement plans, indicating slopes in excess of five percent
(5%).
   C.   Proposed street names.
   D.   Street lighting plans, site identification signs, traffic control
signs.
   E.   Pedestrian circulation plans.
   F.   Any other public improvements need to be constructed. (Ord. 19B, 8-7-
2024; amd. Ord. 86B, 8-7-2024)
9-5-5: SUBDIVISION REVIEW AND APPROVAL:
   A.   After the City Council has reviewed the subdivision plan and or
preliminary construction plans, the council shall make a decision as soon as
practical, unless circumstances require a longer review period for reasons set
forth in a motion adopted by the council. The council shall approve, approve
with conditions, or disapprove the subdivision.
   B.   No subdivision shall receive approval unless findings and conclusions
are made that:
      1.   Definite provision has been made for a water supply system that is
adequate in terms of quantity and quality for the type of subdivision proposed.
      2.   Adequate provisions have been made for a public sewage system or
private septic services; and that the existing municipal system can accommodate
the proposed sewer flows.
      3.   Proposed streets are consistent with the transportation element of
the comprehensive plan and fit the city's circulation pattern.
      4.   All aspects of the subdivision comply with design standards in this
code.
      5.   The subdivision would not cause any environmental harm.
      6.   All areas of the proposed subdivision are zoned for the proposed use
and the use conforms to other requirements found in this code. (Ord. 19B, 8-7-
2024; amd. Ord. 86B, 8-7-2024)
9-5-6: ZONING AND SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS:
   A.   Every subdivision shall conform to zoning and subdivision regulations
applicable at the official submission date.
   B.   The approval of a subdivision shall be effective for a period of one
year from the date that the development is approved unless a different time
period is requested by the developer, in writing, at the time of approval, and
agreed to by the City Council. By the end of the designated time period, the
developer must have submitted a final plat for review and approval, or the
subdivision approval shall be null and void, and the developer shall be
required to submit a new preliminary plat.
   C.   Prior to the expiration date of the effective period, the developer may
request an extension from the City Council. The City Council may grant an
extension, not to exceed twelve (12) months, upon showing of good cause by the
developer. The City Council shall render a decision to grant or not grant an
extension in a timely manner. The developer may appeal the decision of the
administrator to the mayor. The City Council may grant an extension beyond
twelve (12) months, upon showing of good cause by the developer.
   D.   At any time after subdivision approval and before submission of a final
subdivision plat, the developer may request the City Council to amendment be
made to the subdivision plan or to conditions of approval. If the proposed
amendment is a minor change to the plan, the City Council may grant the
amendment. (Ord. 19B, 8-7-2024; amd. Ord. 86B, 8-7-2024)
CHAPTER 6
FINAL PLAT REVIEW
SECTION:
9-6-1: Review
9-6-2: Approval
9-6-3: Recordation
9-6-4: Applicable Laws
9-6-1: REVIEW:
   A.   Upon submittal of the final plat to the City Clerk; the Council will
review at the next regular council meeting. The review will determine whether
all conditions of the approved development agreement have been completed and
whether the final plat is consistent with the approved subdivision. Such review
shall determine that:
      1.   The plat is in conformance with Idaho Code standards.
      2.   The plat layout is as approved by the City Council during
subdivision review.
      3.   If required, a development agreement has been completed.
      4.   Language on the dedication section of the plat reflects what was
agreed to in the development agreement and that any dedications are accurately
described.
      5.   The appropriate signature blocks are on the plat.
      6.   Construction plans have been reviewed and approved, when applicable.
      7.   All required on-site, and off-site improvements have been
constructed and accepted by the public works department, or have been suitably
guaranteed.
   B.   If the review determines that the conditions of the approved
development agreement have not been completed or the final plat is not
consistent with the approved subdivision, the City Council shall identify the
items not in compliance and indicating what is needed to resubmit for approval.
(Ord. 19B, 8-7-2024; amd. Ord. 86B, 8-7-2024)
9-6-2: APPROVAL:
The Council review of the plat is completed, and all required terms and
conditions are satisfied, the City Council shall approve and shall authorize
the Mayor and the city clerk to sign. (Ord. 19B, 8-7-2024; amd. Ord. 86B, 8-7-
2024)
9-6-3: RECORDATION:
   A.   After the plat is signed by the Mayor, and the City Clerk, the
developer shall record the plat with the county recorder and provide the City
Clerk with a copy of the recorded plat. Upon recordation of the plat and
receipt of the recorded plat, site permits may be issued for the lots created.
   B.   If an approved plat has not been recorded within one year from the date
of final approval, then before it can be recorded, there must be endorsed on
the plat, or recorded with it and referred to thereon, a certificate of the
City Council dated within thirty (30) days of the recording that the approval
has not been modified, amended or rescinded, nor the plan changed. (Ord. 19B,
8-7-2024; amd. Ord. 86B, 8-7-2024)
9-6-4: APPLICABLE LAWS:
To obtain final plat approval, the developer shall be in compliance with all
federal, state and local laws applicable at the time that the plat is reviewed
for approval. The developer shall be in compliance with all local laws and
regulations applicable at the time that the subdivision was approved by the
City Council. A plat shall not be authorized for recordation if there exists a
violation of relevant ordinances or statutes. (Ord. 19B, 8-7-2024; amd. Ord.
86B, 8-7-2024)
CHAPTER 7
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS
SECTION:
9-7-1: General
9-7-2: Elements Of Agreement
9-7-3: Covenants
9-7-4: Third Party Rights
9-7-5: Developer's Compliance
9-7-6: Agreement To Run
9-7-7: Amendments To The Agreement
9-7-8: Construction Improvement Agreement
9-7-1: GENERAL:
A development agreement shall constitute a binding contract between the
developer of a proposed subdivision and the city (the "parties") and shall
contain those terms and conditions agreed to by the parties and those required
by this title. The City Council, in conjunction with the city attorney, is
authorized to negotiate development agreements on behalf of the city. The
development agreement shall be adopted by the City Council and recorded in the
City Clerk's office and or County Recorder's Office. (Ord. 19B, 8-7-2024; amd.
Ord. 86B, 8-7-2024)
9-7-2: ELEMENTS OF AGREEMENT:
   A.   The development agreement shall be negotiated by the City Council and
city attorney and approved by the City Council prior to signature by the
parties. A brief statement shall be included describing the subdivision, its
location, legal description, number of lots, and the date of subdivision
approval by the City Council.
   B.   The agreement shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
      1.   Any conditions of approval from the review and approval process.
      2.   Time limit and provisions for extension or extinguishing the
agreement.
      3.   Phasing plans, if any, and a description of any required temporary
improvements and the terms of those improvements.
      4.   Description of construction improvements to be installed on site and
off site.
      5.   Covenants, if any, made by the developer to the city.
      6.   Covenants, if any, made by the city.
      7.   Details of dedications beyond those required.
      8.   Addenda, to include a construction improvement agreement as detailed
in this chapter.
      9.   Penalty for noncompliance, including, but not limited to, the
suspension of building permits. (Ord. 19B, 8-7-2024; amd. Ord. 86B, 8-7-2024)
9-7-3: COVENANTS:
The City may, without incurring any liability, engage in action that otherwise
would constitute a breach of any covenant contained in a development agreement
if it makes a determination, on the record, that the action is necessary to
avoid a substantial risk to public health, safety, and general welfare. All
such covenants shall be subject to an additional stipulation that the city may,
without incurring any liability, engage in action that would constitute a
breach of any such covenant if the action is required by federal or state law.
(Ord. 19B, 8-7-2024; amd. Ord. 86B, 8-7-2024)
9-7-4: THIRD PARTY RIGHTS:
Except as otherwise expressly provided in a development agreement, the
development agreement shall create no rights enforceable by any party who/which
is not a party to the development agreement. Purchasers of lots in approved
subdivisions are not deemed to be third party beneficiaries of development
agreements. (Ord. 19B, 8-7-2024; amd. Ord. 86B, 8-7-2024)
9-7-5: DEVELOPER'S COMPLIANCE:
Performance of the city's duties pursuant to a development agreement are
expressly conditioned upon the developer's substantial compliance with each and
every term, condition, provision, and covenant of the agreement, and all
applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations. (Ord. 19B, 8-7-2024;
amd. Ord. 86B, 8-7-2024)
9-7-6: AGREEMENT TO RUN:
A development agreement shall run with the land and bind all successors, heirs,
and assignees of the developer. The development agreement, including addenda,
shall be filed with the City Clerk and or county recorder's office to give
notice of any prospective purchaser. When the development agreement expires at
the agreed upon date set forth within the agreement or, when the terms of the
agreement have been satisfied or are no longer valid, the city shall file a
release with the City Clerk and or county recorder's office. (Ord. 19B, 8-7-
2024; amd. Ord. 86B, 8-7-2024)
9-7-7: AMENDMENTS TO THE AGREEMENT:
Should amendments to the agreement be necessary and if all parties are in
agreement, an addendum to the agreement shall be negotiated subject to review
by the city attorney for signature of the parties. Either party may propose
amending the agreement by written notification to the other parties of the
nature of the amendment and the reasons why the amendment is necessary. The
party requesting the amendment shall be responsible for any cost associated
with the preparation of the addendum to the development agreement, unless the
parties agree to share the costs. Such a cost sharing arrangement shall be
determined and agreed to, by the parties, prior to negotiating the addendum to
the agreement. Amendments must comply with the formalities of approval,
including approval by the city council, which governs original development
agreements. Amendments shall be filed with the City Clerk and or county
recorder's office upon approval and signature. (Ord. 19B, 8-7-2024; amd. Ord.
86B, 8-7-2024)
9-7-8: CONSTRUCTION IMPROVEMENT AGREEMENT:
   A.   An addendum to, or component of, a development agreement that sets
forth the specific public improvements to be constructed in the subdivision,
the manner and timing of the construction, duties and responsibilities of the
developer, estimated costs of the improvements, provisions for inspecting the
construction and its conformity to the submitted plans, performance guarantee,
maintenance, warranty, and standards shall be deemed a construction improvement
agreement.
   B.   A construction improvement agreement shall be reviewed by the city
attorney prior to the signature of the city and the developer. The construction
improvement agreement may be completed in conjunction with the development
agreement or subsequent to the development agreement.
   C.   A construction improvement agreement shall be executed prior to the
commencement of any construction relating to the subdivision. Staging or
mobilization of equipment or establishing a temporary construction office or
equipment storage yard shall not be considered to be "construction" for
purposes of this section. Initiating actual construction prior to execution of
a construction improvement agreement by all parties shall constitute a
violation of this title. (Ord. 19B, 8-7-2024; amd. Ord. 86B, 8-7-2024)
CHAPTER 8
CONSTRUCTION IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
9-8-1: Completion Of Improvements
9-8-2: Required Public Improvements
9-8-3: Performance Guarantee
9-8-4: Performance Guarantee Amount
9-8-5: Release Of Performance Guarantee
9-8-6: Penalty In Case Of Failure To Complete Improvements
9-8-7: Dedications
9-8-8: Maintenance
9-8-9: Warranty Of Improvements
9-8-10: Warranty Guarantee
9-8-11: Warranty Guarantee Amount
9-8-1: COMPLETION OF IMPROVEMENTS:
All required improvements shall be completed within one year of the effective
date of the construction improvement agreement unless a different time period
is approved by the City Council. Before a plat is signed by the city engineer,
the developer shall be required to complete all street, sanitary, and other
public improvements, including lot improvements on individual lots as required
in these regulations and as approved by the city council, or the developer
shall provide a suitable performance guarantee. No building shall be occupied,
nor shall any use be established in a subdivision, until all necessary
improvements have been installed and accepted for maintenance by the city and
other public service providers. The purpose of this requirement is to ensure to
the greatest extent possible that the health and safety of the public and the
residents of new subdivisions are protected. (Ord. 19B, 8-7-2024; amd. Ord.
86B, 8-7-2024)
9-8-2: REQUIRED PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS:
Every developer shall be required to install the following public and other
improvements in accordance with the conditions and specifications as follows:
   A.   Monuments shall be set in accordance with Idaho Code 50-1303. In
addition, brass caps shall be located at all street intersections and where the
street centerline intersects the subdivision boundaries, and at the point of
curve, point of tangent or point of intersection in the street as needed.
   B.   Streets and alleys, an adequate storm drainage system, public water and
sewage systems, adequate fire protection, street name signs shall be required.
   C.   Traffic control signs, streetlights, sidewalks, or pathways may be
required throughout the subdivision.
   D.   Underground utilities are required.
   E.   All improvements listed above or otherwise shall be constructed in
accordance with standards set forth in chapter 9 of this title. (Ord. 19B, 8-7-
2024; amd. Ord. 86B, 8-7-2024)
9-8-3: PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE:
The developer may guarantee to complete all of the agreed upon improvements
within one year of the effective date of the construction improvement agreement
or within such alternative time period approved by city council by providing to
the city one or more of the following instruments in an amount equal to at
least one hundred fifty percent (150%) of the value of improvements to be
guaranteed:
   A.   Performance Bond: The developer may provide a performance bond from a
company qualified by law to act as a surety in the state. The bond shall be in
the form approved by the city and name the city as the obligee and the
developer as principal.
   B.   Escrow: The developer may deposit funds in an escrow with a bank or
financial institution qualified by law to do business in the state. The
disbursement of the escrow funds shall be governed by an escrow agreement in a
form approved by the city.
   C.   Irrevocable Letter Of Credit: The developer may cause a bank or
financial institution qualified by law to do business in the state to issue an
irrevocable letter of credit in a form approved by the city. (Ord. 19B, 8-7-
2024; amd. Ord. 86B, 8-7-2024)
9-8-4: PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE AMOUNT:
   A.   The performance guarantee amount shall be one hundred fifty percent
(150%) of the estimated costs of all improvements not yet completed, not
including those to be constructed by private utilities. The developer's
engineer shall have prepared, documented, and certified each cost estimate. The
estimated costs shall be submitted by the developer to the city engineer for
approval. The estimated cost of all improvements shall be the sum of the
estimated cost approved by the city engineer.
   B.   If the developer is not in default under the terms of the development
agreement, the city may allow a proportionate reduction in the amount of the
performance guarantee in increments not less than twenty five percent (25%) of
the surety amount. The amount of the performance guarantee shall always be
greater or equal to the amount of the cumulative required warranty amount. City
may charge fees for processing any partial release. (Ord. 19B, 8-7-2024; amd.
Ord. 86B, 8-7-2024)
9-8-5: RELEASE OF PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE:
As soon as any one of the following occurs, the city may release any
performance guarantee which has not been used or encumbered under provisions of
the development agreement or this code:
   A.   The final acceptance of all improvements and the posting of warranty
guarantee as set forth in this code.
   B.   The expiration of the warranty period as provided in this code. (Ord.
19B, 8-7-2024; amd. Ord. 86B, 8-7-2024)
9-8-6: PENALTY IN CASE OF FAILURE TO COMPLETE IMPROVEMENTS:
In the event the developer shall, in any case, fail to complete such work
within the period of time as required by the conditions of the guarantee for
the completion of public improvements, it shall be the authority of the city
council to proceed to have such work completed. In order to accomplish this,
the city may reimburse itself for the cost and expense thereof by appropriating
the performance guarantee instrument or may take such steps as may be necessary
to require performance by the bonding or surety company as included in a
written agreement between the city and the developer. (Ord. 19B, 8-7-2024; amd.
Ord. 86B, 8-7-2024)
9-8-7: DEDICATIONS:
Acceptance of dedication of streets or other public areas or facilities shall
be by the city council after review and recommendation by the city engineer.
Any dedications for property and/or public improvements shall be free and clear
of all liens and encumbrances. (Ord. 19B, 8-7-2024; amd. Ord. 86B, 8-7-2024)
9-8-8: MAINTENANCE:
The developer shall perform capital maintenance of each required public
improvement until the city has expressly accepted the improvements. Details of
the maintenance provisions shall be included in the construction improvement
agreement. (Ord. 19B, 8-7-2024; amd. Ord. 86B, 8-7-2024)
9-8-9: WARRANTY OF IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   The developer shall warranty the design, construction materials, and
workmanship of the improvements installed pursuant to this title against any
failure or defect in design, construction, material, or workmanship for a
period of one year, except for sewer systems which shall be warranted until
such time as the number of active users on the system reaches twenty percent
(20%) of the approved user design capacity, but not less than one year or more
than three (3) years.
   B.   This warranty shall cover all direct and indirect costs of repair or
replacement, and damage to the property, improvements, or facilities of the
city or any other person, caused by such failure or defect or in the course of
repairs, any increase in cost to the city of operating and maintaining a city
improvement resulting from such failures, defects, or damages.
   C.   The warranty shall not extend to any failure or defect caused solely by
changes in design, construction, or materials required by the city as a
deviation from regular requirements established by this title. (Ord. 19B, 8-7-
2024; amd. Ord. 86B, 8-7-2024)
9-8-10: WARRANTY GUARANTEE:
To secure the developer's performance of the warranty of improvements, the
performance guarantee provided by the developer pursuant to this code shall
remain in effect until the end of the warranty period or the developer shall
provide a warranty guarantee by one or more of the following instruments in an
amount according to this chapter:
   A.   Warranty Bond: The developer may provide a performance bond from a
company qualified by law to act as a surety in the state. The bond shall be in
the form approved by the city and name the city as the obligee and the
developer as principal.
   B.   Escrow: The developer may deposit funds in an escrow with a bank or
financial institution qualified by law to do business in the state. The
disbursement of the escrow funds shall be governed by an escrow agreement in a
form approved by the city.
   C.   Irrevocable Letter Of Credit: The developer may cause a bank or
financial institution qualified by law to do business in the state to issue an
irrevocable letter of credit in a form approved by the city. (Ord. 19B, 8-7-
2024; amd. Ord. 86B, 8-7-2024)
9-8-11: WARRANTY GUARANTEE AMOUNT:
The amount required to be provided in the form of a warranty guarantee as
described above shall be a percentage of the actual cost of improvements:
   A.   Less than five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00) in improvements
shall require a guarantee in the amount of ten percent (10%) of the actual cost
of improvements.
   B.   At least five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00), but less than one
million dollars ($1,000,000.00) in improvements shall require a guarantee in
the amount of seven and one-half percent (7.5%) of the actual cost of
improvements.
   C.   One million dollars ($1,000,000.00) or more in improvements shall
require a guarantee in the amount of five percent (5%) of the actual cost of
improvements. (Ord. 19B, 8-7-2024; amd. Ord. 86B, 8-7-2024)
CHAPTER 9
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
SECTION:
9-9-1: General
9-9-2: Blocks
9-9-3: Lots
9-9-4: Street Location
9-9-5: Street Specifications, Public
9-9-6: Street Specifications, Private
9-9-7: Improvements To Existing Streets
9-9-8: Street Names
9-9-9: Alleys
9-9-10: Approaches
9-9-11: Mailbox Turnouts
9-9-12: Signs
9-9-13: Sewer Systems
9-9-14: Sewer Connections
9-9-15: Water Systems
9-9-16: Water Connections
9-9-17: Fire Protection
9-9-18: Street Lighting
9-9-19: Public Utilities
9-9-20: Easements To Be Provided
9-9-21: Open Space
9-9-1: GENERAL:
   A.   Development standards are adopted to provide for adequate facilities,
lots satisfactory for building, and provide uniformity in the development of
streets, utilities, and other improvements.
   B.   Whenever a manual is specified, it shall be the most current
publication, unless otherwise specified.
   C.   The capacities and dimensions of water, sewer, drainage and street
facilities shall be adequate to provide for the future needs of other
undeveloped properties in the general vicinity. The city may share in the cost
of these improvements to the extent of the difference in cost between the
capacities needed to serve the subdivision and the capacities required to serve
the vicinity.
   D.   Where any of these standards are in conflict with regulations of any
other ordinance, regulation or provision of law, the standard which is more
restrictive or imposes the provisions most likely to protect the public health,
safety and general welfare shall control. (Ord. 19B, 8-7-2024; amd. Ord. 86B,
8-7-2024)
9-9-2: BLOCKS:
   A.   In general blocks shall be as long as is reasonably possible,
consistent with the topography and the needs for convenient access,
circulation, control and safety of street traffic. Blocks shall not exceed six
hundred feet (600') or be less than two hundred fifty feet (250') in length.
   B.   The width of blocks shall ordinarily be sufficient to allow for two (2)
tiers of lots of depths consistent with the type of land use proposed. Blocks
shall not be less than two hundred feet (200') in depth unless they contain a
single bank of lots.
   C.   All blocks shall be numbered in a systematic order. (Ord. 19B, 8-7-
2024; amd. Ord. 86B, 8-7-2024)
9-9-3: LOTS:
   A.   Lot size shall conform to the minimum set forth in the zoning ordinance
and shall be suitable for the land use proposed.
   B.   Each lot shall have frontage on a public right of way or on an approved
private street sufficient to provide access or as prescribed in the zoning
ordinance, whichever is greater.
   C.   Side lot lines shall be substantially at right angles to the street
lines. Side lot lines at the terminus of a cul-de-sac shall be radiant to the
street lines.
   D.   All lots shall be numbered in a systematic order. (Ord. 19B, 8-7-2024;
amd. Ord. 86B, 8-7-2024)
9-9-4: STREET LOCATION:
   A.   The layout of streets shall provide for the continuation of existing
streets and shall provide for the future projection of streets into areas which
are presently not subdivided.
   B.   Dead end streets will not be approved except in locations designated to
be necessary to future development of adjacent lands.
   C.   Where a subdivision abuts or contains the right of way of a railroad, a
limited access highway, or abuts an industrial land use, a street approximately
parallel to and on each side of such right of way may be required. Such streets
shall be at a distance suitable for the intervening land and take into
consideration the future construction of any bridges or other means of
connection. (Ord. 19B, 8-7-2024; amd. Ord. 86B, 8-7-2024)
9-9-5: STREET SPECIFICATIONS, PUBLIC:
Street specifications shall conform with the City's Street and Road Manual.
(Ord. 19B, 8-7-2024; amd. Ord. 86B, 8-7-2024)
9-9-6: STREET SPECIFICATIONS, PRIVATE:
Private streets may be approved by the city council and must conform to the
City's Street and Road Manual. (Ord. 19B, 8-7-2024; amd. Ord. 86B, 8-7-2024)
9-9-7: IMPROVEMENTS TO EXISTING STREETS:
   A.   Improvements to existing streets may be required to ensure the smooth
transition to a new street adjoining or meeting the existing street.
   B.   Improvements to existing access roads may be required. (Ord. 19B, 8-7-
2024; amd. Ord. 86B, 8-7-2024)
9-9-8: STREET NAMES:
Any new street established within the city, public or private, shall require a
street name approved by the County. (Ord. 19B, 8-7-2024; amd. Ord. 86B, 8-7-
2024)
9-9-9: ALLEYS:
Alley's specifications shall conform with the City's Street and Road Manual.
(Ord. 19B, 8-7-2024; amd. Ord. 86B, 8-7-2024)
9-9-10: APPROACHES:
Approaches specifications shall conform with the City's Street and Road Manual.
All approaches to state highways shall conform to the state adopted standards
and be approved by the Idaho department of transportation. (Ord. 19B, 8-7-2024;
amd. Ord. 86B, 8-7-2024)
9-9-11: MAILBOX TURNOUTS:
It is desired to have the mail carrier stop out of the travel way whenever
possible for safety reasons. When any mailbox is to be installed on a public
street, the owner of such mailbox shall not create a hazard. The location and
construction of mailboxes shall conform to the rules and regulations of the
U.S. Postal Service and standards established in A Guide for Erecting Mailboxes
on Highways, published by the American Association of State Highway and
Transportation Officials, 1994, or the latest version. (Ord. 19B, 8-7-2024;
amd. Ord. 86B, 8-7-2024)
9-9-12: SIGNS:
   A.   All signs for the purpose of street identification, traffic flow,
speed, or other required street signs shall be new and shall be installed in
accordance to the "Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices" (MUTCD).
   B.   Street name signs shall be installed in the appropriate locations at
each street intersection.
   C.   Traffic control signs as legally required or deemed necessary shall be
installed in accordance with MUTCD standards. (Ord. 19B, 8-7-2024; amd. Ord.
86B, 8-7-2024)
9-9-13: SEWER SYSTEMS:
   A.   Where applicable all subdivisions within city limits shall be provided
with a complete sanitary sewer system serving each lot to be used for building.
   B.   All public sewage systems shall be an extension of existing public
systems whenever possible. In the event that the proposed public system is not
an extension of an existing system, there shall be a showing by the developer
that the extension is not feasible and not to the best interest of the public.
   C.   All public sewage systems shall be constructed in accordance with the
Idaho standards for public works construction (ISPWC) and this code. Public
sewage systems shall be built to provide future connections where applicable.
   D.   All public sewage system plans shall be submitted to the Idaho
department of environmental quality for approval and a copy of the letter of
such approval provided to the city. (Ord. 19B, 8-7-2024; amd. Ord. 86B, 8-7-
2024)
9-9-14: SEWER CONNECTIONS:
See - Chapter 7 - Public Utilities. (Ord. 19B, 8-7-2024; amd. Ord. 86B, 8-7-
2024)
9-9-15: WATER SYSTEMS:
See - Chapter 7 - Public Utilities. (Ord. 19B, 8-7-2024; amd. Ord. 86B, 8-7-
2024)
9-9-16: WATER CONNECTIONS:
See - Chapter 7 - Public Utilities. (Ord. 19B, 8-7-2024; amd. Ord. 86B, 8-7-
2024)
9-9-17: FIRE PROTECTION:
   A.   Adequate fire protection shall be provided. Standard hydrant spacing
shall be one at each street intersection with intermediate hydrants where
intersections exceed five hundred feet (500').
   B.   When any portion of a building or hazard to be protected is in excess
of one hundred fifty feet (150') from a public street frontage, there shall be
provided, when required by the Fire Chief, on site fire hydrants and mains
capable of supplying the required flow.
   C.   Fire protection shall be designed and meet the national fire code and
current engineering standards.
   D.   All required fire hydrants shall be tested and approved as to service,
location, and available flow by the Fire Chief. (Ord. 19B, 8-7-2024; amd. Ord.
86B, 8-7-2024)
9-9-18: STREET LIGHTING:
Street lighting shall be installed as required by the City and shall conform to
the requirements of the City and the public utility providing such lighting.
(Ord. 19B, 8-7-2024; amd. Ord. 86B, 8-7-2024)
9-9-19: PUBLIC UTILITIES:
Public utilities shall be installed per utility standards. (Ord. 19B, 8-7-2024;
amd. Ord. 86B, 8-7-2024)
9-9-20: EASEMENTS TO BE PROVIDED:
   A.   Where alleys are not provided, easements for public utilities shall be
provided on each side of all rear lot lines where necessary. Such easements
shall not be less than five feet (5') wide on the half width. Easements for
water or sewer lines shall not be less than ten feet (10') on the half width.
The easements shall be continuous and aligned from block to block.
   B.   Easements for unusual facilities such as high voltage electrical lines,
drainage structures, and pond areas, shall be of such widths as is adequate for
the purpose, including any maintenance roads. (Ord. 19B, 8-7-2024; amd. Ord.
86B, 8-7-2024)
9-9-21: OPEN SPACE:
Common lots which do not comply with the minimum requirements of the zoning
ordinance, and which are part of a subdivision may be approved when said lots
are designated for open space or some other common purpose, and when an
acceptable method of maintenance is provided. (Ord. 19B, 8-7-2024; amd. Ord.
86B, 8-7-2024)
