NEZPERCE, IDAHO
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local legislation current through Ordinance 2025-07, passed 3-10-2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
      
11.   CITY STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title
   
10.02   Acceptance
   
10.03   Amendments
   
10.04   Maintenance of city code
   
10.05   Repeal of general ordinances
   
10.06   Public utility ordinances
   
10.07   Saving clause
   
10.08   General constructional rule
   
10.09   Plural and singular words
   
10.10   Masculine and feminine gender
   
10.11   Priority of ordinance
   
10.12   Definitions
   
10.13   Captions
   
10.14   Severability
 
   
10.99   Penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE.
   This codification of the general ordinances of the City of Nezperce is
declared to be the official City Code of the City of Nezperce.
§ 10.02 ACCEPTANCE.
   Any official copy of the code shall be received without further proof in all
courts and in all administrative tribunals of the state.
§ 10.03 AMENDMENTS.
   Any ordinance amending the code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended. All such ordinances
shall comply with the provisions of the code and Idaho Code Title 50, Chapter
9, regarding passage, execution and publication of ordinances. All such
amendments shall be promptly forwarded to the codifiers by the City Clerk/
Treasurer and such ordinance shall be promptly published and inserted in its
proper place in each copy of the city code.
§ 10.04 MAINTENANCE OF CITY CODE.
   Upon receipt of each published ordinance from the codifiers, the City Clerk/
Treasurer shall promptly forward a copy of each page thereof to each person
having an official copy of the city code. The City Clerk/Treasurer may collect
a fee for each copy of the city code and an annual fee for maintenance thereof;
provided, such fees shall be established by resolution or ordinance duly passed
by the City Council.
§ 10.05 REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Repeal of existing ordinances. The ordinances contained in this code
of ordinances shall be construed as continuations thereof of existing
ordinances; but subject to the limitations and provisions of division (B)
below, all ordinances and resolutions of the city heretofore in force (except
grants, dedications, abandonments of streets and alleys and special levies for
local assessments) are hereby repealed.
(Prior Code, § 1-101)
   (B)   Effect of repealing ordinances. The repeal of ordinances as provided
herein shall not affect any right which has accrued, any duty imposed, any
penalty incurred, nor any action or proceedings as commenced any person holding
office at the time when they take effect; nor shall the repeal of any
ordinances thereby have the effect of revising any ordinance therefor repealed
or superseded.
(Prior Code, § 1-102)
§ 10.06 PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES.
   No ordinance or section thereof relating to railroad or railroad crossings
of streets and other public ways, or relating to the conduct, duties, service
or rates of public utilities, shall be repealed by the adoption of the code or
by §
10.05 of this chapter, except as this code specifically provides for such
repeal.
§ 10.07 SAVING CLAUSE.
   Any ordinance amending or repealing any section of the code shall not be
deemed or construed to abate any pending action based upon such amended or
repealed section, nor shall the passage of such ordinance prevent the arrest,
prosecution and punishment of any violation of such section committed prior to
the effective date of such ordinance.
§ 10.08 GENERAL CONSTRUCTIONAL RULE.
   In the construction of this code of ordinances and all ordinances amendatory
thereof or supplementary thereto the following rules shall be observed unless
such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the
legislative body or repugnant to the context of the ordinance.
   (A)   Intent to defraud. Whenever, by any of the provisions of this code, an
intent to defraud is required in order to constitute an offense, it is
sufficient if an intent appears to defraud any persons, association or body,
politic or any combination of persons.
   (B)   Liability of employers and agents. When the provisions of any
ordinance prohibit the commission or omission of an act, not only the person
actually doing the prohibited thing or omitting the directed act, the person
shall be guilty of the offense described and liable to the penalty set forth in
this code.
(Prior Code, § 1-103)
§ 10.09 PLURAL AND SINGULAR WORDS.
   Whenever any word in the code is used in either the singular or in the
plural form, then such word shall be deemed to include both the plural and
singular forms of such word, unless the context indicates an intent otherwise.
§ 10.10 MASCULINE AND FEMININE GENDER.
   When any person is referred to in any section of the code by use of the
masculine gender, then such reference shall be deemed to include the feminine
gender unless the context indicates an intent otherwise.
§ 10.11 PRIORITY OF ORDINANCE.
   In the event of any discrepancy or conflict between the code and any
ordinance passing or amending the same section of the code, then the provisions
of the ordinance shall prevail.
§ 10.12 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGENT. A person acting on behalf of another.
   CITY. The City of Nezperce, Lewis County, State of Idaho.
   CITY ATTORNEY. An attorney appointed by the Mayor to provide general counsel
and legal assistance to the city and to prosecute or defend all civil actions
in which the city is a party.
   CLERK. The Clerk/Treasurer of the City of Nezperce, Idaho.
   COUNCIL. The lawfully elected governing body of Nezperce, Idaho.
   COUNTY. The County of Lewis, Idaho.
   CRIME. An act in violation of this code.
   DAY. Any 24-hour period from midnight to midnight.
   FELONY. A crime as defined under Idaho Code § 18-111.
   GOVERNING BODY. The Mayor and City Council of Nezperce, Idaho.
   IDAPA. Idaho Administrative Regulations. A numbering designation for all
administrative rules in Idaho which denotes rules promulgated in accordance
with the state’s Administrative Procedure Act, Idaho Code Title 67, Chapter 52.
   INFRACTION. A civil public offense, not constituting a crime, which is
punishable only by a penalty not exceeding $300 plus court costs and for which
no incarceration may be imposed.
   KNOWINGLY. Imports only a knowledge that the facts exist which rings the act
or omission within the provisions of these ordinances.
   LAND, REAL ESTATE and REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements,
hereditaments, water rights, possessory rights and claims.
   LICENSE. The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, trade,
profession or occupation.
   MISDEMEANOR. Every crime, except a felony.
   MONTH. A calendar month unless otherwise expressed.
   NEGLECT, NEGLIGENCE, NEGLIGENT and NEGLIGENTLY. Imports a want of such
attention to the nature or probable consequences of the act or omission as a
prudent human ordinarily bestows in acting in his or her own concern.
   OATH. Includes AFFIRMATION and the word SWEAR includes the word AFFIRM.
Every mode of oral statement under oath or affirmation is embraced in the term
TESTIFY and every written one in the term DEPOSE.
   OCCUPANT. Any person who occupies the whole or any part of such building or
land, whether alone or with others.
   OFFENSE. A crime or other violation of this code.
   OFFICER. Include officers as boards in charge of departments and the members
of such boards.
   OPERATOR. The person who is generally in charge of or responsible for
conducting any business, profession or enterprise.
   OWNER. Any person owning real or personal property, including any part
owner, joint owner, tenant in common, joint tenant, remainderman or person
holding a life estate or reversionary interest of any kind.
   PERSON. A human being and any public or private corporation, firm,
partnership, trust, estate, sole proprietorship, association, organization,
government or any other entity recognized under state law.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Money, goods, chattels, effects, rights in action and all
written instruments evidencing any pecuniary obligation.
   PROPERTY. Includes both real and personal property.
   QUARTER. Any three-month period, ending with the last days of March, June,
September and December.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
   STATE. The State of Idaho.
   STREET. All public roads, ways, alleys and rights-of-way used for the
movement of vehicular traffic, including any public sidewalks adjacent thereto.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. Any person who occupies any building or real property
for a consideration to the owner.
   TREASURER. The Clerk/Treasurer of the City of Nezperce, Idaho.
   WRITING. Includes printing, writing and typewriting.
   YEAR. Any one calendar year.
(Prior Code, § 1-103)
§ 10.13 CAPTIONS.
   The title of any section or division of these ordinances all be deemed to in
no wise restrict or qualify or limit the effect of the provisions set forth and
contained in such section or division.
(Prior Code, § 1-103)
§ 10.14 SEVERABILITY.
   Should any section, division or portion of this code of ordinances, or of
any ordinance which may be hereafter passed, approved and published as required
by law, be declared by any court of competent jurisdiction to be
unconstitutional or void, such adjudication shall in no way affect the
remaining portion or such section, division, part or portion of this code of
ordinances or any such ordinance hereafter passed.
(Prior Code, § 1-103)
§ 10.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   General penalty. Any person convicted of a misdemeanor or violation of
any section of this code shall be fined in a sum not exceeding $1,000 for
general misdemeanor violations, or confined in a city jail not more than 30
days, or both such fine and imprisonment, recoverable with costs, and default
of payment of any fine imposed, shall be imprisoned in the city jail for a
period of one day for each $10 of such fine.
(Prior Code, § 1-501)
   (B)   To what acts penalty shall attach. Any person who shall commit any act
declared by any section of this code to be unlawful, or who fails to perform
any act or discharge any obligations or duty required by or imposed upon him or
her by any ordinance shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be
subject to the penalty fixed for the violation with like effect as if such
penalty were specifically declared in the section forbidding such act or
declaring the same to be unlawful or prescribing the day or imposing the
obligations, and where any duty is prescribed or obligation imposed, or where
any act which is of the continuing nature is forbidden or declared to unlawful,
each day such duty or obligation remains unperformed or such act continues,
shall constitute a separate offense, except where otherwise provided in this
code.
(Prior Code, § 1-502)
CHAPTER 11: CITY STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Corporate seal
   
11.02   Official newspaper
   
11.03   Depository designated
§ 11.01 CORPORATE SEAL.
   The official seal of the city shall be in circular in form and inscribed
thereon as follow: the word “SEAL” across the center of the circle and around
the outside shall be inscribed “CITY OF NEZPERCE, LEWIS COUNTY, IDAHO”.
(Prior Code, § 1-201)
§ 11.02 OFFICIAL NEWSPAPER.
   The Lewis County Herald, a weekly newspaper, printed and published in the
city, is hereby appointed, designated and constituted the official newspaper of
the city for publication of all ordinances and other writings as are required
under and by virtue of the laws of the state and of the said city to be
published in a newspaper.
(Prior Code, § 1-301)
§ 11.03 DEPOSITORY DESIGNATED.
   The Cottonwood Community Federal Credit Union, Nezperce, Idaho, and the
Idaho State Treasurers Investment Pool, are hereby designated as the
depositories for the city and the Clerk/Treasurer is hereby ordered, required
and directed to keep moneys belonging to the city in the depositories herein
named.
(Prior Code, § 1-401)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
      
31.   OFFICERS, EMPLOYEES AND ORGANIZATIONS
      
32.   GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
Section
Mayor
   
30.01   Duties generally
   
30.02   Mayor to sign documents
   
30.03   Mayor to borrow money
   
30.04   Mayor to offer rewards
   
30.05   Veto power
   
30.06   Accounts and reports
   
30.07   Mayor to require aid
   
30.08   Salary
City Council
   
30.20   Composition
   
30.21   President of Council
   
30.22   Duties
   
30.23   Time and place of meetings
   
30.24   Quorum and discipline
   
30.25   Care of funds
   
30.26   Records
   
30.27   Examination of officers’ accounts
   
30.28   Presentation, passage of ordinances
   
30.29   Passage over veto
   
30.30   Vacancy
   
30.31   Salary
   
30.32   Continuity in government in event of disaster or emergency
Cross-reference:
   Appointment of officers, see §
31.01
   County Multi-Hazard Mitigation Plan, see §
32.01
   Fee schedule, see §
32.05
   Term of office; removal, see §
31.02
MAYOR
§ 30.01 DUTIES GENERALLY.
   The Mayor shall: be the chief administrative official of the city; preside
at all meetings of the Council and be empowered to vote when the Council is
equally divided; call special meetings when necessary; appoint, subject to the
approval of the City Council, all officers and employees of the city; and shall
have all other duties required and necessary for the efficient operation of the
business of the city and duties imposed by the laws of the state.
(Prior Code, § 1-1101)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Idaho Code § 50-602
§ 30.02 MAYOR TO SIGN DOCUMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   The Mayor is authorized and empowered to sign, for and in behalf
of the city, all contracts, documents and papers to which the city is a part
and to require that the conditions in any instrument are faithfully performed.
      (2)   The Mayor does not sign checks.
(Prior Code, § 1-1102)
   (B)   The Mayor is duly authorized to sign applications, grant agreements
and amendments and other documents relating to wastewater facilities planning
grants.
(Res. R2019-2, passed 2-12-2019)
§ 30.03 MAYOR TO BORROW MONEY.
   The Mayor may borrow money on the credit of the city when so authorized by
the Council.
(Prior Code, § 1-1103)
§ 30.04 MAYOR TO OFFER REWARDS.
   The Mayor, whenever he or she deems expedient, is hereby empowered to offer
a reward for the arrest and conviction of any person charged with violating any
of the ordinances of the city.
(Prior Code, § 1-1104)
§ 30.05 VETO POWER.
   The Mayor shall have the power to veto or sign any ordinance passed by the
City Council; provided that, any ordinance vetoed by the Mayor may be passed
over his or her veto by a vote of one-half plus one of the members of the full
Council, notwithstanding the veto, and should the Mayor neglect or refuse to
sign any ordinance and return the same with his or her objections, in writing,
at the next regular meeting of the Council, the same shall become a law without
his or her signature.
(Prior Code, § 1-1105)
§ 30.06 ACCOUNTS AND REPORTS.
   The Mayor shall have the power, when he or she deems it necessary, to
require any officer of the city to exhibit his or her accounts or papers, or to
make reports to the Council in writing touching any subject or matter
pertaining to his or her office.
(Prior Code, § 1-1106)
§ 30.07 MAYOR TO REQUIRE AID.
   The Mayor is hereby authorized to call on every male inhabitant of the city
over 21 years of age to aid in enforcing the laws.
(Prior Code, § 1-1107)
§ 30.08 SALARY.
   (A)   The Mayor shall receive an annual salary in the sum of $2,140.
   (B)   In addition to the monetary compensation specified in division (A)
above, the Mayor shall be responsible only for payment of the base water rate
as established in the current fee schedule for residential water service at
their primary residence within the city limits. The Mayor shall be exempt from
any water usage fees, consumption charges or tiered rate structures that exceed
the base water rate.
   (C)   The exemption provided in division (B) above shall apply only to the
Mayor’s primary residence and shall not be transferable to any other property
or person.
(Prior Code, § 1-1108) (Ord. 2019-4, passed 8-13-2019; Ord. 2025-03, passed 2-
10-2025)
CITY COUNCIL
§ 30.20 COMPOSITION.
   The legislative authority of the city shall be vested in a City Council
consisting of four members, qualified as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 1-1201)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Idaho Code § 50-701
§ 30.21 PRESIDENT OF COUNCIL.
   At the first meeting of the Council in January following a general city
election, the Council shall, from its members, elect one Council member to be
styled as “President of the Council”. The President of the Council shall have
all powers of the Mayor when serving that office due to absence of the Mayor or
vacancy in the office of the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 1-1202)
§ 30.22 DUTIES.
   The members of the City Council, the legislative and policy-making branch of
the government of the city, shall devote so much of their time to the duties of
their office as an efficient and faithful discharge thereof may require. They
shall attend all meetings of the Council unless lawfully excused therefrom by
the Mayor by a majority of the remaining members, perform all duties required
by them by law and as may be assigned committees to which they may severally be
appointed by the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 1-1203)
§ 30.23 TIME AND PLACE OF MEETINGS.
   The Council shall hold regular meetings in the City Council Chambers at 606
Maple Street. The meetings are held on the second Monday of each month at 5:30
p.m in the months of October, November, December, January, February and March;
meetings will be at 7:00 a.m. in April, May, June, July, August and September.
The Mayor or one-half plus one of the membership of the Council may call
special meetings, the object of which must be submitted to the members in
writing if possible, unless waived by the Council, and the call, object and the
deposition thereof shall be entered upon the Journal by the Clerk/Treasurer. If
the regular meeting day of any month is a holiday, the meeting shall be held on
the following day at the regular hour.
(Prior Code, § 1-1204) (Ord. 2019-8, passed 9-10-2019)
§ 30.24 QUORUM AND DISCIPLINE.
   (A)   At all meetings of the Council, a majority of the full Council shall
constitute a quorum for the transaction of business; unless otherwise provided
by law, a question before the Council shall be decided by a majority of the
members present.
   (B)   For the purpose of holding regular or special meetings, a number less
than a majority may compel the attendance of absent members in such manner and
under such penalties as the Council may, by ordinance, have previously
prescribed. Regular or special meetings of the Council may, by ordinance, have
previously prescribed. Regular or special meetings of the Council may be
recessed until further notice.
(Prior Code, § 1-1205)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Idaho Code § 50-706
§ 30.25 CARE OF FUNDS.
   The City Council shall make provisions for the care and safekeeping of all
public funds of the city and for the deposit of the same.
(Prior Code, § 1-1206)
§ 30.26 RECORDS.
   The City Council shall make provisions for an adequate record system and, by
ordinance, establish a classification for retention of records in accordance
with the provisions of Idaho Code Title 50.
(Prior Code, § 1-1207)
§ 30.27 EXAMINATION OF OFFICERS’ ACCOUNTS.
   At least once in each quarter of each year, the Council shall examine,
either in open session or by committee, the accounts and doings of all officers
or other persons having the care, management or disposition of moneys, property
or business of the city.
(Prior Code, § 1-1208)
§ 30.28 PRESENTATION, PASSAGE OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   All ordinances of the city shall be typewritten or printed and
presented to the Council by a member at any regular or special meeting. Every
such ordinance shall be read at the meetings of the Council on three different
days; at each reading, it shall be open to discussion and amendment or may be
referred to a committee unless by majority vote other disposition is made. All
ordinances which have been amended shall after the second reading be engrossed
by the Clerk/Treasurer as amended. On final passage, the yeas and nays shall be
called and recorded and a concurrence of a majority of the full Council shall
be required for passage; provided, however, that, on the vote of one-half plus
one member of the Council may dispense with the portion of this section
requiring all ordinances to be read on three different days and, on the vote,
upon the motion to dispense with this rule and the yeas and nays shall be
called and recorded.
   (B)   When any such ordinance is passed, it shall be signed by the Clerk/
Treasurer and the date of its passage by the Council shall be added thereto,
and it shall, within three days thereafter, be presented to the Mayor or, in
case of his or her absence from the city, to the President of the Council for
his or her approval. If he or she approves the same, he or she shall attach his
or her signature thereto.
(Prior Code, § 1-1209)
§ 30.29 PASSAGE OVER VETO.
   (A)   Should the Mayor not approve the ordinance, he or she shall, before
the next regular meeting after such ordinance is presented to him or her for
his or her approval, return the ordinance to the Council with his or her
objections in writing. When any ordinance is so returned by the Mayor, it shall
be reconsidered by the Council at the first regular meeting thereafter. If, on
such reconsideration, one- half plus one of the members of the full Council
shall vote in the affirmative, the ordinance shall become a law notwithstanding
the Mayor’s veto. The Clerk/Treasurer, in such cases, shall annex a certificate
to the ordinance stating the same was vetoed by the Mayor and that, on its
reconsideration, it received the required majority of votes.
   (B)   Should the Mayor refuse or neglect to sign such ordinance and return
the same with his or her objections in writing at the next regular meeting
after the same has been presented to him or her, it shall become law without
his or her signature. The Clerk/Treasurer shall annex to such ordinance a
certificate to the effect that the Mayor has failed to sign or veto the same
and it has, therefor, become a law without his or her signature.
(Prior Code, § 1-1210)
§ 30.30 VACANCY.
   In the event an office of the Council shall become vacant, through death,
removal of residence or for any other cause, the Mayor shall appoint, with the
approval of the Council, a resident of the city to fill the term until the next
general election at which such vacancy shall be filled for the balance of the
original term.
(Prior Code, § 1-1211)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Idaho Code § 50-704
§ 30.31 SALARY.
   (A)   Each member of the Council shall receive an annual salary in the sum
of $700.
   (B)   In addition to the monetary compensation specified in division (A)
above, the Council members shall be responsible only for payment of the base
water rate as established in the current fee schedule for residential water
service at their primary residence within the city limits. The Council members
shall be exempt from any water usage fees, consumption charges or tiered rate
structures that exceed the base water rate.
   (C)   The exemption provided in division (B) above shall apply only to the
Council member’s primary residence and shall not be transferable to any other
property or person.
(Prior Code, § 1-1212) (Ord. 2019-4, passed 8-13-2019; Ord. 2025-04, passed 2-
10-2025)
§ 30.32 CONTINUITY IN GOVERNMENT IN EVENT OF DISASTER OR EMERGENCY.
   (A)   As provided in § 27 of the Constitution of the state, there is thereby
established the following procedure for filling the offices of the elected
officials in the event of an emergency or disaster. In the event of a vacancy
in the office of Mayor only, the Council member having the greatest years of
tenure as an elected officer shall succeed to that office.
   (B)   In the event there are, in addition to the Mayor, also vacancies on
the Council, the Mayor shall be elected from any by the new Council, who shall
be determined as follows: members of the Planning Commission shall succeed to
the vacancies on the Council in the order of their tenure as members to the
Planning Commission, beginning with the member of the longest tenure. For
expediency, all ties shall be determined by lot.
(Prior Code, § 1-1213)
CHAPTER 31: OFFICERS, EMPLOYEES AND ORGANIZATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Appointment of officers
   
31.02   Term of office; removal
   
31.03   Bonds of officers
   
31.04   Personnel policy
Specific Officers
   
31.15   City Clerk; Records Custodian
   
31.16   City Attorney
   
31.17   Chief of Fire Department
   
31.18   City Treasurer
Specific Organizations
   
31.30   Urban Forestry Board
   
31.31   Fire Department; fire protection
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 APPOINTMENT OF OFFICERS.
   The Mayor, with the consent of the Council, shall appoint a City Clerk/
Treasurer, City Attorney, Fire Chief and such other officers as may be deemed
necessary for the efficient operations of the city.
(Prior Code, § 1-601)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Idaho Code § 50-204
§ 31.02 TERM OF OFFICE; REMOVAL.
   All appointed officers shall hold office for the term for which they were
appointed and qualified; provided that, any appointed officer may at any time
be removed by the Mayor for any cause deemed sufficient, but such removal shall
be by and with the affirmative vote of three members of the City Council;
provided that, the City Council, by the unanimous vote of all its members may,
upon their own initiative, remove any appointed officer.
(Prior Code, § 1-602)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Idaho Code § 50-206
§ 31.03 BONDS OF OFFICERS.
   The Idaho Counties Risk Management Program (ICRMP) Insurance covers the
following bonds:
 
                             Per covered occurrence and The first $5,000 of any
Employee dishonesty $250,000 in the aggregate amount    loss
                             for all claims annually
Notary public       $10,000  Per covered occurrence      
 
(Prior Code, § 1-603)
§ 31.04 PERSONNEL POLICY.
   The city’s personnel policies, and any and all amendments thereto, are
hereby adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Res. 1995-2, passed 7-11-1995; Res. 2012-2, passed 3-6-2012)
SPECIFIC OFFICERS
§ 31.15 CITY CLERK; RECORDS CUSTODIAN.
   (A)   To keep city seal, ordinances and all city records.
      (1)   The Clerk shall be custodian of the seal and affix same to
documents as provided by law or ordinance. The Clerk shall also be custodian of
all public records, documents, ordinance, resolutions and orders of the Council
and such other papers and documents as may be delivered into his or her
custody.
      (2)   The City Clerk is designated as the primary records custodian for
the city for all city departments, except for law enforcement records. The
Deputy City Clerk is designated as the alternate records custodian for the city
for all city departments, except for law enforcement records.
   (B)   To attend meetings of the Council and keep minutes and records. The
Clerk shall attend all sessions of the Council, keep a correct journal and
shall keep in a separate book a record of ordinances passed by the Council and
of the titles of such ordinances; and all ordinances not published in book form
shall be carefully indexed in numbered order by year. The Clerk shall see that
each ordinance is published as required by law and he or she shall keep on file
the proof of such publications.
   (C)   To report to Council. The Clerk shall prepare and present to the
Council, at its regular meeting each month, a full and complete statement of
the financial transaction of his or her office during the month preceding,
which said statements shall set forth all receipts for licenses issued; money
received with applications for licenses which are to come before the Council;
all other funds received by him or her as Clerk and said report shall give a
detailed explanation of disbursements. He or she shall also, at the close of
each fiscal year, present to the Council an annual report covering the
operations of the entire year, which report shall contain a description of the
bonds issued and sold during the year and the term of sale; and shall itemize
each and every expense thereof. The Clerk shall also make such additional
report and furnish such other date from the records and files of his or her
office as may be requested by the City Council or be required by law.
   (D)   To furnish copies of city records. It shall be the duty of the Clerk
to furnish any city officer with a certified copy of any record, paper of
public document on file in his or her office or in his or her custody, for the
use of such officer in the discharge of his or her official duties and he or
she shall also furnish a certified copy of any such record, paper of document
to any person not an officer of the city upon the payment in advance of the
following:
      (1)   Hard copies: first 100 pages at no cost; any above and beyond will
be $0.20/page.
      (2)   Electronic copies: a labor fee will be charged at the hourly pay
rate of the lowest paid administrative staff employee or public official of the
public agency who is necessary and qualified to process the request.
   (E)   To keep books and records. The Clerk shall keep such books and
permanent records of the transaction and business of his or her office as may
be necessary to accurately disclose all transactions and business of his or her
office. He or she shall also countersign all checks and keep a “check
register”, showing the number and amount of checks issued and the person to
whom issued and the several funds against which said check is drawn.
   (F)   To issue licenses. The Clerk shall issue all licenses, a duplicate of
which shall be kept on file, but no license shall be issued to any person
unless fees and charges fixed by law shall have first been paid, for which
payment the Clerk shall issue a receipt in duplicate, upon request. The Clerk
shall endorse upon the receipt and duplicate receipt the number of the license
issued, the number of the application for license and the duplicate of such
receipt so issued shall be kept on file with the duplicate license.
   (G)   To keep record of city bonds. The Clerk shall keep records of
outstanding bonds of the city, showing the number and amount of each, for what
and to whom said bonds were issued, and when any said bonds are purchased or
paid or canceled said record shall show the fact and, in his or her report at
the close of each fiscal year, he or she shall describe particularly the bonds
issued and sold during the year, the term of said and itemize each and every
expense thereof.
   (H)   To turn money over to Treasurer. Within ten days after the filing of
his or her monthly report as provided herein, the Clerk shall deposit with the
Treasurer all funds collected by him or her during the preceding month, less
refunds which have been authorized by the Council.
   (I)   City checks to show fund drawn upon. Each check shall show the fund
upon which the same is drawn.
   (J)   Claims filed with the city.
      (1)   All claims against the city must be filed with the Clerk, in
writing, and by him or her presented to the governing body for their auditing,
with a full account of the items, verified by the oath of the claimant or his
or her agent, if requested by the Mayor or a majority of the Council, that the
same is correct, reasonable and just and that it, nor any part thereof, has not
been paid, and no claims or demands shall be audited or allowed unless
presented as provided for this section.
      (2)   All claims for damage against the city must be filed as prescribed
by Idaho Code Title 6, Chapter 9.
(Prior Code, § 1-701) (Res. R-2018-5, passed 7-10-2018; Res. R2024-09, passed
8-12-2024)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Idaho Code § 50-219
§ 31.16 CITY ATTORNEY.
   (A)   The City Attorney shall be the legal advisor of the municipal
corporation, may represent the city in all suits or proceedings in which the
city is interested and shall perform such other duties as may be prescribed by
ordinances and resolutions duly passed. Nothing herein, however, shall preclude
any city from employing alternative additional counsel when deemed advisable.
   (B)   The City Attorney, his or her deputies or contract counsel shall
prosecute those violations of county or city ordinances, state traffic
infractions and state misdemeanors committed within the municipal limits. In so
doing, the City Attorney, his or her deputies or contract counsel shall
exercise the same powers as the county prosecutor including, but not limited
to, granting immunity to witnesses.
(Prior Code, § 1-801)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Idaho Code § 50-208a
§ 31.17 CHIEF OF FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   The Chief of the Fire Department shall have, subject to the approval
of the City Council, supervision of all the affairs and business of the
Department, control of all Fire Department property and equipment, and the work
of all the members and employees thereof, and while attending fires, answering
fire calls and returning therefrom, subject to the approval of the City
Council, shall have the authority of the police officer. The First Assistant
Chief and Second Assistant Chief shall assist the Chief of the Fire Department
in his or her duties. In the absence of the Chief of the Fire Department, they
shall perform, in their proper order, the duties of such Chief.
(Prior Code, § 1-901)
   (B)   The Fire Chief shall receive an annual salary in the sum of $700.
(Ord. 2019-4, passed 8-13-2019)
§ 31.18 CITY TREASURER.
   (A)   To receive and safely keep funds. It shall be the duty of the
Treasurer to receive and safely keep in designated depositories, as required by
law, all moneys or funds belonging to the city; to disburse the same upon an
appropriation by ordinance or resolution of the City Council after audit and
allowance by the City Council of claims therefor and, upon checks of the City
Council, countersigned by the Clerk, and not otherwise. Securities belonging to
the city, incapable of deposit in a checking account, shall be kept by the
Treasurer in a safety deposit box in some banking institution designated by the
City Council. All bonds or securities delivered to the Treasurer by the
designated depository of city funds as security for such funds shall be
deposited with the County Auditor or other public official as may be provided
by law.
   (B)   To keep proper books and records. The Treasurer shall keep in a
suitable book or books a full and accurate account of city money and funds,
showing the date of receipt thereof, the person from whom received, on what
account and to what fund the same is credited with the date of disbursement,
the person to whom disbursed, on what account and against what fund.
   (C)   To deliver all paid vouchers and checks to clerk. All checks paid and
redeemed and all vouchers shall be delivered to the Clerk immediately upon
payment.
   (D)   To issue duplicate receipts for money received. The Treasurer shall
execute and deliver, upon request, to every officer or other person paying
money or funds into the treasury a receipt thereof specifying the date of the
payment, the amount thereof and upon what fund or account the same is received.
   (E)   To deliver books and papers to successors. The Treasurer shall deliver
to his or her successor in office all books, money, papers and other property
pertaining to his or her office.
   (F)   To publish quarterly reports of receipts and expenditures. It shall be
the duty of the Treasurer to cause to be published for at least one insertion
in the official newspaper of the city, between the first and third Mondays of
April, July, October and January of each and every year a full statement of the
receipts an expenditures of the city, giving the source from hence received, to
what purpose applied.
   (G)   To collect all moneys. The Treasurer shall receive and all officers or
other persons shall forthwith pay to the Treasurer, except as otherwise
provided by this code, all money due the city on any account whatsoever.
   (H)   To make monthly report to the City Council. The Treasurer shall, at
the end of each and every month, and at other times when required by the City
Council, render an account, including in and showing, under oath, the condition
of the Treasury with a detailed statement of the specified amount in each
designated depository and of the amount and class of security held to guarantee
each deposit. Such account shall also contain a statement of receipts and
disbursements, which shall be filed with the Clerk’s office. The City Council
shall have free access to any and all books or papers in the office of the
Treasurer for the purpose of inspection or examination.
   (I)   Consolidation. The offices of the City Clerk and the Treasurer may be
consolidated upon proper resolution by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 1-1001)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Idaho Code § 50-208
SPECIFIC ORGANIZATIONS
§ 31.30 URBAN FORESTRY BOARD.
   (A)   Creation and establishment. There is hereby created and established an
Urban Forestry Board for the city, which shall consist of five members,
citizens and residents of the community, as defined by the boundaries of the
School District, and at least one member of the City Council, who shall be an
ex officio, non-voting member.
   (B)   Term of office. The term of the five persons to be appointed by the
Mayor shall be three years; except that, the term of two of the members
appointed to the first Board shall be for only one year and the term of two
members of the first Board shall be for two years. In the event that a vacancy
shall occur during the term of any member, the successor shall be appointed for
the unexpired portion of the term.
   (C)   Compensation. Members of the Board shall serve without compensation.
   (D)   Duties and responsibilities. It shall be the responsibility of the
Board to study, investigate, counsel and develop and/or update annually, and
administer a written plan for the care, including planting, culture and removal
or disposition of trees and shrubs in parks, streets, alleys and other lands
owned or managed by the city. As a part of said plan, the Board may also, at
its discretion, provide guidance and make recommendations regarding planting
and tree care on private property within the city. Such plan will be presented
annually to the City Council and, upon their acceptance and approval, shall
constitute the official “Comprehensive Urban Forest Plan for the City of
Nezperce, Idaho”. The Board, when requested by the City Council, shall
consider, investigate, make findings, report and recommend upon any special
matter or question coming within the scope of its work.
   (E)   Amendments. Upon approval of the Comprehensive Urban Forest Plan by
the City Council, said plan including any subsequent amendments, shall become
part of this section.
   (F)   Operation. The Board shall choose its own officers, make its own rules
and regulations and keep a journal of its proceedings. A majority of the
members shall be a quorum for the transaction of business.
(Ord. 2003-3, passed 8-5-2003)
§ 31.31 FIRE DEPARTMENT; FIRE PROTECTION.
   (A)   (1)   Fire Department established. There is hereby established with
the municipality a department designated as the “Municipal Fire Department”.
(Prior Code, § 2-101)
      (2)   Personnel; duties of Chief.
         (a)   The Municipal Fire Department shall consist of a Chief of the
Fire Department, to be appointed by the governing body, and such other
personnel as the governing body may from time to time determine necessary.
         (b)   The duties of the Chief of the Municipal Fire Department shall
be as follows:
            1.   To direct the fighting of fires;
            2.   To have charge of, be responsible for and keep in good repair
all equipment and apparatus connected with or belonging to the Municipal Fire
Department;
            3.   To call and direct such fire drills and meetings as he or she
deems necessary for the training of persons in efficient fire fighting;
            4.   To have police authority while on duty as Fire Chief; and
            5.   To keep records of all fires and make reports of same to each
regular meeting of the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 2-102)
      (3)   Duties of volunteer members. It shall be the duty of the volunteer
members of the Municipal Fire Department to respond to all fire calls unless
prevented from so doing by unavoidable circumstances. They shall attend Fire
Department drills and meetings and obey such rules and regulations as are
established for the Municipal Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 2-103)
   (B)   The City Council supports and endorses county-wide fire protection for
its citizens.
(Res. 2011-8, passed 9-6-2011)
CHAPTER 32: GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES
Section
   
32.01   County Multi-Hazard Mitigation Plan
   
32.02   Excessive force policy
   
32.03   Non-discrimination on disability basis
   
32.04   Fee schedule
§ 32.01 COUNTY MULTI-HAZARD MITIGATION PLAN.
   The City Council does hereby adopt and support and will facilitate
implementation of the updated County Multi-Hazard Mitigation Plan, as deemed
appropriate.
(Res. R2020-2, passed 7-13-2020)
§ 32.02 EXCESSIVE FORCE POLICY.
   (A)   It is policy of the city that excessive force by local law enforcement
agencies shall not be used against individuals engaged in lawful and non-
violent civil rights demonstrations within the city boundaries.
   (B)   The City Council directs the Police Chief to implement this policy by
amending applicable Police Department procedures.
(Res. R 2016-7, passed 6-14-2016)
§ 32.03 NON-DISCRIMINATION ON DISABILITY BASIS.
   (A)   It is the policy of the city that all programs, services and
activities shall be accessible to, and usable by, individuals with
disabilities, in accordance with § 504 and the Americans with Disabilities Act,
being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq. (ADA).
   (B)   The city shall conduct a self-evaluation, which should include the
assistance of a citizen review committee involving individuals with
disabilities, of its programs, policies, procedures and facilities to determine
those areas where discrimination may occur.
   (C)   The city shall, upon completion of the self-evaluation plan, make
revisions, modifications or other changes so as to fully comply with the letter
and intent of § 504 and the ADA.
   (D)   Further, the city shall, where building modifications are required,
develop and implement a transition plan for eliminating architectural barriers
in a timely manner in accordance with § 504 and the ADA.
   (E)   Citizens may contact the Clerk/Treasurer at PO Box 367, 606 Maple
Street, Nezperce ID 83543 or by phone 208-937-1021 for assistance, or to answer
questions regarding this policy during the hours of Monday through Thursday, 8:
30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.
(Res. R-2018-1, passed 12-5-2017)
§ 32.04 FEE SCHEDULE.
   The city’s fee schedule, and any and all amendments, is hereby adopted by
reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Ord. 2005-9, passed - -2005; Res. 2009-1, passed 3-9-2009; Res. 2011-6, passed
8-2-2011; Res. R2012-6, passed 9-4-2012; Res. R2016-3, passed 1-12-2016; Res.
R2016-5, passed 2-9-2016; Res. R2017-1, passed 10-11-2016; Res. R2019-3, passed
8-13-2019; Res. R2020-5, passed -10-2020; Res. R2022-11, passed 8-22-2022; Res.
R2023-03, passed 6-12-2023; Res. R2024-1, passed 10-10-2023; Res. R2024-03,
passed 10-10-2023)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   SOLID WASTE
      
51.   WATER
      
52.   SEWERS
CHAPTER 50: SOLID WASTE
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Intent
   
50.02   Powers
   
50.03   Definitions
   
50.04   Enforcement
   
50.05   Compulsory use of the system
   
50.06   Billing and collection fees
Collection and Receptacles
   
50.20   Refuse collection
   
50.21   Refuse accumulation unlawful
   
50.22   Burning and dumping
   
50.23   Littering
   
50.24   Refuse containers
   
50.25   Collection period
   
50.26   Rubbish, special handling
   
50.27   Collection; business, houses
   
50.28   Collection fees
   
50.29   Equipment
   
50.30   Licensing and contracting
   
50.31   Materials not acceptable for collection
   
50.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Abandoned ice boxes, refrigerators and containers, see §
91.02
   Fee schedule, see §
32.05
   Nuisances, see §§
91.15 through
91.25
Statutory reference:
   Authority of city, see Idaho Code § 50-344
   Dumping on public lands and the like, see Idaho Code § 31-4410
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 INTENT.
   The maintenance of health and sanitation require, and it is the intention
hereof to make, the collection, removal and disposal of garbage, refuse and
dead animals within the city compulsory and universal.
(Prior Code, § 7-101)
§ 50.02 POWERS.
   This chapter empowers the city to issue license or franchise, exclusive or
non-exclusive, for the collection, removal and disposal of refuse from within
the city.
(Prior Code, § 7-102)
§ 50.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   COLLECTOR. The person holding a license or contract with the city, or
employed by the city, and thereby authorized and designated by the city, to
collect, handle, transport and dispose of refuse and wastes.
   GARBAGE. All putrescible wastes, except sewage and body waste, including
waster accumulated of animal food or vegetable matter, and including waste that
attends the preparation, use, cooking, dealing in or storing meat, fish, fowl,
fruit and vegetables and shall include all of such wastes or accumulations of
vegetable matter of residences, restaurants, hotels and places where food is
prepared for human consumption. The term GARBAGE shall not include recognized
industrial by-products.
   INSPECTOR. The authorized employee of the city or some individual designated
by the City Council as having the duty of the enforcement of this chapter.
   OWNER and OCCUPANT. May be used interchangeably, and shall mean every person
in possession, charge or in control of any dwelling, flat, rooming house or any
eating place, shop, place of business, manufacturing or business establishment
where garbage of other refuse is created or accumulated.
   PERSON. Every person, firm, partnership, association, institution and
corporation.
   REFUSE. Solid wastes, including garbage and rubbish.
   RUBBISH. Refuse other than garbage (tin cans, bottles, ashes, paper,
pasteboard, cardboard or wooden boxes, brush, leaves, weeds and cuttings from
trees, lawns, shrubs and gardens or other waste materials produced in normal
course of doing business or everyday living). The term RUBBISH shall not
include recognized industrial by-products.
   WASTE. Unwanted solid, liquid gaseous materials.
(Prior Code, § 7-103)
§ 50.04 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Chief of Police, or such persons as may be appointed by the Mayor and
Council, shall be responsible for the enforcement of the provisions of this
chapter, and other duties as the Council may prescribe, and there may be
designated as a member of the Police Department, a Sanitary Inspector and
Deputy Sanitation Inspector who shall enforce the same under the supervision of
the Chief of Police.
(Prior Code, § 7-104)
§ 50.05 COMPULSORY USE OF THE SYSTEM.
   Every owner and occupant of premises within the prescribed limits of the
city must use the refuse collection and disposal system herein provided, and
shall deposit or cause to be deposited in accordance with this chapter all
rubbish and garbage that is such nature that is perishable, or may decompose,
or may be scattered by wind or otherwise.
(Prior Code, § 7-105) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.06 BILLING AND COLLECTION FEES.
   (A)   From and after the effective date of this chapter, all fees for the
collection of garbage and refuse from within the city, including commercial as
well as residential users of the system, shall be payable to the city. Such
fees shall be carried on the city water bill, and the same shall be paid with
the water bill. The Water Department is hereby authorized to discontinue and or
all water, sanitation service to any premises if the entire, water and garbage
bill is not paid when due, said charges to become delinquent as provided for
water charges, and to be subject to the same penalties as have the same
remedies and powers of collection and enforcement as are provided in the case
of non-payment of water.
   (B)   In addition to any deposits required by existing ordinances to
guarantee payment of water charges, the city may require reasonable deposits
toward payment of sanitation charges, and the city shall have the right to off-
set any such deposit or deposits against any part of a water and garbage bill
which is past due.
   (C)   If any water or sanitation service to any premises is discontinued for
non-payment of fees, the city may refuse to resume any of such services to
those premises until the owner or occupant thereof shall have paid:
      (1)   All past due fees for water and sanitation services accrued since
the effective date of this chapter; and
      (2)   Any reasonable deposit required by the city as a guarantee for
payment of future services.
   (D)   This method of collection of fees is hereby extended to include the
costs of correcting or removing all accumulations of filth, clutter, rubbish,
garbage, refuse, waste or trash in or about public and private establishments,
all residences or premises whatsoever that is necessary to protect and preserve
the health, welfare, morals and safety and cleanliness of the municipality. In
the case of extensive or costly correction or removal, the city may use any
other method for recovery of the cost of correcting or removing these nuisances
that is allowed by law, plus penalties for violations as herein provided.
(Prior Code, § 7-106)
COLLECTION AND RECEPTACLES
§ 50.20 REFUSE COLLECTION.
   There is hereby established a system of refuse collection, transportation
and disposal. It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of
collecting, transporting, hauling or conveying any refuse over the street of
alleys, or to dump or dispose of the same, unless and until such person is
licensed therefor, or has a contract or franchise therefore as herein provided.
(Prior Code, § 7-107) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.21 REFUSE ACCUMULATION UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit or to suffer to accumulate in
or about any yard, lot, place or premises, or upon any street, alley or
sidewalk adjacent to such lot, yard, lot, premises or the street, alley or
sidewalk adjacent thereto, to be or remain in such condition as to cause or
create a nuisance or offensive odor or atmosphere or rodent harborage, or
thereby to be or to become, or cause or create, a public nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 7-108) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.22 BURNING AND DUMPING.
   No person shall burn, incinerate, bury, dump, collect, remove or in any
other manner dispose of rubbish or garbage, except as hereinafter; provided:
   (A)   Interior incinerator. Any person may use an incinerator in the
interior of a building between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m.; provided,
such incinerator meets the requirements of the Building Code;
   (B)   Exterior incinerator. Burning rubbish will be allowed in exterior
incinerators between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m.; such incinerators
shall be built of non-combustible material and shall be covered by one-half
inch wire mesh screen. In no event shall garbage be burned;
   (C)   Open burning. Burning of rubbish may be done on vacant lots by the
owner thereof upon obtaining a permit from the Fire Department for such
burning; and
   (D)   Disposal of ashes. The ashes from approved burning barrels or home
incinerators shall be removed from said barrels or home incinerators and placed
in garbage cans or suitable containers before requesting a collector to pick-up
these ashes. No glowing coals or smoldering material shall be left for
collecting unless the collector is notified of its condition by the patron and
the collector accepts the material for disposal.
(Prior Code, § 7-109) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.23 LITTERING.
   No person shall throw, discard or deposit any rubbish, garbage, refuse,
debris, trash, lighted material or other waste substances on an private or
public property, unless authorized to do so by the owner or person in charge of
such property.
(Prior Code, § 7-110) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.24 REFUSE CONTAINERS.
   It shall be the duty of every owner or occupant of any place where garbage
or rubbish is created or accumulated to at all times keep or cause to be kept
portable approved containers for the deposit therein or rubbish and garbage and
except as otherwise provided, to deposit or cause to be deposited all rubbish
and garbage therein. All garbage shall, before deposit in such can, be wrapped
in rodent- and fly-proof, shall be equipped with handles and a close-fitting
lid. Such containers shall be not less than ten gallons’ capacity, nor more
than 32 gallons’ capacity. The combined weight of any refuse container and its
contents shall not exceed 75 pounds. All metal containers shall be of not less
than 28-gauge metal or the equivalent, and be hot-dipped and fabricated to
assure non-locking cans. All other containers must be guaranteed by the
manufacturer and so labeled to be leak-proof regardless of manufacturing
process. Such lid shall not be removed, except when necessary to place garbage
and rubbish in such container or to take the same therefrom. Whenever garbage
or rubbish is placed therein or taken therefrom, such lid shall be replaced by
the person placing therein or taking therefrom such garbage or rubbish. Such
containers shall be kept in sanitary condition, with the inside and outside
thereof washed at such times as to keep the same free and clean of all
accumulating grease and decomposing material and so that no odor nuisance shall
exist. All garbage or refuse cans shall be placed in a place accessible or
places to the collector; provided that, in the case of isolated dwellings or
places of business or where reasonable access cannot be had by a truck, the
cans may be kept in such places as may be designated by the Inspector. Where
there is no alley entrance, such cans shall be placed adjacent to street curb
on collection days.
(Prior Code, § 7-111) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.25 COLLECTION PERIOD.
   Collectors shall collect rubbish and garbage from each customer’s residence
at least once a week on a regularly scheduled day; provided, however, where the
collection of garbage and refuse on the established schedules would be
impracticable because of unusual or exceptional circumstances, the Council may
issue a special permit altering the time and extent of collections. The
frequency and manner of commercial collections shall be governed by each
commercial customer’s usual needs and circumstances, and these shall be
established by agreement between the customer and the collector.
(Prior Code, § 7-112)
§ 50.26 RUBBISH, SPECIAL HANDLING.
   Rubbish consisting only of cardboard, or wooden boxes, leaves, weeds and
cuttings from trees, lawns, shrubs and gardens may be kept separately without
depositing in such containers; providing that, the bulk materials, such as
leaves, shall be in a can, box, sack or receptacle for ease of loading, and
that brush or any bulky material shall be tied in bundles not to exceed four
feet in length and not to exceed 75 pounds in weight. Compost piles may be
maintained for fertilizations purposes, and matter used for the same shall not
constitute a nuisance. Nothing in this section shall be construed so as to
permit the violation of any rule or regulation of the Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 7-113)
§ 50.27 COLLECTION: BUSINESS, HOUSES.
   To ensure the health of the inhabitants of the city, the Council hereby does
ordain that premises and businesses, such as, but not limited to, restaurants,
grocery stores, hospitals, butcher shops and establishments wherein large
accumulations of garbage occur, and are nuisances to the extent that the same
should by, and are hereby in the manner and method hereinafter provided,
designated as separate class of premises for the collection and disposal of
garbage and rubbish and the same shall be deposited separately in suitable cans
and containers. The Inspector shall designate such premises wherein large
accumulations of garbage occur and shall notify the owner of such premises or
such designation. From and after such notification by the Inspector, all
rubbish and garbage accumulated upon said premises shall be deposited
separately, in containers from garbage as approved by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 7-114)
§ 50.28 COLLECTION FEES.
   (A)   Fees and rates for the collection of garbage and refuse shall be set
by rules and regulations of the Council.
   (B)   The following fees are hereby established.
      (1)   Minimum charge. For all residential users of the system, a minimum
monthly fee of $25.72 shall be effective 10-1-2007. The minimum monthly fee for
commercial tote containers shall be $37, effective on the same date. The fee
shall entitle the user to one pick-up per week of a maximum of a 90-gallon tote
containers and commercial fees shall be increased by the same percentage (i.e.,
5%). Commercial users shall pay an administrative fee to the city of the lesser
of 10% of the monthly refuse billing or $5.75.
      (2)   Additional hauls. For each additional pick-up or haul per week, the
above minimum fee will be charged.
      (3)   Additional cans. For each additional can, bundle, box or other
container over the limit, there shall be a monthly charge of $0.75 in
residential and apartment hose pick-ups.
      (4)   Apartment billings. Billings for collections from apartments shall
be made to the same persons as the billings for water services to such
properties.
      (5)   Commercial collections. Rates and schedules for collections from
commercial premises may vary from the above established rates, depending upon
particular requirements and circumstances. For such commercial accounts wherein
the above rates do not apply, the collector shall file with the City Clerk/
Treasurer a copy of the monthly rate pr amount agreed upon by each such
commercial user and the collector. It shall be the collector’s responsibility
to furnish the City Clerk/Treasurer each month, on or before a date fixed by
the Clerk/Treasurer, with a statement of any additions and revisions to the
regular monthly charges of any customer. The city shall not be held responsible
for the failure to collect any amounts or accounts not timely furnished in
writing to the City Clerk/Treasurer in this manner. In the event the collector
and a commercial customer, either may refer the problem to the city and the
City Council shall be the final arbiter of the rate to be charged.
      (6)   Job work. The collector herein referred to shall be allowed to
enter into separate contract with patrons, outside the scope of this chapter,
under which hauling, pickups and similar work would be governed, but, the
charges imposed for the same by the collector are a matter of contract between
the patron and collector, and the city assumes no responsibility for collection
of funds under such arrangements.
      (7)   Vacation. Any premises not occupied for a full calendar month shall
not be required to pay for said sanitation service during said period, but such
persons wishing to take the advantage of this section must inform the office of
Clerk/Treasurer of the city in advance.
      (8)   Minimum refuse.
         (a)   Minimum refuse when any single person, being the occupant of a
dwelling or any married couple living primarily on Social Security or public
assistance income has refuse of such small amounts as not to require normal
pick-up collection thereof and requiring only one pick-up per month consisting
of one 32-gallon container containing only rubbish as defined herein the same
shall be picked up by the collector on the first collection day of each month
and the monthly charge shall be $1.50.
         (b)   Such container must be clearly marked by a red-painted lid so as
to be easily identifiable by the collector.
         (c)   Any persons wishing to take advantage of this section must
appear before the Council at a regular meeting and be approved in advance.
(Prior Code, § 7-115) (Ord. 2007-2, passed 9-6-2007; Res. 2017-1, passed 10-11-
2016; Res. 2022-11, passed 8-22-2022)
§ 50.29 EQUIPMENT.
   For the collection of garbage and refuse, every collector shall use a
suitable covered or enclosed truck approved by the Inspector and meeting all
other requirements, regulations, ordinances and laws of the state, its
departments or other governmental units.
(Prior Code, § 7-116)
§ 50.30 LICENSING AND CONTRACTING.
   The Mayor and Council shall be the sole authority to license, contract for
or to otherwise provide for all services pertaining to sanitary collection and
disposal within the city, let bids for, or establish reasonable fees for
licenses or franchises and is hereby authorized to enter into contracts with
one or more contractors, and establish reasonable rules ad regulations
governing the conduct and operation of such licensees or contractors. The
Council may require of any licensee of contractor a bond in a reasonable
amount, the condition of which shall be satisfactory performance of the
contract.
(Prior Code, § 7-117)
§ 50.31 MATERIALS NOT ACCEPTABLE FOR COLLECTION.
   Dirt and debris from construction or lawn renovation, rocks, stones,
concrete, automobile bodies and parts, dead animals, building materials such as
masonry, plaster, scrap lumber and similar materials, are not acceptable for
collection and the collector is not required to pick up same. Such items shall
be collected and disposed of by the building contractor, owner or occupant of
the premises.
(Prior Code, § 7-118)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined as set forth in §
10.99 or imprisonment for a term not exceeding 30 days, or both, in the
discretion of the Court.
(Prior Code, § 7-119)
CHAPTER 51: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Application for water service
   
51.02   Obtaining application
Meters
   
51.15   Meter installed with service
   
51.16   Meter installed on any premises
   
51.17   Meters supplied by city
   
51.18   Installation of meters
   
51.19   Size and design of meters
   
51.20   Accuracy of meter
   
51.21   Right to enter premises
   
51.22   Meters shall remain property of city
   
51.23   Lost, injured or broken meters, discontinuation of service in the event
of non-payment
   
51.24   Estimate of water used
Services and Connections; Charges
   
51.35   Separate services
   
51.36   Service pipes
   
51.37   Unlawful connections
   
51.38   Unlawful to tamper with city water fixtures
   
51.39   Discontinuing water service upon owner’s request
   
51.40   Occupants to notify Superintendent when beginning to use service
   
51.41   Misdemeanor to turn water services on by occupant
   
51.42   Charges paid
   
51.43   Supplying water to other premises
   
51.44   Discontinuation of service in event of non-payment
   
51.45   Utility disconnection for late payment
   
51.46   Owner responsibility for city services
   
51.47   City’s rights
   
51.48   Unlawful to open or shut any street cock
   
51.49   Unlawful to obstruct fire hydrant
   
51.50   Intimidation of officer of city
   
51.51   Regulation of irrigation water
   
51.52   Property of city
   
51.53   Rates, non-resident rates, exceptions and estimates
Cross-Connections and Backflow Prevention
   
51.65   Definitions
   
51.66   Rules and regulations
   
51.67   Use of backflow prevention devices
   
51.68   Cross-connection inspection
   
51.69   Additional remedies
 
   
51.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 APPLICATION FOR WATER SERVICE.
   (A)   Application for new water service. Any person, firm or corporation
desiring to have property connected with the water supply system of the city
shall make an application therefore to the Clerk/Treasurer. The fee for new
connections shall be $1,500, plus the city’s cost for any meter desired larger
than three-fourth-inch and plus any costs for equipment, labor and materials
incurred by the city to install the same. Changes in this fee shall be made
pursuant to resolution.
   (B)   Application for disconnection of existing water service. Any person,
firm or corporation desiring to have property disconnected from the water
supply system of the city shall make a written application therefore to the
Clerk/Treasurer. The fee for disconnections shall be $300, plus any costs for
equipment, labor and materials incurred by the city to disconnect the same.
Changes in this fee shall be made pursuant to resolution. Any water service
disconnected according to this section shall be subject to new connection fees
in division (A) above.
(Prior Code, § 2-301) (Ord. 1997-3, passed 9-2-1997; Ord. 2004-2, passed 9-7-
2004; Ord. 2008-7, passed 10- -2008; Ord. 2025-06, passed 2-10-2025)
§ 51.02 OBTAINING APPLICATION.
   The application shall be made in writing and signed by the owner of the
property, or the authorized agent of such owner, and shall fully state all the
purposes for which the water shall be used, whether there is to be more than
one building or more than one separate property supplied by the one service
connection with the city main, and the number, kind of buildings and properties
so supplied; probable consumption; the size of service pipe or connection
believed to be necessary therefor; and the name of the applicable and whether
owner, authorized agent.
(Prior Code, § 2-302) (Ord. 1997-3, passed 9-2-1997)
METERS
§ 51.15 METER INSTALLED WITH SERVICE.
   From and after the date of the passage of this chapter, whenever any new
service shall be installed connecting any property with the water supply system
of the city, a meter shall be installed with the service and water will be
supplied to the property through such meter only.
(Prior Code, § 2-303) (Ord. 1997-3, passed 9-2-1997)
§ 51.16 METER INSTALLED ON ANY PREMISES.
   Meters shall be installed on any premises whatsoever, when the installation
of a meter may be deemed necessary by the city.
(Prior Code, § 2-304) (Ord. 1997-3, passed 9-2-1997)
§ 51.17 METERS SUPPLIED BY CITY.
   Meters shall be supplied by the city, except meters of a size greater than
three-fourths inch. The applicant or owner shall reimburse the city for any
costs incurred which exceed the cost of a three- fourths-inch meter.
(Prior Code, § 2-305) (Ord. 1997-3, passed 9-2-1997)
§ 51.18 INSTALLATION OF METERS.
   The actual installation of all meters shall be done by the city or under the
direct supervision of the city.
(Prior Code, § 2-306) (Ord. 1997-3, passed 9-2-1997)
§ 51.19 SIZE AND DESIGN OF METERS.
   All meters shall be of a standard size and design approved by the city.
(Prior Code, § 2-307) (Ord. 1997-3, passed 9-2-1997)
§ 51.20 ACCURACY OF METER.
   When the accuracy of the record of a water meter is questioned by a
consumer, the meter shall be removed upon the consumer’s request and shall be
tested and a record kept thereof. Before making such tests, the consumer, at
the time of filing his or her request, shall deposit with the city $25. If a
test so made discloses an error against the consumer of more than 3% in the
water usage, the excess of such reading, as applied to the three readings next
proceeding the test, shall be calculated and the amount of money due the
consumer thereon credited to his or her water account; the city shall bear the
entire expenses of the test and the deposit of the consumer shall be returned
to him or her. If no error in excess of 3% against the consumer is found, the
consumer shall pay the cost of the test out of his or her deposit. No meter
shall be removed or in any way disturbed, nor the seal broken, except in the
presence and under the supervision of the city.
(Prior Code, § 2-308) (Ord. 1997-3, passed 9-2-1997)
§ 51.21 RIGHT TO ENTER PREMISES.
   The city reserves the right to enter at any reasonable time any premises
where city water is used, for the purpose of making an examination of the
premises, or a test of the meter, and it also reserves the right to remove the
meter from the premises for examination and test when necessary.
(Prior Code, § 2-309) (Ord. 1997-3, passed 9-2-1997)
§ 51.22 METERS SHALL REMAIN PROPERTY OF CITY.
   All meters shall be and remain the property of the city and shall not be
removed from the service by the consumer or owner. The city reserves the right
to remove the same for tests or repairs, replacements or an abandonment or
discontinuance of the service. All meters shall be so located and maintained as
to be readily accessible at all reasonable hours for reading, inspection and
repairs.
(Prior Code, § 2-310) (Ord. 1997-3, passed 9-2-1997)
§ 51.23 LOST, INJURED OR BROKEN METERS, DISCONTINUATION OF SERVICE IN THE EVENT
OF NON-PAYMENT.
   (A)   In case where a meter has been lost, injured or broken, by or through
the careless or negligence of the owner or the occupant of the premises served,
such meter shall be properly repaired and restored under the direction of the
city and the cost thereof shall be charged against the owner or occupant of the
premises.
   (B)   In cases of non-payment of such charges, the water service shall be
discontinued by turning the same off.
   (C)   Service shall not be restored until all charges for water, late fees
and service fees have been paid.
(Prior Code, § 2-311) (Ord. 1997-3, passed 9-2-1997)
§ 51.24 ESTIMATE OF WATER USED.
   In the event of a water meter malfunction, the consumer shall be charged for
estimated water consumption, based on the most recent and reliable information
available to the city.
(Prior Code, § 2-312) (Ord. 1997-3, passed 9-2-1997)
SERVICES AND CONNECTIONS; CHARGES
§ 51.35 SEPARATE SERVICES.
   Every separate building supplied with city water must have its own separate
service connection with the city mains; except that, two or more buildings
located on the same lot, or on continuous lots under a single ownership may be,
upon written permission granted by the city, supplied through the same
connection with the city main in cases where a meter is installed in the
service, as long as said single ownership continues. Upon change from such
single ownership, a new and separate connection shall be immediately made for
the building or premises therefore having the indirect connection.
(Prior Code, § 2-313) (Ord. 1997-3, passed 9-2-1997)
§ 51.36 SERVICE PIPES.
   All service pipes from the city mains or from other service pipes to the
property line, including a service cock, shall be placed one foot inside the
curb line, and shall be installed and maintained by the city. The property
owner must install and maintain, at his or her own expense, all service pipes
and all plumbing within his or her own premises. Every service pipe shall be
provided with a stop and waste cock for each consumer, easily accessible and
placed in such a location that it will not be damaged by frost or freezing, and
so situated that the water can conveniently shut off and drained from the
pipes. All water in buildings shall be so arranged as to drain toward the stop
and waste cock fixtures or drain cocks placed for that purpose. All water pipes
shall be either galvanized iron, brass, lead or approved plastic type. All
service pipes inside property lines shall be laid to a depth of not less than
two feet so that they will not be affected by frost or freezing.
(Prior Code, § 2-314) (Ord. 1997-3, passed 9-2-1997)
§ 51.37 UNLAWFUL CONNECTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except a competent person authorized by
the city, to make any connection with the city water system or any part
thereof.
(Prior Code, § 2-315) (Ord. 1997-3, passed 9-2-1997) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.38 UNLAWFUL TO TAMPER WITH CITY WATER FIXTURES.
   No person other than authorized by the city shall use any street key or
other device for the purpose of shutting off water or turning on the same
outside of his or her property line; nor shall any person uncover or attempt to
uncover or tamper with any pipe, valve, meter, meter-box, curb stop or curb-
stop-box of a city service connection without authority from the
Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 2-316) (Ord. 1997-3, passed 9-2-1997) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.39 DISCONTINUING WATER SERVICE UPON OWNER’S REQUEST.
   Whenever the owner or occupant of any premises connected with the city water
system desires for any purpose to discontinue such service, he or she shall
notify the City Clerk/Treasurer and shall pay any arrears or charges and a fee
of $150 for the removal of any meter. Should the owner desire to have the water
service reconnected, then he or she shall pay the fee set forth in §
51.01 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 2-317) (Ord. 1997-3, passed 9-2-1997; Ord. 2025-06, passed 2-10-
2025)
§ 51.40 OCCUPANTS TO NOTIFY SUPERINTENDENT WHEN BEGINNING TO USE SERVICE.
   Any person occupying any premises and using water therein from the city
water system shall notify the City Clerk/Treasurer of his or her name and
billing address at the time of beginning such service.
(Prior Code, § 2-318) (Ord. 1997-3, passed 9-2-1997)
§ 51.41 MISDEMEANOR TO TURN WATER SERVICE ON BY OCCUPANT.
   (A)   (1)   When water has been discontinued or shut off from any premises,
either upon the application of the owner or occupant thereof, or for non-
payment of water charges, or for any other reason, it shall be a general
misdemeanor for any person to again connect or turn the water back on for such
premises.
      (2)   The city may cause the water to be shut off at the main, or may
remove a portion of the service connection in the street if deemed beneficial
to the city.
   (B)   In addition to the penalty in this chapter provided for violation of
its provisions, the city may also charge to and collect from the owner or
occupant of the premises so illegally connected, the whole cost of the
disconnection ($150) and reconnection ($1,500) and the penalty of $30 for
shutting off and turning on the water, the whole of such penalties and charges
to be paid before the water service is again restored.
(Prior Code, § 2-319) (Ord. 1997-3, passed 9-2-1997) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.42 CHARGES PAID.
   In all cases where a water service has been newly installed connecting any
premises or building with the city main, and in all cases of reconstruction,
alteration or repair of any building where new or additional water service or
fixtures have been installed, city water shall not be turned into such service
until all charges for water used on the premises for any purpose have been
paid.
(Prior Code, § 2-321) (Ord. 1997-3, passed 9-2-1997)
§ 51.43 SUPPLYING WATER TO OTHER PREMISES.
   (A)   (1)   No owner, customer or lessee of property supplied with water
from the city mains shall furnish water to any other person or property without
first obtaining a written permit to do so from the city of water.
      (2)   No permit will be issued until the person desiring to use the water
has obtained and filed with the city the written consent of the owner or lessee
of the property from which the water is to be taken, stating the location of
such property by street and number and the location by street and number of the
property to be supplied with water and stating the purpose for which the water
is to be used.
      (3)   Upon receipt of a proper permit as above provided, from the owner
or lessee of the property of the property from which the water is to be taken,
and, where water is taken from premises paying a flat rate, upon payment in
advance for the water for the whole term for which the permit is granted, the
city may issue a temporary permit allowing water to be supplied to other
persons or property for domestic and for other purposes, but no permit shall be
issued for a longer time than three months.
   (B)   Any person allowing water to be taken from the premises owned or
occupied by him or her by any persons, without such person permit shall be in
violation of this chapter, and the same shall constitute a general misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 2-322) (Ord. 1997-3, passed 9-2-1997) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.44 DISCONTINUATION OF SERVICE IN EVENT OF NON-PAYMENT.
   When any charge for water supplied to, or for turning water on or off from
any premises connected with the city mains shall become delinquent, the water
service may be discontinued or cut off from such premises and shall not be
restored again until all of such charges and all fines and penalties imposed
under the provisions of this chapter or the rules of the city on account of
such delinquency shall have been paid.
(Prior Code, § 2-323) (Ord. 1997-3, passed 9-2-1997)
§ 51.45 UTILITY DISCONNECTION FOR LATE PAYMENT.
   (A)   It is the policy of the city to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The city’s form for application for
utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title, address,
room number and telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly
visible and easily readable provisions to the effect that:
      (1)   All bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth on
the bill and a late fee of $5 shall be assessed on any account not paid in full
by the due date;
      (2)   If any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second bill will
be mailed containing a cutoff notice, subject to an additional administrative
fee of $20, and that if the total outstanding overdue amounts are not paid
within 15 days of the mailing of the second bill, service will be discontinued
for nonpayment; and
      (3)   Any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill shall
have a right to a hearing at which time he or she may be represented in person
and by counsel or any other person of his or her choosing and may present
orally or in writing his or her complaint and contentions to the city official
in charge of utility billing. This official shall be authorized to order that
the customer’s service not be discontinued and shall have the authority to make
a final determination of the customer’s complaint.
   (B)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained. Only
questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence of
payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified.
   (C)   When it becomes necessary for the city to discontinue utility service
to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only after
all bills for service then due have been paid, all accumulated late fees and
penalties have been paid, any additional restoration costs incurred by the city
have been paid and a turn-on fee of $35 has been paid.
(Prior Code, § 2-324) (Ord. 1997-3, passed 9-2-1997; Ord. 2016-1, passed 10-13-
2015; Ord. 2025-5, passed 2-10-2025)
§ 51.46 OWNER RESPONSIBILITY FOR CITY SERVICES.
   The record owner of any real estate receiving city utility services (i.e.,
water, sewer and refuse collection) shall be responsible for payment of the
same. The city will not directly charge the tenant of rented dwelling units,
spaces or business property. The property owner shall inform the Clerk/
Treasurer at City Hall in writing of all changes of status as to occupancy or
vacancy of rental units, spaces or business properties. In the event the
required notice is not given to the Clerk/Treasurer, the owner shall be
responsible for all water charges reflected by the most recent information
given to the Clerk/ Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 2-325) (Ord. 1997-3, passed 9-2-1997; Ord. 2016-1, passed 10-13-
2015)
§ 51.47 CITY’S RIGHTS.
   (A)   The city may, in emergency, order the water cut off from any premises
connected with the city mains, without notice, for repairs or other necessary
purpose.
   (B)   The city will not be liable for any damage or loss which may result
from the lack of water or fluctuations in water pressure, or otherwise.
(Prior Code, § 2-326) (Ord. 1997-3, passed 9-2-1997)
§ 51.48 UNLAWFUL TO OPEN OR SHUT ANY STREET COCK.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to open or shut any street cock or fire
hydrant, or to in any way tamper with or injure any meter, valve or service
pipe connecting any premises or building with the city water supply, or to tap
or in any manner to tamper with any fire line, unless such persons be a regular
employee of the Water Division.
(Prior Code, § 2-327) (Ord. 1997-3, passed 9-2-1997) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.49 UNLAWFUL TO OBSTRUCT FIRE HYDRANT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct the access to any fire
hydrant by placing around, thereon or within 20 feet thereof any stone, brick,
lumber, dirt, rubbish or other material, or to open or operate any fire
hydrant, or to draw attempt to draw water therefrom, or to willfully or
carelessly injure the same, or to fill up or cover over any curb box, or in any
manner to tamper with or injure the same. In the event that any person shall
willfully, carelessly or otherwise injure or break any fire hydrant, street
standpipe, public drinking fountain or other device or thing connected with the
city water supply system, he or she shall, at once, report the occurrence to
the city or to the City Marshal, and shall give such undertaking as may be
required of him or her that he or she will pay the costs of the repairs or
replacement thereto made necessary. Failure to so report and accept
responsibility for such damage shall also result in the offender being deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor under the law of the state and punished accordingly.
(Prior Code, § 2-329) (Ord. 1997-3, passed 9-2-1997) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.50 INTIMIDATION OF OFFICER OF CITY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse, neglect or fail to afford any
duly authorized representative of the city’s Water Department free access at
all reasonable hours to any and all parts of building or premises supplied with
water from the city water supply system, for the purpose of making records,
readings and inspections of the location, condition and sufficiency of pipes,
fittings, valves, cocks, fixtures and appliances, and noting the amount of
water used and the manner in which it is used. Violation of this provision of
this chapter, or the abuse, threatening or attempted intimidation of any
officer of the Water Department, may result in the shutting off of the water
and the position of the usual penalties, in addition to punishment for
violation of this chapter as elsewhere herein provided.
(Prior Code, § 2-330) (Ord. 1997-3, passed 9-2-1997) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.51 REGULATION OF IRRIGATION WATER.
   (A)   No water shall be used for irrigation, except through a nozzle, spray
nozzle or other sprinkling device; and no hose or sprinkling device shall be
left running unattended.
   (B)   In case of shortage of water, the use of water for irrigation may be
prohibited by the city. If any person refuses to comply with the request of any
employee of the Water Department to conserve water during a shortage or
emergency, water service may be discontinued.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use water for irrigation or
sprinkling during the progress of any fire in the city, except for protection
from fire, and all such irrigation and sprinkling shall be immediately stopped
when the fire alarm is sounded and not resumed until the fire is out.
(Prior Code, § 2-331) (Ord. 1997-3, passed 9-2-1997) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.52 PROPERTY OF CITY.
   All meters furnished and all materials supplied by the Water Division in the
installation or repair of any meter or meters; and all materials supplied in
the tapping and city main, shall remain the property of the city.
(Prior Code, § 2-332) (Ord. 1997-3, passed 9-2-1997)
§ 51.53 RATES, NON-RESIDENT RATES, EXCEPTIONS AND ESTIMATES.
   (A)   Monthly charges for water supplied by the city water system shall be
as follows: minimum: $20, plus $0.0075 per cubic foot.
   (B)   All connections to the city water system shall pay the above minimum
monthly amount, except in cases where an owner or customer has more than one
residential or non-commercial water connection, with the second connection
serving gardens, yards or pastures only. In such cases these second
connections, not serving a residence and used only on a seasonal basis shall
pay at least the minimum monthly connection fee for the six months of April
through September and will not be charged the minimum monthly fee for the other
six months, if there is no water used through such connections, In the event
any water is used in any month, then the minimum monthly charge shall be made.
   (C)   In months where it is impossible to read the water meters due to
weather or groundwater conditions, in the discretion of the city, the monthly
water charge shall be an estimate based on an average of the previous years
usage for all accounts. These estimates shall be adjusted for actual water
usage upon the next monthly meter, reading, beginning in April of 2001.
(Prior Code, § 2-333) (Ord. 1997-3, passed 9-2-1997; Ord. 2001-2, passed 5-8-
2001; Ord. 2004-2, passed 9-7-2004; Res. R2024-11, passed 8-12-2024)
CROSS-CONNECTIONS AND BACKFLOW PREVENTION
§ 51.65 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   BACKFLOW. The flow, other than the intended direction of flow, of any
foreign liquids, gases or substances into the distribution system of a public
water supply.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. A device to counteract back pressure or prevent
back siphonage.
   CONTAMINATION. The entry into our presence in a public water supply of any
substance which may be deleterious to health and/or quality of the water.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any physical arrangement whereby a public water supply is
connected, directly or indirectly, with any other water supply system, sewer,
drain, conduit, pool, storage reservoir, plumbing fixture or other device which
contains or may contain contaminated water, sewage or other waste or liquids of
unknown or unsafe quality which may be capable of imparting contamination to
the public water supply as a result of backflow.
   ENGINEER. Professional engineer registered in the state, retained to provide
engineering services to the city.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The State of Idaho Department of Health and Welfare,
Division of Environment, local representative or his or her authorized agent.
   PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY. Any system or water supply intended or used for human
consumption or other domestic uses, including source, treatment, storage,
transmission and distribution facilities, where water is furnished to any
collection or number of individuals, or is made available to the public for
human consumption or domestic use.
   SUPERVISOR. The City Water Department Supervisor.
(Prior Code, § 2-334) (Ord. 1997-3, passed 9-2-1997)
§ 51.66 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   No water service connection to any premises shall be installed or continued
in use by the city unless the water supply is protected by backflow prevention
devices as may be required by this subchapter. The installation or maintenance
of a cross-connection which will endanger the water quality of the potable
water supply of the city shall be unlawful and is prohibited. Any such cross-
connection now existing or hereafter installed is hereby declared to be a
public nuisance and the same shall be abated. The control or elimination of
cross-connections shall be in accordance with this chapter and the regulations
set forth in § 1-8306 of the Idaho Regulations for Public Drinking Water
Systems, together with the latest edition of appropriate manuals of standard
practice pertaining to cross-connection control approved by the Engineer.
Council shall have the authority to establish requirements more stringent than
state regulations if he or she deems that the conditions so dictate. The city
shall adopt rules and regulations as necessary to carry out the provisions of
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 2-334) (Ord. 1997-3, passed 9-2-1997)
§ 51.67 USE OF BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES.
   Backflow prevention devices shall be installed at the service connection or
within any premises where, in the judgment of the city, the nature and extent
of activities, or the material stored on the premises, would present an
immediate and dangerous hazard to health and/or be deleterious to the quality
of the water should a cross-connection occur; even though such cross-connection
does not exist at present, the backflow prevention devices shall be installed
under circumstances including, but not limited to, the following:
   (A)   Premises having an auxiliary water supply, unless the quality of the
auxiliary supply is in compliance with the Idaho Drinking Water Regulations and
is acceptable to the city;
   (B)   Premises having internal cross-connections that are not correctable,
or intricate plumbing arrangements which make it impracticable to ascertain
whether or not cross-connections exist;
   (C)   Premises where entity is restricted so that inspections for cross-
connections cannot be made with sufficient frequency or at sufficiently short
notice to assure that cross-connections do not exist;
   (D)   Premises having a repeated history of cross-connections being
established or reestablished;
   (E)   Premises on which any substance is handled under pressure so as to
permit entry into the public water supply, or where a cross-connection could
reasonably be expected to occur. This shall include the handling of process
waters and cooling waters;
   (F)   Premises where materials of a toxic or hazardous nature are handled in
such a way that if back siphonage should occur, a serious health hazard might
result;
   (G)   The following types of facilities will fall into one of the above
categories where a backflow prevention device is required to protect the public
water supply. A backflow prevention device shall be installed at these
facilities unless the city determines that no hazard exists:
      (1)   Sewage treatment plants;
      (2)   Chemical or other industrial plants;
      (3)   Agricultural chemical storage, formulation and distribution
facilities;
      (4)   Petroleum storage facilities; and
      (5)   Underground sprinkling devices or systems.
   (H)   (1)   Other premises, as specified by the city, where backflow
prevention devices are required to protect the public water supply.
      (2)   The type of protective device required shall depend on the degree
of hazard which exists.
         (a)   An air-gap separation or a reduced pressure principle backflow
prevention device shall be installed where the public water supply may be
contaminated with sewage, industrial waste of a toxic nature or other
contaminant which could cause a health or system hazard.
         (b)   In the case of a substance which may be objectionable, but not
hazardous, a double check valve assembly, air-gap separation or a reduced
pressure principal backflow prevention device shall be installed.
      (3)   Backflow prevention devices required by this chapter shall be
installed at the meter, at the property line of the premises when meters are
not used, or at a location designated by the city. The device shall be located
so as to be readily accessible for maintenance and testing and, furthermore,
where no part of the device will be submerged.
      (4)   Backflow prevention devices required by this chapter shall be
installed under the supervision of, and with the approval of, the Supervisor.
      (5)   Any protective device required by this chapter shall be a model
approved by the city. A double check valve assembly or a reduced pressure
principle backflow prevention device will be approved if it has successfully
passed performance test of the University of Southern California Engineering
Center or other testing laboratories satisfactory to the Engineer. These
devices shall be furnished and installed by and at the expense of the customer.
      (6)   Backflow prevention devices installed pursuant to this chapter,
except atmospheric vacuum breakers, shall be inspected and tested annually or
more often if necessary. Inspections, tests and maintenance shall be at the
customers expense. Whenever the devices are found to be defective, they shall
be repaired or replaced at the customer’s expense. Inspections, tests, repairs
and records thereof shall be accomplished under the city’s supervision by
certified testers.
      (7)   No underground sprinkling device will be installed without adequate
backflow prevention devices at the point from which the water for irrigation is
taken from the public water supply.
      (8)   Failure of the customer to cooperate in the installation,
maintenance, testing or inspection of backflow prevention devices required by
this chapter shall be grounds for the termination of water service to the
premises, or, in the alternative, the installation of an air-gap separation at
the customer’s expense.
(Prior Code, § 2-334) (Ord. 1997-3, passed 9-2-1997)
§ 51.68 CROSS-CONNECTION INSPECTION.
   (A)   No water shall be delivered to any structure hereafter built within
the city or within areas served by city water until the same shall have been
inspected by the city for possible cross-connections and been approved as being
free of same.
   (B)   Any construction for industrial or other purposes which is classified
as hazardous facilities pursuant to this chapter, where it is reasonable to
anticipate intermittent cross-connections, or as determined by the city, shall
be protected by the installation of one or more backflow prevention devices at
the point of service from the public water supply or any other location
designated by the city.
   (C)   Inspections shall be made periodically of all buildings, structures or
improvements of any nature now receiving water through the city’s system, for
the purpose of ascertaining whether cross-connections exist. Such inspections
shall be made by the city.
(Prior Code, § 2-334) (Ord. 1997-3, passed 9-2-1997)
§ 51.69 ADDITIONAL REMEDIES.
   In the event an improper cross-connection is not corrected within the time
limit set by the city, or, in the event the city is refused access to any
property for the purpose of determining whether or not cross-connections exist,
delivery of water to the property shall cease until the deficiency is corrected
to the city’s satisfaction. In addition, the city may effect the necessary
repairs or modifications at the expense of the property owner and refuse
delivery of water to the property until the cost thereof shall have been paid.
(Prior Code, § 2-334) (Ord. 1997-3, passed 9-2-1997)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Every person who, with intent to injure or defraud, shall break or
deface any water meter or, obstruct, alter, injure or prevent the action of any
meter or other instrument used to measure or register the quantity of water
supplied to a consumer, or make any connection by means of pipe, or otherwise
with any part of the city’s water system, in such manner as to take water from
said main or pipe without its passage through the meter or other instrument
provided for registering the amount or quantity consumed, or use any water so
obtained or, make any connection or reconnection with such main pipe, or turn
on or off, or in any manner interfere with any valve, stop-cock or other
appliance connected therewith or, prevent by the erection of any devise or
construction, or by any other means, free access to any meter or other
instrument for registering or measuring the amount of water consumed, or
interfere with, obstruct or prevent, by any means, the reading or inspection of
such meter or instrument, by any of the officers or authorized employees of the
city, shall be guilty of violation of this chapter and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be punished for a general misdemeanor under the law of the
state, which shall include a jail term of up to six months and a fine as set
forth in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 2-328)
   (B)   Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects, refuses to comply
with, or resists the enforcement of any of the provisions of §§
51.65 through
51.69 of this chapter or the rules and regulations adopted by the city, shall
be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall for each
offense be punished by a fine as set forth in §
10.99 or imprisonment for a term not exceeding 90 days, or by both such fine
and imprisonment.
(Prior Code, § 2-334)
(Ord. 1997-3, passed 9-2-1997)
CHAPTER 52: SEWERS
Section
   
52.01   Rates and charges
   
52.02   Connection fees; application and procedure
   
52.03   Billing
   
52.04   Records
   
52.05   Mandatory usage
   
52.06   Industrial wastes; control
   
52.07   Sewer connections
   
52.08   Inspectors; power and authority
§ 52.01 RATES AND CHARGES.
   There is hereby established and charged the following rates and charges for
all properties within the city.
 
Sewer Service                         Rate (Monthly)
High volume business                  $115.38
Large business                        $81.26
Medium business                       $72.54
Multi-family units (per unit)         $54.03
Single-family residences and churches $54.03
Small business                        $63.82
 
(Prior Code, § 2-401) (Ord. 2008-4, passed 5-12-2008; Res. R2023-03, passed 6-
12-2023; Res. R2024-1, passed 10-10-2023)
§ 52.02 CONNECTION FEES; APPLICATION AND PROCEDURE.
   (A)   There shall be charged the sum of $1,500 for any person, firm or
corporation who connects to the sewer system of the city, plus any costs for
equipment, labor and materials incurred by the city to connect the same.
Changes in this fee shall be made pursuant to section. Any person, firm or
corporation desiring to have property disconnected from the sewer system of the
city shall make a written application therefore to the Clerk/Treasurer. The fee
for disconnections shall be $300, plus any costs for equipment, labor and
materials incurred by the city to disconnect the same. Changes in this fee
shall be made pursuant to resolution.
   (B)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without obtaining a written permit from the Superintendent.
   (C)   (1)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the
Superintendent when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection
to the public sewer.
      (2)   The connection shall be made under the supervision of the
Superintendent or his or her representative.
   (D)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkway and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
(Prior Code, § 2-402) (Ord. 2008-7, passed 10- -2008; Ord. 2025-06, passed 2-
10-2025) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.03 BILLING.
   All charges hereby fixed and established on the monthly or annual rate shall
be billed and be payable monthly, and all such charges may be paid one year in
advance. All charges properly billed are due and payable within 25 days and
shall constitute a lien upon the property so billed and may be collected as
provided by law, and a charge of 47% per month for delinquencies will be added
to and collected with the charges herein set forth.
(Prior Code, § 2-403)
§ 52.04 RECORDS.
   It shall be the duty of the office of the Clerk/Treasurer of the city to
properly bill for all charges assessed by this chapter and proper records will
be established and maintained to effectuate the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 2-404)
§ 52.05 MANDATORY USAGE.
   Under the exercise of the police powers of the city and for the promotion of
public health it is hereby made unlawful and a continuing misdemeanor of any
person, persons, partnerships, corporations or associations owing property and
used for the occupancy of human beings not to be connected to said sewer
collection system, and such person, persons, partnerships, corporations or
associations found guilty of the violation of this section shall be punished in
accordance with the provisions of §
10.99 of this code of ordinances. Old building sewer may be used in connection
with new buildings only when they are found, on examination and test by the
Superintendent, to meet all requirements of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 2-405) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.06 INDUSTRIAL WASTES; CONTROL.
   (A)   All garages and service stations are hereby required to maintain an
adequate grease trap to filter out industrial wastes that might otherwise flow
into the sewer collection and disposal system and it shall be a misdemeanor to
not provide such an adequate grease trap or to allow the same to over-flow or
otherwise become inoperative and allow this industrial waste to flow into said
system.
   (B)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water,
surface water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, cooling water or
polluted industrial process waters into any sanitary sewer. No person shall
discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following described waters or
waste to any public sewer:
      (1)   Any water or waste which may contain more than 100 parts per
million, by weight, or fat, oil or grease;
      (2)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
      (3)   Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, paunch manure or any other solid or viscous
substance capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewer or other
interference with the proper operation of the sewage works; and
      (4)   Any waters or wastes containing a toxic or poisonous substance in
sufficient quantity to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process,
constitute a hazard to humans or animals or create any hazard in the receiving
waters of the sewage treatment plant.
(Prior Code, § 2-406) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.07 SEWER CONNECTIONS.
   The owners of any property required to be connected with said sewer system
in compliance with the terms of this chapter are to furnish all necessary labor
and materials to effectuate the connection with the present existing or future
collection system lines located within the municipality. Connections into the
municipal system within the public street or alley right-of-way made in a
standard and approved manner and inspected and approved by a person designated
by the City Council and, upon specific agreement of the City Council, will be
maintained by the city and shall become part of the city system. All other
connections to the city sewer system shall be considered private sewer lines
and shall not be the responsibility of the city.
(Prior Code, § 2-407)
§ 52.08 INSPECTORS; POWERS AND AUTHORITY.
   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the city bearing
proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter upon all
properties for the purposes of inspection, observations, measurement, sampling
and testing, in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 2-408)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
      
71.   TRAFFIC AND PARKING
      
72.   PEDESTRIANS
CHAPTER 70: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   State law applicable in city
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.15   Authority to install
   
70.16   Manual and specifications
   
70.17   Obedience
   
70.18   When devices required
   
70.19   Signal legend
   
70.20   Pedestrian-control signals
   
70.21   Flashing signals
   
70.22   Unauthorized signs, signals or markings; display
   
70.23   Interference
   
70.24   Play streets
   
70.25   Crosswalks and safety zones
   
70.26   Traffic lanes
Enforcement
   
70.40   Enforcement and obedience to traffic regulations
   
70.41   When police may remove parked cars; cost
   
70.42   Unidentified, stolen, wrecked or abandoned motor vehicles
   
70.43   Enforcement of lien on properties impounded by Police Department
   
70.44   Proof of ownership; appeal; redemption after sale
   
70.45   Method of advertising and sale
   
70.46   Offenses by persons owning or controlling vehicles
   
70.47   Driving while license suspended or revoked
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this traffic code, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. The thoroughfare which intersects blocks at the rear of the lots of
said blocks or transverses blocks between regularly established streets.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES. Vehicles of the Fire Department (fire
patrol), police vehicles and such ambulances and emergency vehicles of the
municipal departments or public service corporations as are designated or
authorized by the governing body or motor vehicles of the Chief of Police.
   BICYCLE. Every device propelled by human power upon which any person may
ride, having two tandem wheels either of which is over 20 inches in diameter.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a highway when
within any 600 feet along such highway there are buildings in use for business
or industrial purposes, including, but not limited to, hotels, banks or office
buildings, railroad stations and public buildings which occupy at least 300
feet collectively on both sides of the highway.
   CHIEF OF POLICE. The Chief of the Municipal Police Department, if one
exists. Otherwise, the Sheriff of the entity authorized under an agreement to
provide law enforcement services to the municipality.
   COMMERCIAL VEHICLE. Ever vehicle designed, maintained or used primarily for
the transportation of property.
   CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY. Every highway, street or roadway in respect to
which owners or occupants of abutting property or lands and other persons have
no legal right of access to or from the same, except at such points only and in
such manner as may be determined by the public authority having jurisdiction
over such thoroughfares.
   CROSSWALK.
      (1)   The part of a roadway at an intersection included within the
connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalk on opposite sides of the
highway measured from the curbs, or in the absence of curbs from the edges of
the traversable roadway; and
      (2)   Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere distinctly
indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings of the surface.
   CURB LOADING ZONE. A space adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive use
of vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers or materials.
   DRIVER. Every person who drives or in actual physical control of a vehicle.
   FREIGHT CURB LOADING ZONE. A place adjacent to a curb for the exclusive use
of vehicles during the loading or unloading of freight.
   INTERSECTION. The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the roadways
of the two highways which join one another at or approximately at right angles,
or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different highways joining at
any other angle may come in conflict.
   LANED ROADWAY. A roadway which is divided into two or more clearly marked
lanes for vehicular traffic.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle which
is propelled by electric power obtained from overhead trolley wires, but not
operated upon rails.
   MOTORCYCLE. Every motor vehicle having a saddle for the use of the rider and
designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact with the ground,
but excluding a tractor.
   OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD. Whenever certain hours are named herein, they shall
mean standard time or daylight saving time, as may be in current use in the
municipality.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, signals, markings and devices
not inconsistent with this traffic code placed or erected by authority of a
public body or official having jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating,
warning or guiding traffic.
   PARK. When prohibited means the standing of a vehicle whether occupied or
not, otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged
in loading or unloading.
   PASSENGER CURB LOADING ZONE. A place adjacent to a curb reserved for the
exclusive use of vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   PERSON. Every natural person, firm, copartnership, association or
corporation.
   POLICE DEPARTMENT. The Municipal Police Department, if existing. Otherwise,
the entity authorized under an agreement to provide law enforcement services to
the municipality.
   POLICE OFFICER. Any officer of the Municipal Police Department or any
officer or entity authorized under an agreement to provide law enforcement
services to the municipality.
   PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY. Every way or place in private ownership and used
for vehicular travel by the owner and those having express or implied
permission from the owner, but not by other persons.
   RAILROAD. A carrier of persons or property upon cars operated upon
stationary rails.
   RAILROAD TRAIN. A steam engine, electric or other motor, with or without
cars coupled thereto, operated upon rails.
   RESIDENCE DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a highway not
comprising a business district when the property on such highway for a distance
of 300 feet or more is in the main improved with residences or residence and
buildings in use for business.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the road.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a street or highway improved, designed or ordinarily
used for vehicular travel, exclusive of the term or shoulder. In the event a
highway includes two or more separate roadways, the term ROADWAY, as used
herein shall refer to any such roadway separately, but not to all such roadways
collectively.
   SAFETY ZONE. The area of space officially set apart within a roadway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians and which is protected or is so marked or
indicated by adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all times while set
apart as a SAFETY ZONE.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of the roadway, and the adjacent property lines intended for the use of
pedestrians.
   STOP, STOPPING or STANDING.
      (1)   When required, means complete cessation of movement; and
      (2)   When prohibited, means any stopping or standing of a vehicle
whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other
traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or traffic-
control sign or signal.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every
public for purpose of vehicular travel.
   THROUGH HIGHWAY. Every street or highway or portion thereof at the entrances
to which vehicular traffic from intersecting streets or highways is required by
law to stop before entering or crossing the same and then stop signs are
erected as provided in this Act.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles and other
conveyances either singly or together while using any public thoroughfare for
the purpose of travel.
   TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL. Any device, whether manually, electrically or
mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and to
proceed.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, except devices moved by human power or
used exclusively upon stationary tracks or rails.
(Prior Code, § 8-201)
§ 70.02 STATE LAW APPLICABLE IN CITY.
   It is hereby declared as a policy of traffic enforcement in the city that,
in any instance wherein a state law concerning traffic is not in conflict with
any of the ordinances of this traffic code, said state law as is in full force
and effect at the time shall be applicable and be a violation within the city
limits.
(Prior Code, § 8-201(a))
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.15 AUTHORITY TO INSTALL.
   The Traffic Engineer shall place and maintain traffic-control signs, signals
and devices when and as required under the traffic regulations to make
effective the provisions of said regulations, and may place and maintain such
additional traffic-control devices as he or she may deem necessary to regulate
traffic under the traffic regulations or to guide or warn traffic.
(Prior Code, § 8-203)
§ 70.16 MANUAL AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   All traffic-control signs, signals and devices shall conform to the manual
and specifications approved by the state’s Highway Commission. All signs and
signals required hereunder for a particular purpose shall so far as practicable
be uniform as to type and location. All traffic-control devices so erected and
not inconsistent with the provisions of state law or this traffic code shall be
official traffic-control devices.
(Prior Code, § 8-203)
§ 70.17 OBEDIENCE.
   The driver of any vehicle and the motorman of any bus shall obey the
instructions of any official traffic-control device applicable thereto, unless
otherwise directed by a police officer, subject to the exceptions granted the
driver of an authorized emergency vehicle in this traffic code.
(Prior Code, § 8-203)
§ 70.18 WHEN DEVICES REQUIRED.
   No provisions of this traffic code for which signs are required shall be
enforced against an alleged violator if, at the time and place of the alleged
violation, an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently legible
to be seen by an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a particular section
does not state that signs are required, such section shall be effective even
though no signs are erected or in place.
(Prior Code, § 8-203)
§ 70.19 SIGNAL LEGEND.
   (A)   Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic-control signals exhibiting
the words “Go”, “Caution” or “Stop” or exhibiting different colored lights
successively one at a time or with arrows, the following colors only shall be
used and said terms and lights shall indicate and apply drivers of vehicles and
pedestrians as follows.
      (1)   Green alone or “Go”.
         (a)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal, except when prohibited
herein, may proceed straight through or turn right or left unless a sign at
such place prohibits either such turn. But vehicular traffic, including
vehicles turning right or left shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles
and to pedestrians lawfully within the intersection or an adjacent crosswalk at
the time such signal is exhibited.
         (b)   Pedestrians facing the signal may proceed across the roadway
within any marked or unmarked crosswalk.
      (2)   Yellow along or “Caution” when shown following the green of “Go”
signal.
         (a)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal is thereby warned that the
red or “Stop” signal will be exhibited immediately thereafter and such
vehicular traffic shall not enter or be crossing the intersection when the red
or “Stop” signal is exhibited.
         (b)   Pedestrians facing such signal are thereby advised that there is
sufficient time to cross the roadway, and thereby advised that there is
sufficient time to cross the roadway, and any pedestrian then starting to cross
shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles.
         (c)   Pedestrians facing such signal shall not enter the road way
until the green or “Go” is shown alone unless authorized so to do by a
pedestrian “Walk” signal.
      (3)   Red alone or “Stop”.
         (a)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering
the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, if none, then before
entering the intersection and shall remain standing until green or “Go” is
shown alone.
         (b)   No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the roadway until
the green of “Go” is shown alone unless authorized so to do by a pedestrian
“Walk” signal.
      (4)   Red with green arrow.
         (a)   Vehicular traffic facing such signal may cautiously enter the
intersection only to make the movement indicated by such arrow, but shall yield
the right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully within a crosswalk and to other
traffic lawfully using the intersection.
         (b)   No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the roadway until
the green of “Go” is shown alone unless authorized so to do by a pedestrian
“Walk” signal.
   (B)   In the event an official traffic-control signal is erected and
maintained at a place other than an intersection, the provisions of this
section shall be applicable, except as to those provisions which by their
nature can have no application. Any stop required shall be made at the signal.
(Prior Code, § 8-203) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.20 PEDESTRIAN-CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Whenever special pedestrian-control signals exhibiting the words “Walk” or
“Wait” or “Don’t Walk” are in place such signals shall indicate as follows.
   (A)   “Walk”. Pedestrians facing such signal may proceed across the roadway
in the direction of the signal and shall be given the right-of-way by the
drivers of all vehicles.
   (B)   “Wait” or “Don’t Walk”. No pedestrian shall start to cross the roadway
in the direction of such signal, but any pedestrian who has partially completed
his or her crossing on the walk signal shall proceed to a sidewalk or safety
zone while the wait signal is showing.
(Prior Code, § 8-203)
§ 70.21 FLASHING SIGNALS.
   (A)   Whenever an illuminated flashing red or yellow signal is used in a
traffic sign or signal, it shall require obedience by vehicular traffic as
follows.
      (1)   Flash red (stop signal). When a red lens in illuminated with rapid
intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at a limit line when marked or, if
none, then before entering the intersection, and the right to proceed shall be
subject to the rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign.
      (2)   Flashing yellow (caution signal). When a yellow lens is illuminated
with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the
intersection or past such signal only with caution.
   (B)   This section shall not apply at railroad grade crossings. Conduct of
drivers of vehicles approaching railroad grade crossings shall be governed by
the rules herein set forth in this traffic code.
(Prior Code, § 8-203) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.22 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS, SIGNALS OR MARKINGS; DISPLAY.
   (A)   No person shall place, maintain or display upon or in view of any
highway any unauthorized sign, signal, marking or device which purports to be
or is in imitation of or resembles an official traffic- control device or
railroad sign or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic,
or which hides from view or interferes with the effectiveness of any official
traffic-control device or any railroad sign or signal.
   (B)   No person shall place or maintain nor shall any public authority
permit upon any highway any traffic sign or signal bearing thereon any
commercial advertising.
   (C)   This section shall not be deemed to prohibit the erection upon private
property adjacent to highways of signs giving useful directional information
and of a type that cannot be mistaken for official signs.
   (D)   Every prohibited sign, signal or marking is hereby declared to be a
public nuisance and the authority having jurisdiction over the highway is
hereby empowered to remove the same or cause it to be removed without notice.
(Prior Code, § 8-203) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.23 INTERFERENCE.
   No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt or in fact alter, deface,
injure, knock down or remove any official traffic-control device or any
railroad sign or signal or any inscription, shield or insignia thereon, or any
part thereof.
(Prior Code, § 8-203) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.24 PLAY STREETS.
   (A)   The Traffic Engineer shall have authority to declare any street or
part thereof a play street and to place appropriate signals or devices in the
roadway indicating and helping to protect the same.
   (B)   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating any street or part
thereof as play street, no person shall drive a vehicle upon any such street or
portion thereof, except drivers of vehicles having business or whose residences
are within such closed area, and then any said driver shall exercise the
greatest care in driving upon any such street or portion thereof.
(Prior Code, § 8-203) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.25 CROSSWALKS AND SAFETY ZONES.
   The Traffic Engineer is hereby authorized to:
   (A)   Designate and maintain, by appropriate device, marks or lines upon the
surface of the roadway, crosswalks at the intersections where, in his or her
opinion, there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the roadway, and at
other such places as he or she may deem necessary; and
   (B)   Establish safety zones of such kind and character and at such places
as he or she deems necessary for the protection of pedestrians.
(Prior Code, § 8-203)
§ 70.26 TRAFFIC LANES.
   (A)   The Traffic Engineer is hereby authorized to mark traffic lanes upon
the roadway of any street or highway where a regular alignment of traffic is
necessary.
   (B)   Where such traffic lanes have been marked, it shall be unlawful for
the operator of any vehicle to fail or refuse to keep such vehicle within the
boundaries of such lane, except when lawfully passing another vehicle or
preparatory to making a lawful turning movement.
(Prior Code, § 8-203) Penalty, see §
70.99
ENFORCEMENT
§ 70.40 ENFORCEMENT AND OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Authority of Police and Fire Department officials.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of the officers of the Police Department or
such officers as are assigned by the Chief of Police to enforce all street and
traffic laws and all of the state vehicle laws applicable to street traffic.
      (2)   Officers of the Police Department or such officers are as assigned
by the Chief of Police are hereby authorized to direct all traffic by voice,
hand or signal in conformable with traffic laws; provided that, in the event of
a fire or other emergency on or expedite traffic or to safeguard pedestrians,
officers of the Police Department may direct traffic as conditions may require
notwithstanding the provisions of the traffic laws.
      (3)   Officers may direct or assist the police in directing traffic
thereat or in the immediate vicinity.
   (B)   Require obedience to traffic regulations. It is a misdemeanor for any
person to do any act forbidden or fail to perform any act required by this
traffic code.
   (C)   Obedience to Police and Fire Department officials. No person shall
willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or direction of a
police officer or Fire Department official.
   (D)   Persons propelling push carts or riding animals to obey traffic
regulations. Every person propelling any push cart or driving any animal drawn
vehicle, or riding an animal upon a road way, shall be subject to the
provisions of this traffic code, except those which, by their very nature, can
have an application.
   (E)   Use of coasters, roller skates and similar devices restricted. No
person upon roller skates, or riding in or by means of any coaster, toy vehicle
or similar device, shall go upon any roadway, except while crossing a street on
a crosswalk and when so crossing such person shall be granted all of the rights
and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to pedestrians. This
section shall not apply upon any street while set aside and authorized as a
play street.
   (F)   Public employees to obey traffic regulations. The provisions of this
traffic code shall apply to the driver of any vehicle owned by or used in the
service of the United States Government, the state, county or municipality, and
it shall be unlawful for any said driver to violate any of the provisions of
this traffic code, except as otherwise permitted in this traffic code or by
state statute.
   (G)   Authorized emergency vehicles.
      (1)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to
any emergency call or when in the pursuit of an actual suspected violator of
the law or when responding to but not upon returning from a fire alarm, may
exercise the privileges set forth in this section, but subject to the
conditions herein stated.
      (2)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle may:
         (a)   Park or stand, irrespective for the provisions of this Act;
         (b)   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be necessary for safe operation;
         (c)   Exceed the prima facie speed limits so long as he or she does
not endanger life or property; and
         (d)   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning
in specified directions.
            1.   The exemptions herein granted to an authorized emergency
vehicle shall apply only when the driver of any said vehicle in motion sounds
audible signal by bell, siren or exhaust whistle as ma be reasonably necessary,
and when the vehicle is equipped with at least one lighted lamp displaying a
red light visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500
feet to the front of such vehicle; except that, an authorized emergency vehicle
operated as a police vehicle need not be equipped with or display a red light
visible from in front of the vehicle.
            2.   The foregoing provisions shall not relieve the driver of an
authorized emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the
safety of all persons, nor shall such provisions protect the driver from the
consequences of his or her reckless disregard for the safety of others.
      (3)   (a)   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency
vehicle equipped with at least one lighted lamp exhibiting a red light visible
under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of
such vehicle other than a police vehicle when operated as an authorized
emergency vehicle, and when the driver is giving audible signal by siren,
exhaust whistle or bell: the driver of every other vehicle shall yield to
right-of-way and shall immediately drive to a positions parallel to, and as
close as possible to, the right-hand edge or curb of the roadway clear of any
intersection and shall stop and remain in such position until the authorized
emergency vehicle has passed, except when otherwise directed by a police
officer.
         (b)   This section shall not operate to relieve the driver of an
authorized emergency vehicle from duty to drive with due regard for the safety
of all persons using the highway.
   (H)   Immediate notice of accident. The driver of a vehicle involved in an
accident resulting in injury to or death of any person or property damage to an
apparent extent of $50 or more shall immediately, by the quickest means of
communication, give notice of such accident to the Police Department.
   (I)   Written reports of accident. The driver of a vehicle which is in any
manner involved in an accident resulting in injury to or death of any person or
total property damage to an apparent extent of $50 or more shall, within five
days after such accident, forward a written report of such accident to the
Police Department, or a copy of any report he or she is required to forward to
the state. The provisions of this section shall not be applicable when the
accident has been investigated at the scene by a police officer while such
driver was present thereat.
   (J)   When driver is unable to report.
      (1)   Whenever the driver of a vehicle is physically incapable of giving
immediate notice of an accident as required herein and there was another
occupant in the vehicle at the time of the accident capable of doing so, such
occupant shall give or cause to be given the notice not given by the driver.
      (2)   Whenever the driver is physically incapable of making a written
report of an accident as required herein and such driver is not the owner of
the vehicle, then the owner of the vehicle involved in such accident shall,
within five days after learning of the accident, make such report not made by
the driver.
   (K)   Written accident reports confidential. All written accident reports
made by drivers, owners or occupants of vehicles involved in accidents as
required herein shall be without prejudice to the individual so reporting and
shall be for the confidential use of the Police Department or other
governmental agencies having use for the records for accident prevention
purposes; except that, the Police Department may disclose the identity of a
person involved in an accident when such identity is not otherwise known or
when such person denies his or her presence at such accident. No such report
shall be used as evidence in any trial, civil or criminal, arising out of an
accident; except that, the Department shall furnish upon demand of any person
who has, or claims to have, made such a report or upon demand of any court, a
certificate showing that a specified accident report has or has not been made
to the Police Department solely to prove a compliance of a failure to comply
with the requirements that such a report be made to the Department.
(Prior Code, § 8-202) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.41 WHEN POLICE MAY REMOVE PARKED CARS; COST.
   If, at any time, a vehicle is parked in a prohibited place or at a time when
parking is prohibited where parked, for a period of ten minutes or more and
such vehicle is obstructing the free movement of traffic or is causing a
traffic hazard, or is directly interfering with the maintenance or care, or
emergency use of the streets, and the person in charge cannot be immediately
located, or if located, fails, neglects or refuses to move said vehicle at
once, or where a motor vehicle is parked in a parking meter area and is in
violation as herein set forth, for a period of one hour, the Police Department
may, in its discretion, in addition to the penalty provided therefor, remove or
cause to be removed, said vehicle keeping it in its custody until the owner or
his or her authorized agent applies, has paid a reasonable cost for removing
and storing said vehicle which costs shall be assessed and collected by the
Police Department, and said costs and expenses shall be a lien in favor of the
municipality on said car; provided that, when any such motor vehicle is
interfering with the maintenance or emergency use of the streets, but not
otherwise violating this traffic code, then the Police Department may, in its
own discretion, remove said motor vehicle or other vehicle and care for the
same and may, in its own discretion, deliver the same to the owner without any
cost or charge for such removal or storage.
(Prior Code, § 8-215)
§ 70.42 UNIDENTIFIED, STOLEN, WRECKED OR ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   The Police Department is hereby authorized, in its discretion, in
addition to any penalty that may be provided therefore, to remove an
unidentified, stolen, wrecked or abandoned motor vehicle or other personal
property, as herein defined, found upon any public street or property and shall
keep the same in its custody and control at such place as may be designated by
said Police Department until redeemed by the owner thereof, as herein provided;
and all such unidentified, stolen, wrecked or abandoned possession shall be
subject to the actual cost of removal or tow-in from the public place, and a
storage charge of $0.50 per day as long as the same is in possession and
custody of said Department.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
      ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE OR OTHER PERSONAL PROPERTY. An automobile or
personal property which remains upon the streets or other public property for a
period longer than 48 hours, the owner of which cannot be located or the owner
refuses to remove the same.
      STOLEN MOTOR VEHICLE OR OTHER PERSONAL PROPERTY. The property which the
Police Department has reasonable grounds to believe to be stolen.
      UNIDENTIFIED MOTOR VEHICLE OR OTHER PERSONAL PROPERTY. Such motor vehicle
or other personal property where ownership thereof cannot be ascertained.
      WRECKED MOTOR VEHICLE OR OTHER PERSONAL PROPERTY. One damaged by accident
or any cause and left upon the streets or public place unattended.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or any person in charge of a motor
vehicle or other personal property, to leave or abandon the same upon the
streets or public places in this traffic code provided.
(Prior Code, § 8-216) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.43 ENFORCEMENT OF LIEN ON PROPERTIES IMPOUNDED BY POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   All motor vehicles and other personal property impounded or heretofore
impounded by the Police Department and unredeemed by the owner thereof for a
period of 45 days shall thereafter be subject to sale by the Chief of Police to
the highest bidder for cash as hereinafter provided, and the proceeds of said
sale shall be applied first, to all removal and storage charges accumulated
against each article, which shall be deposited with the Clerk/Treasurer and the
balance of said sum, if any, shall be deposited with the Clerk/Treasurer and
shall be kept in a separate fund for a period of one year from the date of
receipt and if, at the end of said year, the former owner of said property has
not made satisfactory proof of claim shall be credited to the General Fund.
(Prior Code, § 8-217)
§ 70.44 PROOF OF OWNERSHIP; APPEAL; REDEMPTION AFTER SALE.
   (A)   Any person claiming to be the owner of any impounded property, as in
this traffic code provided, shall make written application therefore to the
Police Department and shall furnish to said Department such additional proof as
may be required to establish said ownership. If he or she shall present to said
Department said proof of his or her ownership of said impounded property prior
to the date of actual sale thereof pursuant to the provisions of this traffic
code, then the property itself shall be delivered to said owner under the
conditions herein provided; but if said property has been sold, then said
Department shall endorse its findings of ownership with a copy of the written
application addressed to the Clerk/Treasurer, and said owner may present said
application and findings to said Clerk/Treasurer, and if presented within one
year after said sale, then such balance of the proceeds of sale, after
deductions as in this traffic code provided, shall be paid to said owner.
   (B)   Any appeal from the removal, storage and publication costs, if any,
assessed by the Police Department as provided in this traffic code shall be in
the same manner as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 8-218)
§ 70.45 METHOD OF ADVERTISEMENT AND SALE.
   Whenever the Chief of Police shall, in his or her discretion, decide to
offer impounded properties for sale, he or she shall make a complete and
detailed list of said properties to be included in a publication notice of said
sale. Said notice of publication of sale shall be published at least three
times in a newspaper of general circulation, said publication to be at least
five days before said sale. Said bids when received shall be accepted or
rejected as to each separate item of property, and only cash bids shall be
acceptable to the Chief of Police.
(Prior Code, § 8-219)
§ 70.46 OFFENSES BY PERSONS OWNING OR CONTROLLING VEHICLES.
   (A)   It is unlawful for the owner, or any other person, employing or
otherwise directing the driver of a motor vehicle, to require or knowingly to
permit the operation of such vehicle upon a street in any manner contrary to
law.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any motor vehicle to instruct or
allow the same to be driven or operated with the city by any person who is not
qualified under the laws of the state to operate said vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 8-230) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.47 DRIVING WHILE LICENSE SUSPENDED OR REVOKED.
   Any person whose operator’s or chauffeur’s license or driving privilege as a
non-resident has been canceled, suspended or revoked as provided by the laws of
the state, and who drives any motor vehicle upon the street of the city while
this license or privilege is canceled, suspended or revoked shall be punished
according to §
70.99(B) of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-231) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   It is unlawful for any person to violate the provisions of this
traffic code.
      (2)   Every person convicted of a violation of any of the provisions of
this traffic code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall,
for the first conviction thereby, be punished for a fine as set forth in §
10.99 or by imprisonment in the county jail for a period of not more than ten
days and the costs of such prosecution; for the second such conviction within
one year thereof, such persons shall be punished by a fine as set forth in §
10.99 or by imprisonment in the county jail for not more than 20 days or by
both such fine and imprisonment and the costs of such prosecution; and, upon a
third or subsequent conviction within one year after the first conviction, such
persons shall be punished by a jail sentencing for a period not to exceed 30
days or by both such fine and imprisonment and the costs of such prosecution.
      (3)   In the event of a default of the payment of any fine and/or
assessed costs under the provisions of this traffic code, the persons so in
default shall be confined in the county jail for one day for each $5 of such
fine and/or costs so in default.
(Prior Code, § 8-232)
   (B)   Any person violating §
70.47 of this chapter shall be fined, upon conviction thereof, by imprisonment
in the county jail for not less than two days, nor more than 30 days, and there
may be imposed, in addition thereto, a fine as set forth in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 8-231)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC AND PARKING
Section
Traffic Regulations
   
71.01   Speed regulations
   
71.02   Turning movements
   
71.03   One-way streets and alleys
   
71.04   Special stops required
   
71.05   General driving rules
   
71.06   Regulating the kinds and classes of traffic on certain highways
   
71.07   Obstructing driver’s view or driving mechanism
   
71.08   Coasting prohibited
   
71.09   “U” turns
   
71.10   Unqualified drivers prohibited
   
71.11   Driving under the influence of liquor, drugs
   
71.12   Reckless driving
   
71.13   Inattentive driving
Equipment
   
71.25   Vehicles with projecting lugs
   
71.26   Sirens, whistles and bells prohibited
   
71.27   Lighting equipment on vehicles
   
71.28   Brakes
   
71.29   Horns and warning devices
   
71.30   Mufflers, prevention of noise
Stopping, Standing or Parking Rules
   
71.45   Method of parking
   
71.46   Prohibited in specified places
   
71.47   Loading or unloading only
   
71.48   Restricted or prohibited on certain streets
 
   
71.99   Penalty
TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
§ 71.01 SPEED REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Speed laws applicable. The traffic laws regulating speed of vehicles
shall be as this section hereby declares and determines upon the basis of
engineering and traffic investigation. Certain speed regulations shall be
applicable upon specified streets or in certain areas, in which event it shall
be prima facie unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle at a speed in excess
of any speed so declared in this section when signs are in place giving notice
thereof.
   (B)   Speed limit on certain streets. It is hereby determined upon the basis
of engineering and traffic investigation that the speed limits upon every
street designated herein shall be as herein stated, which speeds so decided
shall be effective when signs are erected upon every street designated herein
giving notice of the speed limit so declared thereat.
      (1)   All streets within the municipality shall carry a speed limit of 25
mph, except where they are posted for a lessor speed; in which case, the lesser
speed shall apply.
      (2)   All streets in and about the public school area are hereby declared
to have a maximum speed limit of 15 mph.
   (C)   Regulation of speed by traffic signals. The Traffic Engineer is
authorized to regulate the timing of traffic signals so as to permit the
movement of traffic in an orderly and safe manner at speeds slightly at
variance from the speeds otherwise applicable within the district or at
intersections and shall erect appropriate signs giving notice thereof.
(Prior Code, § 8-204) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 TURNING MOVEMENTS.
   (A)   Required position and method of turning at intersections. The driver
of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do so as follows.
      (1)   Right turns. Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn
shall be made as close as practical to the right-hand curb or edge of the
roadway.
      (2)   Left turns on two-way roadways. At any intersection where traffic
is permitted to move in both directions on each roadway entering the
intersection, an approach for a left turn shall be made in that portion of the
right half of the roadway nearest the centerline thereof and by passing to the
right of such centerline where it enters the intersection and after entering
the intersection to the right of the centerline of the roadway being entered.
Whenever practicable, the left turn shall be made in that portion of the
intersection to the left of the center of the intersection.
      (3)   Left turns on other than two-way roadways. At any intersection
where traffic is restricted to one direction on one or more of the roadways,
the driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at any such intersection shall
approach the intersection in the extreme left-hand lane lawfully available to
traffic moving in the direction of travel of such vehicle and, after entering
the intersection, the left turn shall be made so as to leave the intersection
as nearly as practicable in the left-hand lane lawfully available to traffic
moving in such direction upon the roadway being entered.
   (B)   Authority to place and obedience to turning markers.
      (1)   The Traffic Engineer is authorized to place markers, buttons or
signs within or adjacent to intersections indicating the course to be traveled
by vehicles turning at such intersections, and such course to be traveled as so
indicated may conform to or be other than as prescribed by law.
      (2)   When authorized markers, buttons or other indications are placed
within an intersection indicating the course to be traveled by vehicles turning
thereat, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of such
indications.
   (C)   Authority to place restricted turn signs. The Traffic Engineer is
hereby authorized to determine those intersections at which drivers of vehicles
shall not make a right, left or “U” turn, and shall place proper signs at such
intersections. The making of such turns may be prohibited at other hours, in
which even the same shall be plainly indicated on the signs or they may be
removed when such turns are permitted.
   (D)   Obedience to no-turn signs. The driver of any vehicle shall not turn
such vehicle so as to proceed in the opposite direction upon any street in a
business district and shall not upon any other street so turn a vehicle unless
such movement can be made is safety and without interfering with other traffic.
(Prior Code, § 8-205) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   (A)   Authority to sign one-way streets and alleys. Whenever any regulations
designate any one-way street or alley, the Traffic Engineer shall place and
maintain signs giving notice thereof, and no such regulations shall be
effective unless such signs are in place. Signs indicating the direction of
lawful traffic movements shall be placed at every intersection where movement
of traffic in the opposite direction is prohibited.
   (B)   One-way streets and alleys. Upon those streets and parts of streets
proclaimed by proper resolution of the governing body, vehicular traffic shall
move only in the indicated direction when signs indication the direction of
traffic are erected and maintained at every intersection where movement in the
opposite direction is prohibited.
   (C)   Authority to restrict direction of movement on streets during certain
periods.
      (1)   The Traffic Engineer is hereby authorized to determine and
designate streets, parts of streets or specific lanes thereon upon which
vehicular traffic shall proceed in one direction during one period and the
opposite direction during another period of the day shall place and maintain
appropriate markings, signs, barriers or other devices to give notice thereof.
The Traffic Engineer may erect signs temporarily designating lanes to be used
by traffic moving in a particular direction, regardless of the centerline of
the roadway.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any vehicle in
violation of such markings, signs, barriers or other devices so placed in
accordance with this section.
(Prior Code, § 8-206) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 SPECIAL STOPS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Through streets designated. Those streets and parts of streets
proclaimed by proper resolution of the governing body are hereby declared to be
through streets for the purpose of this section.
   (B)   Authority to erect stop signs. Whenever the governing body, by
resolution, designates and describes a through street, it shall be the duty of
the Traffic Engineer to place and maintain a stop sign on each and every street
intersecting such through street or intersecting that portion thereof described
and designated as such, unless traffic signals; provided, however, that, at the
intersection of two such through streets or at the intersection of a through
street and a heavy traffic street not so designated, stop signs shall be
erected at the approaches of either of said streets as may be determined by the
Traffic Engineer upon the basis of an engineering and traffic study.
   (C)   Intersections where stop required.
      (1)   The Traffic Engineer is hereby authorized to determine and
designate intersections where particular hazard exists upon other than through
streets and to determine whether vehicles shall stop at one or more entrances
to any such stop is required; provided, said Traffic Engineer may, in his or
her discretion, establish “Yield Right-of-Way” signs at such intersections as
it is deemed advisable.
      (2)   Such signs shall indicate that an intersection may be entered
without stopping if no vehicles are approaching along the street whereon the
“Yield Right-of-Way” signs control entering traffic.
   (D)   Signs to bear the word “Stop”.
      (1)   Every stop sign erected shall bear the word “Stop” in letters not
less that eight inches in height and such sign shall at night time be rendered
luminous by steady or flashing internal illumination, or by a fixed floodlight
projected on the face of the sign, or by efficient reflecting elements on the
face of the sign.
      (2)   Every stop sign shall be located as near as practicable at the
nearest line of the crosswalk on the near sign of the intersection or, if none,
at the nearest line of the roadway.
   (E)   Vehicles to stop at stop sign. When stop signs are erected as herein
authorized at or near the entrance to any intersection, every driver of a
vehicle shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection or in the event there is no crosswalk shall stop at a clearly
marked stop line, but, if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting
roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting
roadway before entering the intersection, except when directed to proceed by a
police officer or traffic-control signal.
   (F)   Emerging from alley, driveway or buildings. The driver of a vehicle
within a business or residence district emerging form an alley, driveway or
building shall stop such vehicle immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk
or onto the sidewalk area extending across any alleyway or driveway, yielding
the right-of-way to any pedestrian as may be necessary to avoid collision and,
upon entering the roadway, shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles
approaching on said roadway.
   (G)   Stop when traffic obstructed. No driver shall enter an intersection or
a marked crosswalk unless there is sufficient space on the other side of the
intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the vehicle he or she is operating
without obstructing the passage of other vehicles or pedestrians,
notwithstanding any traffic-control signal indication to proceed.
   (H)   Obedience to signal indicating approach of railroad train.
      (1)   Whenever any person driving a vehicle approaches a railroad grade
crossing under any of the circumstances stated in this section, the driver of
such vehicle shall stop within 50 feet, but not less than 15 feet, from the
nearest rail of such railroad, and shall not proceed until he or she can do so
safely. The foregoing requirements shall apply when:
         (a)   A clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device gives
warning of the immediate approach of a railroad train;
         (b)   A crossing gate is lowered or when a flagger gives or continues
to give a signal of the approach or passage of a railroad train;
         (c)   A railroad train approaching within approximately 1,500 feet of
the highway crossing emits a signal audible from such distance and such
railroad train, by reason of speed or nearness of such crossing, is an
immediate hazard; and
         (d)   An approaching railroad train is plainly visible and is in
hazardous proximity of such crossing.
      (2)   No person shall drive any vehicle through, around or under any
crossing gate or barrier at a railroad grade crossing while such gate or
barrier is closed or is being opened or closed.
(Prior Code, § 8-207) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05 GENERAL DRIVING RULES.
   (A)   Following fire apparatus prohibited. The driver of any vehicle other
than one on official business shall not follow any fire apparatus traveling in
response to a fire alarm closer than 500 feet or drive into or park such
vehicle within the block where fire apparatus has stopped in answer to a fire
alarm.
   (B)   Crossing fire hoses. No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected
hose of a Fire Department when laid to be used at any fire or alarm of fire,
without the consent of the Fire Department official in command.
   (C)   Driving through funeral or other procession. No driver of a vehicle
shall drive between the vehicles comprising a funeral or other authorized
procession while they are in motion and when such vehicles are conspicuously
designated as required by this chapter.
   (D)   Drivers in a procession. Each driver in a funeral procession or other
procession shall drive as near to the right-hand edge of the roadway as
practical and safe.
   (E)   Funeral processions to be identified. A funeral composed of a
procession of vehicles shall be identified as such by the display upon the
outside of each vehicle of a pennant or other identifying insignia or by such
other method as may be determined and designated by the Traffic Division.
   (F)   When permits required for parades and processions. No funeral,
procession or parade containing persons or vehicles shall occupy, march or
proceed along any street, except in accordance with a permit issued by the
Chief of Police and such other regulations as are set forth.
   (G)   Vehicles shall not be driven on a sidewalk. The driver of a vehicle
shall not drive within any sidewalk area, except at a permanent or temporary
driveway.
   (H)   Limitations on backing. The driver of a vehicle shall not back the
same unless such movement can be made with reasonable safety and without
interfering with other traffic.
   (I)   Riding on motorcycles. A person operating a motorcycle shall ride only
upon a permanent and regular seat attached thereto, and such operator shall not
carry any other person, nor shall any other person ride on a motorcycle unless
such motorcycle is designated to carry more than one person, in which event a
passenger may ride upon the permanent and regular seat if designed for two
persons, or upon another seat firmly attached to the rear of the side of the
operator.
   (J)   Clinging to vehicles. No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster,
roller skates, sled or toy vehicle shall attach the same or himself or herself
to any vehicle upon a roadway.
   (K)   Stating parked vehicles. No person shall start a vehicle which is
stopped, standing or parked unless or until such movement can be made with
reasonable safety.
   (L)   Passing school bus. No person shall drive a vehicle past a school bus
loading or unloading children on the way to or from the public school of the
city. All school buses or vehicles transporting school children to and from
school shall draw up and stop along the curb line of the school grounds where
such children are being loaded so that the children shall enter and leave the
said bus or other vehicle on the right side thereof and no child shall be
loaded or unloaded to or from the school bus arriving at or leaving school,
except at the school grounds.
   (M)   Limitation of backing. The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same
unless such movement can be made with reasonable safety and without
interference with other traffic. And in no case shall a vehicle be backed upon
the main streets of the city any distance greater than is absolutely necessary
to enter the regular flow of traffic.
(Prior Code, § 8-208) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.06 REGULATING THE KINDS AND CLASSES OF TRAFFIC ON CERTAIN HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   Load restrictions upon vehicles using certain streets. When signs are
erected giving notice thereof, no person shall operate any vehicle with a gross
weight in excess of the amounts specified.
   (B)   Restrictions upon use of streets by certain vehicles.
      (1)   The Traffic Engineer is hereby authorized to determine and
designate those heavily traveled streets, upon which shall be prohibited the
sue of the roadway by motor driven cycles, bicycles, horse drawn vehicles or
other non-motorized traffic and shall erect appropriate signs giving notice
thereof.
      (2)   When signs are so erected giving notice thereof, no person shall
disobey the restrictions stated on such signs.
(Prior Code, § 8-214) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.07 OBSTRUCTING DRIVER’S VIEW OR DRIVING MECHANISM.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle if it is so loaded or when there are
in the front seat such number of persons exceeding three as to obstruct the
view of the driver to the front, sides or rear of the vehicle or as to
interfere with the driver’s control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (B)   No passenger in a vehicle shall ride in such a position as to
interfere with the driver’s view ahead, to the sides or to the rear or to
interfere with the control over the driving mechanism of said vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 8-220) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.08 COASTING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The driver of any motor vehicle when traveling upon a down grade shall
not coast with the gears of such vehicle in neutral.
   (B)   The driver of a commercial motor vehicle while traveling upon a down
grade shall not coast with the clutch disengaged.
(Prior Code, § 8-221) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.09 “U” TURNS.
   “U” turns shall be permitted only at the intersections of the streets in the
city. No “U” turns shall be permitted at the intersection of alleys and streets
or at the intersections wherein warning signs prohibit the same and have been
posted by order of the Chief of Police with the approval of the Mayor and City
Council.
(Prior Code, § 8-222) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.10 UNQUALIFIED DRIVERS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person not qualified under laws of the state to
drive or operate any motor vehicle upon the streets of the city.
(Prior Code, § 8-229) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.11 DRIVING WHILE UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF LIQUOR, DRUGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person who is under the influence of
intoxicating or alcoholic beverages to drive or be in actual physical control
of any vehicle with the municipality.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person who is a habitual user of, or
under the influence of any narcotic drugs, or who is under the influence of any
other drug to a degree which renders him or her incapable of safely driving a
vehicle to drive a vehicle within the municipality. The fact that any person
charged with a violation of this division (B) is or has been entitled to use
such drug under the laws of the state shall no constitute the defense against
any charge of violating this division (B).
(Prior Code, § 8-301) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.12 RECKLESS DRIVING.
   Any person who drives any vehicle upon a street or alley carelessly and
heedlessly, or without due caution and circumspection and at a speed or in a
manner so as to endanger or be likely to endanger any person or property, or
who passes when there is a line in his or her lane indicating a slight distance
restriction, shall be guilty of reckless driving.
(Prior Code, § 8-302) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.13 INATTENTIVE DRIVING.
   (A)   Any person who drives a vehicle upon a highway, as defined in Idaho
Code § 49-514, in a careless or inattentive manner or in disregard of the
safety of persons or property is guilty of a misdemeanor as provided in Idaho
Code § 49-1401(3).
   (B)   Inattentive driving shall be considered a lesser offense than reckless
driving and shall be applicable in those circumstances where the conduct of the
operator has been inattentive, careless or imprudent, in light of the
circumstances then existing, rather than heedless or wanton, or in those cases
where the danger to persons or property by the motor vehicle operator’s conduct
is slight.
(Prior Code, § 8-303) Penalty, see §
71.99
EQUIPMENT
§ 71.25 VEHICLES WITH PROJECTING LUGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to drive any vehicle with
projecting metallic lugs, points, cleats or bars on the wheels, tracks or
treads, across, over or upon any paved or oiled street or any bridge crossing
or culvert in the city without securing its safety with four pieces of plank,
each of which shall be at least ten feet in length, 12 inches in width and two
inches in thickness, two of which said pieces of plank shall at all times be
under the wheels, tracks or treads of such vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 8-223) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.26 SIRENS, WHISTLES AND BELLS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be equipped with, nor shall any person use upon a
vehicle, any siren, whistle or bell, except as otherwise provided in this
section.
   (B)   Any authorized emergency vehicle may be equipped with a siren, whistle
or bell capable of emitting sounds audible under normal conditions for a
distance of not less than 500 feet, but such siren, whistle or bell shall not
be used, except such vehicle is operated in response to an emergency call or in
the immediate pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the law, in which
the latter event the driver of such vehicle shall sound said siren when
reasonable necessary to warn pedestrians and other drivers of the approach
thereof.
(Prior Code, § 8-224) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.27 LIGHTING EQUIPMENT ON VEHICLES.
   Every vehicle upon a street within the city at any time from one-half hour
after sunset to one-half hour before sunrise and at any other time when there
is not sufficient light to render clearly discernible persons and vehicles on
the streets at a distance of 500 feet ahead, shall display lighted lamps and
illuminating devices as required by the laws of the state.
(Prior Code, § 8-225) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.28 BRAKES.
   Every motor vehicle, when operated upon the streets of the city, shall be
equipped with brakes adequate to control the movement and to stop and hold such
vehicle, and the requirements for such braking equipment shall be as provided
by the laws of the state.
(Prior Code, § 8-226) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.29 HORNS AND WARNING DEVICES.
   (A)   Every motor vehicle, when operated on a street, shall be equipped with
emitting sounds audible under normal conditions for a distance of not less than
200 feet, but no horn or other warning device shall emit an unreasonably loud,
harsh or unusual sound or whistle.
   (B)   The driver of a motor vehicle shall, when reasonably necessary to
ensure safe operation, give audible warning with his or her horn, but shall not
otherwise use such horn when upon a street.
(Prior Code, § 8-227) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.30 MUFFLERS, PREVENTION OF NOISE.
   (A)   Every motor vehicle shall, at all times, be equipped with a muffle in
good working order and in constant operation to prevent excessive or unusual
noise and annoying smoke and no person shall use a muffler cutout, bypass or
similar device upon a motor vehicle on a street.
   (B)   The engine and power mechanism of every motor vehicle shall be so
equipped and adjusted as to prevent the escape of excessive fumes or smoke.
(Prior Code, § 8-228) Penalty, see §
71.99
STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING RULES
§ 71.45 METHOD OF PARKING.
   (A)   Standing or parking close to curb. No person shall stand or park a
vehicle in a roadway other than parallel with the edge of the roadway headed in
the direction of lawful traffic movement and with the right-hand wheels of the
vehicle within 18 inches of the curb or edge of the roadway, except as
otherwise provided in this section.
   (B)   Permit for loading or unloading at an angle to the curb.
      (1)   The Traffic Engineer is authorized to issue special permits to
permit the backing of a vehicle to the curb for the purpose of loading or
unloading merchandise or materials subject to the terms and conditions of such
permit. Such permits may be issued either to the owner of lessee of real
property or to the owner of the vehicle and shall grant to such person the
privilege as therein stated and authorized herein.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any permittee or other person to violate
any of the special terms or conditions of any such permit.
   (C)   Lights on parked vehicles.
      (1)   Whenever a vehicle is lawfully parked at night time upon any street
within a business or residence district, no lights need to displayed upon such
parked vehicle.
      (2)   Whenever a vehicle is parked upon a street or highway outside of a
business or residence district during the hours between one-half hour after
sunset and one-half hour before sunrise, such vehicle shall be equipped with
one or more lamps which shall exhibit a white light on the roadway side visible
from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the vehicle and a red light visible
from a distance of 500 feet to the rear.
      (3)   Any lighted headlamps upon a parked vehicle shall be depressed or
dimmed.
(Prior Code, § 8-210) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.46 PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIED PLACES.
   (A)   Stopping, standing or parking prohibited; no signs required.
      (1)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle, except when
necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with law or the
directions of a police officer or traffic-control device, in any of the
following places:
         (a)   On a sidewalk;
         (b)   In front of a public or private driveway;
         (c)   Within an intersection;
         (d)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
         (e)   On a crosswalk;
         (f)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
         (g)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop
sign or traffic-control signal located at the side of a roadway;
         (h)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless the
Traffic Engineer has indicated a different length by signs or markings;
         (i)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of railroad crossings;
         (j)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and
on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75
feet of said entrance when properly signed;
         (k)   Alongside or opposite any street obstruction or excavation when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
         (l)   On a roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street;
         (m)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or
within a highway tunnel; and
         (n)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping.
      (2)   No person shall move any vehicle not lawfully under his or her
control into any such prohibited area or away form a curb such distance as is
unlawful.
   (B)   Parking not to obstruct traffic. No person shall park any vehicle upon
a street, other than an alley, in such a manner or under such conditions as to
leave available less than ten feet of the width of the roadway for free
movement of vehicular traffic.
   (C)   Parking in alleys. No person shall park a vehicle within an alley in
such position as to block the driveway entrance to any abutting property.
   (D)   Parking for certain purposes prohibited. No person shall park a
vehicle upon any roadway for the principal purpose of:
      (1)   Displaying such vehicle for sale; and/or
      (2)   Washing, greasing or repairing such vehicle, except repairs
necessitated by an emergency.
   (E)   Parking adjacent to schools.
      (1)   The Traffic Engineer is hereby authorized to erect signs indicating
no parking upon either or both sides of any street adjacent to any school
property when such parking would, in his or her opinion, interfere with traffic
or crate a hazardous situation.
      (2)   When official signs are erected indicting no parking upon either
side of a street adjacent to any school property as authorized herein, no
person shall park a vehicle in any such designated place.
   (F)   Parking on narrow streets prohibited.
      (1)   The Traffic Engineer is hereby authorized to erect signs indicating
no parking upon any street when the width of the roadway does not exceed 20
feet or upon one side of a street as indicated by such signs when the width of
the roadway does not exceed 30 feet.
      (2)   When official signs prohibiting parking are erected upon narrow
streets as authorized herein, no person shall park a vehicle upon any such
street in violations of any such sign.
   (G)   Standing or parking on one-way streets. The Traffic Engineer is
authorized to erect signs upon the left-hand side of any one-way street to
prohibit the standing or parking of vehicles, and when such signs are in place,
no person shall stand or park a vehicle upon such left-hand side in violation
of any such sign.
   (H)   Standing or parking on one-way streets and roadways. In the event a
highway includes two or more separate roadways and traffic is restricted to one
direction upon any such roadway, no person shall stand or park a vehicle the
left-hand side of any such one-way roadway unless signs are erected to permit
such standing or parking, the Traffic Engineer is authorized to determine when
standing or parking may be permitted upon the left-hand side of any such one-
way roadway and to erect signs giving notice thereof.
   (I)   No stopping, standing or parking near hazardous or congested places.
      (1)   The Traffic Engineer is hereby authorized to determine and
designate by proper signs places not exceeding 100 feet in length in which the
stopping, standing or parking of vehicles would create an especially hazardous
condition or would cause unusual delay to traffic.
      (2)   When official signs are erected at hazardous or congested places as
authorized herein, no person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle in any such
designated place.
(Prior Code, § 8-211) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.47 LOADING OR UNLOADING ONLY.
   (A)   Traffic Engineer to designated curb loading zones. The Traffic
Engineer is hereby authorized to determine the location of passengers and
freight curb loading zones and shall place and maintain appropriate signed
indicating the same and stating the hours during which the provisions of this
section are applicable.
   (B)   Permits for curb loading zones. The Traffic Engineer shall not
hereafter designate or sign any curb loading zones upon special request of any
person unless such person makes application for a permit for such zone and for
two signs to indicate the ends of each such zone. The Traffic Engineer, upon
granting a permit issuing such signs, shall collect from the applicant and
deposit in the Treasury a service fee and may be general regulation impose
conditions upon the use thereof in the event of their loss or damage and their
return in the event of misuse or upon expiration of permit. Every such permit
shall expire at the end of one year.
   (C)   Standing in passenger curb loading zone. No person shall stop, stand
or park a vehicle for any purpose or period of time other than for the
expeditious loading or unloading of passengers in any place marked as a
passenger curb loading zone during hours when the regulations applicable to
such curb loading zones are effective, and then only for a period not to exceed
three minutes.
   (D)   Standing in freight curb loading zone. No person shall stop, stand or
park a vehicle for any purpose or length of time other than for the expeditious
unloading and delivery or pick-up and loading of materials in any place marked
as the freight curb loading zone during hours when the provisions applicable to
such zones are in effect. In no case shall the stop for loading and unloading
of materials exceed 30 minutes.
(Prior Code, § 8-212) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.48 RESTRICTED OR PROHIBITED ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   (A)   Application. The provisions of this section prohibiting the standing
or parking of a vehicle shall apply at all times or at those times herein
specified or as indicated on official signs, except when it is necessary to
stop a vehicle to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the
directions of a police officer or official traffic-control device.
   (B)   Regulations not exclusive. The provisions of this section imposing a
time limit on parking shall not relieve any person from the duty to observe
other and more restrictive provisions prohibiting or limiting the stopping,
standing or parking of vehicles in specified places or at specified times.
   (C)   Parking signs required. Whenever, by this section, any parking time
limit is imposed or parking is prohibited on designated streets, it shall be
the duty of the Traffic Engineer to erect appropriate signs giving notice
thereof and no such regulations shall be effective unless said signs are
erected and in place at the time of any alleged offense.
(Prior Code, § 8-213) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
70.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Every person who is convicted of a violation of §
71.11 of this chapter shall be punished by an imprisonment in the county jail
for not less than ten days, nor more than 30 days, or by fine as set forth in §
10.99, of by both such fine and imprisonment.
(Prior Code, § 8-301)
CHAPTER 72: PEDESTRIANS
Section
   
72.01   Pedestrians subject to traffic-control signals
   
72.02   Pedestrians’ right-of-way in crosswalk
   
72.03   Pedestrians to use right half of crosswalk
   
72.04   Crossing at right angles
   
72.05   When pedestrian shall yield
   
72.06   Prohibited crossing
   
72.07   Obedience to railroad signals
   
72.08   Pedestrians walking along roadway
   
72.09   Pedestrians soliciting rides or business
   
72.10   Drivers to exercise due care
§ 72.01 PEDESTRIANS SUBJECT TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Pedestrians shall be subject to traffic-control signals as heretofore
declared in this chapter, subject to the restrictions state herein.
(Prior Code, § 8-209)
§ 72.02 PEDESTRIANS’ RIGHT-OF-WAY IN CROSSWALK.
   (A)   When traffic-control signals are no in place or not in operation the
driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way, slowing down or stopping if
need be to so yield, to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within a crosswalk
when the pedestrian is upon the half of the roadway upon which the vehicle is
traveling, or when the pedestrian is approaching so closely from the opposite
half of the roadway as to be in danger, but no pedestrian shall suddenly leave
the curb or other place of safety and walk or run into the path of a vehicle
which is so close that it is impossible for the driver to yield. A pedestrian’s
right-of-way in a crosswalk is modified under the condition and stated herein.
   (B)   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall no
overtake and pass such stopped vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 8-209) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.03 PEDESTRIANS TO USE RIGHT HALF OF CROSSWALK.
   Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right half of the
crosswalk.
(Prior Code, § 8-209)
§ 72.04 CROSSING AT RIGHT ANGLES.
   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway at any place other than by a route at
right angles to the curb or by the shortest route to the opposite curb, except
in a crosswalk.
(Prior Code, § 8-209) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.05 WHEN PEDESTRIAN SHALL YIELD.
   (A)   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway. Any pedestrian crossing a
roadway at a point where a pedestrian tunnel or overhead pedestrian crossing
has been provided shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the
roadway.
   (B)   The foregoing rules in this section have no application under the
conditions stated herein when pedestrians are prohibited from crossing at
certain designated places.
(Prior Code, § 8-209) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.06 PROHIBITED CROSSING.
   Between adjacent intersections at which traffic-control signals are in
operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place, except in a crosswalk.
(Prior Code, § 8-209) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.07 OBEDIENCE TO RAILROAD SIGNALS.
   No pedestrian shall pass through, around, over or under any crossing gate or
barrier at a railroad grade crossing while such gate or barrier is closed or is
being opened or closed.
(Prior Code, § 8-209) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.08 PEDESTRIANS WALKING ALONG ROADWAY.
   (A)   Where sidewalks are provided, it shall be unlawful for any pedestrian
to walk along and upon an adjacent roadway.
   (B)   Where sidewalks are not provided any pedestrian walking along or upon
a highway shall, when practicable, walk only on the left side of the roadway or
its shoulder facing traffic which may approach from the opposite direction.
(Prior Code, § 8-209) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.09 PEDESTRIANS SOLICITING RIDES OR BUSINESS.
   No person shall stand in a roadway for the purpose of soliciting a ride,
employment or business from the occupant of any vehicle while parked or about
to be parked on a street or highway.
(Prior Code, § 8-209) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.10 DRIVERS TO EXERCISE DUE CARE.
   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this chapter, every driver of a
vehicle shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian upon any
roadway and shall give warning by sounding the horn when necessary and shall
exercise proper precaution upon observing any child or any confused or
incapacitated person upon a roadway.
(Prior Code, § 8-209) Penalty, see §
70.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
      
92.   FAIR HOUSING; NON-DISCRIMINATION
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Animals running at large prohibited
   
90.02   Poultry running at large prohibited
   
90.03   Shelter and care of animals
   
90.04   Impounding of animals; notice and sale; freeing animals
   
90.05   Exclusion of certain animals
   
90.06   Horses, mules and cattle
Dogs
   
90.20   Purpose
   
90.21   Definitions
   
90.22   Licenses required
   
90.23   Rabies quarantine
   
90.24   Impoundment
   
90.25   Running at large prohibited
   
90.26   Female dogs in heat
   
90.27   Dangerous dogs
   
90.28   Animal Control Officers; interference
   
90.29   Kennels
   
90.30   Prohibited behaviors
   
90.31   Violations
   
90.32   City immunity
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   No animal, cattle, hogs, horses, mules, sheep or goats shall be permitted at
large in the municipality at any time during the year; and it shall be unlawful
for anyone to herd or drive any animal through the streets without having said
animal under control by means of rope, strap or other device in which they may
be led, unless such animal is being driven in harness or hauled; provided that,
this subchapter shall not be construed as prohibiting stockmen from driving
herds through the municipality when necessary to transfer them from one pasture
to another of for the purpose of shipping, but such stockman so driving stock
through the municipality shall be liable to property owners for all damage done
to their property by such stock while being driven through said municipality,
whether such damage is caused by the negligence of the said municipality in as
short a time as possible.
(Prior Code, § 6-201) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.02 POULTRY RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep fowls or poultry unless such
fowls or poultry are, at all times, kept upon his or her own premises and in
enclosures.
(Prior Code, § 6-202) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 SHELTER AND CARE OF ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person owning or having under his, her or their
control and custody any cattle, hogs, horses, mules, sheep or goats to not
properly feed and care for said animals as is regularly and ordinarily
considered to be properly fed and cared for; any person owning or having any
cattle, hogs, horses, mules, sheep or goats shall keep said animals within a
properly fenced enclosure at all times and that there shall be provided within
said enclosure a proper shed or other building to provide shelter for said
animals.
(Prior Code, § 6-203) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 IMPOUNDING OF ANIMALS; NOTICE AND SALE; FREEING ANIMALS.
   (A)   If any animal shall be found running at large contrary to the
provisions of this subchapter, it is hereby made the duty of the Chief of
Police to take and confirm the same in a secure place or other provided place
for that purpose and such animal taken up and confined shall not be released
until the owner or person entitled to the possession thereof shall pay to the
officer having such animal in keeping the following. In addition to the cost of
advertising and keeping each animal taken up under this subchapter, the Chief
of Police shall collect $3 for impounding the same, said fee to be retained by
him or her for his or her services and also $1 for each day he or she shall
have kept the same and 10% of the sales, and the same shall be turned into the
Treasury.
(Prior Code, § 6-204)
   (B)   If the owner or person entitled to the possession of an animal within
five days from the time it is so taken into custody does not pay the charges
and take it away, it shall be lawful for the Chief of Police, have such animal
in charge, to sell at public auction said animal; having given at least five
days notice of the time and place of said sale by posting the same in five
public places in the municipality, and a copy of said notice shall also be
served the sale, but any such animal may be redeemed at any time before the
sale by the payment to the officer or his or her assistant, fees, expenses and
charges heretofore provided herein.
(Prior Code, § 6-205)
   (C)   In case any animal sold pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter
be sold for more than is sufficient to pay the fees and charges aforesaid, such
excess shall be by the officer or his or her assistant making the sale,
deposited with the Clerk/Treasurer which shall be paid upon an order of the
governing body to the owner of such animals or to the person entitled to the
possession of the same upon claim and proper proof within six months from date
of said sale.
(Prior Code, § 6-206)
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to break open or in any manner, directly or
indirectly, aid or assist in breaking open any pen or enclosure with intent of
releasing any animal confined therein pursuant to the provisions of this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-207)
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 EXCLUSION OF CERTAIN ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep within the city limits any
predatory animals, goats or swine.
(Prior Code, § 6-208) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 HORSES, MULES AND CATTLE.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be lawful for any person to keep within the city limits
any horses, burros, jack asses, mules, sheep or cattle so long as they have
enclosed an area of not less that 10,000 square feet per head and the
provisions of §
90.03 of this chapter are properly met.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person keeping such animals to allow
any accumulation of manure or other fly breeding or odorous compounds to
accumulate upon said premises and all such materials shall be removed at least
once each week from November 1 until March 31 and at least every two days from
April 1 to October 31 each year.
   (B)   In addition thereto, when there is any evidence of the breeding of
flies, mosquitoes or other insects, said premises shall be properly sprayed to
eliminate the same.
(Prior Code, § 6-209) Penalty, see §
90.99
DOGS
§ 90.20 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide for regulation of the harboring
of dogs within the city limits to promote public safety and welfare of the
citizens of the city and to promote the welfare of dogs harbored within the
city limits.
(Ord. 1997-1, passed 2-4-1997)
§ 90.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER.
      (1)   The Chief of Police of the city;
      (2)   All police officers of the city; and
      (3)   Any other person(s) designated, by resolution of the City Council,
as an Animal Control officer as provided in this subchapter.
   AT LARGE/RUN AT LARGE. A dog is “at large” or “running at large” if it is
off its harborer’s premises and not under control of a person.
   BITE. Any closure by an animal’s mouth causing a redness, breaking or
tearing of the skin of any person or which materially damages or destroys the
personal property of another.
   DANGEROUS DOG. Any dog declared “dangerous”, as provided in this subchapter.
   DOG. Any member, male or female, of the family of Canis Familiaris.
   HARBOR/HARBORING.
      (1)   To own or keep a dog within the city limits.
      (2)   It shall be prima facie evidence that a person is HARBORING a dog
for the purposes of this subchapter if the person:
         (a)   Is listed as the owner or harborer of the dog with the city on
any application for dog licensing; or
         (b)   Is over 18 years of age and resides at or is in physical control
of a premises, or part thereof, on which a dog remains or to which it
customarily returns daily for food or shelter for three consecutive days or
more.
   HARBORER. Any person who owns a dog or keeps a dog within the city limits.
   HARBORER’S PREMISES.
      (1)   All real property under a harborer’s ownership, lease or control
inside the inner line of a sidewalk or, if there is no sidewalk, inside the
curb, ditch or shoulder marking the edge of the traveled or used portion of the
public right-of-way.
      (2)   PREMISES also includes the inside of a closed motor vehicle.
   KENNEL. Any premises, other than a veterinary office, animal shelter,
grooming facility or pet shop on which four or more dogs are maintained,
harbored, possessed, boarded, bred or cared for.
   LEASH. A leash, lead, cord or chain not more than ten feet in length, by
which a dog is physically controlled by the person accompanying it.
   NEUTERED DOG. Any male or female dog rendered incapable of reproducing
offspring by surgery or other veterinary medical procedure.
   OWNER. The legal owner of a dog.
   UNDER CONTROL. A dog is “under control” if:
      (1)   The dog is confined within the boundaries of the harborer’s
premises; or
      (2)   The dog is not on the harborer’s premises, but is:
         (a)   Confined within a vehicle; or
         (b)   In the control of a responsible person by use of a leash not
exceeding ten feet in length.
   VETERINARY CLINIC OR HOSPITAL. Any establishment maintained and operated by
a licensed veterinarian for the boarding of animals or the diagnosis, treatment
and care of diseased or injured animals.
(Ord. 1997-1, passed 2-4-1997)
§ 90.22 LICENSES REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to harbor a dog within the
city limits not licensed as provided by this subchapter.
      (2)   No license shall be required for dogs which are harbored within the
city limits by the owner thereof if the owner:
         (a)   Is not a resident of the city;
         (b)   The dog is harbored less than 30 consecutive days within the
city; and
         (c)   The dog is validly licensed by another governmental licensing
authority.
   (B)   (1)   All licenses required under this subchapter shall be issued by
the City Clerk/Treasurer. In addition to payment of all required fees, all
applicants for dog licenses shall provide the following information to the City
Clerk/Treasurer as a condition precedent to issuance of a license:
         (a)   The name, address and phone number of the owner;
         (b)   The name, address and phone number of the harborer if different
from the owner;
         (c)   The name, age, breed and gender of the dog;
         (d)   An accurate photograph of the dog or a written description of
the weight, size, color and distinguishing characteristics of the dog;
         (e)   Whether the dog has been neutered;
         (f)   Proof of current rabies vaccination; and
         (g)   Whether the dog has been declared a dangerous or vicious dog by
any governmental authority.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly provide false
information on any application or in applying for any license under this
subchapter.
      (3)   Except as may be directed by resolution of the City Council, the
City Clerk/Treasurer shall refuse to issue or renew a license to any person
who:
         (a)   Fails to provide any information required to be submitted under
division (B)(1) above or fails to pay the required license fee;
         (b)   Knowingly provides false information in making application for
any license under this subchapter; or
         (c)   Applies for licensing of a dog that has been declared dangerous
or vicious dog by any governmental authority if disclosed by the applicant or
otherwise made known to the City Clerk/Treasurer. Nothing herein shall require
the City Clerk/Treasurer to undertake any independent inquiry of this issue
with any person or governmental authority other than the applicant.
      (4)   In the event the City Clerk/Treasurer shall deny the applicant a
license or renewal, the applicant may apply to the City Council for issuance of
a license. The City Council may issue said license by resolution of the Council
on such terms and conditions the City Council shall deem in the best interest
of the city.
   (C)   (1)   The license fees for dogs per household shall be as follows:
         (a)   First dog: $5 per year;
         (b)   Second dog:   $15 per year;
         (c)   Third dog: $20 per year;
         (d)   Replacement tag: $2 per year; and
         (e)   Unneutered dog: $35 per year.
      (2)   No lifetime licenses shall be issued.
      (3)   All licenses issued under this subchapter shall expire on midnight,
December 31 of the year for which the license is issued. A license for the
succeeding calendar year may be obtained prior to expiration of the current
year’s license, but shall not be effective until the expiration of the current
license. No part of any dog license fee shall be refundable.
   (D)   Every dog harbored within the city limits shall at all times wear a
substantial, durable collar to which shall be securely attached a valid current
license tag issued by the city for the dog wearing the tag as provided in this
subchapter.
   (E)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow a dog harbored by
the person to wear and license tag or indicia of licensing other than a valid
license tag issued under this subchapter for the dog wearing the tag. This
section shall not prohibit the wearing or non-license tags for the purpose of
identification, proof of vaccination or similar tags if the dog is wearing a
valid current license tag issued under this subchapter for the dog.
      (2)   All licenses and tags issued under this subchapter or predecessor
ordinances shall be non- transferable.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any person to transfer or attempt to
transfer to another person any license or tag issued under this subchapter or
predecessor ordinances.
      (4)   There shall be no more than two licensed dogs permitted per
household or per harborer, unless the same is qualified and licensed as a
kennel.
(Ord. 1997-1, passed 2-4-1997; Ord. 2005-1, passed 4-7-2005; Res. R2021-4,
passed 5-10-2021) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.23 RABIES QUARANTINE.
   The Animal Control Officer shall have the authority to order the harborer of
any dog showing symptoms of rabies or any dog which has bitten any person to
subject the dog to the City Pound, veterinarian or any other place in the
business of boarding dogs for quarantine for a period not to exceed 15 days, or
for such other periods as indicated by a licensed veterinarian is necessary to
determine if the subject dog is infected with rabies. If the dog is determined
to be free of rabies, the dog shall be returned to the harborer upon payment of
100% of the regular fee for the keeping dogs impounded. If the fee is not paid,
the dog shall be subject to the disposal as provided in this subchapter. In
lieu of submitting the dog to impoundment, the harborer may, at his, her or
their expense, admit the dog to a licensed veterinarian for examination and
provide the city with a certification that the dog is free from rabies. Any dog
afflicted with rabies shall be disposed of immediately, either by the harborer
or the Animal Control Officer.
(Ord. 1997-1, passed 2-4-1997)
§ 90.24 IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Authorized.
      (1)   All dogs found running at large within the city limits may be
impounded by the Animal Control Officer by the use of a tranquilizer gun or
other humane means of dog control.
      (2)   (a)   If a dog is impounded, the Animal Control Officer shall
undertake a reasonable inquiry to determine the identity of the owner or
harborer of the dog. Reasonable inquiry shall consist of and be limited to:
            1.   Examining any tags affixed to any collar worn by the dog at
the time of impoundment; and
            2.   Examining the dog licensing records of the city.
         (b)   In the event the identity of the owner or harborer of the dog is
determined from said inquiry, the Animal Control Officer shall serve the owner
or harborer of the dog with written notice of the impoundment by:
            1.   Personal service; or
            2.   Regular first class U.S. mail addressed to the last known
mailing address of the owner or harborer as shown by the records of the City
Clerk/Treasurer, with service being effective on the date of mailing.
         (c)   No such notice shall be required if the identity of the owner or
harborer is not determined from said inquiry.
      (3)   The owner or harborer of any dog which may be taken up and
impounded under the provisions of this subchapter may recover possession of the
dog upon payment to the city of any license fees, impoundment fees and other
costs provided in this subchapter.
   (B)   Disposition of impounded dogs. If the owner or harborer of any
impounded dog fails to pay any required fees and costs under this subchapter
within seven days after the date of service of any written notice required
under this section, or within five days of the date of impoundment if no notice
is required, the Animal Control Officer may dispose of the dog:
      (1)   By delivering it to any person who will pay all fees and costs due;
or
      (2)   By destroying the dog in a humane manner.
   (C)   Payment of fees and cost prior to release. Impounded dogs shall not be
released until the owner of harborer pays to the City Clerk/Treasurer:
      (1)   Capture fee: $50; and
      (2)   Impoundment fee each day of impoundment: $25 per day; and
      (3)   If the dog has not been issued a valid current city dog license
required under this subchapter, a license fee as provided by this subchapter;
and
      (4)   Any other reasonable costs and expenses of impoundment incurred by
the city in impounding the dog, including any veterinary expenses reasonably
incurred.
(Ord. 1997-1, passed 2-4-1997; Ord. 2002-1, passed 5-7-2002; Ord. 2005-1,
passed 4-7-2005)
§ 90.25 RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any harborer of a dog to permit a harbored dog to:
   (A)   Be or run at large; or
   (B)   Go or remain upon any public premises, street, alleys or other public
place in the city or go or remain upon any private premises not owned by,
leased by, or in the control of the harborer without the consent of the owner
or occupier of the private premises.
(Ord. 1997-1, passed 2-4-1997) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.26 FEMALE DOGS IN HEAT.
   (A)   All persons harboring any female dog shall keep it shut up when in
heat. Any female dog running at large at such season may be disposed of by the
Animal Control Officer without giving any notice required under §
90.24 of this chapter or otherwise.
   (B)   The Animal Control Officer may also, dispose of by destroying in a
humane manner, any dog found running at large which in the judgment of the
Animal Control Officer:
      (1)   Displays symptoms of contagious disease;
      (2)   Displays serious physical injury or illness such that the Animal
Control Officer deems, in the officer’s sole discretion, that it is necessary
to destroy the dog to prevent further suffering; or
      (3)   Displays vicious or aggressive behavior which poses an imminent
risk of physical injury to any person and the dog cannot, in the discretion of
the Animal control Officer, be taken into control for impoundment by reasonable
humane methods.
(Ord. 1997-1, passed 2-4-1997) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.27 DANGEROUS DOGS.
   (A)   Keeping prohibited; licensing.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to harbor a dangerous dog
within the city limits, except as provided in this subchapter.
      (2)   The City Clerk/Treasurer shall not issue or renew any dog license
for any dog that has been declared a dangerous dog by the city or the Animal
Control Officer or dangerous, vicious or other similar classifications by any
governmental authority, except as may be provided by resolution of the City
Council.
   (B)   Declaration; appeal.
      (1)   The Animal Control Officer may declare a dog to be a dangerous dog
if, upon investigation of any complaint, incident or information otherwise
provided, the Animal Control Officer finds that:
         (a)   The dog has, whether or not under control, aggressively bitten
any person, domestic animal or fowl or maliciously damaged or destroyed
personal property of another; or
         (b)   The dog has been declared dangerous, vicious or other similar
declaration by any governmental authority.
      (2)   If the Animal Control Officer makes said declaration, the Animal
Control Officer shall notify the owner or harborer of the declaration and the
manner and time limits in which an appeal of the declaration may be taken. Said
notice shall be in writing and served by personal service or regular first
class U.S. Mail to owner or harborer as shown by the records of the City Clerk/
Treasurer, with service being effective on the date of mailing.
      (3)   The Animal Control Officer may impound any dog declared to be
dangerous, including, but not limited to, impounding of the dog during the
pendency of any appeal proceeding. The owner and harborer of the dog shall be
liable for all costs and fees of impoundment regardless of the final
disposition of the case.
      (4)   The owner or harborer of a dog declared dangerous shall have five
business days from the date of service of the written declaration to request a
hearing appealing the declaration. The request for hearing shall be in writing,
identify the name, address and telephone number of the requesting party and
shall be served upon the City Clerk/Treasurer within the time limit above
provided. In the event no hearing is requested within the time and in the
manner above-provided, the Animal Control Officer may dispose of the dog as
provided by §
90.24(B) of this chapter without further notice to the owner or harborer.
      (5)   If a hearing is requested, a hearing shall be held within seven
days of the date the request for hearing is received by the City Clerk/
Treasurer, or at such other time as is agreed to by the requesting party.
         (a)   The Mayor and two City Council members appointed by the Mayor
shall constitute the hearing panel and shall hear the appeal. The hearing shall
be informal and the Idaho Rules of Evidence shall not apply. The owner,
harborer and the Animal Control Officer or other representative of the City
shall be given the opportunity to submit evidence, present witnesses and be
heard on the matter, including the right of cross-examination.
         (b)   In determining whether the dog is dangerous, the hearing panel
may consider, among other evidence, past incidents, provocation for the
dangerous behavior, whether the conduct occurred on the premises where the dog
was harbored, the legal status of the alleged victim on the premises and any
other fact or allegation relating to the incident from which the declaration
arises.
      (6)   If the hearing panel shall find that the declaration was proper,
the hearing panel shall either:
         (a)   Direct the Animal Control Officer to dispose of the dog as
provided by §
90.24(B) of this chapter; or
         (b)   Direct that the dog may be released to the owner or harborer on
such conditions as the hearing panel shall deem in the best interest of the
city, which may include, but are not limited to, that:
            1.   The dog will be removed from the city limits immediately
following release and not allowed to return;
            2.   Requiring the owner or harborer to take steps sufficient to
confine the dog in a manner to prevent harm to the public; and
            3.   Requiring the owner and harborer to provide a surety bond or
proof of liability insurance for compensation of those who may suffer injury by
reason of harboring of a dangerous dog.
      (7)   The decision of the hearing panel shall become final unless the
decision is appealed to the District Court within three days following of the
date decision.
(Ord. 1997-1, passed 2-4-1997)
§ 90.28 ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICERS; INTERFERENCE.
   (A)   (1)   The Chief of Police and all police officers of the city are
hereby appointed and designated as Animal Control Officers of the city. In
addition to all authority granted to them for general enforcement of laws as
peace officers, said officers are further authorized and directed to enforce
all provisions of this subchapter and perform all duties of Animal Control
under this subchapter.
      (2)   The City Council may appoint such additional persons as it deems
necessary and proper to act as Animal Control Officer(s), who shall be under
the supervision and control of the Mayor. Any such appointment shall be
reflected in the minutes of the City Council meetings or by resolution of the
City Council. The compensation and terms and conditions of contracting or
employment of such person shall be determined from time to time by the City
Council.
      (3)   All persons designated as Animal Control Officers under this
subchapter may undertake any action or duty as Animal Control Officer provided
under this subchapter concurrently, jointly or individually.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly hinder, molest
or interfere with any Animal Control Officer in the discharge of any of his or
her duties under this subchapter.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to attempt to remove or remove
any dog or dogs from the city pound or the possession of the Animal Control
Officer without the consent of the Animal Control Officer or otherwise as
provided by this subchapter.
(Ord. 1997-1, passed 2-4-1997) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.29 KENNELS.
   Kennels shall not be permitted within the city.
(Ord. 1997-1, passed 2-4-1997; Ord. 2005-1, passed 4-7-2005) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.30 PROHIBITED BEHAVIORS.
   In addition to other provisions of this subchapter, it shall be unlawful for
any person harboring or in control of a dog to:
   (A)   Permit the dog to scatter garbage, refuse or debris;
   (B)   Permit the dog to chase any person, vehicle or domestic animal;
   (C)   Permit the dog to deposit fecal material on any property not that of
its owner or harborer without immediately removing the same from the property;
   (D)   Permit the dog bark, howl or otherwise cause noise in a manner which
unreasonably disturbs, or is likely to disturb, the peace any quiet of any
person;
   (E)   Harbor one or more dogs in such a manner that the keeping of the dog
results in a nauseous, foul or offensive odor or so as to create public
nuisance;
   (F)   Harbor a dog and fail to provide the dog with food, water, shelter or
necessary veterinary care, which shall include a rabies vaccination every three
years; or
   (G)   It shall be unlawful for any person to beat, abuse or otherwise engage
in cruel or inhumane treatment of a dog.
(Ord. 1997-1, passed 2-4-1997) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.31 VIOLATIONS.
   The violations, punishments and remedies provided in this subchapter shall
be cumulative with other provisions of the municipal code, state and federal
laws, and the city may cause any conduct or condition in violation of this
subchapter constituting a public nuisance to be abated as a public nuisance in
the manner provided by law.
(Ord. 1997-1, passed 2-4-1997)
§ 90.32 CITY IMMUNITY.
   The city, its officials, employees, Animal Control Officers and agents shall
not be liable for any acts or omissions in performing duties arising from this
subchapter and shall be immune from suit on any claims arising by reason of any
such alleged act or omission.
(Ord. 1997-1, passed 2-4-1997)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
90.01 through
90.06 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be punished by a fine as set forth in §
10.99 or imprisonment in the city jail for not more than 30 days or by both
such fine and imprisonment.
(Prior Code, § 6-210)
   (B)   (1)   Any person violating any provision of §§
90.20 through
90.32 of this chapter shall be guilty of an infraction, with the penalty being
a fine as set forth in §
10.99, plus court costs.
      (2)   Upon conviction for a fourth offense involving the same animal and/
or the same owner, the dog, after hearing before the City Council, the
offending animal may be destroyed in a humane manner by the Animal Control
Officer.
(Ord. 1997-1, passed 2-4-1997; Ord. 2021-5, passed 6-14-2021)
CHAPTER 91: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Weeds
   
91.02   Abandoned ice boxes, refrigerators and containers
Nuisances
   
91.15   Definitions
   
91.16   Nuisance declared
   
91.17   Prohibited conduct
   
91.18   Automotive hobby project
   
91.19   Commercial enterprises
   
91.20   Enforcement; right of entry; removal
   
91.21   Abatement procedure
   
91.22   Written declaration
   
91.23   Removal cost assessment
   
91.24   Alternative provision
   
91.25   Extent
 
   
91.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 WEEDS.
   (A)   All owners or occupants of any lot, block or subdivision of land are
hereby required to cut and remove all weeds there from. The said persons shall
also remove all weeds up to the center of the street or alley, along, in front
of or abutting said premises and to keep the same free from weeds.
   (B)   WEEDS, within the meaning of this section, includes all vegetable
growth that is unsightly, troublesome, useless or noxious.
   (C)   All weeds and vegetable growth that has been declared noxious,
destructive or detrimental to the agricultural interests shall be completely
and effectually destroyed. It shall be sufficient compliance with this section
if all other kinds not so declared noxious are kept closely cut to the ground.
   (D)   Whenever the growth of weeds advances to or becomes in a condition
prohibited by this section, the municipality or any of its officers shall
notify such owner or occupant to remove such growth and in default of this
being done, said municipality shall remove such growth and in default of this
being done, said municipality shall remove and cut such weeds or do any other
work necessary to place said premises in good condition. The Clerk/Treasurer
shall then certify the cost of the same and the cost therein occurred shall be
a lien upon the property.
(Prior Code, § 7-201) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02 ABANDONED ICE BOXES, REFRIGERATORS AND CONTAINERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave or permit to remain outside of
any dwelling, building or other structure, or within any unoccupied or
abandoned building, dwelling or other structure under his, her or its control,
in a place accessible to children, any abandoned, unattended or discarded ice
box, refrigerator or other container which has a door or lid, snap lock or
other locking device which may not be released from the inside, without first
removing said door or lid, snap lock or other locking device or by first
fastening, bolting or locking the same in such manner that it is impossible to
open the same by the use of the hands.
(Prior Code, § 6-401) Penalty, see §
91.99
NUISANCES
§ 91.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED. To have a motor vehicle on private property without the
permission of the person having rights to the possession of the property or on
a public street or other property open to the public for the purposes of
vehicular traffic or parking, or upon or within the right-of-way of any road or
highway, for 48 hours or longer.
   AUTOMOTIVE HOBBY PROJECT. A non-commercial accessory use involving the
restoration, maintenance and/or preservation of motor vehicles taking place
exclusively on residential private property within the city limits.
   AUTOMOTIVE HOBBY SITE. Any privately-owned real property upon which the
resident is restoring, maintaining and/or preserving one or more motor
vehicles.
   CONTAINER. A garbage can, dumpster or any other kind of storage device
customarily sold, rented, constructed or utilized for use as for temporary
storage of waste matter and lawfully located on the property in question
   FRONT YARD. All property, including driveways and entrance ways extending
between side lot lines across the frontage of a lot adjoining a public street
other than an alley, and from any side of the principal building.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE.
      (1)   Any “hazardous waste” as defined by the Resource Conservation and
Recovery Act of 1976 (42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.), as amended from time to time,
and regulations promulgated thereunder;
      (2)   Any “hazardous substance” as defined by the Comprehensive
Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. §§
9601 et seq.), as amended from time to time, and regulations promulgated
thereunder;
      (3)   Radon and material quantities of petroleum products;
      (4)   Any substance the presence of which on the property is regulated by
any federal, state or local law relating to the protection of the environment
or public health; and
      (5)   Any other substance which by law requires special handling in its
collection, storage, treatment or disposal.
   HIGHWAY. A way or place of whatever nature, publicly maintained and open to
the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking. HIGHWAY
includes street or alley. HIGHWAY does not include those portions of said way
or place which are not utilized for vehicular travel, such as those portions of
aprons, setbacks, easements, rights-of-way or property owned by the public
which extend beyond the surface area normally used for vehicular travel or
parking. Said areas are to be considered public property for purposes of this
subchapter.
   INOPERATIVE VEHICLE. Any vehicle which, in its current state, whether due to
broken, defective or missing parts, including missing or flat tires, missing
doors, missing or badly damaged windshields, or broken or defective parts which
are essential for movement, is not capable of being used as a regular means of
transportation.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. All property owned by the public. PUBLIC PROPERTY does not
include a highway.
   REAR YARD. A yard extending between side lot lines across the rear of a lot
opposite the side(s) of a building which fronts upon a public street and from
the rear lot line to the principal building.
   UNAUTHORIZED VEHICLE. Any thing other than a lawfully registered motor
vehicle and its lawfully connected trailer, including, but not limited to, the
following: any snowmobile, any boat, any trailer which is not connected by
means of a lawful hitch to an operating, lawfully registered motor vehicle, any
camper shell or camper not mounted on a vehicle, any storage containers,
excluding city authorized garbage containers when located in conformance with
city regulations, any vehicle reported stolen and not yet recovered, and any
recreational vehicle which remains parked on a street longer than authorized in
this code.
   UNREGISTERED VEHICLE. Any vehicle which is not lawfully and currently
registered as provided in Idaho Code Title 49, Chapter 4; or any vehicle which
does not bear current annual Idaho license plates or decals; or any vehicle
which does not bear current license plates issued by another state and is not
lawfully and currently registered in that state.
      (1)   The parking, both short term and long term, of lawfully registered,
operative motor vehicles is allowed at curb side area of the streets of the
city; provided that, the motor vehicles are not parked in violation of pavement
or curb markings or regulatory signs or traffic devices; and, provided that,
they are parked in conformance with parking method regulations set out
elsewhere in this code.
      (2)   The use of the streets as a storage location for unregistered or
inoperative, motor vehicles, unauthorized items such as camper shells, boats,
unhitched trailers, storage containers or other materials is prohibited and the
owner(s) may be issued a misdemeanor citation for violating the prohibition.
The continued presence of such unlawfully stored items is inimical to the well-
being of the citizens and is hereby declared a public nuisance. All such items
shall be subject to removal as provided hereinafter, the costs of which shall
be borne by the owner(s).
   VEHICLE. A device by which any person or properly may be propelled, moved or
drawn, whether or not utilized solely upon a highway, except a device moved
solely by human power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks,
whether or not in a condition capable of operation or use.
   WASTE MATTER.
      (1)   Any kind of liquid or solid waste, hazardous waste, manufactured
good, appliance, fixture, furniture, machinery, vehicle, personal property or
any other thing or part thereof, whether of value or valueless, that is
demolished, discarded, dismantled, partially dismantled, dilapidated or so
worn, deteriorated, or is such a condition as to be generally unusable and or
inoperable in its existing state.
      (2)   This shall include by way of illustration only and without
limitation: trash or refuse of any kind; litter; commercial waste; industrial
or construction or demolition debris of any kind, such as rubble, broken
asphalt and concrete; crates; cartons; metal; glass; appliances or appliance
shells; boat bodies and parts; used tires; vehicle bodies and parts; commercial
or industrial equipment bodies and parts; snowmobile bodies and parts; trailers
and parts; recreational vehicle bodies and parts; mobile home and manufactured
home bodies and parts; and inoperable or damaged vehicles of any kind; and any
kind of tangible personal property or fixtures.
(Ord. 2011-3, passed 6-7-2011)
§ 91.16 NUISANCE DECLARED.
   Pursuant to the authority granted by Idaho Code § 50-334 and correlated
other provisions, the City Council makes the following findings and
declarations.
   (A)   The accumulation and storage of waste matter on private or public
property is found to create a condition tending to reduce the value of
surrounding private property, to promote blight and deterioration and to invite
plundering, to create fire hazards, to constitute an unattractive nuisance
creating a hazard to the health and safety of minors, to create a harborage for
rodents and insects and to be injurious to the health, safety and general
welfare of entire neighborhoods and/or a significant number of persons.
   (B)   Unscreened exterior areas may be inspected at any time from a public
right-of-way with or without the involvement of the owner or occupant in
accordance with legal requirements governing administrative inspections of
private property.
   (C)   Screened exterior areas shall be inspected only during the normal
business hours of the city unless otherwise arranged, and only upon invitation
or with the concurrence of the owner or occupant or when authorized/ordered by
a court.
   (D)   Except in cases of alleged imminent hazards, if the occupant is not
the owner of the premises or dwelling unit to be inspected, the Building
Official, his or her designated representative, Code Enforcement Officer,
police officer or any authorized representative thereof shall provide notice in
writing or by telephone to the owner or designated agent as to the time and
place of inspection. The owner or designated agent may be present for the
inspection. The convenience of the owner or designated agent shall not require
the rescheduling of the inspection.
   (E)   Therefore, the presence of the following on private or public
property, unless expressly permitted herein, is declared to constitute a public
nuisance and is prohibited, and may be abated as such in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter:
      (1)   An unlicensed, abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or inoperative
vehicle, or part thereof, on private or public property, except as expressly
hereinafter permitted. However, abandoned vehicles shall be dealt with as
prescribed by Idaho Code §§ 49-1801 et seq.;
      (2)   An uncovered container holding waste matter; or such a container
with a cover which is not secure against dogs, unless said container of a type
that is not normally covered, such as compost bins, or sludge drying bins;
      (3)   Waste matter not in a container;
      (4)   Waste matter stored in such fashion that it or any of it may enter
the waters of a stream or river, directly or indirectly, or come to be in
contact with such waters;
      (5)   Waste matter or dry or dead vegetative matter so located as to
constitute a fire hazard to buildings or lands, and vegetative matter which
will in the ordinary course become such a hazard, but not hay or other
agricultural product stored in a fashion customary on farms in the community
and in accord with the applicable fire codes adopted by the city; and
      (6)   Waste matter or one or more containers which, by reason of its or
their location and character, is unsightly and interferes with the reasonable
enjoyment of adjacent or nearby property.
(Ord. 2011-3, passed 6-7-2011) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.17 PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   In addition to the above, the following conduct is hereby prohibited:
   (A)   To willfully cause or permit any vehicle to be used for the
transportation of waste to be so loaded or in such condition or so uncovered
that waste matter escapes from the vehicle while being driven;
   (B)   To willfully discharge waste matter onto the surface of the earth
other than into a container or beneath the surface of the earth, or into any
stream, river or other waterbody;
   (C)   To willfully cause or allow a nuisance or permit a nuisance to
continue, on property in the possession of the offender or on any abutting
street, sidewalk or right-of-way. Any entity or person who, upon receiving
notice of the existence of a nuisance as described in the abatement procedure
set forth herein, who fails to remedy the same within the time established in
said abatement procedure, shall be deemed to have willfully allowed or
permitted a nuisance to continue;
   (D)   To allow grass to exceed six inches in height and weeds and other
growth to exceed 12 inches in height; or
   (E)   To willfully violate any other provision or requirement of this
subchapter or to fail to comply with any order issued pursuant to the
provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2011-3, passed 6-7-2011) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.18 AUTOMOTIVE HOBBY PROJECT.
   (A)   It is the intent of this section to provide standards for the
restoration, maintenance and/or preservation of personal motor vehicles
conducted as a hobby and conducted at a person’s residence or upon private
property.
   (B)   (1)   Automotive hobby projects may only be conducted on residential
property, and only as a non-commercial project. No commercial, retail or
wholesale sales of automobiles, or automotive parts or supplies, shall be
conducted upon a site claiming lawful use as an automotive hobby project. No
restoration, repair or maintenance of motor vehicles shall be conducted upon
any residential site for which monetary compensation is received.
      (2)   All automotive hobby sites shall be maintained in a safe and
orderly manner so as not to create a public nuisance, an unsightly condition,
an undesirable condition, a health or fire hazard.
      (3)   No automotive hobby sites may contain more than four inoperable
dismantled or unregistered vehicles which constitute an automotive hobby
project. No automotive hobby projects may be stored in the front yard of any
lot. All automotive hobby sites must be located in the rear yard of any lot. If
any automotive hobby site contains more than two automotive hobby projects,
said projects must be screened from view so that it or they are not visible at
a distance of six feet observed from the property lines of adjacent properties,
by a sight-obscuring fence of not less than, nor more than six feet in height
or a hedge of not less than six feet in height.
      (4)   The restrictions set forth in this subchapter do not apply to those
automobiles stored inside of a fully-enclosed building. Further, the
restrictions set forth in this subchapter do not apply to duly registered and
licensed vehicles which are inoperable, but upon which repair is being
conducted, but only so long as said repair is conducted and completed within 60
days of the vehicle becoming inoperable. Automobiles being repaired may only be
stored or parked in improved parking areas or driveways and shall not be stored
or parked in any front yard of a residential site.
      (5)   Any motor vehicle restoration, preservation, maintenance or repair
hobby operation involving welding, painting or use of flammable liquids shall
be conduced in a safe, prudent and lawful manner.
(Ord. 2011-3, passed 6-7-2011) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.19 COMMERCIAL ENTERPRISES.
   No person or entity operating any commercial enterprise within the city
shall cause, allow or permit waste matter to be present upon the property being
utilized unless within a fully enclosed structure.
(Ord. 2011-3, passed 6-7-2011) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.20 ENFORCEMENT; RIGHT OF ENTRY; REMOVAL.
   (A)   It shall be the right of the Fire Chief or other officer or person,
designated by the Mayor of the city to inspect properties, investigate
complaints and determine whether or not a nuisance exists in accordance with
the terms of this subchapter. The Fire Chief, or such other designated officer
or person, his or her designated agent, shall be authorized to enter upon
private property or public property to investigate, remove or cause the removal
of a vehicle or parts thereof declared to be a nuisance pursuant to this
subchapter.
   (B)   The Sheriff’s Department is authorized to cause the immediate removal
of any unregistered or unauthorized vehicle, any unauthorized materials or any
vehicle reported as stolen and not yet recovered found parked or left on any
street or right-of-way. The Department is also authorized to cause to be
removed any vehicle parked on the right-of-way which is found to be
inoperative, pursuant to notification and removal procedures set forth in Idaho
Code Title 49, Chapter 18; provided, however, that, upon notification to the
Sheriff’s Department that a motor vehicle has become disabled while being
operated, such inoperative vehicle may be left parked against the curb area of
a public right-of-way for a period not to exceed 48 hours for effecting repairs
or arranging for removal.
(Ord. 2011-3, passed 6-7-2011)
§ 91.21 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   The procedure described in §§
91.22 and
91.23 of this chapter shall apply for the abatement of public nuisances other
than dangerous buildings. Regardless of the exercise of any enforcement remedy
contained in this subchapter, the city shall have the right of abatement with
respect to any public nuisance. The exercise of the right of abatement or any
procedures described below shall not be a prerequisite to exercise of any other
remedies or enforcement of the criminal provisions contained in this
subchapter.
   (A)   Abandoned vehicle. The procedures and requirements of Idaho Code §§
49-1801 et seq., or its successor provisions shall apply to all abandoned
vehicles or vehicles which constitute waste matter, or vehicles being kept,
maintained or stored in violation of the provisions of this subchapter, whether
located upon highways, public property or private property.
   (B)   Other nuisances. The abatement procedure in §§
91.22 and
91.23 of this chapter shall apply to all other nuisances.
(Ord. 2011-3, passed 6-7-2011)
§ 91.22 WRITTEN DECLARATION.
   (A)   A nuisance may be declared by the Fire Chief or other person or
officer designated by the Mayor of the city, who, upon identification of a
nuisance, shall cause a written declaration to be issued, by mailing the same
to the last registered owner(s) of the real property upon which he or she
determines a nuisance is present, as reflected on the tax assessment roles of
the county and by posting the same in a conspicuous place on the real property
on which the nuisance is located. Each notice that is mailed shall be sent by
certified mail, return receipt requested. Notice shall be deemed to have been
provided upon mailing. Every person entitled to notice of the declaration of
nuisance shall have 30 days to remove or remedy the condition creating the
nuisance, or to request a public hearing as described below. Every notice of
declaration of nuisance shall contain the following:
      (1)   A descriptive statement of the nuisance which is declared to exist;
      (2)   Its location;
      (3)   The name of the person or persons thought to be responsible;
      (4)   A statement of a date, not less than 30 days after the mailing of
such notice, which shall be the last date on which the addressee or other
claimant of the affected property or offending objects can demand a hearing, or
cause removal or remedy of the nuisance described;
      (5)   A statement that such hearing would be for the purpose of
determining anew whether the nuisance exists;
      (6)   Directions for the mailing of such a demand for hearing to the City
Clerk/Treasurer; and
      (7)   A statement that if no hearing is demanded, or if the result of the
hearing is to the effect that a nuisance exists, the owner or other addressee
will have 30 days to commence and thereafter diligently to pursue and complete
the abatement. Also, the owner will be assessed the costs of the abatement
action against the property in like fashion as for tax assessments.
   (B)   Failure to request a public hearing within the time required shall be
deemed conclusive as to the existence of the nuisance as described in the
declaration posted and mailed.
   (C)   Upon receipt of a request for a public hearing, the Mayor shall
establish a date for a public hearing, to be held no less than ten days, nor
more than 30 days from receipt of said request. The public hearing shall be to
determine if a nuisance exists, and assessment of administrative costs for the
abatement action, and directions for removal or remedy.
      (1)   Notice of said hearing shall be provided by certified mail to any
person or entity requesting a public hearing, to the last registered owner of
the real property upon which the Fire Chief, or other official or person
designated by the Mayor, has determined a nuisance is present. Notice shall be
deemed completed upon mailing.
      (2)   The City Council shall hear all facts and testimony deemed
pertinent. The facts and testimony may include testimony, pictures, videos and
the like on the condition of the property, vehicles, waste matter or any other
evidence regarding the existence of a nuisance. The City Council shall not be
limited by the technical rules of evidence. The owner of the land on which the
alleged nuisance is located may appear in person at the hearing or present a
written statement in time for consideration at the hearing and deny
responsibility for the presence of the nuisance with his or her reasons for
such denial.
      (3)   The City Council, upon a finding that a public nuisance exists, may
impose such conditions and take such action as deemed appropriate under the
circumstances to carry out the purpose of the subchapter, including delaying
the time for removal or remedy of the nuisance or part thereof if, in its
opinion, the circumstances justify it. At the conclusion of the public hearing,
the City Council must make written findings of fact and conclusions of law, and
may order the nuisance remedied or removed from the property as a public
nuisance and disposed of as hereinafter provided and determine the
administrative costs to be charged against the owner of the parcel of land on
which the nuisance is located. The order requiring removal shall include:
         (a)   A description of the nuisance or part thereof and the correct
identification number and license number of any vehicle constituting a part, or
all, of the nuisance, if available, at the site; and
         (b)   A statement that the nuisance must be removed or remedied within
30 days of adoption of the order, unless some other time period is specified by
the City Council.
      (4)   If an interested party makes a written presentation to the City
Council, but does not appear, he or she shall be notified in writing of the
decision.
   (D)   Upon the expiration of 30 days after mailing of a declaration of
nuisance if no hearing is requested, or the later of 30 days after adoption of
the order declaring a condition to be a public nuisance, or 30 days from the
date of mailing of notice of the decision to an interested person who makes a
written presentation if such notice is required by this section, or the date
specified in the order if a date is specified, if the nuisance remains in whole
or in part, the Fire Chief or other officer or person appointed by the Mayor,
shall take steps to cause the abatement of the nuisance by removal of the
offending materials, whether by fire suppression exercise, by use of city
employees, or by letting an appropriate contract in accord with the contracting
procedures of the city. The waste matter which constitutes the public nuisance
may be disposed of by removal to a garbage transfer station, dump, scrap yard
or automobile dismantler’s yard or to any other similar facility.
(Ord. 2011-3, passed 6-7-2011)
§ 91.23 REMOVAL COST ASSESSMENT.
   The cost of abatement, together with the administrative costs, shall be
calculated and assessed. If such amount is not paid within 30 days of the date
of abatement, the same shall become a lien upon the property pursuant to Idaho
Code §§ 50-334 and 50-1008, and shall be transmitted to the tax collector for
collection. The assessment shall have the same priority as other city taxes.
The city shall also be entitled to recover said costs in a civil action brought
by the city, and assess the same as additional penalties in a misdemeanor
prosecution.
(Ord. 2011-3, passed 6-7-2011)
§ 91.24 ALTERNATIVE PROVISION.
   This subchapter is not the exclusive regulation of public nuisances, or the
exclusive regulation of abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or inoperative vehicles
within the city. It shall supplement and be in addition to the other regulatory
codes, statutes and ordinances heretofore or hereafter enacted by the city, the
state or any other legal entity or agency having jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2011-3, passed 6-7-2011)
§ 91.25 EXTENT.
   The abatement of nuisances under the provisions of this subchapter shall
apply only to the corporate boundaries of the city. The city shall not extend
its authority under Idaho Code § 50-334 beyond the boundaries of the city
limits.
(Ord. 2011-3, passed 6-7-2011)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any owner, occupant, lessor, lessee, manager or other person
having lawful control over a structure or parcel of land who causes, allows,
facilitates, aids or abets any violation of any provision of §§
91.15 through
91.25 of this chapter or who fails to perform any act or duty required by §§
91.15 through
91.25 of this chapter or who allows a lessee or a tenant to violate §§
91.15 through
91.25 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Each day any violation
of any provision of §§
91.15 through
91.25 of this chapter or the failure to perform any act or duty required by §§
91.15 through
91.25 of this chapter exists shall constitute a separate violation.
      (2)   The owner of record, as recorded in the records of the county, of
the property upon which a violation of §§
91.15 through
91.25 of this chapter exists shall be presumed to be the person having lawful
control over a structure or parcel of land. If more than one person shall be
recorded as the owner of the property, said persons shall be jointly and
severally presumed to be persons having lawful control over a structure or
parcel of land. This presumption shall not prevent enforcement of the
provisions of §§
91.15 through
91.25 of this chapter against any person specified elsewhere in §§
91.15 through
91.25 of this chapter.
      (3)   It shall not be a defense for an owner of record to plead that any
act or omission made punishable by §§
91.15 through
91.25 of this chapter was at the time the violation occurred within the control
of a lessee or tenant pursuant to a lease or rental agreement.
      (4)   If the Mayor determines that action by the city is required to
protect the public health, safety and welfare in an area affected by a
violation of §§
91.15 through
91.25 of this chapter, the Mayor may direct that employees of the city, or the
city’s contractors or agents, go upon the premises in question and remove,
abate or destroy the problem. The city shall be entitled to recover its expense
by civil action filed in a court of competent jurisdiction, together with costs
and a reasonable attorney’s fee. The expense may also be certified to the City
Clerk/Treasurer and transmitted to the County Treasurer, and be collected by
special assessment upon the property to the extent provided by law pursuant to
Idaho Code §§ 50-334 and 50-1008. If the certificate is recorded at the office
of the County Recorder, it shall become a lien against the property to the
extent provided by law.
      (5)   Prosecution of an offense, under this division (B), shall not
preclude the city from seeking a civil remedy for failure to comply with §§
91.15 through
91.25 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2011-3, passed 6-7-2011)
CHAPTER 92: FAIR HOUSING; NON-DISCRIMINATION
Section
Fair Housing
   
92.01   Policy
   
92.02   Assistance from city
   
92.03   Publicity of policy
   
92.04   Minimum requirements
Non-Discrimination
   
92.15   City policy
   
92.16   City evaluation
   
92.17   Transition plan for building modifications
   
92.18   Contact information
FAIR HOUSING
§ 92.01 POLICY.
   (A)   Discrimination on the basis of race, color, religion, gender or
national origin in the sale, rental, leasing or financing of housing or land to
be used for construction of housing or in the provision of brokerage services
is prohibited by Title VIII of the 1968 Civil Rights Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§
3601 to 3619 (Federal Fair Housing Law).
   (B)   It is the policy of the city to encourage equal opportunity in housing
for all persons regardless of race, color, religion, gender or national origin.
   (C)   The Fair Housing Amendments Act of 1988, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 3601 et
seq. expands coverage to include disabled persons and families with children.
   (D)   The city’s Title VI Plan, which includes the city’s Limited English
Proficiency Plan is hereby approved by the Mayor and City Council. A full copy
of the Plan is adopted by reference as if set in full herein. A full copy of
this Plan can be found in the city offices.
(Res. R2021-2, passed - -2021; Res. R-2024-08, passed 7-8-2024)
§ 92.02 ASSISTANCE FROM CITY.
   Within available resources, the city will assist all persons who feel they
have been discriminated against because of race, color, religion, gender,
national origin, disability or familial status to seek equity under federal and
state laws by referring them to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development, Office of Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity, Compliance Division.
(Res. R2021-2, passed - -2021)
§ 92.03 PUBLICITY OF POLICY.
   The city shall publicize this policy and, through this publicity, shall
encourage owners of real estate, developers and builders to become aware of
their respective responsibilities and rights under the Federal Fair Housing Law
and amendments and any applicable state or local laws or ordinances.
(Res. R2021-2, passed - -2021)
§ 92.04 MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
   Said program will, at a minimum, include:
   (A)   Publicizing this policy;
   (B)   Posting applicable fair housing information in prominent public areas;
   (C)   Providing fair housing information to the public;
   (D)   Preparing a fair housing assessment; and
   (E)   Declaring April as “Fair Housing Month”.
(Res. R2021-2, passed - -2021)
NON-DISCRIMINATION
§ 92.15 CITY POLICY.
   It is the policy of the city that all programs, services and activities
shall be accessible to, and usable by, individuals with disabilities, in
accordance with § 504 and the Americans with Disabilities Act, being 42 U.S.C.
§§ 12101 et seq. (ADA).
(Res. R-2018-1, passed 12-5-2017)
§ 92.16 CITY EVALUATION.
   (A)   The city shall conduct a self-evaluation, which should include the
assistance of a citizen review committee involving individuals with
disabilities, of its programs, policies, procedures and facilities to determine
those areas where discrimination may occur.
   (B)   The city shall, upon completion of the self-evaluation plan, make
revisions, modifications or other changes so as to fully comply with the letter
and intent of § 504 and the ADA, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq.
(Res. R-2018-1, passed 12-5-2017)
§ 92.17 TRANSITION PLAN FOR BUILDING MODIFICATION.
   Further, the city shall, where building modifications are required, develop
and implement a transition plan for eliminating architectural barriers in a
timely manner in accordance with § 504 and the ADA, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et
seq.
(Res. R-2018-1, passed 12-5-2017)
§ 92.18 CONTACT INFORMATION.
   Citizens may contact the Clerk/Treasurer at P.O. Box 367, 502 5th Avenue,
Nezperce ID 83543. The phone number is 208-937-1021, for assistance or to
answer questions regarding this policy during the hours of Monday through
Thursday, 8:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.
(Res. R-2018-1, passed 12-5-2017)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   ADVERTISING AND BILL POSTING
      
111.   PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND CANVASSERS
      
112.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
CHAPTER 110: ADVERTISING AND BILL POSTING
Section
   
110.01   License required
   
110.02   License application
   
110.03   Littering streets, alleys with posters
   
110.04   Posting on fences, poles prohibited; consent
   
110.05   Billboards
§ 110.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall engage in the distribution or attaching of any signs, bills,
pictures or advertising matter unless the person shall first have been
licensed.
(Prior Code, § 4-101) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.02 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   (A)   Application for a license shall be made to the Clerk/Treasurer,
together with all necessary information, including, but not limited to, the
names of all owners and the business addresses of the same.
   (B)   Upon approval of said application by the governing body, the Clerk/
Treasurer shall issue a license.
(Prior Code, § 4-102)
§ 110.03 LITTERING STREETS, ALLEYS WITH POSTERS.
   No person shall scatter or throw upon the public thoroughfares any
handbills, posters, advertisements or papers. Nothing herein shall be construed
to authorize any person to obstruct the public thoroughfares or create any
nuisance therein. These provisions shall not interfere or prevent the posting
of notices required by law to be posted.
(Prior Code, § 4-103) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.04 POSTING ON FENCES, POLES PROHIBITED; CONSENT.
   No person shall post, paint, tack or otherwise attach any notice or other
advertising matter to any fence, wall or building or other property until first
obtaining the consent of the owner of such property. No person shall post,
paint, tack or otherwise attach any notices or advertising matter to any of the
telegraph, telephone, electric or other such poles.
(Prior Code, § 4-104) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.05 BILLBOARDS.
   All billboards or signboards shall conform to the following requirements.
   (A)   The clear posting or painting space on any billboard or signboard
erected upon uprights or other supports extending into the ground shall not be
of flammable material, such as wood or cloth. All posts used shall not be less
that four by six inches and not be placed more that eight feet apart and extend
to the top of the billboard or signboard. There shall not be less that one
brace and one anchor to each post. All anchors shall not be less than six by
six inches in size. Each brace shall extend from each post to its corresponding
anchor post and be not less than two by six inches in size.
   (B)   There shall be maintained in the conspicuous place on every billboard
or signboard, in printed letters, the name of the person owning or in charge
thereof.
   (C)   Every billboard or signboard, whether now or hereafter erected shall
be securely built, firmly anchored and maintained in a safe and sanitary
condition.
(Prior Code, § 4-105) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 111: PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND CANVASSERS
Section
Peddlers
   
111.01   Uninvited peddlers declared a nuisance
   
111.02   Exceptions
Solicitors and Canvassers
   
111.15   License required
   
111.16   Definitions
   
111.17   Application
   
111.18   Investigation and issuance
   
111.19   Fees
   
111.20   Bonds
   
111.21   Badges
   
111.22   License exhibition
   
111.23   Duty of police to enforce
   
111.24   Records
   
111.25   License revocation
   
111.26   Appeal
   
111.27   License expiration
PEDDLERS
§ 111.01 UNINVITED PEDDLERS DECLARED A NUISANCE.
   The practice of going in and upon private residences in the municipality by
solicitors, peddlers, hawkers, itinerant merchants or transient vendors of
merchandise not having been requested or invited to do so by the owner or
occupant of said private residences for the purposes of soliciting orders for
the sale of goods, wares and merchandise and/or disposing of and/or peddling or
hawking the same is declared to be a nuisance and punishable as such.
(Prior Code, § 4-201) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.02 EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to the sale, or soliciting
orders for the sale of milk, diary products, vegetables, poultry, eggs and
other farm and garden produce so far as the sale of the commodities named
herein is now authorized by law.
(Prior Code, § 4-202)
SOLICITORS AND CANVASSERS
§ 111.15 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any solicitor or canvasser to engage in such
business within the corporate limits of the municipality, without first
obtaining a license therefore in compliance with the provisions of this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 4-301) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.16 DEFINITIONS.
   A CANVASSER or SOLICITOR is defined as any individual, whether a resident of
the municipality or not, traveling either by foot or vehicle from place to
place, from house to house or from street to street, taking or attempting to
take orders for the sale of goods, wares and merchandise, personal property of
any nature whatsoever for future delivery, or for services to be furnished or
performed in the future, whether or not such individual has, carries or exposes
for sale a sample of the subject to such sale or whether he is collecting
advance payments on such sales or not; provided that, such definition shall
include any person who, for himself or herself, or for another person or firm,
hires, leases, uses or occupies any building, structure, tent, railroad boxcar,
boar, hotel room, lodging house, apartment, shop or any other place within the
municipality for the sole purpose of exhibiting samples and taking orders for
future delivery.
(Prior Code, § 4-302)
§ 111.17 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Applicants for a license under this subchapter must file with the
Clerk/Treasurer a sworn statement or application in writing on a form to be
furnished by the Clerk/Treasurer, which shall give the following information:
      (1)   Name and description of the applicant;
      (2)   Permanent home address and full local address of the applicant;
      (3)   A brief description of the nature of the business and the goods to
be sold;
      (4)   If employed, the name and address of the employer, together with
credentials establishing the exact relationship;
      (5)   The length of time for which the right to do business is desired;
      (6)   The place where the goods or property proposed to be sold, or
orders taken for the sale thereof, are manufactured or produced, where such
goods or products are located at the time said application is filed, and the
proposed method of delivery;
      (7)   A photograph of the applicant, taken within 60 days immediately
prior to the date of filing of the application, which picture shall be two
inches by two inches, showing the head and shoulders of the applicant in a
clear and distinguishing manner;
      (8)   The fingerprints of the applicant and the names of at least two
reliable property owners of the municipality who will certify as to the
applicant’s good character and business respectability or, in lieu of the names
of references such other available evidence as to the good character and
business respectability of the applicant as will enable an investigator to
properly evaluate such character and business respectability;
      (9)   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has been convicted
of any crime or violation of any laws, the nature of the offense and the
punishment or penalty assessed therefor; and
      (10)   A statement by a reputable physician of the municipality dated not
more than ten days prior to submission of the application, certifying the
applicant to be free of contagious, infections or communicable disease.
   (B)   At the time of filing, the application fee shall be paid to the Clerk/
Treasurer to cover the cost of investigation of the facts therein stated.
(Prior Code, § 4-303)
§ 111.18 INVESTIGATION AND ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of such application, the original shall be referred to
the Chief of Police who shall cause such investigation of the applicant’s
business and moral character to be made as he or she deems necessary for the
protection of the public good.
   (B)   If, as a result of such investigation, applicant’s character or
business respectability is found to be unsatisfactory, the Chief of Police
shall endorse on such application his or her disapproval and his or her reasons
for the same, and return the said application to the Clerk/Treasurer, who shall
notify the applicant that his or her application is disapproved and that no
license will be issued.
   (C)   If, as a result of such investigation, the character and business
respectability of the applicant are found to be satisfactory, the Chief of
Police shall endorse on the application his or her approval, execute a license
addressed to the applicant for the carrying on of the business applied for and
return said license, along with the application to the Clerk/Treasurer, who
shall upon payment of the prescribed license fee deliver to the applicant his
or her license. Such license shall contain the signature and seal of the
issuing officer and shall show the name, address and photograph of said
licenses, the class of license issued and the kind of goods to be sold there
under, the amount of fee paid, the date of issuance and the length of time the
same shall be operative, as well as the license number and other identifying
description of any vehicle used in such soliciting or canvassing. The Clerk/
Treasurer shall keep a permanent record of all licenses issued.
(Prior Code, § 4-304)
§ 111.19 FEES.
   (A)   The license fee shall be charged by the Clerk/Treasurer for such
license.
   (B)   None of the licenses fees provided for by this subchapter shall be
applied as to occasion an undue burden upon interstate commerce. In any case
where a license fee is believed to place an undue burden upon such of the fee
so that it shall not be discriminatory, unreasonable or unfair as to such
commerce. Such application may be made before, at or within six months after
affidavit and supporting testimony, show his or her method of business and the
gross volume or estimated gross volume of business and such other information
as the governing body may deem necessary in order to determine the extent, if
any, of such undue burden on such commerce. The governing body shall then
conduct an investigation, comparing applicant’s business with other businesses
of like nature and shall make findings of fact from which it shall determine
whether the fee fixed by this subchapter is unfair, unreasonable or
discriminatory as to the applicant’s business and shall fix a license fee for
the applicant an amount that is fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory or, if
the fee has already been paid, shall order a refund of the amount over and
above the fee so fixed. If fixing the fee to be charged, the governing body
shall have the power to base the fee upon a percentage of gross sales, or any
other method which will assure that the fee assessed shall be uniform with that
assessed on businesses of like nature, so long as the amount assessed does not
exceed the fees as prescribed in this subchapter. Should the governing body
determine the gross sales measure of the fee to be fair basis, he or she may
require the applicant to submit, either at the time of termination of the
applicant’s business or at the end of each three-month period, a sworn
statement of the gross sales and pay the amount of fee therefor; provided that,
no additional fee during any one calendar year shall be required after the
licenses shall have paid an amount equal to the required license.
(Prior Code, § 4-305)
§ 111.20 BONDS.
   Every applicant shall file with the Clerk/Treasurer, a surety bond, running
to the municipality with surety acceptable to and approved by the governing
body, conditioned that the said applicant shall comply fully with all the
provisions of this subchapter. Action on such bond may be brought in the name
of the municipality to the use or benefit of the aggrieved person.
(Prior Code, § 4-306)
§ 111.21 BADGES.
   (A)   The Clerk/Treasurer shall issue to each licensee at the time of
delivery of his or her license a badge, which shall contain the words “Licensed
Solicitor”.
   (B)   The period for which the license is issued and the number of the
license, in letters and figures easily discernible from a distance of ten feet.
   (C)   Such badge shall, during the time such license is engaged in
soliciting, be worn constantly by the licensee on the front of his or her outer
garment in such a way as to be conspicuous.
(Prior Code, § 4-307)
§ 111.22 LICENSE EXHIBITION.
   Solicitors and canvassers are required to exhibit their licenses as the
request of any citizen.
(Prior Code, § 4-308)
§ 111.23 DUTY OF POLICE TO ENFORCE.
   It shall be the duty of any police officer to require any person seen
soliciting or canvassing, and who is not known by such officer to be duly
licensed to produce his or her solicitor’s or canvasser’s license and to
enforce the provisions of the subchapter against any person found to be
violating the same.
(Prior Code, § 4-309)
§ 111.24 RECORDS.
   The Chief of Police shall report to the Clerk/Treasurer all convictions for
violation of this subchapter and the Clerk/Treasurer shall maintain a record
for each license issued and record the reports therein.
(Prior Code, § 4-310)
§ 111.25 LICENSE REVOCATION.
   (A)   Permits and licenses issued under the provisions of this subchapter
may be revoked by the Clerk/Treasurer after notice and hearing for any of the
following causes:
      (1)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application of license;
      (2)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in the course of
carrying on his or her business as solicitor or as canvasser;
      (3)   Any violation of this subchapter;
      (4)   Conviction of any crime or act involving moral turpitude; or
      (5)   Conducting the business of soliciting or of canvassing in an
unlawful manner or in such a manner at to constitute a breach of the peace or
to constitute a menace to the health, safety or general welfare of the public.
   (B)   Notice of the hearing for revocation of a license shall be given in
writing, setting forth specifically the grounds of complaint and the time and
place of hearing. Such notice shall be mailed, postage prepaid, to the licensee
at his last known address at least days prior to the date set for the hearing.
(Prior Code, § 4-311)
§ 111.26 APPEAL.
   Any person aggrieved by the action of the Chief of Police or the Clerk/
Treasurer in the denial of a permit or license as provided herein, or the
action of the governing body, within 14 days after notice of the action
complained of has been mailed to such person’s last known address, a written
statement setting forth fully the grounds for the appeal. The governing body
shall set a time and place for a hearing on such appeal and notice of such
hearing shall be given to the appellant in the same manner as for the notice of
hearing on revocation. The decision and order of the governing body on such
appeal shall be final and conclusive.
(Prior Code, § 4-312)
§ 111.27 LICENSE EXPIRATION.
   All licenses issued under the provisions of this subchapter shall expire on
the date specified in the said license.
(Prior Code, § 4-313)
CHAPTER 112: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
Beer Regulations
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   License required
   
112.03   License application
   
112.04   License qualifications
   
112.05   Hours of sale
   
112.06   Fees
   
112.07   Minors
   
112.08   License revocation
Liquor by the Drink
   
112.20   Policy declaration
   
112.21   Definitions
   
112.22   Who may apply for license
   
112.23   License fees
   
112.24   License application
   
112.25   Location restrictions
   
112.26   Time of sale
   
112.27   Gambling prohibited
   
112.28   Restriction of sales by licensee
   
112.29   Intoxicated persons
   
112.30   Officers may examine premises
   
112.31   Licenses; suspension, revocation and review
   
112.32   Chief of Police; duties
Wine Regulations
   
112.45   Policy declaration
   
112.46   License fees
   
112.47   License application
   
112.48   Hours of sale; persons to whom sales made
 
   
112.99   Penalty
BEER REGULATIONS
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   BEER. Any beverage obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion of
barley, malt and/or other ingredients in drinkable water of not more that 4% of
alcohol by weight.
   RETAILER. Any person engaged in the sale or distribution of beer to the
consumer.
(Prior Code, § 5-101)
§ 112.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to dispose of beer without first
obtaining a proper license.
(Prior Code, § 5-102) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.03 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   Application for a retail beer license shall be made under oath to the Clerk/
Treasurer and the application shall show that the applicant possesses all the
qualifications required by this code of ordinances. Each application shall be
forwarded, after proper and adequate investigation by the Chief of Police, to
the governing body for approval or disapproval.
(Prior Code, § 5-103)
§ 112.04 LICENSE QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   No retail license shall be issued to any applicant who:
      (1)   Is not the bona fide owner of such business, or is not a citizen of
the United States, or has not been bona fide resident of the state for a period
of one year prior to the date of application; provided that, if the applicant
is a partnership all partners shall be such citizens, and the manager of such
business place shall be such citizen, and shall have been such resident; and/or
      (2)   Has, or any partner or actual manager or officer of which has, been
convicted of any felony within five years or has paid any fine or completed any
sentence of confinement therefore within five years.
   (B)   A retailer licensee must continue through the license period to have
all of the foregoing qualifications and none of the foregoing
disqualifications, and for failure therein, upon proof thereof to an issuer of
a license, such issuer shall revoke the license issued, and in writing sent by
United States registered mail notice each of the other issuers of a retailer’s
license to such license (licenses), stating sufficient facts for identification
of the license and the grounds and date of revocation.
(Prior Code, § 5-104)
§ 112.05 HOURS OF SALE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell beer between the hours of 2:00
a.m. and 10:00 a.m.
(Prior Code, § 5-105) (Ord. 2016-4, passed 1-12-2016) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.06 FEES.
   (A)   The fees for the sale of beer shall be as follows:
      (1)   Bottled and/or draught: $85;
      (2)   Bottled or canned beer not to be consumed on the premises: $47.50;
      (3)   Retail liquor: $235; and
      (4)   Retail wine: $60.
   (B)   Each license issued shall expire on December 31 of the year following
the date of issuance.
   (C)   Such license shall be transferable to qualified persons upon the
payment of a fee of $5.
(Prior Code, § 5-106) (Res. R2016-3, passed 1-12-2016)
§ 112.07 MINORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to offer beer to any person under 21
years of age and it shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years
to frequent, loiter in or about or patronize any beer dispensary, and it shall
likewise be unlawful for any owner of such beer dispensary of his or her
employees to permit any such person under 19 years of age to be in or to be
employed in such dispensary.
(Prior Code, § 5-107) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.08 LICENSE REVOCATION.
   The governing body of the municipality shall retain the right at all times
to revoke and cancel any licenses for just cause. When and license is revoked,
the licensee shall have the privilege of appearing before the governing body to
appeal such revocation. Any conduct or act on the part of the licensee which
may be sufficient cause for revocation of the license must be brought to the
attention of the governing body. The suspension or revocation of the license
granted by the state or county shall automatically revoke the license granted
hereunder.
(Prior Code, § 5-108)
LIQUOR BY THE DRINK
§ 112.20 POLICY DECLARATION.
   It is hereby declared as the policy of the municipality under its police
power, authorizing and regulating the sale of liquor by the drink and of the
licensing of dealers licensed by the state to sell liquor by the drink and as
provided under the provisions of Idaho Code Chapter 9, as amended, the
governing body be empowered and qualified under this subchapter to sell liquor
by the drink, and to provide restrictions, regulations and provisions as
authorized by law as aforesaid.
(Prior Code, § 5-201)
§ 112.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   INTERDICTED PERSON. A person to whom the sale of liquor is prohibited under
the laws of the state and this subchapter.
   LICENSE. A license issued by the municipality to a qualified person under
which, it shall be lawful for the licensee to sell and dispense liquor by the
drink at retail as provided by this subchapter and as provided by law.
   LICENSEE. The person to whom a license is issued under the provisions of
this subchapter.
   LIQUOR. All kinds of liquor sold by and in a state liquor store.
   PERSON.
      (1)   The person to whom a license is issued under the provisions of this
subchapter.
      (2)   Every individual, partnership, corporations, organization or
association holding a state retail liquor license, whether conducting the
business singularly or collectively.
(Prior Code, § 5-202)
§ 112.22 WHO MAY APPLY FOR LICENSE.
   The Clerk/Treasurer, upon the approval of the governing body, is hereby
authorized and directed to issue licenses to qualified applicants to whom
licenses to sell retail liquor by the drink shall have been issued by the
Commissioner of Law Enforcement of the state.
(Prior Code, § 5-203)
§ 112.23 LICENSE FEES.
   Each licensee licensed under the licenses fee to the Clerk/Treasurer in the
sum of $235. The fees shall be for the entire year and shall not be prorated,
but shall be paid in full at the beginning of each year.
(Prior Code, § 5-204) (Res. R2016-3, passed 1-12-2016)
§ 112.24 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   Upon application for a copy of his or her state application to contain the
information required under Idaho Code Chapter 9, as amended, and licensee shall
also present a copy of the state license. If any false statements shall be
contained in the state application for license, the applications for municipal
license shall be denied and no licensee shall be entitled to have a license
unless he or she has complied with the state law in connection with the
furnishing of a bond or bonds to the Commissioner of Law Enforcement, and
unless he or she has all the qualifications required by state law.
(Prior Code, § 5-205)
§ 112.25 LOCATION RESTRICTIONS.
   No license shall be issued for any premises in any neighborhood which is
predominantly residential or within 300 feet of any public school, church or
any place of worship, measured in a straight line to the nearest entrance to
the license premises, except with the approval of the governing body; provided
that, this limitation shall no apply to any duly licensed premises that, at the
time of licensing, did not come within the restricted area, but subsequent to
licensing same came therein.
(Prior Code, § 5-206)
§ 112.26 TIME OF SALE.
   No liquor shall be sold, offered for sale or given upon any licensed
premises during the following hours:
   (A)   Memorial Day, Thanksgiving and Christmas: from 2:00 a.m. to 10:00 a.m.
the following day;
   (B)   On any other day: between 2:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m.; and
   (C)   On any day of general or primary election: until after the time when
the polls are closed.
(Prior Code, § 5-207) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.27 GAMBLING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any licensee to permit, conduct, play, carry on,
open or cause to be opened any gambling in or upon the licensed premises or in
or upon any premises directly connected by a door, hallway or other means of
access from the licensed premises.
(Prior Code, § 5-208) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.28 RESTRICTION OF SALES BY LICENSEE.
   No license or his, her or its employed agents, servants or bartenders shall
sell, deliver or give away, or cause or permit to be sold, delivered or give
away, any liquor to:
   (A)   Any person under the age of 21 years;
   (B)   Any person actually, apparently or obviously intoxicated; and/or
   (C)   A habitual drunkard.
(Prior Code, § 5-209) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.29 INTOXICATED PERSONS.
   No intoxicated person or persons shall be permitted to remain in, loiter or
loaf in the place of business of any licensee an the licensee and his or her
agents, servants or bartenders shall give any and all necessary required
assistance to any municipal police officer or other police officer of the
county or state in evicting and removing said person or persons from the
premises.
(Prior Code, § 5-210) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.30 OFFICERS MAY EXAMINE PREMISES.
   Any police officer, sheriff or constable shall have the right at any time to
make an examination of the premises of an licensee for the purpose of
inspecting the premises, or making that arrest of any person violating any law
of the State of the United States, or any of the regulations contained in this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-211)
§ 112.31 LICENSES; SUSPENSION, REVOCATION AND REVIEW.
   The license of any licensee is subject to be suspended or revoked in the
judgment of the governing body for the violation of any of the provisions of
Idaho Code Chapter 9, as amended, or of any rule or regulation contained in
this subchapter and, if upon examination and determination of the facts, just
cause for revocation or suspension of license has been determined by the
governing body, an order may be made suspending the same for a period of at
least six months, and the governing body may refuse to grant a renewal of the
said license.
(Prior Code, § 5-212)
§ 112.32 CHIEF OF POLICE; DUTIES.
   It is hereby made the duty of the Chief of Police of the municipality,
knowing of any violation of this subchapter, to make complaint before the
proper officer and to assist in the prosecution and conviction of offenders.
Any officer knowingly refusing to inform against or prosecute any offender
under the provisions of this subchapter shall be subject to removal from office
by the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 5-213)
WINE REGULATIONS
§ 112.45 POLICY DECLARATION.
   It is hereby declared the policy of the municipality under its policy power,
authorizing the regulating the retail sale of wine containing not more than 14%
alcohol by volume, the licensing of dealers for the sale at retail as provided
under the provisions of Idaho Code Chapter 13, authorizing the governing body
licenses to qualified persons under this subchapter to sell wine at retail, and
to provide restrictions, regulations and provisions as authorized by law
aforesaid.
(Prior Code, § 5-301)
§ 112.46 LICENSE FEES.
   Each license under the provisions of this subchapter shall pay an annual
license fee to the Clerk/Treasurer in the sum of $60 per year; provided,
however, that, holders of a valid “Retail Liquor By the Drink License” shall
pay an annual fee to the Clerk/Treasurer of the sum of $20. The fee shall be in
full at the beginning of each year and shall expire on December 31 each year.
(Prior Code, § 5-302) (Res. R2016-3, passed 1-12-2016)
§ 112.47 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   Upon application for license, the licensee shall present for inspection a
copy of his or her state application to contain the information required under
Idaho Code Chapter 13, as amended, and licensee shall also present a copy of
the state license. If any false statements shall be contained in the state
application for license, the application for municipal license unless he or she
has complied with the state law in connection with the furnishing of a bond or
bonds to the Commissioner of Law Enforcement, and unless he or she has all the
qualifications required by the state law.
(Prior Code, § 5-303)
§ 112.48 HOURS OF SALE; PERSONS TO WHOM SALES MADE.
   The hours when wine may be sold upon licensed premises and the persons to
whom sales may be made shall be as provided by Idaho Code Chapter 13, as the
same may be amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 5-304)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Violations of any of the provisions of §§
112.20 through
112.32 of this chapter by any licensee, agent, employee, servant or any other
person of the licensee and any person violating any of the provisions of §§
112.20 through
112.32 this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined as set forth in §
10.99 and may be imprisoned in the municipal jail for a period of not more than
30 days, or both such fine and imprisonment.
(Prior Code, § 5-214)
   (C)   Violations of any of the provisions of §§
112.45 through
112.48 of this chapter by any licensee, agent, employee, servant of any of the
provisions of §§
112.45 through
112.48 this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined as set forth in §
10.99 and may be imprisoned in the county jail for a period of not less than
one day, nor more than 30 days, or both such fine and imprisonment.
(Prior Code, § 5-305)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   PROHIBITED BEHAVIOR
      
131.   WEAPONS AND FIREARMS
      
132.   CURFEW
CHAPTER 130: PROHIBITED BEHAVIOR
Section
Offenses Against Public Administration
   
130.01   Aid in escape
   
130.02   Aid to an offense
   
130.03   Escapes
   
130.04   False pretenses
   
130.05   False representation
   
130.06   State law offenses
   
130.07   Giving assistance to police officers
   
130.08   Resisting an officer
Offenses Against Persons and Property
   
130.20   Assault or battery
   
130.21   Lottery; assisting; schemes
   
130.22   Beer; procuring for or selling
   
130.23   Cruelty to animals
   
130.24   Deposits of injurious material on thoroughfares
   
130.25   Lug wheels prohibited
   
130.26   Malicious injury to property
   
130.27   Petit larceny
   
130.28   Trespassing
   
130.29   Water flowing upon streets
   
130.30   Property nuisances
   
130.31   Hazardous wastes
Offenses Against Public Peace and Morals
   
130.45   Disorderly conduct
   
130.46   Obscene literature
   
130.47   Disturbing the peace
   
130.48   Drunkenness
   
130.49   Encouraging delinquency
   
130.50   Fornication
   
130.51   Fraudulently avoiding payment of admission fees
   
130.52   Furnishing weapons and other articles to prisoners
   
130.53   Gambling
   
130.54   Indecent exposure
   
130.55   Junk restricted
   
130.56   Loud speakers or sound trucks
   
130.57   Minors in pool halls
   
130.58   Obscene conduct
   
130.59   Riot
   
130.60   Cigarettes or tobacco to minors
   
130.61   Unlawful assembly
   
130.62   Vagrancy
   
130.63   Fireworks
Cross-reference:
   Abandoned ice boxes, refrigerators and containers, see §
91.02
   Animals, see
Chapter 90
   Nuisances, see §§
91.15 through
91.25
   Weeds, see §
91.01
OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION
§ 130.01 AID IN ESCAPE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to aid or assist any person to escape
from lawful confinement, or who shall assist any person to escape from the
custody of any peace officer.
(Prior Code, § 6-101) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.02 AID TO AN OFFENSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to in any way or manner, said, abet,
counsel, advise or encourage any other person in the commission of any of the
acts mentioned herein, or in any manner encourage the commission of such
offense hereby defined.
(Prior Code, § 6-102) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.03 ESCAPES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person convicted of any offense or in lawful
custody to escape from custody.
(Prior Code, § 6-114) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.04 FALSE PRETENSES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to obtain any food, drink, goods, wares
or merchandise under false pretenses or who shall enter any public place and
call for refreshments, or food or other articles and receive the same and
refuse to pay for same, or depart without paying for same or satisfying the
person from whom he or she received the food, refreshments, goods, wares and
merchandise.
(Prior Code, § 6-115) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.05 FALSE REPRESENTATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to falsely represent himself or herself
to be an officer of the municipality or who shall attempt to impersonate any
such officer or who shall without authority perform any official act therein on
behalf of an officer.
(Prior Code, § 6-116) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.06 STATE LAW OFFENSES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit any act or fail to perform any
requirement which is prohibited or required by state law, insofar as such laws
are applicable to municipal government herein or depending upon the even of any
such scheme, lottery or enterprise.
(Prior Code, § 6-121) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Gambling, see §
130.53
   Lottery, see §
130.21
§ 130.07 GIVING ASSISTANCE TO POLICE OFFICERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any male citizen over the age of 18 years to refuse
or neglect to render assistance to any police officer when called upon for such
assistance or aid in the suppression of riot or other unlawful assemblage or in
the arrest of any person who has committed an offense.
(Prior Code, § 6-122) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.08 RESISTING AN OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere willfully with, resist,
delay, obstruct, molest or threaten to molest any officer in the municipality
in the exercised of his or her official duties.
(Prior Code, § 6-138) Penalty, see §
10.99
OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS AND PROPERTY
§ 130.20 ASSAULT OR BATTERY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit assault or battery.
(Prior Code, § 6-103) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.21 LOTTERY; ASSISTING; SCHEMES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to aid or assist either by
printing, writing, advertising, publishing or otherwise, in setting up,
managing or drawing any lottery, or scheme, or in selling, or disposing of any
ticket, chance or share therein, or for any person to use or permit to be used
any building or premises for any said purposes.
(Prior Code, § 6-104)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in any lottery of scheme
for the disposal or distribution of property by chance among persons who have
paid or promised to pay any valuable consideration for the chance of obtaining
such property or portion of it, or for any share of interest is such property
upon any agreement, understanding or expectation that it is to be distributed
or disposed of by lot or chance whether such scheme be called lottery, raffle
or gift enterprise, or be whatever name the same be known, and no person shall
contrive, prepare, set up or establish any such scheme or lottery. It shall be
unlawful for any person to sell, give or in any manner whatsoever furnish or
transfer to or for any other person any ticket, understood to be or to
represent any ticket, chance, share or interest in any property or thing
involved, in any enterprise mentioned.
(Prior Code, § 6-126)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.22 BEER; PROCURING FOR OR SELLING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to procure, sell or give away any
intoxicating liquor to any person under the age of 21 years or any person under
21 years of age to purchase, attempt to purchase or otherwise procure or
consume intoxicating liquor.
(Prior Code, § 6-106) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.23 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to torture or cruelly bear, starve or
otherwise ill-treat any animal in his or her care or charge, whether belonging
to himself or herself or any other person.
(Prior Code, § 6-107) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.24 DEPOSITS OF INJURIOUS MATERIAL ON THOROUGHFARES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit, place or allow to remain in
or upon any pubic thoroughfare any material or substances injurious to person
or property.
(Prior Code, § 6-108) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.25 LUG WHEELS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for tractors with wheels injurious to pavement to be
permitted upon the public thoroughfares unless the operator of such vehicle
shall first plank the streets.
(Prior Code, § 6-128) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.26 MALICIOUS INJURY TO PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully and maliciously injury,
deface, mutilate, remove, pull down, break or in any manner interfere with or
molest or secret or destroy any real or personal property belonging to or under
control of any person or property.
(Prior Code, § 6-129) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.27 PETIT LARCENY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit petit larceny.
(Prior Code, § 6-137) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.28 TRESPASSING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to take down any fence or to let down
any bars, or to open any gate in or on the property of another without the
consent of the owner, occupant or person in charge thereof.
(Prior Code, § 6-141) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.29 WATER FLOWING UPON STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow any water to flow into or upon
any public thoroughfare.
(Prior Code, § 6-144) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.30 PROPERTY NUISANCES.
   (A)   Destruction of building inimical to safety or health.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful to maintain any building or property so
dilapidated or in such condition as to menace the public health or safety and
the governing body of the municipality may cause the destruction or removal of
the same at the expense of the person creating, causing or maintaining such
building or property.
      (2)   The municipality may buy a special assessment on the land or
premises where such building or property is situated sufficient to defray the
cost of abating the nuisance thereby created.
(Prior Code, § 6-132)
   (B)   Property owner to abate. It shall be the duty of the owner of any
property whereon any nuisance exists, the manager or person in charge thereof
to remove, abate or destroy the same without delay.
(Prior Code, § 6-133)
   (C)   Sanitary Inspector to abate. Whenever any nuisance exists for the
abatement, creation or removal of which no responsible person can be found, it
shall be the duty of the properly designated municipal officer to remove, abate
or destroy the same or cause the same to be done.
(Prior Code, § 6-134)
   (D)   Who is liable. It shall be unlawful for any person to create or
maintain any nuisance, or cause the same to exist, or for any person to
knowingly permit a nuisance to be rented, maintained or to exist on premises
owned by him or her or under his or her control.
(Prior Code, § 6-135)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Nuisances, see §§
91.15 through
91.25
§ 130.31 HAZARDOUS WASTES.
   The County Sheriff’s Department is hereby designated as the first responder
in the event of a hazardous waste incident within the city limits.
(Res. 1993-1, passed 2-1-1993)
OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE AND MORALS
§ 130.45 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in any illegal or improper
diversion, or to use insulting, indecent or immoral language, or to be guilty
of any indecent, insulting or immoral conduct or behavior.
(Prior Code, § 6-109) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.46 OBSCENE LITERATURE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to exhibit, pass, give or deliver to
another any obscene, loud or indecent book, pamphlet, picture, card, print,
paper, writing, mold, cast or figure, or to have same in his or her
possessions.
(Prior Code, § 6-110) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.47 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or maliciously or
intentionally or unnecessarily disturb the peace and quiet of another or of any
neighborhood or family or religious congregation or other assembly by loud or
unusual noises or indecent behavior or by offensive or unbecoming conduct, or
for any person to threaten, quarrel, fight to provoke an assault or batter, or
curse or swear or utter any obscene or vulgar or indecent language in the
presence of another.
(Prior Code, § 6-111) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.48 DRUNKENNESS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to be found drunk, intoxicated or under
the influence of intoxicating liquor upon any public thoroughfare or other
public place.
(Prior Code, § 6-112) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.49 ENCOURAGING DELINQUENCY.
   Any person who by any act or neglect encourages, aids or causes a child to
come within the purview of the Juvenile Corrections Act, being Idaho Code § 20-
501 et seq., or who after notice that a driver’s license if any child has been
suspended or revoked under the provisions of the Juvenile Corrections Act who
knowingly permits or encourages said child to operate a motor vehicle during
the period that such driver’s license is suspended shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 6-113) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.50 FORNICATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any unmarried person to have sexual intercourse
with an unmarried person of the opposite sex.
(Prior Code, § 6-117) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.51 FRAUDULENTLY AVOIDING PAYMENT OF ADMISSION FEES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to fraudulently enter without payment of
the proper admission fees any theater, ballroom, lecture, concert or other
place where admission fees are charged; provided, however, that, nothing herein
contained shall be deemed to prohibit or restrict the free admission of police
officers, engage in the performance of police duties, to any place of public
entertainment or amusement.
(Prior Code, § 6-118) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.52 FURNISHING WEAPONS AND OTHER ARTICLES TO PRISONERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to furnish or attempt to furnish or take
into jail or to deliver or attempt to deliver to any prisoner therein confined,
or in the custody of any officer, any weapon, tool, intoxicating liquors, drug
or other article without the consent of the officer in charge.
(Prior Code, § 6-119) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.53 GAMBLING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to deal, play or conduct, either as
owner, employee or lessee, whether for hire or not, any game of faro, monte,
roulette, lansquenet, rouge et noir, ronde, Indian stick game or any game
played with cards, dice or any other device for money, checks, credit or other
representative of value.
(Prior Code, § 6-120) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.54 INDECENT EXPOSURE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to appear in a state of nudity or in any
indecent or lewd dress or condition in any public place or in any such place to
make any indecent exposure of his or her person or private parts thereof, or
the private parts of another, or to conduct himself or herself in a lewd or
lascivious way.
(Prior Code, § 6-123) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.55 JUNK RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to store or keep any old articles or
materials which may be classified as “junk”, adjacent to or in close proximity
to any school house, church, public park, public grounds, business buildings or
residence without first providing proper and tight buildings for the storage of
the same.
(Prior Code, § 6-124) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.56 LOUD SPEAKERS OR SOUND TRUCKS.
   It shall be unlawful to play, use or operate any device known as a sound
truck, loud speaker or sound amplifier, radio or phonograph, with loud speaker
or sound amplifier or any instrument of any kind or character which emits loud
and raucous noises and it attached to and upon any vehicle unless such person
in charge of such vehicle shall have first applied to and received permission
for the Chief of Police to operate any such vehicle equipped and used as in
this section described.
(Prior Code, § 6-127) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.57 MINORS IN POOL HALLS.
   It shall be unlawful for any proprietor, manager or employee of any public
pool or billiard hall or other business establishment wherein intoxicating
liquor or alcoholic beverages are sold to be consumed on the premises to permit
or allow any child or minor under the age of 21 years to frequent or loiter in
such establishment; provided, however, that, the same shall no be illegal in
places of business that are duly licensed by the state as restaurants.
(Prior Code, § 6-130) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.58 OBSCENE CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to urinate or stool in any place open to
public view, or to be guilty of any lewd, lascivious or obscene conduct or to
sing a lewd or obscene song, ballad or other words in any public place, or any
other place where other persons are present or to indecently exhibit any
animal.
(Prior Code, § 6-136) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.59 RIOT.
   It shall be unlawful when two or more persons assemble for the purpose of
disturbing the peace or, for the purpose of committing any unlawful act, for
any such person to fail or refuse to immediately disperse upon an order to do
so by a police officer. It shall be unlawful for any person, except public
officers and persons assisting in preserving the peace, to remain present at
the place of such riot, rout or unlawful assembly.
(Prior Code, § 6-139) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.60 CIGARETTES OR TOBACCO TO MINORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or give away, directly or
indirectly, to any person under the age of 21 years, any cigarettes or tobacco
or any compounds of tobacco used in filling up or making up of a cigarette, or
who shall give to minors any cigarette papers.
(Prior Code, § 6-140) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.61 UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLY.
   It shall be unlawful for two or more persons to assemble together for the
purpose of disturbing the peace or for the purpose of committing an unlawful
act, and to not disburse upon the command of an officer so to do.
(Prior Code, § 6-142) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.62 VAGRANCY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person without visible means of support who has
a physical ability to work who does not seek employment or labor or who does
not work when employment is offered him or her; for any person to seek alms as
a business; for any person to roam about from place to place without any lawful
business; for any idle or dissolute person or associate of known thieves to
wander about the streets at a late and unusual hour of the night, or to lodge
in any other place than is kept for lodging purposes without the permission of
the owner of the property in possession thereof; or for any person to
habitually consort with common prostitutes, habitual drunkards or any users of
narcotics.
(Prior Code, § 6-143) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.63 FIREWORKS.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
      PYROTECHNICS. Any sparkler, squib, rocket, firecracker, Roman candle,
fire balloon, signal light, railroad track torpedo, flashlight composition,
fireworks of other devices or compositions used to obtain visible or audible
pyrotechnic displays.
(Prior Code, § 6-701)
   (B)   Fireworks prohibited; exceptions. No person shall, within the
municipality, have, keep, store, use, manufacture, sell, handle or transport
any pyrotechnics; provided, however:
      (1)   Nothing in this section shall be held to apply to the possession or
use of signaling devices for current daily consumption by railroads, trucks and
others requiring them; and
      (2)   The Chief of Fire Department or the Clerk/Treasurer may, upon due
application, issue a permit to a properly qualified person forgiving a
pyrotechnic display of fireworks in the public parks or other open places.
(Prior Code, § 6-702)
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 131: WEAPONS AND FIREARMS
Section
   
131.01   Definition
   
131.02   Concealed weapons
   
131.03   Discharging firearms
   
131.04   Exceptions; permits
§ 131.01 DEFINITION.
   Wherever the term FIREARMS is used in this chapter, the term shall mean any
instrument used in the propulsion of shot, shell or bullets or other harmful
objects by the action of gunpowder exploded within it, or by the action of
compressed air within it, or by the power of springs and including what are
commonly known as “air rifles” and “B-B guns”.
(Prior Code, § 6-501)
§ 131.02 CONCEALED WEAPONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to carry concealed upon his or her
person any brass knuckles, revolver, pistol, dagger, stiletto or other deadly
weapon.
(Prior Code, § 6-502) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.03 DISCHARGING FIREARMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge firearms of any kind or
description within the limits of the municipality; provided, however, that,
this shall not apply to police officers in the discharge of their duties.
(Prior Code, § 6-503) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.04 EXCEPTIONS; PERMITS.
   (A)   The governing body may at any time, upon application, grant permits to
shooting fixed localities and under fixed rules.
   (B)   Such permits shall be in writing attested by the Clerk/Treasurer
conforming to such requirements as the governing body shall demand, and the
permit thus issued shall be subject to revocation at any time by action of the
governing body.
(Prior Code, § 6-504)
CHAPTER 132: CURFEW
Section
   
132.01   Hours of curfew
   
132.02   Responsibility
§ 132.01 HOURS OF CURFEW.
   No child under the age of 16 years shall be or remain upon the public
thoroughfares of the municipality, unless accompanied by a parent, guardian or
other adult person having at the time the care, custody or control of such
child, after the hour of 10:00 p.m. on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and
Thursday of each week and after the hour of 11:00 p.m. on Friday and Saturday
of each week during the months of November 1 to March 31 of each year or after
the hour of 11:00 p.m. of each day of the week during the months of April 1 to
October 31 of each year.
(Prior Code, § 6-601) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.02 RESPONSIBILITY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person having at the time the care, custody or
control of any child under the age of 16 years, to allow or permit such child
to be or remain upon the public thoroughfares of the municipality after the
hours hereinabove mentioned.
(Prior Code, § 6-602) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
      
151.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
152.   RV PARKS
      
153.   AIRPORT
      
154.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
155.   ZONING
      
156.   COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE PLAN
      
157.   SUBDIVISIONS
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   International codes adopted
   
150.02   Television and radio interference; inspection
Special Buildings; Existing Buildings
   
150.15   Exclusion of certain buildings from city limits
   
150.16   Special Building Permit Committee
   
150.17   Compliance
   
150.18   Permit; application and cost
   
150.19   Bond
 
   
150.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 INTERNATIONAL CODES ADOPTED.
   The following nationally-recognized codes are adopted as the official
building codes of the city.
   (A)   International Building Code. The International Building Code, 2018
edition, prepared by the International Code Council, Inc., as adopted by the
state or the state’s Building Code Board, together with any amendments or
revisions to the International Building Code made by the state’s Building Code
Board through the negotiated rule-making process, is adopted.
   (B)   International Residential Code. The International Residential Code,
2018 edition, prepared by the International Code Council, Inc., as adopted by
the state or the state’s Building Code Board, together with any amendments or
revisions to the International Building Code made by the state’s Building Code
Board through the negotiated rule-making process, is adopted.
   (C)   International Energy Conservation Code. The International Energy
Conservation Code, 2018 edition, prepared by the International Code Council,
Inc., together with any amendments or revisions to the International Building
Code made by the state’s Building Code Board through the negotiated rule-
making process, is adopted.
(Ord. 2021-9, passed 9-13-2021)
§ 150.02 TELEVISION AND RADIO INTERFERENCE; INSPECTION.
   (A)   Interference prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly
to operate, cause to be operated or permit the operation of any wire for
carrying electric energy or any fixtures, a machine, device, apparatus or other
instrument, the operations of which shall cause reasonable preventable
electrical interference with radio or television reception.
(Prior Code, § 3-201)
   (B)   Inspection. The Clerk/Treasurer or any police officer or any other
designated person of the municipality shall have the right at any reasonable
hour to enter upon and into any premises for the purpose of inspecting or
locating any wires, fixtures, machines, devices, apparatus or other instruments
which are or may be kept or operated in violation of the provisions of this
section. Should any inspection disclose that any equipment described in this
section be defective, then the Clerk/Treasurer shall notify, in writing, the
owner or occupant of said premises, or the operator of said equipment, of the
defects and suggest steps to be taken to remedy such defects. Upon receipt of
such written notice, such owner, occupant or operator shall forthwith take
effective steps to remedy such defects.
(Prior Code, § 3-202)
Penalty, see §
150.99
SPECIAL BUILDINGS; EXISTING BUILDINGS
§ 150.15 EXCLUSION OF CERTAIN BUILDINGS FROM CITY LIMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to transport, bring in or have
brought within the limits of said city any previously constructed building
without having received a proper permit allowing the same from the authorities
of said city.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to transport, bring in or have
brought within the limits of said city any trailer house, mobile home or
manufactured home more than 20 years old, recreational vehicles in the city
park are excepted.
   (C)   The fee for placement of a manufactured home in a park or on a private
lot will be $300. This fee does not include fees required for electrical and
plumbing.
(Prior Code, § 3-301) (Ord. 2011-9, passed 9-6-2011; Res. R2024-06, passed 6-
10-2024) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.16 SPECIAL BUILDING PERMIT COMMITTEE.
   The Mayor, with the approval of the City Council, shall appoint a committee
of five persons, two of whom may be members of the City Council, to be known as
a Special Building Permit Committee, which said Committee members shall serve
without compensation; and all applications received by the Clerk/Treasurer of
the city for a special building permit to bring within the city limits a
previously constructed building shall be turned over to said Committee who will
thoroughly investigate the same, hold any and all hearings they deem necessary
and either grant or deny the application for said permit.
(Prior Code, § 3-302)
§ 150.17 COMPLIANCE.
   No permit shall be granted by the Special Building Permit Committee until
the following regulations shall be fully complied with by the applicant:
   (A)   Submit a proper application for such building permit upon forms to be
provided by the city;
   (B)   Prove that the building is fit and proper for the use to which it is
intended and will not create a fire or health hazard within the city limits and
complies with the Uniform Building Code;
   (C)   Said building will be permanently situated upon property owned or
leased by the applicant and will comply with all health and fire regulations
within the city limits; and
   (D)   The same will be used and/or occupied for the use it is intended
within 120 days of its being brought into the city limits.
(Prior Code, § 3-303)
§ 150.18 PERMIT; APPLICATION AND COST.
   Upon making application for a special building permit as provided by this
subchapter, the applicant will pay a fee of $25 to defray the costs of the
Special Building Committee and will, at the same time, tender the sum of $50 to
pay for the permit, if granted, which sum would include the payment for a sewer
hookup, should aid permit be denied said fee will be returned to the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 3-304)
§ 150.19 BOND.
   Upon the granting of any permit as herein provided in this subchapter and as
prerequisite to the receiving of the same, the applicant shall post a proper
property or surety bond in the sum of $1,000 to insure the proper compliance
with the provisions of this subchapter and any and all regulations provided by
the Committee herein before set forth; said bond shall be approved by the City
Council prior to the delivery of the permit to said applicant.
(Prior Code, § 3-305)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Should any person bring within the limits of said city any previously-
constructed building without having first received a proper permit therefor in
accordance with §§
150.15 through
150.19 of this chapter shall be guilty of misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined as set forth in §
10.99 or imprisonment in the city jail for not more than 30 days or by both
such fine and imprisonment; and, providing further that, each day said building
remains within the city limits shall be a separate violation of §§
150.15 through
150.19 of this chapter and be punished in accordance herewith. Any person
violating the provisions of any permit granted under the provisions of §§
150.15 through
150.19 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and his, her or their
bond as hereinbefore provided shall be forfeited to the city and, in addition
thereto, the city shall have the right to demand the immediate removal of said
building from the city limits and, if the same is not removed within five days
of the demand thereof, the city shall have the right to cause the destruction
and/or removal of the same and the cost thereof shall become a lien upon the
property owned by the person.
(Prior Code, § 3-306)
CHAPTER 151: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Street Name and Address System
   
151.01   Short title, purpose and authority
   
151.02   Definitions
   
151.03   Road names
   
151.04   Road address numbering
   
151.05   Violations
Sidewalks
   
151.20   Intent
   
151.21   Sidewalk needs; determination
   
151.22   Plans prior to construction
   
151.23   Ordering repairs
   
151.24   City authorized to do work when owner fails to do so
   
151.25   City to pay; statement of costs
   
151.26   City may sue property owners, file liens
   
151.27   Hearing on orders
   
151.28   Construction to grade
   
151.29   Cement sidewalks; repaired sidewalks
   
151.30   Width and location; established
   
151.31   Grades established
   
151.32   Concrete sidewalks and curbing
   
151.33   Construction permit; fee
   
151.34   City held harmless
 
   
151.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Urban Forestry Board, see §
31.30
   Weeds, see §
91.01
   Zoning, see
Chapter 155
STREET NAME AND ADDRESS SYSTEM
§ 151.01 SHORT TITLE, PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   This subchapter shall be known as the “Street Naming and Address Numbering
Ordinance”. It is adopted for the purpose of providing a uniform street name
and addressing system to aid local emergency vehicles and utility companies and
for the proper administration and enforcement of these systems. This subchapter
shall apply to all lands within the incorporated city.
(Ord. 2012-1, passed - -2011)
§ 151.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   COUNCIL. The City Council of the City of Nezperce.
   OFFICIAL ADDRESSING SYSTEM NUMBERING FLAT MAP. The map showing all the roads
within the city with the official address numbering system and address number
range.
   ROAD. The right-of-way for public or private use which provides vehicular
and/or pedestrian access. Its designation includes the following terms: AVENUE
or STREET.
(Ord. 2012-1, passed - -2011)
§ 151.03 ROAD NAMES.
   The City Council reserves the right to name all new roads within the city.
Road names shall be maintained on the City Official Address System Numbering
Map. As established on the City Official Address System Numbering Map said
streets run north and south while the avenues run east and west. The City
Council reserves the right to name private lanes and subdivisions.
(Ord. 2012-1, passed - -2011)
§ 151.04 ROAD ADDRESS NUMBERING.
   (A)   The City Council reserves the right to number all businesses,
dwellings, units, vacant lots and subdivisions. Numbers shall be assigned to
vacant lots within the City Official Address System Numbering Map and shall be
assigned in such a manner that adequate numbers are reserved for possible
future development or future subdivisions within the city limits.
   (B)   Even-numbered addresses beginning with 102 will be assigned on the
east west side of a city block running north to south while odd numbers
beginning with 101 will be assigned on the west-east side of a city block
running north to south. Even-numbered addresses beginning with 102 will be
assigned on the south side of a city block while odd-numbered addresses
beginning with 101 will be assigned on the north side of a city block running
east to west. All numbering will begin on the north or east roads in the city
as shown on the City Official Address System Numbering Map.
   (C)   (1)   Approved street address numbers shall be mounted or painted on
all new and existing buildings in such a position as to be plainly visible and
legible from the road fronting the property.
      (2)   Said numbers shall contrast with their background, be visible in
the daytime and nighttime from the road and be at least three and one-half
inches in height.
   (D)   Existing address numbers not in conformance with the City Official
Address System Numbering Map may be changed by the City Council, giving
official written notice at least 90 days in advance of the effective date of
such change to property owners and those local agencies affected by such
changes.
(Ord. 2012-1, passed - -2011; Ord. 2012-4, passed 4-3-2012)
§ 151.05 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall erect or install a road name sign which does not
comply with this subchapter.
   (B)   No person shall remove, alter, change or otherwise deface a road name
sign which exists in accord with the City Official Address System Numbering Map
and this subchapter.
   (C)   Failure to continuously display the approved number or address on a
residence or business shall be a violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2012-1, passed - -2011) Penalty, see §
151.99
SIDEWALKS
§ 151.20 INTENT.
   It is the intent of the governing body of the city to have all sidewalks
within the city kept in a reasonably safe condition for general use by the
public.
(Prior Code, § 2-301)
§ 151.21 SIDEWALK NEEDS; DETERMINATION.
   The Superintendent of Streets shall inspect all sidewalks, where any
sidewalk is so damaged or defective as to require, in his or her judgment, the
construction of a new walk and in all cases where there is no sidewalk and, in
the judgment of the Superintendent of Streets, a sidewalk necessary, the
Superintendent of Streets shall report such fact to the Mayor and Council with
his or her recommendation. If, after considering such report and
recommendation, the Mayor and Council deem it necessary, they shall order such
sidewalk to be constructed.
(Prior Code, § 2-302)
§ 151.22 PLANS PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION.
   For all new construction, or substantial improvement of old construction
within the meaning of the Uniform Building Code within the city for which a
building permit is required, the applicant for such building permit, before its
issuance, shall provide reasonable plans for the construction of and be
required to agree to install sidewalks on the property as are required by this
subchapter; provided, however, the Council may waive the requirements of
sidewalks in any case where sidewalk construction is inappropriate or
impracticable upon a petition for waiver being submitted to the Council in
writing.
(Prior Code, § 2-303)
§ 151.23 ORDERING REPAIRS.
   When any sidewalk is ordered to be constructed, reconstructed or repaired
under the provisions of this subchapter, the Superintendent of Streets shall
serve a notice in writing upon the property owner or any resident agent of the
property owner, directing such sidewalk to be constructed, reconstructed or
repaired of the materials and according to the specifications in force in the
district where such sidewalk is to be constructed, reconstructed or repaired
and describing the premises adjacent to which such construction is to be made
by delivery of a copy thereof to the owner, his or her agent or, if neither, is
to be last known post office address and service by mail shall be deemed
complete upon the expiration of five days from the date of mailing such notice.
(Prior Code, § 2-304)
§ 151.24 CITY AUTHORIZED TO DO WORK WHEN OWNER FAILS TO DO SO.
   If the work of construction, reconstruction or repairing sidewalks is not
begun in accordance with the notice provided for in §
151.23 of this chapter within 30 days after the service of such notice or if,
having been begun, such work is not completed within a reasonable time
thereafter, the such sidewalk shall be constructed, reconstructed, repaired or
completed, as the case may be, by the Street Superintendent under the general
direction and supervision of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-305)
§ 151.25 CITY TO PAY; STATEMENT OF COSTS.
   Upon the completion of the construction or repair of sidewalks, the cost
thereof shall be paid out of any unappropriated money in the General Fund of
the city or such other fund as may be designated by the Mayor and Council. As
soon as may be thereafter, the Superintendent of Streets shall serve upon the
owner of such property or his or her agent, in the same manner as the notice to
construct sidewalks is authorized to be served, an itemized statement of the
cost of such construction, reconstruction or repair, if the cost thereof be not
paid within five days after such service, the Superintendent of Streets shall
deliver a copy of such itemized statement to the City Attorney, who shall
proceed to collect the same.
(Prior Code, § 2-306)
§ 151.26 CITY MAY SUE PROPERTY OWNERS, FILE LIENS.
   (A)   Upon receipt of the statement provided for in §
151.25 of this chapter, the City Attorney shall bring suit in any court having
jurisdiction for the recovery of money expended by the city in the
construction, reconstruction or repair of sidewalks or shall file a lien upon
the property abutting upon such sidewalk, or both.
   (B)   Such lien shall be verified and shall be filed and foreclosed as in
the case of other liens under the general laws of the state. From the date of
the filing of the same, the cost of such construction, maintenance or repairs
shall be and remain lien upon the property described as in the case of other
liens. The same shall be collected as a special assessment under Idaho Code §
50-1008.
(Prior Code, § 2-307)
§ 151.27 HEARING ON ORDERS.
   At any time after the service of the notice to construct, reconstruct or
repair as provided by §
151.23 of this chapter, and before the expiration of the time specified
therein, the owner or agent upon whom such service was made may appear before
the Mayor and Council at any general or special meeting and show cause why the
order for such construction, reconstruction or repair should be revoked. The
Council shall hear and determine such application informally. Such application
shall not extend the period within which the work is to be begun unless
otherwise ordered by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-308)
§ 151.28 CONSTRUCTION TO GRADE.
   All sidewalks ordered construction by the City Council shall be constructed
to an established grade; provided that, owners desiring to construct any
sidewalks by private subscription may obtain a permit from the City Council to
construct such sidewalks upon specifications approved by it. Such sidewalks may
be laid upon the then-traveled surface of the street within the space reserved
for sidewalk purposes, but shall only be permitted to remain so long as kept in
good condition and until the official grade and be constructed to conform to
the sidewalk specifications.
(Prior Code, § 2-309)
§ 151.29 CEMENT SIDEWALKS; REPAIRED SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Cement sidewalks required where grade established. When any street or
avenue in the city shall be graded to an established grade, the sidewalks
thereafter constructed on both sides of such street or avenue shall be
constructed of cement in accordance with the specifications for the
construction of such sidewalks.
(Prior Code, § 2-310)
   (B)   Repaired sidewalks to be cement when grade established. When the
Street Superintendent shall report any sidewalk along any street or avenue
which has already been put to grade to be in a damaged or defective condition
requiring repair or reconstruction and such report shall be confirmed by a
resolution of the Mayor and Council, then such sidewalk shall be constructed of
cement in accordance with the specifications for such construction of file in
the office of the City Clerk/Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 2-311)
§ 151.30 WIDTH AND LOCATION; ESTABLISHED.
   All sidewalks constructed of cement shall be constructed of such width and
in such location as the Mayor and Council may provide by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 2-312)
§ 151.31 GRADES ESTABLISHED.
   No cement sidewalk shall be constructed without first obtaining a survey for
grade and a permit for construction from the City Clerk/Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 2-313)
§ 151.32 CONCRETE SIDEWALKS AND CURBING.
   All concrete sidewalks and curbs shall be constructed under the direct
supervision of the Street Superintendent and in accordance with specifications
on file in the office of the City Clerk/Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 2-314)
§ 151.33 CONSTRUCTION PERMIT; FEE.
   Every applicant to the City Clerk/Treasurer for a permit to construct a
sidewalk shall be accompanied by a deposit of $100 for every 50 lineal feet of
portion thereof on the front of the lot or lots abutting on the sidewalk to
cover the costs for survey for grade and other administrative costs. If the
sidewalk is constructed within a period of nine months from the date of
application, the City Clerk/Treasurer is authorized to refund such deposit to
the applicant or his or her successor. If the sidewalk is not constructed
within such period of time, there shall be no refund of the deposit fee
thereafter and such fee shall be retained by the City Clerk/Treasurer in the
General Fund of the city.
(Prior Code, § 2-315)
§ 151.34 CITY HELD HARMLESS.
   Any person constructing a sidewalk shall save the city harmless from all
suits and actions and damages of every nature resulting from such construction.
(Prior Code, § 2-316)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Each violation of §§
151.01 through
151.05 of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor and, for each day that it
continues, each violation shall constitute a separate offense. Each violation
shall be punishable as provided in Idaho Code § 18-113.
(Ord. 2012-1, passed - -2011)
CHAPTER 152: RV PARKS
Section
   
152.01   City to operate
   
152.02   Nightly, biweekly charge
   
152.03   Rules
§ 152.01 CITY TO OPERATE.
   It is determined to be for the good of the public that the city operate a
municipal RV park.
(Prior Code, § 3-401)
§ 152.02 NIGHTLY, BIWEEKLY CHARGE.
   The nightly charges for rent per RV space shall be in the sum of $30 per
night, and 14-day stays are $85. Payment is due prior to connecting to park
services.
(Prior Code, § 3-402)
§ 152.03 RULES.
   (A)   Children. Resident and visiting children must be supervised at all
times by parents or other designated responsible adults. Children shall comply
with all laws and not disturb or intrude upon other tenants.
   (B)   Garbage. All garbage shall be neatly, promptly and properly disposed
of, and no unsightly or odoriferous accumulation shall exist. All garbage must
be bagged or in cans prior to weekly pickup.
   (C)   Noise. No excessive noise shall emanate from the premises such as
would disturb or intrude upon the privacy of other tenants.
   (D)   Traffic. Driveways shall be kept open. The speed limit is five mph.
   (E)   Utilities. Trailers using gas or oil must use a regulation tank and
locate it at the rear of the trailer. Firewood may be stored on the premises
only with prior consent of the lessor. Frozen water lines are the lessee’s
responsibility, from the hook-up to the trailer. Domestic water is not to be
used for irrigation.
   (F)   Vehicles. Each lessee is provided parking space for two vehicles only.
No other vehicles shall be allowed without prior consent of the lessor, which
shall be granted for only a limited period of time and a reasonable charge
shall be made for such vehicles. Any vehicle that remains inoperable for longer
than 30 days must be removed from the court. No major car repairing will be
allowed in the court. Driving is allowed only on designated driveways.
   (G)   Premises. Trailer spaces consist of the area occupied by the RV and
the adjacent yard on the right-hand side, while facing the front of the trailer
from the inside. The lessees are allowed a four-foot walkway on the back side
of each trailer, to access a door in the back side of the home if necessary.
There shall be no other use of this space.
   (H)   Guests. No long-term guests shall be allowed on the premises on a
continuing basis without prior consent of the lessor, which may then require an
additional rental fee. All guests shall comply with the court rules stated
herein.
   (I)   Quiet hours. From 10:00 p.m. to 8:00 a.m., there shall be no excessive
noise on or about the premises.
   (J)   Insurance. The lessee is encouraged to maintain fire, theft and
liability insurance and the lessee shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless
the lessor from any personal injury or property damage on the premises or on
the mobile home park, caused in whole or in part by lessee or any member of
lessee’s household or lessee’s quests.
(Res. 1995-1, passed 7-11-1995) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 153: AIRPORT
Section
   
153.01   Definitions
   
153.02   Operation
   
153.03   Use
   
153.04   Liability
   
153.05   Safety
   
153.06   Use fees
   
153.07   Commercial activities
   
153.08   Aeronautical commercial activities; minimum standards
   
153.09   Lease
   
153.10   Livestock and other animals
   
153.11   City reservations
   
153.12   Fuels, hazardous materials
§ 153.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   ANIMALS. Any domestic, pet or livestock including dogs, cats, cattle,
horses, pigs and sheep.
   BUSINESS or COMMERCIAL ACTIVITY. Any activity which is conducted for profit
or in which a service is provided to another, including the use of one’s own
aircraft to apply fertilizer or chemicals to one’s own property.
   LANDING AREA. The area of the airport used for the landing, taking off, or
taxing of aircraft.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, association, partnership or corporation or
joint venture including representatives or agents thereof.
   USE. Any activity proposed or actual which requires airport property,
including any building or structure or commercial activity.
(Prior Code, § 8-101)
§ 153.02 OPERATION.
   The city owns and operates an airport for public and private users. All use
of the airport shall be governed by the terms and conditions of this chapter.
The use of the airport is a privilege and shall be regulated as provided for in
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-102)
§ 153.03 USE.
   Any use of the airport shall be approved by the city. Any person proposing
to construct any building or structure shall apply for a permit for such
construction and shall have obtained a lease for such airport property. Failure
to comply with this provision shall be unlawful and shall constitute a
misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 8-103) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.04 LIABILITY.
   The city shall not be liable for loss, damage or injury to person or
property arising out of any accident, incident or mishap of any nature
whatsoever to any individual aircraft or property occurring on the airport in
the use of airport facility. Any person engaging in a commercial activity at
the airport shall maintain aircraft and premises liability insurance in a
minimum amount of $100,000/$300,000, naming the city as additional insured and
shall provide proof of such liability insurance upon request.
(Prior Code, § 8-104)
§ 153.05 SAFETY.
   Any hazardous activity or condition occurring on the airport shall be
reported immediately to the City Clerk/Treasurer. Any accident involving
personal injury or aircraft damage shall be reported to the City Clerk/
Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 8-105)
§ 153.06 USE FEES.
   There is levied and assessed an annual usage fee running from January 1
through December 31 of each year for any business or commercial activity
conducted on the Nezperce Municipal Airport, as follows.
   (A)   Based business or commercial activities shall pay an annual usage fee
of $1,500 per year, payable in advance, before using said municipal airport.
Based business or commercial activities shall be defined as those having
permanent installations located upon or adjacent to the Nezperce Municipal
Airport, including hangar or hangars, and other necessary installations for the
operation of such activity.
   (B)   All other business or commercial activities using the Nezperce
Municipal Airport will pay an annual usage fee of $2,000 per year, which is
payable in advance before using said municipal airport; such activities shall
also lease appropriate space from the city prior to engaging in such activity.
   (C)   (1)   Based private airplanes not using the municipal airport for
commercial purposes will pay an annual fee of $50 per plane payable to the
Clerk/Treasurer or persons authorized by the City Council. Based private
airplanes will be charged the following rental fees for use of tie-downs. All
fees are payable in advance of use.
      (2)   (a)   Twenty-four-hour rental: $5;
         (b)   Weekly rental: $50; and
         (c)   Monthly rental: $100.
   (D)   All business or commercial activities using said airport shall comply
with all laws, rules and regulations applicable to such operations and shall be
fully responsible for any damages or claims arising from such activities and
shall hold the city harmless for the same.
(Prior Code, § 8-106) (Res. 2010-3, passed 7-13-2010; Res. R2012-6, passed 9-4-
2012)
§ 153.07 COMMERCIAL ACTIVITIES.
   No person shall engage in any business or commercial activity of any nature,
except in compliance with this chapter. Any person proposing or desiring to
conduct a business or commercial activity at the airport shall first make
application to the City Clerk/Treasurer and secure the city’s approval, 30 days
prior to commencing said business or commercial activity.
(Prior Code, § 8-107)
§ 153.08 AERONAUTICAL COMMERCIAL ACTIVITIES; MINIMUM STANDARDS.
   (A)   Any person engaging in business or commercial activities shall be
required to meet minimum standards governing the quality and level of service
provided in connection with a particular aeronautical activity.
   (B)   The city is empowered to adopt standards and regulations to govern the
commercial activity at the airport.
(Prior Code, § 8-108)
§ 153.09 LEASE.
   The city has the power to lease the airport property. There is hereby vested
in the City Council and Mayor of the city the power to lease any and all of the
facilities of the said Nezperce Municipal Airport to competent persons,
partnerships or corporations upon such terms and conditions for such periods of
time as said Council and Mayor shall deem to be reasonable.
(Prior Code, § 8-109)
§ 153.10 LIVESTOCK AND OTHER ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for livestock of any kind, or any other animals,
attended or unattended to be allowed on the airport.
(Prior Code, § 8-110) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.11 CITY RESERVATIONS.
   The city reserves the right to condemn any hangar built upon said airport
not built according to specifications and for which a permit has been issued,
or which is not kept in a good state of repair and appearance, and the city
also reserves the right and privileges of giving any owner written notice to
repair, recondition or remove any such hangar within 30 days, and in the event
that compliance is not made with said notice, then the city may remove the same
without liability to the owner thereof and this provision shall also apply for
the non-payment of rentals, as in accordance with the Idaho Code.
(Prior Code, § 8-111)
§ 153.12 FUELS, HAZARDOUS MATERIALS.
   (A)   All aeronautical fuel or oils shall be stored in containers meeting
appropriate federal and state statutes and regulations. Persons engaged in
fueling activities shall exercise due care to prevent overflow and spillage of
fuel. Fuel tanks and oil sumps shall not be drained on the ground and only may
be drained into approved containers.
(Prior Code, § 8-112)
   (B)   Persons engaged in crop dusting, spraying or fertilizing activities
shall not spill, discharge or dispose of any chemical or fertilizer on airport
property. All clean-up expenses and costs shall be the responsibility of the
person utilizing the chemicals and fertilizers. All chemical and fertilizers
shall be disposed of off airport property in a method that complies with
applicable federal and state laws and regulations.
(Prior Code, § 8-113)
CHAPTER 154: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
154.01   Statutory authority
   
154.02   Findings of fact
   
154.03   Statement of purpose
   
154.04   Objectives
   
154.05   Definitions
   
154.06   Lands to which chapter applies
   
154.07   Basis for area of special flood hazard
   
154.08   Floodplain development permit
   
154.09   Interpretation
   
154.10   Warning and disclaimer of liability
Administration and Enforcement
   
154.25   Floodplain Administrator; duties
   
154.26   Permit procedures
   
154.27   Variances
Flood Hazard Reduction
   
154.40   Subdivisions
   
154.41   Construction
   
154.42   Manufactured homes
   
154.43   Accessory structures
   
154.44   Recreational vehicles
   
154.45   Floodways
   
154.46   Zones with base flood elevations
   
154.47   Zones without base flood elevations and/or floodways (A Zones)
   
154.48   Alteration of watercourse
   
154.49   Requirement to submit new technical data
 
   
154.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.01 STATUTORY AUTHORITY.
   The legislature of the state, in Idaho Code §§ 46-1020 through 46-1024,
authorizing local government units to adopt a floodplain map and floodplain
management ordinance that identifies floodplains and that sets forth minimum
development requirements in floodplains that are designed to promote the public
health, safety and general welfare of its citizenry.
(Ord. 2013-3, passed 2-5-2013)
§ 154.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the city are subject to periodic inundation
that results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood relief and protection, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by structures in flood hazard areas,
which are inadequately elevated, flood-proofed or otherwise unprotected from
flood damages, and by the cumulative effect of obstructions in floodplains
causing increases in flood heights and velocities.
   (C)   Local government units have the primary responsibility for planning,
adoption and enforcement of land use regulations to accomplish proper
floodplain management.
(Ord. 2013-3, passed 2-5-2013)
§ 154.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Require that development that is vulnerable to floods, including
structures and facilities necessary for the general health, safety and welfare
of citizens, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (B)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety and
property due to water or erosion hazards, or which increase flood heights,
velocities or erosion;
   (C)   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase flood damage or erosion;
   (D)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers that will
unnaturally divert flood waters or that may increase flood hazards to other
lands; and
   (E)   Preserve and restore natural floodplains, stream channels and natural
protective barriers which
carry and store flood waters.
(Ord. 2013-3, passed 2-5-2013)
§ 154.04 OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this chapter are to:
   (A)   Protect human life, health and property;
   (B)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
purification and sewage treatment plants, water and gas mains, electric,
telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in floodplains;
   (C)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood-prone areas;
   (D)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood-control
projects;
   (E)   Minimize the need for rescue and emergency services associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public; and
   (F)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions.
(Ord. 2013-3, passed 2-5-2013)
§ 154.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning. (Mandatory definitions
are in bold face type in the ordinance codified herein.)
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A structure on the same lot or parcel as a principal
structure, the use of which is incidental and subordinate to the principal
structure. An insurable building should not be classified as an ACCESSORY OR
APPURTENANT STRUCTURE.
   APPEAL. A request for review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of provisions of this chapter or request for a variance.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or AH Zone on a community’s Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with base flood depths from one to three feet, and/or
where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate and where velocity flow may be evident.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year. Zone
designations on FIRMs include the letters A, AE, V. Also known as the SPECIAL
FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA).
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded each
year. Also known as the REGULATORY FLOOD.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The water surface elevation during the base
flood in relation to a specified datum. The BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE) is
depicted on the FIRM to the nearest foot and in the FIS to the nearest 0.1
foot.
   BASEMENT. The portion of a structure, including crawlspace with its floor
subgrade (below ground level), on all sides.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. A facility that is critical for the health and welfare of
the population and is especially important following hazard events. CRITICAL
FACILITIES include essential facilities, transportation systems, lifeline
utility systems, high potential loss facilities and hazardous material
facilities.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, the construction of buildings, structures or
accessory structures, or the construction of additions or substantial
improvements to buildings, structures or accessory structures; the placement of
mobile homes; mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation or
drilling operations; or storage of equipment or materials; and the deposition
or extraction of materials; specifically including the construction of dikes,
berms and levees. The term DEVELOPMENT does not include the operation,
cleaning, maintenance or repair of any ditch, canal, lateral, drain, diversion
structure or other irrigation or drainage works that is performed or authorized
by the owner thereof pursuant to lawful rights and obligations.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. A structure for which the “start of construction”
commenced before 8-3-1989.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision where the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and final site grading
or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before 8-3-1989.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed, including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads.
   FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (FEMA). The agency with the overall
responsibility for administering the National Flood Insurance Program.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD FRINGE. The portion of the floodplain outside of the floodway covered
by flood waters during the regulatory flood.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, issued by
the Federal Insurance Administration, delineating the areas of special flood
hazard and/or risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). The official report by the Federal Insurance
Administration evaluating flood hazards and containing flood profiles, floodway
boundaries and water surface elevations of the base flood.
   FLOODPLAIN. The land that has been or may be covered by flood waters, or is
surrounded by flood water and inaccessible, during the occurrence of the
regulatory flood. The riverine floodplain includes the floodway and the flood
fringe.
(Idaho Code § 46-1021)
   FLOOD-PROOFING. Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
   FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (FPE). An elevation that corresponds to the
elevation of the 1% chance annual flood (base flood), plus any increase in
flood elevation due to floodway encroachment, plus one foot of freeboard.
Therefore, the FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION for the city is equal to BFE, plus
allowed floodway elevation, plus one foot freeboard.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level
for the purposes of floodplain management. FREEBOARD tends to compensate for
them any unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than
the height calculated fora selected size flood and floodway conditions, such as
wave action, obstructed bridge openings, debris and ice jams and the hydrologic
effects of urbanization in a watershed.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE (HAG). The highest natural elevation of the ground
surface prior to construction, adjacent to the proposed walls of a structure.
Refer to the elevation certificate for HAG related to building elevation
information.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. A structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the U.S. Department of Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or to a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places and
determined as eligible by states with historic preservation programs which have
been approved by the Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places and
determined as eligible by communities with historic preservation programs that
have been certified either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC). An official FEMA determination, by letter, to
amend or revise effective Flood Insurance Rate Maps, Flood Boundary and
Floodway Maps and Flood Insurance Studies.
   LEVEE. A human-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed according to sound engineering practices, to contain, control or
divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary flooding.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE (LAG). The lowest point of the ground level next to
the structure. Refer to the elevation certificate, FEMA Form 81-31, for LAG
related to building elevation information.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement) used for living purposes, which includes working, storage, cooking
and eating or recreation, or any combination thereof. This includes any floor
that could be converted to such a use including a basement or crawl space. An
unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, used solely for parking of vehicles,
building access, or storage, in an area other than a basement, is not
considered a structure’s LOWEST FLOOR. The LOWEST FLOOR is a determinate for
the flood insurance premium for a building, home or business.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, built
on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a permanent
foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term MANUFACTURED HOME
does not include a “recreational vehicle”.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. For purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program, the
National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 or other datum, to which base
flood elevations shown on a community’s FIRM are referenced.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. A structure for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective date of a floodplain management regulation adopted by
a community and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A place where the construction of
facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be
affixed (including at a minimum the installation of utilities, the construction
of streets and final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed
on or after 8-3-1989.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle that is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towed by a light-duty
truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REGULATORY FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a
designated height.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost where the
construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the cost of repairs
at the time of each such flood event, on the average, equals or exceeds 25% of
the market value of the structure before the damages occurred.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement and means the date
the development permit was issued; provided, the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction or improvement was within 180 days of the permit date.
The actual START means either the first placement of permanent construction of
a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the
installation of piles, the construction of columns or any work beyond the stage
of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers or
foundation s or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building,
whether or not the alteration affects the external dimensions of a building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage
tank that is principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of its market value before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or other improvement of a
structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the
structure before the “start of construction” of the improvement;
      (2)   This term includes structures which have incurred “substantial
damage”, regardless of the actual repair work performed. The market value of
the structure should be:
         (a)   The appraised value of the structure prior to the start of the
initial repair or improvement; or
         (b)   In the case of damage, the value of the structure prior to the
damage occurring.
      (3)   This term includes structures which have incurred “substantial
damage”, regard less of the actual amount of repair work performed; and
      (4)   The term does not include either:
         (a)   A project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications,
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Alteration of a historic structure; provided that, the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as an
historic structure.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief by the governing body from a requirement of this
chapter.
(Ord. 2013-3, passed 2-5-2013)
§ 154.06 LANDS TO WHICH CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all special flood hazard areas within the
jurisdiction of the city. Nothing in this chapter is intended to allow uses or
structures that are otherwise prohibited by Chapter 155 of this code of
ordinances.
(Ord. 2013-3, passed 2-5-2013)
§ 154.07 BASIS FOR AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   The special flood hazard areas identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency in its Flood Insurance Study (FIS) for City of Nezperce,
Idaho, Lewis County revised 8-3-1989, with accompanying Flood Insurance Rate
Maps (FIRM), and other supporting data, are adopted by reference and declared a
part of this chapter. The FIS and the FIRM are on file at the office of the
City Clerk/Treasurer.
(Ord. 2013-3, passed 2-5-2013)
§ 154.08 FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required prior to development
activities in special flood hazard areas established in §
154.07 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2013-3, passed 2-5-2013)
§ 154.09 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit, nor repeal, any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. 2013-3, passed 2-5-2013)
§ 154.10 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur. Flood heights may be
increased by human-made or natural causes. This chapter does not imply that
land outside the special flood hazard areas or uses permitted within such areas
will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall not create
liability on the part of the city or by any officer or employee thereof for
flood damages that result from reliance on this chapter or an administrative
decision lawfully made hereunder.
(Ord. 2013-3, passed 2-5-2013)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 154.25 FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR; DUTIES.
   (A)   The Mayor is hereby appointed as the Floodplain Administrator who is
responsible for administering and implementing the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Duties of the Floodplain Administrator shall include, but shall not be
limited to:
      (1)   Review all floodplain development permit applications to assure
that the permit requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
      (2)   Before issuing a floodplain development permit, review proposed
development to assure that necessary permits have been received from
governmental agencies from which approval is required by federal or state law,
including § 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972,
33 U.S.C. § 1334; the Endangered Species Act of 1973, 16 U.S.C. §§ 1531 through
1544; and State Stream Channel Alteration permits, Idaho Code Chapter 38
require that copies of such permits be provided and maintained on file;
      (3)   When base flood elevation data or floodway data are not available,
then the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review and reasonably utilize
any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal, state or
other source in order to administer the provisions of this chapter;
      (4)   When base flood elevations or other current engineering data are
not available, the Floodplain Administrator shall take into account the flood
hazards, to the extent they are known, to determine whether a proposed building
site will be reasonably safe from flooding;
      (5)   Obtain and record the actual elevation in relation to the vertical
datum on the effective FIRM, or highest adjacent grade, of the lowest floor
level, including the basement, of all new construction or substantially
improved structures;
      (6)   Obtain and record the actual elevation, in relation to the vertical
datum on the effective FIRM to which any new or substantially improved
structures have been flood-proofed;
      (7)   When flood-proofing is used for a structure, the Floodplain
Administrator shall obtain certification of design criteria from a registered
professional engineer or architect;
      (8)   Where interpretation is needed of the exact location of boundaries
of the areas of special flood hazard including regulatory floodway (for
example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and
actual field conditions), the Floodplain Administrator shall make the
interpretation. Any person contesting the location of the boundary shall be
given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the interpretation as provided in this
chapter; and
      (9)   All records pertaining to the provisions of this chapter shall be
maintained in the office of the City Clerk/Treasurer or his or her designee and
shall be open for public inspection.
(Ord. 2013-3, passed 2-5-2013)
§ 154.26 PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Application for a floodplain development permit shall be made to the
Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by the Administrator or the
Administrator’s designee prior to starting development activities.
   (B)   Specifically, the following information is required.
      (1)   Application stage.
         (a)   Plans in duplicate drawn to scale with elevations of the project
area and the nature, location, dimensions of existing and proposed structures,
earthen fill placement, storage of materials or equipment and drainage
facilities;
         (b)   Elevation in relation to the flood protection elevation, or
highest adjacent grade, of the lowest floor level, including crawlspaces or
basement, of all proposed structures;
         (c)   Elevation to which any non-residential structure will be flood-
proofed;
         (d)   Design certification from a registered professional engineer or
architect that any proposed non-residential flood-proofed structure will meet
the flood-proofing criteria in §
154.45(B) of this chapter; and
         (e)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be
altered or relocated as a result of a proposed development.
      (2)   Construction stage.
         (a)   For all new construction and substantial improvements, the
permit holder shall provide to the Floodplain Administrator an as-built
certification of the floor elevation or flood-proofing level, using appropriate
FEMA elevation or flood-proofing certificate, immediately after the lowest
floor or flood-proofing is completed. When flood-proofing is utilized for non-
residential structures, the certification shall be prepared by or under the
direct supervision of a professional engineer or architect and certified by
same.
         (b)   Certificate deficiencies identified by the Floodplain
Administrator shall be corrected by the permit holder immediately and prior to
work proceeding. Failure to submit certification or failure to make the
corrections shall be cause for the Floodplain Administrator to issue a stop-
work order for the project.
      (3)   Technical review. If the community does not have the expertise to
evaluate the technical data that is part of the application, the community may
contract for an independent engineering review or require a review by FEMA
through the letter of map revision process. The applicant will pay the costs of
an independent technical review.
      (4)   Expiration of floodplain development permit. All floodplain
development permits shall be conditional upon the commencement of work within
180 days. A floodplain development permit shall expire 180 days after issuance
unless the permitted activity has been substantially begun and, thereafter, is
pursued to completion.
(Ord. 2013-3, passed 2-5-2013)
§ 154.27 VARIANCES.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   An application for a variance must be submitted to the City Clerk/
Treasurer on the form provided by the city and include at a minimum the same
information required for a development permit and an explanation for the basis
for the variance request.
      (2)   Upon receipt of a completed application for a variance, the
variance request will be set for public hearing at the next City Council
meeting in which time is available for the matter to be heard.
      (3)   Prior to the public hearing, notice of the hearing will be
published in the official newspaper of the city at least 15 days prior to the
hearing, in addition to the newspaper publication, written notice shall be
provided to all adjoining property owners.
      (4)   The burden to show that the variance is warranted and meets the
criteria set out herein is on the applicant.
   (B)   Criteria for variances.
      (1)   Generally, the only condition under which a variance from the
elevation standard may be issued is for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a small or irregularly shaped lot contiguous to
and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below the base
flood level. As the lot size increases, the technical justification required
for issuing the variance increases.
      (2)   Variances shall not be issued within a designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
      (3)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (4)   Variances may be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing by the applicant of good and sufficient cause; and
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public
or conflict with existing local laws and ordinances.
      (5)   Variances pertain to a physical piece of property; they are not
personal in nature and do not pertain to the structure, its inhabitants,
economic or financial circumstances. They primarily address small lots in
densely populated residential neighborhoods.
   (C)   Variance decision. The decision to either grant or deny a variance
shall be in writing and shall set forth the reasons for such approval and
denial. If the variance is granted, the property owner shall be put on notice
along with the written decision that the permitted building will have its
lowest floor below the flood protection elevation and that the cost of flood
insurance likely will be commensurate with the increased flood damage risk.
   (D)   Appeals. The City Council shall hear and decide appeals from the
interpretations of the Administrator.
      (1)   An appeal must be filed with the City Clerk/Treasurer within 14
days of the date of any permit denial or interpretation of the Administrator.
Failure to timely file an appeal shall be considered a failure to exhaust the
administrative remedies. The appeal must set out the interpretation of the
Administrator and a narrative setting forth the facts relied upon by the
appellant and the appellant’s claim regarding the error in the interpretation.
      (2)   Upon receipt of a completed appeal, the appeal will be scheduled
for the next available City Council meeting to be heard. The City Council shall
consider the following in ruling on an appeal:
         (a)   All technical evaluations, all relevant factors, standards
specified in other sections of this chapter, including:
            1.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
            2.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion
damage;
            3.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents
to flood damage and the effects of such damage on the individual landowner;
            4.   The importance of the services provided by the proposed
facility to the community;
            5.   The necessity of the facility to a waterfront location, where
applicable;
            6.   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use
which are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
            7.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and
anticipated development;
            8.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan
and floodplain management program for that area;
            9.   The safety of access to the property in times of flooding for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
            10.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
            11.   The cost of providing government services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
         (b)   The City Council decision on appeal shall be in writing and set
out the facts, technical information and the legal basis for the decision.
(Ord. 2013-3, passed 2-5-2013)
FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 154.40 SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
   (B)   All subdivision preliminary plats/development plans shall include the
mapped flood hazard zones from the effective FIRM.
   (C)   Base flood elevation data shall be generated and/or provided for
subdivision proposals and all other proposed development including manufactured
home parks and subdivisions, greater than 50 lots or five acres, whichever is
less.
   (D)   All subdivisions shall have public utilities and facilities such as
sewer, gas, electric and water systems located and constructed to minimize
flood damage.
   (E)   All subdivisions shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce
exposure to flood hazards.
(Ord. 2013-3, passed 2-5-2013)
§ 154.41 CONSTRUCTION.
   In all areas of special flood hazard, the following provisions are required.
   (A)   New construction and substantial improvements of an existing
structure, including a structure that has been substantially damaged, shall be
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure.
   (B)   New construction and substantial improvements of an existing
structure, including a structure that has been substantially damaged, shall be
constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
   (C)   New construction or substantial improvements of an existing structure,
including a structure that has been substantially damaged, shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
   (D)   All new construction or substantial improvements of an existing
structure, including a structure that has been substantially damaged, that
includes a fully enclosed area located below the lowest floor formed by the
foundation and other exterior walls shall be designed to be an unfinished or
flood-resistant enclosure. The enclosure shall be designed to equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the automatic entry
and exit of flood water. Designs for complying with this requirement must be
certified by a licensed professional engineer or architect or meet the
following minimum criteria:
      (1)   Provide a minimum of two openings with a total net area of not
less:
         (a)   Than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area
subject to flooding;
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above the higher of the exterior or interior grade or floor immediately below
the opening; and
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices; provided, they permit the automatic flow of flood water
in both directions without manual intervention.
      (2)   To comply with the “lowest floor” criteria of this chapter, the
unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure shall only be used for parking of
vehicles, limited storage of maintenance equipment used in connection with the
premises, or entry to the elevated area.
      (3)   The interior portion of such enclosed area shall not be partitioned
or finished into separate rooms;
      (4)   For crawlspace foundation types, construction must follow the
guidelines in FEMA TB 11-01, Crawlspace Construction for Structures Located in
Special Flood Hazard Areas: National Flood Insurance Program Interim Guidance,
specifically:
      (5)   (a)   Below grade crawlspaces are prohibited at sites where the
velocity of flood waters exceed five feet per second;
         (b)   Interior grade of the crawl space below the BFE must not be more
than two feet below the lowest adjacent exterior grade (LAG);
         (c)   Height of the below grade crawlspace, measured from the lowest
interior grade of the crawlspace to the bottom of the floor joist must not
exceed four feet at any point; and
         (d)   Contain an adequate drainage system that removes flood waters
from the interior area of the crawlspace.
   (E)   All heating and air conditioning equipment and components, all
electrical, ventilation, plumbing and other facilities shall be designed and/or
elevated to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the components
during flooding.
   (F)   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize
or to eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
   (G)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or to eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into flood waters.
   (H)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid functional impairment, or contamination from them, during flooding.
   (I)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvement to a structure
that is not compliant with the provisions of this chapter, shall be undertaken
only if the non-conformity is minimal in order to meet health and safety
standards.
(Ord. 2013-3, passed 2-5-2013)
§ 154.42 MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   In all areas of special flood hazard where the flood protection elevation is
established, these standards for manufactured homes and recreational vehicles
that are an allowed use under Chapter 155 of this code of ordinances shall
apply.
   (A)   Manufactured homes placed or substantially improved:
      (1)   On individual lots or parcels;
      (2)   In new or substantially improved manufactured home parks or
subdivisions; or
      (3)   In expansions to existing manufactured home parks or subdivisions,
or on a site in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision where a
manufactured home has incurred “substantial damage” as the result of a flood,
must have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to the flood
protection elevation.
   (B)   Manufactured homes placed or substantially improved in an existing
manufactured home park or subdivision may be elevated so that either:
      (1)   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is elevated to the flood
protection elevation or one foot above the level of the base flood elevation,
whichever is higher; or
      (2)   The manufactured home chassis is elevated and supported by
reinforced piers (or other foundation elements of at least an equivalent
strength) of no less that 36 inches above the highest adjacent grade.
   (C)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or
lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use
of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This standard shall be in
addition to, and consistent with, applicable state requirements.
   (D)   Manufactured homes placed on solid perimeter walls shall meet the
flood vent requirements in §
154.41(D) of this chapter.
(Ord. 2013-3, passed 2-5-2013)
§ 154.43 ACCESSORY STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Relief from the elevation or dry flood-proofing standards may be
granted for an accessory structure containing no more than 200 square feet.
   (B)   Such a structure must meet the following standards.
      (1)   It shall not be used for human habitation.
      (2)   It shall be constructed of flood-resistant materials.
      (3)   It shall be constructed and placed on the lot to offer the minimum
resistance to the flow of flood waters.
      (4)   It shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation.
      (5)   Services such as electrical and heating equipment shall be elevated
or flood-proofed to or above the flood protection elevation.
      (6)   It shall meet the opening requirements of §
154.41(D) of this chapter.
(Ord. 2013-3, passed 2-5-2013)
§ 154.44 RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   In all areas of special flood hazard, recreational vehicles must either:
   (A)   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
   (B)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use, on its wheels or jacking
system, attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities and
security devices and have no permanently attached structures or addition; or
   (C)   The recreational vehicle must meet all the requirements for “new
construction”, including the anchoring and elevation requirements.
(Ord. 2013-3, passed 2-5-2013)
§ 154.45 FLOODWAYS.
   The following provisions shall apply in a floodway.
   (A)   A project in the regulatory floodway must undergo an encroachment
review to determine its effect on flood flows. An encroachment analysis must
include:
      (1)   Determination and documentation that the filling, grading or
construction of a structure will not obstruct flood flows and will not cause an
increase in flood heights upstream or adjacent to the project site;
      (2)   Determination and documentation that grading, excavation, channel
improvements, bridge and culvert replacements that remove an obstruction, do
not cause increases in downstream flood flows;
      (3)   Certification and documentation by a licensed professional engineer
that the project will not result in arise in flood heights; and
      (4)   The Administrator may make the encroachment determination for minor
projects, such as projects that do not increase the natural grade (e.g., paving
a driveway parking lot at existing grade, open fences and small isolated
obstructions such as a mailbox or telephone pole).
   (B)   Upon demonstrating that there are no alternatives, the applicant may
propose an encroachment in the floodway that will cause an increase in the base
flood elevation in excess of the allowable level; provided that, the applicant
obtain a conditional letter of map revision from FEMA before the development
can be approved and permitted.
(Ord. 2013-3, passed 2-5-2013)
§ 154.46 ZONES WITH BASE FLOOD ELEVATIONS.
   In special flood hazard areas designated A1-30, AE, AH, A (with estimated
BFE), the following provisions are required.
   (A)   Where base flood elevation data are available, new construction or
substantial improvement of any residential structure or manufactured home shall
have the lowest floor, including basement, constructed at or above the
community’s flood protection elevation. If solid foundation perimeter walls are
used to elevate a structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded
movement of flood waters shall be provided in accordance with the construction
standards in §
154.41(D) of this chapter.
   (B)   New construction or the substantial improvement of any non-residential
structure located in Zones A1-30, AE or AH must be flood-proofed if the new
construction or improvement is not elevated. The structure and attendant
utility and sanitary facilities, must be designed to be water tight to the
flood protection elevation or to one foot above the base flood elevation,
whichever is higher, with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of
water, and structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic
and hydrodynamic loads and the effect of buoyancy. A licensed professional
engineer or architect must certify that the design and methods of construction
are in accordance with accepted standards of practice for meeting these
provisions, and shall provide certification to the Administrator.
   (C)   Where the floodway has not been determined, no new, substantial
improvements or other development (including fill) shall be permitted in Zones
A1-30 and AE on the effective FIRM, unless it is demonstrated that the
cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined with all other
existing and anticipated development, will not increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood more than one foot at any point within the
community. Applicants of proposed projects that increase the base flood
elevation more than one foot are required to obtain and submit to the
Floodplain Administrator, a conditional letter of map revision (CLOMR) pre-
construction.
   (D)   Post construction, the applicant must apply to FEMA for a letter of
map revision for changes to the flood hazard map proposed in the CLOMR.
   (E)   In AH Zones, drainage paths shall be provided to guide flood water
around and away from proposed and existing structures.
(Ord. 2013-3, passed 2-5-2013)
§ 154.47 ZONES WITHOUT BASE FLOOD ELEVATIONS AND/OR FLOODWAYS (A ZONES).
   These standards apply in special flood hazard areas where streams exist, but
no base flood elevation data have been provided (A Zones), or where base flood
data have been provided, but a floodway has not been delineated.
   (A)   When base flood elevation or floodway data have not been identified by
FEMA in a Flood Insurance Study and/or Flood Insurance Rate Maps, then the
Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review and reasonably utilize scientific
or historic base flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal,
state or other source, in order to administer this chapter. If data are not
available from any source, only then divisions (B) and (C) below shall apply.
Where the Floodplain Administrator has obtained base flood elevation data,
applicants of proposed projects that increase the base flood elevation more
than one foot shall obtain a conditional letter of map revision preconstruction
and a letter of map revision post construction.
   (B)   No encroachments, including structures or fill, shall be located
within an area equal to the width of the stream or 50 feet, whichever is
greater, measured from the ordinary high water mark, unless certification by a
licensed professional engineer documents that the encroachment will not result
in any increase in flood levels during the base flood.
   (C)   In special flood hazard areas without base flood elevation data, new
construction and substantial improvements of existing structures shall have the
lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including basement or crawlspace)
elevated no less than two feet above the highest adjacent grade at the building
site. Openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movement of flood waters
shall be provided in accordance with the construction standards in §§
154.41 and
154.42 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2013-3, passed 2-5-2013)
§ 154.48 ALTERATION OF WATERCOURSE.
   A watercourse is considered altered when any change occurs within its banks.
   (A)   The bank full flood carrying capacity of the altered or relocated
portion of the watercourse shall not be diminished. Prior to issuance of a
floodplain development permit, the applicant must submit a description of the
extent to which any watercourse will be altered or relocated as a result of the
proposed development and submit certification by a registered professional
engineer that the bank full flood- carrying capacity of the watercourse will
not be diminished.
   (B)   Adjacent communities, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and the State
Department of Water Resources Stream Channel Alteration program must be
notified prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse. Evidence of
notification must be submitted to the Floodplain Administrator and to the
Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   (C)   The applicant shall be responsible for providing the necessary
maintenance for the altered or relocated portion of the watercourse so that the
flood-carrying capacity will not be diminished.
   (D)   The applicant shall meet the requirements to submit technical data in
§
154.49(A) and (B) of this chapter when an alteration of a watercourse results
in the relocation or elimination of the special flood hazard area, including
the placement of culverts.
(Ord. 2013-3, passed 2-5-2013)
§ 154.49 REQUIREMENT TO SUBMIT NEW TECHNICAL DATA.
   (A)   For all development proposals that impact floodway delineations or
base flood elevations, the community shall ensure that technical data
reflecting such changes be submitted to FEMA within six months of the date such
information becomes available. These development proposals include:
      (1)   Floodway encroachments that increase or decrease base flood
elevations or alter floodway boundaries;
      (2)   Fill sites to be used for the placement of proposed structures
where the applicant desires to remove the site from the special flood hazard
area in accordance with §
154.40(C) of this chapter;
      (3)   Alteration of watercourses that result in a relocation or
elimination of the special flood hazard area, including the placement of
culverts; and
      (4)   Subdivision or large-scale development proposals requiring
establishment of base flood elevations according to §
154.40(C) of this chapter.
   (B)   It is the responsibility of the applicant to have technical data
prepared in a format required for a conditional letter of map revision or
letter of map revision and submitted to FEMA. Submittal and processing fees for
these map revisions shall be the responsibility of the applicant.
(Ord. 2013-3, passed 2-5-2013)
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended, converted
or altered unless in full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other
applicable regulations.
   (B)   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with
any of its requirements, including violation of condition sand safeguards
established in connection with grants of variance or special exceptions shall
constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to
comply with any of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined as
set forth in §
10.99 or imprisoned for not more than 180 days, or both. Each day the violation
continues shall be considered a separate offense. Nothing herein contained
shall prevent the city from taking such other lawful actions as is necessary to
prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 2013-3, passed 2-5-2013)
CHAPTER 155: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
155.001   Title
   
155.002   Zoning districts
   
155.003   Zoning district boundaries and zoning map; amendments
   
155.004   Definitions
   
155.005   Planning and Zoning Commission; applicability
Zones A and B - Residential
   
155.020   Applicability
   
155.021   Permitted uses
   
155.022   Building height
   
155.023   Yards; lot area
   
155.024   Manufactured home requirements
   
155.025   Boundaries
Zone C - Commercial-Mixed Use
   
155.040   Applicability; Business District
   
155.041   Permitted uses
   
155.042   Additional conditional uses; prohibited uses
   
155.043   Yards
   
155.044   Building height
   
155.045   Boundaries
Zone D - Industrial
   
155.060   Applicability
   
155.061   Permitted uses
   
155.062   Setback requirements
   
155.063   Building height
   
155.064   Manufactured and mobile homes
   
155.065   Boundaries
Zone E - Wellhead Protection Plan
   
155.080   Title
   
155.081   Purpose
   
155.082   Definitions
   
155.083   Wellhead Protection Overlay District
   
155.084   Permitted uses
   
155.085   Existing facilities
   
155.086   Restrictions
   
155.087   New wells
   
155.088   Administration generally
   
155.089   Violations; applicability
   
155.090   Boundaries
Municipal Airport
   
155.105   Title
   
155.106   Applicability
   
155.107   Definitions
   
155.108   Airport Zone; subzones
   
155.109   Height limitations
   
155.110   Use restrictions
   
155.111   Non-conforming uses
   
155.112   Variances
   
155.113   Enforcement
   
155.114   Conflicting regulations
   
155.115   Boundaries
Supplemental Regulations and Requirements
   
155.130   Zoning of streets and public ways
   
155.131   Unauthorized development or use prohibited; non-conformances
   
155.132   Height of structures and antennas
   
155.133   Yard area; calculation
   
155.134   Terraces
   
155.135   Manufactured homes
   
155.136   One dwelling per lot
   
155.137   Substandard lots
   
155.138   Access to public way required
   
155.139   Traffic/sight obstructions
   
155.140   Existing construction projects
   
155.141   Accessory buildings
   
155.142   Stands for sale of merchandise or produce prohibited
   
155.143   Maintenance of property; garbage cans, receptacles
   
155.144   Parking
   
155.145   Siding and roofing
   
155.146   Shipping containers
   
155.147   Conditional uses; conditional use permits
   
155.148   Development agreements
Manufactured/Mobile Home and Recreational Vehicle Courts and Parks
   
155.160   Definitions
   
155.161   Applicability; RV park permit required
   
155.162   Exception; existing courts/parks; variances
   
155.163   Improvements
   
155.164   Additional requirements; spacing, roads and the like
   
155.165   Unlawful acts; temporary occupancy permits
   
155.166   Enforcement; violations
Building Code
   
155.180   Title
   
155.181   Applicability
   
155.182   Code adoption
   
155.183   Fee schedule
   
155.184   Setbacks for public buildings
   
155.185   Variances
Variances
   
155.200   Definition
   
155.201   Authority to issue
   
155.202   Applications; fees
   
155.203   Hearing; decision; conditions; judicial review
   
155.204   Applicability/non-transferability
Administration and Enforcement
   
155.215   Violations
   
155.216   Enforcement generally
   
155.217   Additional remedies; amendment, termination or revocation
 
   
155.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Nezperce Zoning Ordinance”.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 7-25-2022)
§ 155.002 ZONING DISTRICTS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following zoning district
classifications shall apply to lands situated within the city, as further
provided in this chapter:
 
Zone A  East Residential Zone
Zone B  West Residential Zone
Zone C  Commercial and Mixed-Use Zone
Airport Airport
Zone D  Industrial Zone
Zone E  Wellhead Protection Zone
 
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 7-25-2022)
§ 155.003 ZONING DISTRICT BOUNDARIES AND ZONING MAP; AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Applicability. All lands within the city are hereby zoned and shall be
subject to the zoning district classification as designated and set forth
herein. All lands situated within any such designated zoning district shall be
subject to all provisions of this chapter made applicable in the designated
zoning district in which said lands are situated under this chapter. Any
amendments to any zoning district classifications, designations or perimeter
description of any designated zoning district as initially established under
this section shall be made in compliance with state law then in effect.
   (B)   Adoption of initial zoning map. Each zoning district designated
pursuant to §
155.002 of this chapter includes those lands within said zoning district as set
forth herein. The city shall maintain a zoning map accurately depicting the
designated zoning district classification and zoning district boundaries
applicable to all lands within the city, including identifying the perimeter
boundary description of each zoning district designated pursuant to this
chapter. The City Clerk/Treasurer shall maintain the current duly approved
zoning map at the City Hall and shall make the same available for public
inspection during normal business hours.
   (C)   Amendments. Any amendments to zoning district classifications, zoning
district boundaries or the zoning map shall be made in compliance with state
law then in effect.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 7-25-2022)
§ 155.004 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning. The word “structure”
shall include the word “building”, and the word “lot” shall include the word
“plot”.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING/ACCESSORY USE. Any accessory or subordinate building
situated on the same lot on which the main building is situated, the use of
which is ancillary or accessory to use of the main building. ACCESSORY USE
means any use occurring on a lot ancillary to or in conjunction with the
primary use of the lot or the main building situated thereon.
   ACREAGE. Any tract or parcel of land that has not been platted as part of
any plat.
   ALLEY. A street or way shown on the official plat of the city or its
additions and designated thereon as an alley.
   APARTMENT. A room or suite of rooms in a multiple-family structure that is
used, occupied, arranged, designated or intended to be used or occupied as a
separate dwelling unit.
   AUTOMOBILE/MOTOR VEHICLE. A motor vehicle of any kind or nature used or
designed for use to transport passengers or their belongings. The term MOTOR
VEHICLE shall mean any vehicle that is self-propelled.
   AUTOMOBILE REPAIR. General or specialized maintenance, repair, rebuilding or
reconditioning of motor vehicles of any kind or nature, including, but not
limited to, general maintenance, collision service, body, frame or fender
straightening and repair; and painting of motor vehicles.
   AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION. An establishment where fuels and lubricants, or
accessories for used or intended to be used in motor vehicles are sold at
retail; however, where the sale of said goods is only incidental to the
provision of services, the establishment shall be classified as a “public
garage”.
   AUTO WRECKING OR JUNK YARD.
      (1)   Any place where two or more motor vehicles not in running
condition, or parts thereof, are stored in the open and are not being restored
to operation; or
      (2)   Any land building or structure used for wrecking or storing of such
motor vehicles or parts thereof and including any farm machinery or parts
thereof, stored in the open and not being restored to operating condition, and
including the commercial salvaging and scavenging of any other goods, articles
or merchandise.
   BASEMENT. Any part or story any building partly or wholly below adjoining
ground level grade that is used, designed or intended to be used for occupancy
or storage. Where more than one-half of its height is above the average
adjoining ground level grade, a BASEMENT shall be counted as a story for
purpose of height measurement.
   BILLBOARD. Any structure or portion thereof used, designed or intended to be
for placement of signs or advertisement for outdoor display. This definition
does not include any bulletin boards used to display official court or public
office notices, or a sign advertising the sale or lease of the premises on
which the sign is located.
   BED AND BREAKFAST. An owner-occupied dwelling or a non-owner-occupied
guesthouse that is located on the same lot as the owner-occupied dwelling,
used, designed or intended to be used for lodging of temporary guests or
tenants for remuneration with or without provision of meals, with no more than
three guestrooms.
   BOARDING HOUSE. A owner-occupied dwelling, other than a bed and breakfast,
hotel or motel, used, designed or intended to be used for lodging and provision
of meals to temporary guests or tenants for remuneration, with more than three
guest rooms.
   BUILDING. Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls, and
designed or intended for the shelter, support, enclosure or protection of
persons, animals or chattels.
   BUILDING AREA. A lot is the space remaining after adherence to the minimum
open space or setbacks required under this chapter.
   BUILDING HEIGHT.
      (1)   The vertical distance measured from the sidewalk level or its
equivalent established grade opposite the middle of the front of the building
to:
         (a)   The highest point of the roof in the case of a flat roof;
         (b)   To the deck line of a mansard roof; or
         (c)   To mean height level between eaves and ridge of a gable, hip or
gambrel roof.
      (2)   Provided that, where buildings are set back from the street line,
the HEIGHT OF THE BUILDING may be measured from the average elevation of the
finished lot grade at the front of the building.
   BUILDING LINE. The same as a FRONT YARD SETBACK LINE.
   CARPORT. A structure attached or made a part of the main structure which is
open to the weather on at least two sides, intended for the use of sheltering
one or more motor vehicles.
   CITY. The City of Nezperce, Lewis County, Idaho.
   CONDITIONAL USE. Any use of any land, building or structure prohibited in
the zoning district wherein said land, building or structure is situated under
this chapter that may be or has been authorized by the city pursuant to a duly
issued conditional use permit as provided in this chapter and as otherwise
permitted by law.
   CONTAINER HOME. A dwelling constructed with any cargo container, shipping
container or semi-trailer, or any portion thereof, incorporated into its
structure.
   COURT. An open, unoccupied space, other than a yard, on the same lot with a
building and bounded on two or more sides by such building.
   CURB GRADE. The established elevation of the curb measured at the center of
the front of a building. Where no curb has been established, the city shall
establish such curb level or its equivalent for the purpose of this chapter.
   DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT. A written commitment of an owner or developer made to
the city concerning the use or development of the subject parcel pursuant to §§
155.005,
155.130 through
155.148,
155.200 through
155.204 and
155.215 through
155.217 of this chapter.
   DISTRICT. A designated area within the city limits for which the regulations
and provisions governing the use of land, buildings or structures are uniform
for each class of use permitted therein.
   DWELLING. A building or structure, or any portion thereof, but not an
automobile house trailer, used, designed or intended to be used for residential
occupancy, including one-family and multiple dwellings, but not including
hotels, boarding and lodging housed.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. Includes that definition provided in Idaho Code §
67-6531. For the purposes of this chapter, the classification SINGLE-FAMILY
DWELLING shall include any home in which eight or fewer unrelated mentally and/
or physically handicapped or elderly persons reside; and which is supervised.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE. A building or portion thereof designed for occupancy by
three or more families living independently of each other.
      (1)   Resident staff, if employed, need not be related to each other or
to any of the mentally and/or physically handicapped or elderly persons
residing in the home.
      (2)   No more than two of such staff shall resided in the dwelling at any
one time.
   DWELLING ROW. A row of three to six attached one-family dwellings, not more
than two and one-half stories in height, nor more than two rooms deep.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A building or portion thereof designed for occupancy
by two families living independently of each other.
   DWELLING UNIT. One or more rooms in a dwelling designed primarily for
occupancy by one family unit for residential purposes.
   ESTABLISHED GRADE. The sidewalk line grade adjoining the front lot line of
building or structure.
   FAMILY. One or more persons occupying a dwelling or dwelling unit and living
as a single household unit.
   FRONTAGE. All real property on one side of a street between two intersecting
streets or natural barriers.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. An accessory building for the storage of not more than
three motor vehicles, of which not more than one shall be commercial vehicle of
not more than two-ton capacity.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC. A building, other than a private garage, used for the care,
repair or equipment of automobiles, or for vehicles parked or stored for
remuneration, hire or sale.
   GUEST HOUSE. A building or structure, detached or semi-detached from than
the main building on the same lot, used, designed or intended to be used as a
dwelling for temporary guests.
   HOME OCCUPATION. Any use of any dwelling for commercial purposes conducted
entirely within the dwelling and carried on by the inhabitants thereof, which
use is incidental and ancillary to the use of the dwelling for residential
purposes; and, provided that, no goods are sold or offered for sale on the
premises, except such as may be produced on the premises by the owner of the
premises or members of the owner’s family.
   HOSPITAL or SANITARIUM. A building or structure used, designed or intended
to be used for providing ill or injured persons medical, mental or surgical
care, treatment or allied services.
   HOTEL. A building, other than a bed and breakfast, boarding house or motel,
with a common entrance or entrances, used, designed or intended to be used for
the lodging of transient or long-term stay guests for remuneration with or
without provision of meals.
   INSTITUTION. A building occupied non-profit business or enterprise for
public or semi-public use.
   KENNEL. Any premises, other than a veterinary office, animal shelter,
grooming facility or pet shop, on which four or more dogs are maintained,
harbored, possessed, boarded, bred or cared for.
   LABORATORY. A place devoted to experimental study such as testing or
analyzing of substances. Manufacturing of a product or products is not
permitted within this definition.
   LOADING SPACE. An off-street space or area on the same lot ancillary to a
building or contiguous group of buildings used, designed or intended to be used
for the temporary parking of a vehicle for loading or unloading merchandise or
materials for commercial purposes, and which abuts upon a street, alley or
other lawful means of motor vehicle access.
   LOT.
      (1)   A parcel or plot of land held under fee ownership by one or more
owners, inclusive of any open spaces required by this chapter.
      (2)   Without limitation of the foregoing general definition, the term
LOT shall also be deemed to include, but is not limited to, any parcel or plot
of land:
         (a)   Platted and identified as a separate lot or parcel on any duly
recorded townsite or subdivision plat; or
         (b)   Assessed as a unique tax parcel by the County Assessor for real
property tax purposes.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot situated at the intersection of two or more streets.
   LOT DEPTH. The horizontal distance between the front and the rear lot lines.
   LOT FRONTAGE. The front of a lot shall be that boundary of a lot along a
public street and, for a corner lot, the front shall be the shorter of the lot
boundaries along a street.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot.
   LOT, REVERSED CORNER. A corner lot, the rear of which abuts upon the side of
another lot whether across an alley or not.
   LOT WIDTH. The horizontal distance between the side lot lines.
   MANUFACTURED HOME/MOBILE HOME. A structure, constructed after 6-15-1976, in
accordance with the HUD manufactured home construction and safety standards,
and is transportable in one or more sections, which, in the traveling mode, is
eight body feet or more in width or is 40 body feet or more in length, or when
erected on site, is 320 or more square feet, and which is built on a permanent
chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent
foundation when connected to the required utilities, and includes the plumbing,
heating, air conditioning and electrical systems contained therein; except
that, such term shall include any structure which meets all the requirements of
this definition, except the size requirements and with respect to which the
manufacturer voluntarily files a certification required by the Secretary of
Housing and Urban Development and complies with the standards established under
42 U.S.C. §§ 5401 et seq. MOBILE HOME means a factory-assembled structure or
structures generally constructed prior to 6-15-1976, and equipped with the
necessary service connections and made so as to be readily movable as a unit or
units on their own running gear and designed to be used as a dwelling unit or
units with or without a permanent foundation.
   MODULAR BUILDING/HOME. Any building or building component, other than a
manufactured or mobile home, that is of closed construction and is either
entirely or substantially prefabricated or assembled at a place other than the
building site. MODULAR HOME means any modular building used, designed or
intended to be used as a dwelling. Commercial coach buildings shall not be used
for dwelling purposes.
   MOTEL. A building, other than a bed and breakfast, boarding house or motel,
with a separate exterior entrance for each guest unit, used, designed or
intended to be used for the lodging of transient or long-term stay guests for
remuneration with or without provision of meals.
   MOTOR HOME. A motor vehicle which is designed, constructed and equipped as a
dwelling place, living abode or sleeping place (either permanently or
temporarily) and is equipped for use as a conveyance on streets and highways.
   NON-CONFORMING USE/LOT/STRUCTURE. A use, lot or structure, as applicable,
that was legally established prior to enactment of this chapter, but that is
not in compliance with this chapter due to enactment of this chapter,
subsequent ordinance amendment, annexation, change of zoning, eminent domain or
similar governmental action.
   NURSING HOME or REST HOME. A public or private hospital or institution,
other than a hospital used, designed or intended to be used primarily for
providing residential accommodations to the care of the aged, ill or infirm.
   PARKING AREA, PRIVATE. An open area for the parking of privately-owned motor
vehicles not open for public use.
   PARKING AREA, PUBLIC. An open area, other than street, alley or public way,
used, designed or intended to be used for the temporary parking of two or more
motor vehicles and is available for public use, whether or not compensation for
parking use is charged by the owner.
   PARKING SPACE. An area, enclosed or unenclosed, which has adequate access to
a public street or alley, sufficient in size to store one automobile.
   PLAT. Any duly recorded subdivision, village or townsite plat, including,
but not limited to, any revisions or amendments thereto.
   PORCH. A roofed entrance to a building, projecting out from the wall or
walls of the main structure and commonly open in part to the weather.
   RECREATION AREA. Areas of active play or recreation, such as parks,
playgrounds, sports fields, golf courses, school yards, picnic grounds or other
areas where turf provides a playing surface or serves other recreational
purposes.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A motor home, travel trailer, fifth-wheel trailer,
park model recreational vehicle, truck camper or folding camping trailer, with
or without motive power, designed for recreational or emergency occupancy. It
does not include pick-up hoods, shells or canopies designed, created or
modified for occupational usage. School buses or van-type vehicles which are
converted to recreational use are defined as RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   SIGNS, OUTDOOR ADVERTISING. Billboard of any type or material, installed any
place for outdoor advertising purposes.
   STORY. The portion of a building included between such floor and the ceiling
next above.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS. Any change which would prolong the life of the
supporting members of a building or structure, such as a bearing walls,
columns, beams or girders.
   STRUCTURE. Any thing constructed or erected, either on the ground or on
something having location on or above the ground. The term STRUCTURE includes a
building and accessory building.
   TEMPORARY GARAGE. A temporary garage is also known as a portable outdoor
building or a portable garage designed to provide shelter for various types of
vehicles or chattels.
   TERRACE, OPEN. A level and rather narrow plane or platform which, for
purposes of this chapter, is located adjacent to one or more faces of the main
structure.
   TINY HOUSE. A dwelling that is 400 square feet or less in floor area,
excluding lofts.
   TRAILER HOUSE/HOME. A vehicular unit, mounted on wheels designed to provide
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or emergency use
and of such size or weight as not to require special highway movement permits
when towed by a motorized vehicle.
   USE. The purpose for which land or a building is intended, designed,
arranged or maintained or for which it is then actually being used.
   YARD. An open space unoccupied and unobstructed from the ground upward on
the same lot with a main building, except as otherwise provided in this
chapter.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard extended across the full width of the lot and situated
between the front line of the lot and the nearest line of the principal
building.
   YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the full width of the lot and situated
between the rear line of the lot and the nearest line of the principal
building.
   YARD, SIDE. The part of the yard situated between the main building and a
side lot line, and extending from the required front yard (or from the front
lot line, if there is no required front yard) to the required rear yard.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 7-25-2022)
§ 155.005 PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION; APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   “Planning and Zoning Commission” and “Commission”, as used in this
chapter, means the duly formed and appointed Planning and Zoning Commission of
the city then existing consistent with Idaho Code Title 67, Chapter 65, as
amended. In the event the city has not duly formed or appointed a separate
Planning and Zoning Commission then existing, the City Council shall be and
shall have and exercise all powers, authorities, duties and discretion of the
Planning and Zoning Commission as provided under this chapter, Idaho Code Title
67, Chapter 65, as amended, and as otherwise provided by law.
   (B)   Unless otherwise provided in this code of ordinances, the provisions
of this chapter are general provisions which shall apply to all chapters under
this chapter.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 7-25-2022)
ZONES A AND B - RESIDENTIAL
§ 155.020 APPLICABILITY.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to all lands situated within
Zone A or Zone B, subject to all other applicable provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 7-25-2022)
§ 155.021 PERMITTED USES.
   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, permitted uses in Zones A and
B are:
   (A)   Accessory buildings;
   (B)   Apartment houses;
   (C)   Boarding houses and bed and breakfast;
   (D)   Manufactured home courts or parks subject to the provisions of this
chapter;
   (E)   Condition uses authorized under a duly issued conditional use permit;
   (F)   Dwellings;
   (G)   Home occupation;
   (H)   Nursing or rest homes;
   (I)   Temporary buildings, and uses for construction purposes for a period
not to exceed one year;
   (J)   Truck gardening and other horticultural uses, where no building is
involved and not operated for profit; and
   (K)   Use customarily incident to any of the above uses.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 7-25-2022)
§ 155.022 BUILDING HEIGHT.
   No building or structure, nor the enlargement of any building or structure,
within Zone A or Zone B shall be hereafter erected or maintained to exceed two
and one-half stories, nor shall it exceed 35 feet in height.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 7-25-2022) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.023 YARDS; LOT AREAS.
   No building or structure, nor the enlargement of any building or structure,
shall be hereafter erected or maintained in Zone A or Zone B unless the
following described yards and lot areas are provided and maintained in
connection with such building, structure or enlargement.
   (A)   Front yard. Each lot upon which a dwelling is constructed shall have a
front yard of not less than 20 feet, measuring from the back of the right-of-
way, plus the five-foot setback. Where lots comprising 40% or more of the
frontage between two intersecting streets are developed with buildings have
front yards with a variation of not more than 20 feet in depth, that average of
such front yards shall establish the minimum front yard depth for the entire
frontage. In no case shall a front yard of more than 50 feet be required.
   (B)   Side yard. On interior lots, there shall be a side yard on each side
of a main building of not less than five feet. Apartment houses, wherever
erected or established as such, shall have a side yard of not less than one-
fourth the height of the building to the eaves or top of coping.
      (1)   On corner lots, the side yard requirements shall be the same as for
interior lots; except that. there shall be maintained on a side yard of not
less than ten feet on the side adjacent to the street which intersects the
street upon which the building or structure maintains frontage.
      (2)   On a reversed corner lot, there shall be maintained a setback from
the side street of not less than 50% of the front yard required on the lots in
the rear of such corner lots, but such setback need not exceed 20 feet. No
accessory building on a reversed corner lot shall project beyond the front yard
required on the adjacent lot to the rear, nor be located nearer than five feet
to the side of an adjacent lot.
   (C)   Accessory buildings. Accessory buildings shall not encroach upon the
front yard. They may encroach upon the side yards; provided, no buildings are
closer to the lot lines than five feet; provided further that, on a corner lot,
accessory buildings shall not encroach upon the front or side yards adjacent to
the abutting streets.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 7-25-2022) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.024 MANUFACTURED HOME REQUIREMENTS.
   Manufactured homes, as defined in §
155.004 of this chapter, shall be permitted within Zones A and B, subject to
all applicable provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 7-25-2022)
§ 155.025 BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   Zone A: East Residential Zone. Those certain lands situated within the
following described portions of the city: commencing at the point of
intersection of the northern boundary of 1st Avenue and the centerline of Cedar
Street; thence running along the northern boundary of 1st Avenue in an easterly
direction to its point of intersection of the northern boundary of 1st Avenue
and the eastern boundary of Ash Street, said point of intersection being the
northeast corner of the city limits; thence running in a southerly direction
along the eastern boundary of Ash Street to its point of intersection with the
southeast corner of the city limits; thence running in a westerly direction
along the southern boundary line of that portion of Lots 12 through 17 of
Ramey’s Addition to the city situated within the city limits to its point of
intersection with the centerline of Elm Street; thence running in a northerly
direction to its point of intersection along the northern boundary of Nezperce
Lots 7 and 8, Block 46; thence running in a westerly direction along the
northern boundary of Nezperce Lots 7 and 8, Block 46, and Nezperce Lots 5 and
6, Block 47, Scale House to its point of intersection at the centerline of the
alley between Oak Street and Maple Street; thence running in a southerly
direction along the centerline of the alley between Oak Street and Maple Street
to its point of intersection with the northern boundary of Nezperce S 15-foot
Lot 7, Block 47; thence running in a westerly direction along the northern
boundary of Nezperce S 15-foot Lot 7, Block 47, to its point of intersection
with the centerline of Oak Street; thence running in a northerly direction
along the centerline of Oak Street to its point of intersection with the
centerline of 7th Avenue; thence running in an easterly direction along the
centerline of 7th Avenue to its point of intersection with the centerline of
Maple Street; thence running in a northerly direction along the centerline of
Maple Street to its point of intersection with the centerline of 4th Avenue;
thence running in an easterly direction along the centerline of 4th Avenue to
its point of intersection with the centerline of the first alley west of Cedar
Street to its point of intersection with the centerline of 2nd Avenue; thence
running in an easterly direction along the centerline of 2nd Avenue to its
point of intersection with the centerline of Cedar Street; thence running in a
southerly direction along the centerline of Cedar Street to its point of
intersection with the southern boundary of Nezperce Lots 11 and 12, Block 13;
thence running along the southern boundary of Nezperce Lots 11 and 12, Block
13, in an easterly direction to its point of intersection with the centerline
of the alley located between Beech Street and Cedar Street; thence running in a
northerly direction along the centerline of the alley located between Beech
Street and Cedar Street to its point of intersection with the centerline of 2nd
Avenue; thence running in a westerly direction along the centerline of 2nd
Avenue to its point of intersection with the centerline of Cedar Street; thence
running in a northerly direction along the centerline of Cedar Street to its
point of intersection with the northern boundary of 1st Avenue and the
centerline of Cedar Street; subject to the Well 4 Wellhead Protection Overlay
Zone; and commencing at the northwest corner of the intersection of the western
boundary of Mowry’s Addition to the city situated within the city limits and
the centerline of 10th Avenue; thence running along the centerline of 10th
Avenue in an easterly direction to its point of intersection with the eastern
boundary of the first alley west of Maple Street, said boundary being the
eastern boundary of city limits at Mowry’s Addition; thence running in a
southerly direction along the eastern boundary of the first alley east of Maple
Street to its point of intersection with the southern boundary of Mowry’s
Addition, said point of intersection being the southeast corner of city limits
at Mowry’s Addition; thence running in a westerly direction along the southern
boundary of Mowry’s Addition, said boundary being the southern boundary of city
limits at Mowry’s Addition to its point of intersection with the western
boundary of Mowry’s Addition, said point of intersection being the southwest
corner of city limits at Mowry’s Addition; thence running in a northerly
direction along the western boundary of city limits at Mowry’s Addition to its
point of intersection at the centerline of 10th Avenue.
   (B)   Zone B: West Residential Zone. Those certain lands situated within the
following described portions of the city: commencing at the point of
intersection of the western boundary of city limits and its point of
intersection with the southern boundary of Johnson’s Addition to the city
situated within the city limits Tax #D-104 (Lots 7 through 10 and S one-fourth
Lot 11, Block 3); thence running in an easterly direction along the southern
boundary of Johnson’s Addition Tax #D-104 (Lots 7 through 10 and S one-fourth
Lot H, Block 3) to its point of intersection with the southwest corner of
Johnson’s Addition Lots 4 through 6; thence running in a northerly direction
along the eastern boundaries of Tax #D-104 (Lots 7 through 10 and S one-fourth
Lot 11, Block 3) and Tax #D-103 (N three-fourths of Lot 11 and all of Lot 12
and vacated alley adjacent to Lots 1, 2 and 3, Block 3) to its point of
intersection with city limits along the northern boundary of the Johnson
Addition; thence running in an easterly direction to its point of intersection
with the centerline of Pine Street at State Highway 62; thence running in a
southerly direction along the centerline of Pine Street to its point of
intersection with the centerline of 4th Avenue; thence running in a westerly
direction along the centerline of 4th Avenue to its point of intersection with
the centerline of Walnut Street; thence running along the centerline of Walnut
Street in a southerly direction to its point of intersection with the
centerline of 5th Avenue; thence running along the centerline of 5th Avenue in
an easterly direction to its point of intersection with the centerline of Pine
Street; thence running in a southerly direction along the centerline of Pine
Street to its point of intersection with the centerline of 7th Avenue; thence
running along the centerline of 7th Avenue in an easterly direction to its
point of intersection with the centerline of Oak Street; thence running in a
southerly direction along the centerline of Oak Street to its point of
intersection with the southern boundary of 8th Avenue at State Highway 162;
thence running in a westerly direction along the southern boundary of 8th
Avenue to its point of intersection with the western boundary of city limits,
said point of intersection being the northwest corner of city limits at
Johnson’s Addition; thence running in a northerly direction along the western
boundary of city limits to its point of intersection with the southern boundary
of Johnson’s Addition Tax #D-104 (Lots 7 through 10 and S one-fourth Lot 11,
Block 3); subject to the Well 1 Wellhead Protection Overlay Zone.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 7-25-2022)
ZONE C - COMMERCIAL-MIXED USE
§ 155.040 APPLICABILITY; BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   Applicability. The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to all
lands within Zone C, subject to all other applicable provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   Business District. Within the Zone C, there shall be a corridor of
property known as the “Business District”. The BUSINESS DISTRICT is hereby
defined as being and including all lands abutting each side of Oak Street from
(north to south) 3rd Avenue to 7th Avenue and (east to west) from Maple to Pine
Street.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 7-25-2022)
§ 155.041 PERMITTED USES.
   Unless otherwise provided in this chapter, the following uses are permitted
in Zone C:
   (A)   Any use permitted in Zone A or Zone B, with the exception that no
livestock (including, but not limited to, horses, beef, sheep or goats), except
chickens shall be permitted in Zone C; and
   (B)   The following additional uses are permitted in Zone C:
      (1)   Agricultural implement sales and service;
      (2)   Air conditioning and heating sales and service;
      (3)   Apartments;
      (4)   Auction rooms;
      (5)   Auditoriums;
      (6)   Auto painting, upholstery repairing, reconditioning and body and
fender work when done within the confines of a structure;
      (7)   Automobile and truck sales and service shops;
      (8)   Automobile service station;
      (9)   Bakeries, when including retail sales;
      (10)   Banks, credit unions and other financial institutions;
      (11)   Barbershops and beauty shops;
      (12)   Battery and tire service stations;
      (13)   Beverage distributors, but not including bottling plants;
      (14)   Book or stationery stores;
      (15)   Bookbinding;
      (16)   Business, music, dance or commercial schools;
      (17)   Catering establishments;
      (18)   Conditional uses authorized under any duly issued conditional use
permit;
      (19)   Departments, furniture and home appliance stores;
      (20)   Drugstores;
      (21)   Dry cleaners employing facilities for not more than 1,000 pounds
of dry goods per day and using a dry cleaning solvent that has a flashpoint no
lower than 140°F and stored in a tank of no more than 500-gallon capacity;
provided that, a solvent having a flashpoint lower than 140°F may be used if
there is no more than one gallon such solvent on the premises at any one time;
      (22)   Electrical appliance and repair shops;
      (23)   Employment agencies;
      (24)   Expressing, baggage and transfer delivery stores;
      (25)   Florist shops and greenhouses when including retail stores;
      (26)   Frozen food lockers;
      (27)   Garages, public for storage of private passenger automobiles, RVs,
but not including repair service;
      (28)   Grocery, fruit or vegetable stores;
      (29)   Hardware stores;
      (30)   Hospitals, sanitariums and medical dental, therapy and counseling
offices;
      (31)   Hotels;
      (32)   Ice manufacturing;
      (33)   Laboratories;
      (34)   Launderettes and laundromats;
      (35)   Laundries employing facilities for not more than 1,000 pounds of
dry goods per day;
      (36)   Lumber and retail and wholesale yards;
      (37)   Manufacturing or processing which is clearly incidental to retail
use is permitted. Such manufacturing or processing is limited to that which
employs not more than ten persons in the manufacturing or processing;
      (38)   Meat market or poultry stores, if no slaughter or stripping is
involved;
      (39)   Motels;
      (40)   Offices;
      (41)   Painting and decorating shops;
      (42)   Parking areas;
      (43)   Pet shops or animal hospitals when conducted wholly within
enclosed buildings;
      (44)   Photographer’s or artist’s studios;
      (45)   Plumbing, electrical, heating and roofing supply and workshops;
      (46)   Printing, publishing and issuing of newspapers, periodicals, books
and other reading matter;
      (47)   Printing shops;
      (48)   Professional services, including, but not limited to, legal,
accounting, engineering, architectural, investment and financial, insurance and
real estate services;
      (49)   Radio and television sales services;
      (50)   Recreation places;
      (51)   Restaurants;
      (52)   Retail stores and services, but expressly excluding those uses
listed in Industrial D Zone;
      (53)   Schools, public and private;
      (54)   Shoe repair shops;
      (55)   Signs, outdoor advertising;
      (56)   Storage of household goods;
      (57)   Tailor and dressmaking shops;
      (58)   Taverns, billiard and pool rooms or retail sale of alcoholic
liquors, subject to the regulations of other provisions of this code of
ordinances;
      (59)   Taxi service stations;
      (60)   Telephone exchange buildings;
      (61)   Temporary buildings incidental only to construction of a permitted
use;
      (62)   Theaters, indoor (not including outdoor theaters);
      (63)   Trailer sales when conducted within buildings;
      (64)   Undertaking establishments;
      (65)   Veterinary clinics and animal hospitals;
      (66)   Wholesale establishments, excluding a building, the principal use
of which is for a storage warehouse; and
      (67)   Use customarily incidental to any one of the above uses and
accessory buildings and parking areas, when located on the same lot.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 7-25-2022)
§ 155.042 ADDITIONAL CONDITIONAL USES; PROHIBITED USES.
   (A)   Additional conditional uses. In addition to any other conditional use
that may be permitted by the city in Zone C as provided in this chapter, the
City Council may authorize automobile, truck agricultural implement and trailer
sales lots in Zone C.
   (B)   Prohibited uses. Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter,
the following uses shall be prohibited in Zone C unless otherwise authorized by
the City Council as provided in this chapter:
      (1)   Livestock except chickens; and
      (2)   Manufactured/mobile home courts or parks, or recreational vehicle
courts or parks, and any individually located mobile home either single-wide or
double-wide, or any single-wide manufactured homes, unless authorized by duly
issued conditional use permit or temporary occupancy permit pursuant to this
chapter.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 7-25-2022)
§ 155.043 YARDS.
   No front or side yards shall be required; except that, when a building or
group of buildings abuts upon a residential district, a yard shall be provided
on the side of the lot abutting the residential district, such yard having a
width of not less than five feet.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 7-25-2022)
§ 155.044 BUILDING HEIGHT.
   No building or structure, nor the enlargement of any building or structure,
shall exceed 40 feet in height.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 7-25-2022) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.045 BOUNDARIES.
   Those certain lands situated within the following described portions of the
city: commencing at the northwest corner of city limits at State Highway 62;
thence running in a easterly direction along the northern boundary of city
limits to its point of intersection between Tax #D-107 and Tax #D-98; thence
running in a southeasterly direction between the boundary of parcel tax #D-107
and parcel tax #D-98 to its point of intersection with the northern boundary of
Nezperce Lots 1 through 5, Block 5; thence running in a easterly direction
along the northern boundary of Nezperce Lots 1 through 5, Block 5, to its point
of intersection with the centerline of Maple Street; thence running in a
southerly direction along the centerline of Maple Street to its point of
intersection with the centerline of 3rd Avenue; thence running in an easterly
direction along the centerline of 3rd Avenue to its point of intersection with
the centerline of the first alley located east of Maple Street; thence running
in a southerly direction along the centerline of the first alley located east
of Maple Street to its point of intersection with the centerline of 4th Avenue;
thence running in a westerly direction along the centerline of 4th Avenue to
its point of intersection with the centerline of Maple Street; thence running
in a southerly direction along the centerline of Maple Street to its point of
intersection with the centerline of 7th Avenue; thence running in a westerly
direction along the centerline of 7th Avenue to its point of intersection with
the centerline of Pine Street; thence running in a northerly direction along
the centerline of Pine Street to its point of intersection with the centerline
of 5th Avenue; thence running in a westerly direction along the centerline of
5th Avenue to its point of intersection with the centerline of Walnut Street;
thence running in a northerly direction along the centerline of Walnut Street
to its point of intersection with the centerline of 4th Avenue; thence running
in a easterly direction along the centerline of 4th Avenue to its point of
intersection with the centerline of Pine Street; thence running in a northerly
direction along the centerline of Pine Street to its point of intersection with
city limits; thence running in a northwesterly direction along city limits near
State Highway 62; and commencing at the point of intersection of the centerline
of the unnamed street located between Maple Street and Cedar Street and city
limits; thence running in an easterly direction along the northern boundary of
city limits near 1st Avenue to its point of intersection with the centerline of
Cedar Street; thence running in a southerly direction along the centerline of
Cedar Street to its point of intersection with the centerline of 2nd Avenue;
thence running in a westerly direction along the centerline of 2nd Avenue to
its point of intersection with the centerline of the first alley located west
of Cedar Street; thence running in a southerly direction along the centerline
of the first alley located west of Cedar Street to its point of intersection
with the centerline of 4th Avenue; thence running in a westerly direction along
the centerline of 4th Avenue to its point of intersection with the centerline
of the unnamed street located between Maple Street and Cedar Street; thence
running in a northerly direction along the centerline of the unnamed street
located between Maple Street and Cedar Street to its point of intersection with
the northern boundary of city limits near 1st Avenue; and commencing at the
point of intersection at the centerline of 2nd Avenue and the centerline of
Cedar Street; thence running in an easterly direction along the centerline of
2nd Avenue to its point of intersection with the centerline of the alley
located between Cedar Street and Beech Street; thence running in a southerly
direction along the centerline of the alley located between Cedar Street and
Beech Street to its point of intersection with the southern boundary of Lots 11
and 12, Block 13; thence running in a westerly direction along the southern
boundary of Lots 11 and 12, Block 13, to its point of intersection with the
centerline of Cedar Street; thence running in a northerly direction along the
centerline of Cedar Street to its point of intersection with the centerline of
2nd Avenue.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 7-25-2022)
ZONE D - INDUSTRIAL
§ 155.060 APPLICABILITY.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to all lands situated within
Zone D, subject to all other applicable provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 7-25-2022)
§ 155.061 PERMITTED USES.
   Unless otherwise provided in this chapter, the following uses are permitted
in Zone D:
   (A)   Any use permitted in Zone A, Zone B or Zone C; and
   (B)   The following additional uses are permitted in Zone D:
      (1)   Agricultural uses, including, but not limited to, farming;
      (2)   Artificial limb manufacturing;
      (3)   Blacksmith shops;
      (4)   Beverage bottling and distributing stations;
      (5)   Box manufacturing;
      (6)   Building equipment, sand and gravel yards and yards for
constructing equipment, maintenance or operating equipment of public agencies
or public utilities, or materials or equipment of similar nature;
      (7)   Carpet and rug cleaners;
      (8)   Carting, express hauling or storage yards;
      (9)   Conditional uses authorized under any duly-issued conditional use
permit;
      (10)   Cement block manufacture, when done wholly within a building;
      (11)   Electrical appliance and electronic instrument and assembly;
      (12)   Furniture manufacturing and upholstering;
      (13)   Grain elevators and seed processing plants;
      (14)   Greenhouses, wholesale growers only;
      (15)   Heating and sheet meal fabrications when not operated as part of a
retail plumbing and heating shop;
      (16)   Laboratories for scientific experiments;
      (17)   Machine shops and metal product manufacturing;
      (18)   Plastic products manufacturing, but not including the processing
of the raw materials;
      (19)   Processing and sale of feed grains;
      (20)   Public utility electric substations and distribution centers, gas
regulation centers and underground gas holder stations;
      (21)   Sawmills and planer mills;
      (22)   Sport shooting ranges as may otherwise be permitted by law;
      (23)   Storage and warehouses;
      (24)   Storage of flammable liquids, fats or oil in tanks, each of 50,000
gallons or less capacity, but only after the location and protective measures
have been approved by local governing officials;
      (25)   Tool and dye shops;
      (26)   Truck or bus storage yards, including truck terminals;
      (27)   The manufacture, compounding, assembling or treatment of articles
of merchandise from the following list of previously prepared materials: bone;
tanned leather; paper; plastics; cellophane; canvas; cloth; cork; feathers;
felt; fiber; furs; glass; hair; horn; precious or semi-precious metals or
stones; shell; textiles; wood;
      (28)   The manufacture of pottery and figurines or any other similar
ceramic products using only previously pulverized clay and kilns fired only by
electricity or gas; and
      (29)   Any other manufacturing establishment that can be operated without
creating objectionable noise, odor, dust, smoke, gas, fumes or vapor and that
has a use compatible with the use and occupancy of adjoining properties.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 7-25-2022)
§ 155.062 SETBACK REQUIREMENTS.
   No yard area shall be required, except when a lot abuts any lot situated
within Zone A or Zone B, in which case there shall be a rear yard not less than
20 feet and no materials or equipment shall be stored within the 20 feet to any
such residential lot or lots.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 7-25-2022)
§ 155.063 BUILDING HEIGHT.
   There shall be no height restriction for structures within Zone D.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 7-25-2022)
§ 155.064 MANUFACTURED AND MOBILE HOMES.
   (A)   Manufactured homes, multi-sectional mobile homes not more than 20
years old or multi-sectional mobile home that has been rehabilitated in
accordance with the provisions of Idaho Code Title 44, Chapter 22, may be
permitted in Zone D.
   (B)   Any single-wide mobile home in place and installed as of the date of
enactment of this chapter shall be permitted to continue in place within Zone
D, but may not be moved to any other place in the city unless they are:
      (1)   Rehabilitated as required by law; and
      (2)   Moved to and sited in a manufactured/mobile home court or park, or
recreational vehicle court or park as may be otherwise permitted under this
chapter.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 7-25-2022)
§ 155.065 BOUNDARIES.
   Those certain lands situated within the following described portions of the
city: commencing at the point of intersection with the southern boundary of
city limits along State Highway 162 and the centerline of Walnut Street; thence
running in a easterly direction along the centerline of State Highway 162 to
its point of intersection with the centerline of Oak Street; thence running in
a northerly direction along the centerline of Oak Street to its point of
intersection with the northern boundary of Nezperce S 15-foot Lot 7, Block 47;
thence running in a easterly direction along the northern boundary of Nezperce
S 15-foot Lot 7, Block 47, to its point of intersection with the centerline of
the alley between Oak Street and Maple Street; thence running in a northerly
direction along the centerline of the alley between Oak Street and Maple Street
to its point of intersection with the northern boundary of Nezperce Lots 5 and
6, Block 47, Scale House; thence running in an easterly direction along the
northern boundary of Nezperce Lots 5 and 6, Block 47, Scale House and the
northern boundary of Nezperce Lots 7 and 8, Block 46, to its point of
intersection with the northern boundary of Nezperce Lots 7 and 8, Block 46, and
the centerline of the first alley located east of Maple Street; thence running
in a southerly direction along the centerline of the first alley located east
of Maple Street to its point of intersection with the southern boundary of 8th
Avenue; thence running in an easterly direction along the southern boundary of
8th Avenue to its point of intersection with the southern boundary of city
limits near the extension of the unnamed street located between Cedar Street
and Maple Street; thence running in a southwesterly direction along city limits
to the point where city limits turns due south; thence running in a southerly
direction along the eastern boundary of city limits of Mowry’s Addition to the
city situated within the city limits to its point of intersection with the
centerline of 10th Avenue; thence running in a westerly direction along the
centerline of 10th Avenue to its point of intersection with the western
boundary of city limits of Mowry’s Addition; thence running in a northerly
direction along the western boundary of city limits of Mowry’s Addition to its
point of intersection where city limits turns to the southwest along the
southern boundary of the Lux Addition to the city situated within the city
limits; thence running in a southwesterly direction along city limits of the
Lux Addition to its point of intersection with the western boundary of city
limits of the Lux Addition; thence running in a northerly direction along the
western boundary of city limits of the Lux Addition and the centerline of
Walnut Street to the point of intersection with the southern boundary of city
limits along State Highway 162; and commencing at the northwest corner of city
limits at the northwest corner of Johnson’s Addition; thence running in an
easterly direction along the northern boundary of city limits of Johnson’s
Addition to its point of intersection with the eastern boundary of Johnson’s
Addition parcel Tax #D-103 (N three-fourths of Lot 11 and all of Lot 12 and
vacated alley adjacent to Lots 1, 2 and 3, Block 3); thence running in a
southerly direction along the eastern boundaries of Johnson’s Addition parcel
Tax #D-103 (N three-fourths of Lot 11 and all of Lot 12 and vacated alley
adjacent to Lots 1, 2 and 3, Block 3) and Johnson’s Addition parcel Tax #D-104
(Lots 7 through 10 and S Lot 11, Block 3) to the southeast corner of Johnson’s
Addition parcel Tax #D-104 (Lots 7 through 10 and S one-fourth Lot 11, Block
3); thence running in a westerly direction along the southern boundary of
Johnson’s Addition parcel Tax #D-104 (Lots 7 through 10 and S one-fourth Lot
11, Block 3) to its point of intersection with the western boundary of city
limits of Johnson’s Addition; thence running in a northerly direction along the
western boundary of city limits of Johnson’s Addition to the northwest corner
of city limits at the northwest corner of Johnson’s Addition.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 7-25-2022)
ZONE E - WELLHEAD PROTECTION PLAN
§ 155.080 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as the “Wellhead Protection Plan”.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 7-25-2022)
§ 155.081 PURPOSE.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this subchapter to promote the public health,
safety and general welfare, and to minimize public and private losses due to
contamination of the public water supply, and to formalize ground water
protection/pollution abatement and control procedures.
   (B)   Specific goals are to:
      (1)   Protect human life and health;
      (2)   Ensure that the public is provided with a sustainable safe potable
water supply;
      (3)   Minimize expenditure of public money for pollution remediation
projects;
      (4)   Minimize regulations on land use; and
      (5)   Minimize business interruptions.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 7-25-2022)
§ 155.082 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs). Those methods, measures or practices to
prevent or reduce water pollution and include, but are not limited to,
structural and non-structural controls and operation and maintenance
procedures.
   COMMUNITY WATER SYSTEM. A public system which serves at least 15 service
connections used by year-round residents or regularly serves at least 25 year-
round residents.
   FACILITY. Any business or corporation that is built, installed or
established to serve a particular purpose.
   FEED LOT. A parcel of land whereon there is contained an operation of
feeding or raising animals in excess of 100 animal units per acre or in excess
of 500 animal units per parcel of land. One animal unit is equivalent to one
beef cow, steer, feeder or fat beef animal or one horse; seven-tenths swine;
six and seven-tenths sheep; 33 hens, capons, broiler or ducks; and ten geese or
turkeys.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITY. A hazardous waste treatment, storage or
disposal facility which receives hazardous material as described in 40 C.F.R. §
260.1.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE OR MATERIAL. Any waste or material which because of its
quantity, concentration, physical, chemical or infectious characteristics may:
      (1)   Cause or significantly contribute to an increase in mortality or an
increase in serious irreversible or incapacitating reversible illness;
      (2)   Pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health or
to the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported, disposed of or
otherwise managed; and
      (3)   Any material or substance designed as a hazardous or toxic
substance, defined by 40 C.F.R. § 260.1, or any material or substance
designated as a hazardous or toxic substance by the state, acting through the
Division of Environmental Quality or any successor agency.
   INJECTION. The subsurface emplacement of fluids.
   LIVESTOCK CONFINEMENT OPERATION. Any lot, corral, pasture or facility where
one or more apply:
      (1)   The lot size is less than one acre;
      (2)   The number of animal units exceeds the number of animals permitted
in the zone they are located;
      (3)   The animals are supplemented or fed food other than grass;
      (4)   The pasture is overgrazed; and
      (5)   Animals are confined, or stabled and fed, or maintained for a total
of 45 days or more in any 12-month period.
   NON-COMMUNITY WATER SYSTEM. A public water system that is not a community
water system.
   OVERLAY WELLHEAD PROTECTION DISTRICT. Overlay wellhead protection districts
are delineated using one of the following methods:
      (1)   Calculated fixed radius;
      (2)   Arbitrary fixed radius;
      (3)   Simplified variable shapes;
      (4)   Semi-analytical and analytical methods;
      (5)   Hydro-geologic mapping;
      (6)   Numerical modeling; and
      (7)   Follow the guidelines established in the state’s Wellhead
Protection Plan.
   PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM.
      (1)   A system that provides the public with piped water for human
consumption, if such system has at least 15 service connections or regularly
serves an average of at least 25 individuals daily at least 60 days out of the
year. Such term includes:
         (a)   Any collection, treatment, storage and distribution facilities
under control of the operator of such system, and used primarily in connection
with such system; and
         (b)   Any collection or pretreatment storage facilities not under such
control that are used primarily in connection with such system.
      (2)   A PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM is either a community water system or a non-
community water system.
   SANITARY LANDFILL. A solid waste disposal operation where the wastes are
spread on land in thin layers, compacted to the smallest practical volume and
covered with cover material once each day of operation in order to safeguard
against environmental pollution, nuisances and health hazards.
   TIME OF TRAVEL DISTRICTS (TOT). The time required for a contaminate to move
in the ground from a specific point to a well. The area over which contaminates
will typically travel during a specified period in a specified type of aquifer,
as defined by the Idaho Department of Equality.
   UNDERGROUND INJECTION WELL. Any excavation or artificial opening into the
ground which meets the following three criteria:
      (1)   It is a bored, drilled or dug hole, or is a driven mine shaft or a
driven well point;
      (2)   It is deeper than its largest straight-line surface dimension; and
      (3)   It is used for or intended to be used for injection.
   WELLHEAD. The upper terminal of a well, including adapters, ports, seals
valves and other attachments.
   WELLHEAD PROTECTION OVERLAY DISTRICT (WHP). A land used designation on the
land use map or a zoning designation on a zoning map, that modifies the basic
underlying designation in some specific manner. The WELLHEAD PROTECTION OVERLAY
DISTRICT will also appear in the “Hazardous Component” of the Comprehensive
Plan. A map will define specific area districts centering around wells
supplying drinking water to a public water system, as defined in this section.
   WELLHEAD PROTECTION OVERLAY DISTRICT Ia. A minimum fixed radius extending no
less than 50 feet radially from the wellhead supplying potable water to the
city’s public water supplies.
   WELLHEAD PROTECTION OVERLAY DISTRICT Ib. A three-year time of travel
district (TOT), as defined herein.
   WELLHEAD PROTECTION OVERLAY DISTRICT II. A six-year time of travel district
(TOT), as defined herein.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 7-25-2022)
§ 155.083 WELLHEAD PROTECTION OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   There is hereby established a Wellhead Protection Overlay District
identified and described as all the area within the six-year TOT district
around public water supplies for the city where the city wells are located as
more particularly identified herein: Wellhead Protection Zone Well 1 located at
5th Avenue and Fir Street; Well 4 located at 5th Avenue and Ash Street. It is
further established that these areas be composed of three districts: Wellhead
Protection Overlay District Ia; Wellhead Protection Overlay District Ib; and
Wellhead Protection Overlay District II, as they are defined in §
155.082 of this chapter, and as they are specifically named and legally and
arithmetically described herein.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 7-25-2022)
§ 155.084 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Zone Ia. Permitted uses within Zone Ia shall be limited to necessary
wellhead equipment, wellhead facility buildings, water storage tanks and
approved landscaping and disinfection equipment and chemicals.
   (B)   Zone Ib and Zone II. The following uses may be permitted within Zone
Ib and Zone II of the well head protection area:
      (1)   Most uses will not comply with existing ordinances, county, state
and federal regulations pertaining to the discharge of contaminates. Permitted
uses shall use best management practices (BMPs) and monitoring wells may be
required as part of permitting requirements; and
      (2)   Only the following underground injection wells will be allowed:
         (a)   Deep well injection (below 18 feet in depth):
            1.   Geothermal heat;
            2.   Heat pump return; and
            3.   Cooling water return.
         (b)   Shallow well injection only (less than 18 feet in depth):
            1.   Storm runoff;
            2.   Agricultural runoff water;
            3.   Special drainage water;
            4.   Aquifer recharge;
            5.   Aquifer remediation; and
            6.   Septic systems (general).
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 7-25-2022)
§ 155.085 EXISTING FACILITIES.
   Requirements for facilities existing within the wellhead protection areas in
Zones Ia, Ib and II are as follows.
   (A)   Upon the request of the Planning and Zoning Commission, or the Public
Works Superintendent, facilities shall provide copies of all federal, state and
local facility operation approval permits and ongoing environmental and safety
procedures already in use with regard to pollution control measures.
   (B)   Facilities shall have the responsibility of devising and filing with
the city a contingency plan satisfactory to the county for the immediate
notification to the county officials in the event of an emergency.
   (C)   Existing facilities that do not conform with the new restrictions
within the overlay districts will be allowed to continue operating as normal.
The non-conforming facility may be sold and the new owners will not be required
to update the facility unless other federal, state or local regulations require
it.
   (D)   Expansion of any use any more than 20% of physical facilities or
production components, whether any single or multiple increments, will require
full review, to determine if the expansion will pose a hazard or threat to the
existing ground water quality. Approval will only be granted when the Planning
and Zoning Commission determines there is no hazard or threat to the ground
water quality.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 7-25-2022)
§ 155.086 RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Zone Ia Wellhead Protection Area. The following uses or conditions,
including, but not limited to, shall be and are hereby prohibited within Zone
Ia of the Wellhead Protection Overlay District:
      (1)   Surface use of storage of hazardous material expressly including
herbicide and pesticide applications the soils, ground water or surface water;
      (2)   Sanitary landfills;
      (3)   Hazardous waste facility;
      (4)   Underground storage tanks;
      (5)   Sanitary sewer lines;
      (6)   Underground injection wells;
      (7)   All other facilities involving the collection, handling,
manufacture, use, storage, transfer or disposal of any solid or liquid material
or waste having a potentially hazardous impact on ground water quality;
      (8)   Disposal of waste oil, oil filters, tires and all other petroleum
products;
      (9)   Septic tanks and drain fields; and
      (10)   Animal feedlots.
   (B)   Zone Ib Wellhead Protection Area. The following uses or conditions,
including, but not limited to, shall be and are hereby prohibited within Zone
Ib of the wellhead protection areas whether or not such use or condition may
otherwise be ordinarily included as part of a use permitted under this division
(B):
      (1)   Sanitary landfills;
      (2)   Animal feedlots;
      (3)   Hazardous waste facility;
      (4)   Deep underground injection wells;
      (5)   All manufacturing or industrial businesses involving the
collection, handling, manufacture, use, storage, transfer or disposal of any
hazardous solid or liquid material or waste having potential impact on ground
water;
      (6)   Existing sewer lines shall not lay within 50 feet of a wellhead or
upon installation of new sanitary systems and sewer lines shall not lay within
150 feet of a wellhead;
      (7)   Existing septic tanks or drain fields shall not lay within 100 feet
of a wellhead and new installation of septic tanks or drain fields shall not
fall within 200 feet of a wellhead public water system;
      (8)   Junk or salvage yards;
      (9)   Disposal of waste oil, oil filters, tires and all other petroleum
products; and
      (10)   Land uses activities posing a hazard or threat to existing ground
water quality as deemed by the Planning and Zoning Commission and the Board of
County Commissioners during review process of applications.
   (C)   Zone II Wellhead Protection Area. The following uses or conditions,
including, but not limited to, shall be and are prohibited within Zone II of
the wellhead protection area, whether or not such use or condition may
otherwise be ordinarily included as part of a use permitted under division (B)
above:
      (1)   Sanitary landfills;
      (2)   Hazardous waste disposal facility; and
      (3)   Land use activities posing a hazard or potential threat to existing
ground water quality as deemed by the Planning and Zoning Commission and the
Board of County Commissioners during review process of applications.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 7-25-2022)
§ 155.087 NEW WELLS.
   Prior to the development of new wells for the purpose of supplying potable
water to any public community water system, the proposed well site will be
delineated in accordance with §
155.083 of this chapter, using anticipated yields to determine time of travel
zones. The delineated areas will then be inventoried for potential contaminate
sources and the proposed site evaluated as to potential adverse impact to the
well site.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 7-25-2022)
§ 155.088 ADMINISTRATION GENERALLY.
   (A)   Policies and procedures. The policies and procedures for
administration of any wellhead protection zone established under this chapter,
including, without limitation, those applicable to non- conforming uses,
exceptions, enforcement and penalties, shall be the same as provided in the
existing Building Code as the same is presently enacted and from time to time
amended.
   (B)   Final approval. Final approval for any proposed use will be granted by
the city that the wellhead overlay zone was established for. If the wellhead
zones were established for a privately-owned company, then final approval will
come from either the county or city depending on where the water company is
located (i.e., city or county limits).
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 7-25-2022)
§ 155.089 VIOLATIONS; APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful and a misdemeanor for any person to occupy or use
the land within the designated with the Wellhead Protection Overlay District of
Zones Ia, Ib and II, contrary to, or in violation of, any of the provisions of
this subchapter, punishable by fine, jail, or both, as provided under state
law.
   (B)   This subchapter shall apply to all lands within the city. If provided
under the City/County Area of City Impact Ordinance, this subchapter shall also
apply with the City/County Area of City Impact.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 7-25-2022) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.090 BOUNDARIES.
   Those certain lands situated within the wellhead protection overlay zones
for the following city wells as provided in this subchapter, as amended,
situated within the city: Well 1 located west of Willow Street near 5th Avenue
and Well 4 located west of Ash Street near 5th Avenue.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 7-25-2022)
MUNICIPAL AIRPORT
§ 155.105 TITLE.
   The provisions in this subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the
“Nezperce Municipal Airport Zoning Ordinance”.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 7-25-2022)
§ 155.106 APPLICABILITY.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply all lands with the Airport
Zone situated within the city, subject to all other applicable provisions of
this chapter.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 7-25-2022)
Cross-reference:
   Airport generally, see
Chapter 153
§ 155.107 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   AIRPORT. The Nezperce Municipal Airport.
   AIRPORT ADMINISTRATOR. A person nominated by the Mayor and confirmed by the
City Council to administer and assist in enforcing the regulations of this
chapter.
   AIRPORT ELEVATION. Three thousand two hundred one feet above mean sea level,
unless otherwise reported in the Idaho Airport Facilities Directory.
   APPROACH SURFACE. Applied to each end of the runway based on the type of
approach available. The APPROACH SURFACE is longitudinally centered in the
extended runway centerline and extends outward and upward from the end of the
primary surface. The inner edge of the APPROACH SURFACE is the same width as
the primary surface (200 feet). The surface expands uniformly to a width of 500
feet at a horizontal distance of 3,000 feet from each end of runway.
   APPROACH, TRANSITIONAL, HORIZONTAL AND CONICAL ZONES. These zones are set
forth in §
155.108 of this chapter.
   BOARD OF ADMINISTRATION. The Zoning Commission of the city is the City
Council.
   CONICAL SURFACE. A surface is an inclined surface at a slope of 20 to one
(20:1) extending upward and outward from the periphery of the horizontal
surface for a horizontal distance of 4,000 feet.
   HAZARD TO AIR NAVIGATION. An obstruction determined to have a substantial
adverse effect on the safe and efficient utilization of the navigable airspace.
   HEIGHT. For the purpose of determining the height limits in all zones set
forth in this subchapter and shown on the zoning map, the datum shall mean sea
level elevation unless otherwise specified.
   HORIZONTAL SURFACE. A horizontal plane 150 feet above the established
airport elevation, the perimeter of which in plan coincides with the perimeter
of the horizontal zone.
   NON-CONFORMING USE. Any preexisting structure, and object of natural growth
which is inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter or an amendment
thereto.
   OBSTRUCTION. Any structure, object of natural growth or other object,
including a mobile object, which exceeds a limiting height set forth in §
155.109 of this chapter.
   PERSON. An individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company, association,
joint stock association or governmental entity. PERSON includes a trustee, a
receiver, an assignee or a similar representative of any of them.
   PRIMARY SURFACE. A surface of longitudinally centered on a runway. When the
runway has a specially prepared hard surface, the PRIMARY SURFACE extends 200
feet beyond each end of that runway. When the runway has no specially prepared
hard surface, or planed hard surface, the PRIMARY SURFACE ends at each end of
that runway. The width of the PRIMARY SURFACE is set forth in §
155.108 of this chapter. The elevation of any point on the PRIMARY SURFACE is
the same as the elevation of the nearest point on the runway centerline.
   RUNWAY. A defined area on an airport prepared for landing and takeoff of
aircraft along its length.
   STRUCTURE. An object, including a mobile object, constructed or installed by
humans, including, but with limitation, buildings, towers, cranes, smokestacks,
earth formations and overhead transmission lines.
   TRANSITIONAL SURFACES. These extend outward at 90-degree angles to the
runway centerline and the runway centerline extended at a slope of seven feet
horizontally for each foot vertically from the sides of the primary and
approach surfaces to where they intersect the horizontal and conical surfaces.
   TREE. Any object of natural growth.
   UTILITY RUNWAY. A runway that is constructed for and intended to be used by
propeller driven aircraft of 12,500 pounds’ maximum gross weight and less.
   VISUAL RUNWAY. A runway intended solely for the operation of aircraft using
visual approach procedures.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 7-25-2022)
§ 155.108 AIRPORT ZONE; SUBZONES.
   In order to carry out the provisions of this subchapter, there are hereby
created and established certain subzones within the Airport Zone which include
all of the land lying beneath the approach surfaces as they apply to the
Nezperce Municipal Airport. Such subzones are shown of the Nezperce Municipal
Airport zoning map, consisting of one sheet, dated, which is attached to the
ordinance codified in this chapter and is on file in the City Clerk/Treasurer’s
office. An area which is located in more than one of the following subzones is
considered to be only in the zone with the more restrictive height limitation.
The various subzones are established and defined as follows.
   (A)   Utility Runway Visual Approach Zone. The inner edge of this approach
zone coincides with the width of the primary surface and is 250 feet wide. The
approach zone expands outward uniformly to a width of 1,250 feet at a
horizontal distance of 5,000 feet from the primary surface. Its centerline is
the continuation of the centerline of the runway.
   (B)   Transitional Zones. The transitional zones are the areas beneath the
transitional surfaces.
   (C)   Horizontal Zones. The horizontal zone is established by swinging arcs
of 5,000 feet radii from the center of each end of the primary surface of each
runway and connecting the adjacent arcs by drawing lines tangent to those arcs.
The horizontal zone does not include the approach and transitional zones.
   (D)   Conical Zone. The conical zone is established as the area that
commences at the periphery of the horizontal zone and extends outward therefrom
a horizontal distance of 4,000 feet.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 7-25-2022)
§ 155.109 HEIGHT LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no structure shall be
erected, altered or maintained, and no trees or vegetation shall be allowed to
grow in any subzone created by this subchapter, any height of which exceeds the
applicable height limit herein established for such subzone established
follows:
      (1)   Utility Runway Visual Approach Zone. Slopes 20 feet outward for
each foot upward beginning at the end of and at the same elevation as the
primary surface and extending to a horizontal distance of 5,000 feet along the
extended runway centerline;
      (2)   Transitional Zones. Slope seven feet outward for each foot upward
beginning at the sides of and at the same elevation as the primary surface and
the approach surface, and extending to a height of 150 feet above the airport
elevation;
      (3)   Horizontal Zone. Established at 150 feet above the airport
elevation or at a height of 3,351 feet above mean sea level; and
      (4)   Conical Zone. A conical zone is an inclined surface at a slope of
20 to one (20:1) extending upward and outward from the periphery of the
horizontal surface for a horizontal distance of 4,000 feet. The elevation at
the outer edge of the conical zone is 3,551 feet MSL.
   (B)   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed as prohibiting the
construction or maintenance of any structure, or growth of any tree to a height
up to 50 feet above the surface of the land, except as otherwise in this
chapter.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 7-25-2022)
§ 155.110 USE RESTRICTIONS.
   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this subchapter, no use may be made
of land or water with any zone or subzone established under this subchapter in
such a manner as to create electrical interference with navigational signals or
radio communications between the airport and aircraft, making it difficult for
pilots to distinguish between airport lights and others, result in glare in the
eyes of pilots the airport, create fire strike hazards or otherwise in any way
endanger or interfere with the landing, takeoff or maneuvering or aircraft
intending to use the airport.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 7-25-2022)
§ 155.111 NON-CONFORMING USES.
   (A)   Regulations not retroactive. Except as otherwise provided in this
section, the provisions of this subchapter are subject to the provisions of §
155.108(B) of this chapter, pertaining to non-conforming uses, lots and
structures.
   (B)   Marking and lighting. Notwithstanding division (A) above, the owner of
any existing non- conforming structure or tree is required to permit the
installation, operation and maintenance thereon of such markers and lights as
shall be deemed necessary by the Airport Administrator, to indicate to the
operators of aircraft in the vicinity of the airport the presence of such
airport obstructions. Such markers and lights shall be installed operated and
maintained at the expense of the city.
   (C)   Non-conforming uses; abandoned or destroyed. Whenever the Airport
Administrator determines that a non-conforming tree or structure has been
abandoned or more than 80% torn down, physically deteriorated or decayed, that
particular non-conforming condition shall be changed or eliminated as to comply
with the restrictions set forth in this subchapter.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 7-25-2022)
§ 155.112 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Variances; general.
      (1)   Except as others provided in this section, a variance of any
requirement, specification or standard under this subchapter may be applied for
and granted in the same manner as provided for variances under §§
155.200 through
155.204 of this chapter.
      (2)   In addition, the application for a variance shall be accompanied by
a determination from the Federal Aviation Administration as to the effect of
the proposal on the operation of air navigation facilities and the safe,
efficient use of navigable airspace.
      (3)   (a)   Variances may only be granted under the conditions identified
under §§
155.200 through
155.204 of this chapter, together with a finding by the City Council that
granting the variance will not create a hazard to air navigation or the public.
         (b)   Additionally, no application for a variance may be granted
unless a copy of the application has been furnished to the city’s Airport
Administrator for opinion as to the aeronautical effects of granting the
variance.
         (c)   Applications for variances shall be made to the Airport
Administrator upon a form published for the purpose.
      (4)   The Airport Administrator shall indicate upon the application his
or her recommendations and shall forthwith transmit them to the City Council
for consideration in processing the application.
   (B)   Additional conditions; marking lights. In addition to any other
conditions attached to the variance by the City Council, any variance granted
may, if such action is deemed advisable to effectuate the purpose of this
subchapter, require the owner of the structure or tree in question to install,
operate and maintain at the owner’s expense, such markings lights as deemed
necessary by the city.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 7-25-2022)
§ 155.113 ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Airport Administrator and Mayor to administer
and enforce the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 7-25-2022)
§ 155.114 CONFLICTING REGULATIONS.
   Where there exists a conflict between any of the regulations or limitations
prescribed in this subchapter and any other regulations applicable to the same
area, whether this conflict be with respect to the height of structures, or
trees or any other matter, the more stringent limitation or requirement shall
govern and prevail.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 7-25-2022)
§ 155.115 BOUNDARIES.
   Those certain lands situated within the following described portions of the
city: commencing at the point of intersection between parcel tax #D-107 and
parcel tax #D-98, said point of intersection located at the northern boundary
of city limits; thence running in a southeasterly direction between the
boundary of parcel tax #D-107 and parcel tax #D-98 to its point of intersection
with the northern boundary of Nezperce Lots 1 through 5, Block 5; thence
running in a easterly direction along the northern boundary of Nezperce Lots 1
through 5, Block 5, to its point of intersection with the centerline of Maple
Street; thence running in a southerly direction along the centerline of Maple
Street to its point of intersection with the centerline of 3rd Avenue; thence
running in an easterly direction along the centerline of 3rd Avenue to its
point of intersection with the centerline of the first alley east of Maple
Street; thence running in a southerly direction along the centerline of the
first alley east of Maple Street to its point of intersection with the
centerline of 4th Avenue; thence running in a easterly direction along the
centerline of 4th Avenue to its point of intersection with the centerline of
the unnamed street located between Maple Street and Cedar Street; thence
running in a northerly direction along the centerline of the unnamed street
located between Maple Street and Cedar Street to its point of intersection with
the northern boundary of city limits near 1st Avenue; thence running in a
westerly direction along the northern boundary of city limits near 1st Avenue
to the point where city limits turns in a northwesterly direction along the
airport; thence running in a northwesterly direction near the airport to its
point where city limits turns in a westerly direction; thence running in a
westerly direction to its point of intersection between parcel tax #D-107 and
parcel tax #D-98.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 7-25-2022)
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS AND REQUIREMENTS
§ 155.130 ZONING OF STREETS AND PUBLIC WAYS.
   Unless otherwise provided in this chapter, all streets, alleys and public
ways shall be deemed to be situated in the same zoning district as the real
property within the city immediately abutting such street, alley or public way.
Where the centerline of a street, alley or public way is a zoning district
boundary, the zoning of such street, alley or public away abutting or part of
said zoning district shall apply to the centerline of said street, alley or
public way unless otherwise specifically designated in this chapter.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 7-25-2022)
§ 155.131 UNAUTHORIZED DEVELOPMENT OR USE PROHIBITED; NON- CONFORMANCES.
   (A)   Unauthorized development or use prohibited. Unless otherwise provided
under this chapter, no structure may be erected, converted, enlarged,
reconstructed or structurally altered, nor shall any structure or lands be
developed or used for any purpose, except in compliance with this chapter.
   (B)   Non-conforming use/lot/structure. Unless otherwise provided in this
chapter, all non-conforming uses, lots and structures established prior to
enactment of this chapter may be continued and shall not constitute a violation
of this chapter, subject to the following terms and conditions.
      (1)   Notwithstanding any minimum requirements for lot size within the
applicable various zoning district, structures may be built, expanded,
reconstructed, occupied or used on a non-conforming lot that existed prior to
the enactment of this chapter; provided that, such structures and uses are
otherwise compliance with this chapter and all other applicable laws,
regulations, codes and ordinances.
      (2)   A structure occupied by a non-conforming use may be maintained and
repaired after enactment of this chapter; provided that, all such maintenance
and repairs shall be made and undertaken in compliance with this chapter and
all other applicable laws, regulations, codes and ordinances. Examples of
allowed maintenance are painting, re-roofing and steps to ensure safety and
compliance with building codes.
      (3)   When a structure housing a non-conforming use is illegally modified
or expanded, the non- conforming status of the structure or use shall be lost.
      (4)   A non-conforming structure may not be replaced except in compliance
with this chapter, but may be maintained, repaired or internally altered
provided that there is no increase in the degree of non-compliance with this
chapter.
      (5)   Expansion of any non-conforming use (and the structures and
buildings housing them) exceeding 20% of gross floor area is prohibited unless
authorized by permit issued by the City Council in accordance with the
procedures for issuance of conditional use permits under this chapter.
      (6)   Non-conforming uses may be converted to other uses upon issuance of
a permit by the City Council in accordance with the procedures for issuance of
conditional use permits under this chapter, if the City Council finds that:
         (a)   The conversion will not violate a policy of the city’s
Comprehensive Plan;
         (b)   The conversion will not unduly burden transportation or service
facilities;
         (c)   The conversion will not result in adverse impacts to surrounding
properties;
         (d)   The use proposed will be equal or less in intensity, impact and
demand for services; and
         (e)   The conversion will otherwise in the best interest of the city.
      (7)   When a non-conforming use has been materially changed, enlarged or
expanded, the non- conforming status shall be lost unless the change in use is
authorized to continue by permit issued by the City Council in accordance with
the procedures for issuance of conditional use permits under this chapter.
Unless authorized under a duly issued permit, the subject lands and structures
may only be used in compliance with this chapter.
      (8)   A non-conforming use that is discontinued for a continuous period
of one year after the date of enactment of this chapter shall be presumptively
deemed to have been abandoned or discontinued. Thereafter, the subject lands
and structures may only be used in compliance with this chapter; provided,
however, that, this division (B)(8) shall not deprive the use of the structures
or other improvements on private property based solely on non-use of the
structures and improvements for their designed purposes for a period of ten
years or less.
      (9)   Non-conforming status shall be lost when a non-conforming structure
or a structure occupied by a non-conforming use is destroyed by fire or other
calamity or casualty to the extent that the cost of restoration is 50% or more
of the assessed value of said structure, unless the non-conforming status is
authorized to continue by permit issued by the City Council in accordance with
the procedures for issuance of conditional use permits under this chapter.
Unless authorized under a duly issued permit, the affected structure or
building may only be used in compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 7-25-2022)
§ 155.132 HEIGHT OF STRUCTURES AND ANTENNAS.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided in this chapter, no structure may be erected
to exceed by more than 25 feet height of the applicable structure height limits
for the zoning district in which it is situated.
   (B)   Communications, television, telephone, internet, radio or similar
aerials and antennas shall not exceed 60 feet in height above the ground level.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 7-25-2022)
§ 155.133 YARD AREA; CALCULATION.
   (A)   No space which, for the purpose of a structure has been counted or
calculated as part of a side yard, rear yard, front yard, court or other open
space required by this chapter may, by reason of change in ownership or
otherwise, be counted or calculated to satisfy or comply with a yard, court or
other open space requirement of or for any other building.
   (B)   The minimum yards or other open spaces, including lot areas per family
required by this chapter for each and every building existing or for any
building hereafter erected, shall not be encroached upon or considered as a
yard or open space requirements for any other building,
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 7-25-2022)
§ 155.134 TERRACES.
   An open terrace, but not including a roofed-over porch or terrace, may
occupy a front yard provided the unoccupied portion of the front yard has a
depth of not less than 15 feet. A one-story bay window may project into a front
yard not more than three feet. Overhanging eaves, including gutters, may
project over the minimum required side yard not more than 24 inches.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 7-25-2022)
§ 155.135 MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   Development standards for a manufactured home or mobile home on any lot are
as follows.
   (A)   Any manufactured home or mobile home installed, placed or situated on
any lands within the city after enactment of this chapter for purposes of
occupancy or use as a dwelling shall:
      (1)   Have an enclosed living space of not less than 1,000 square feet;
      (2)   Have a non-metallic, wood or asphalt shingle roof, shall have a
pitched roof with a slope not greater than a nominal three feet in height for
each 12 feet in width and a minimum six-inch eave, or gutter and eave attached
to the entire perimeter of the roof;
      (3)   Have exterior siding and roofing which in color, material and
appearance is similar to the exterior siding and roofing material commonly used
on residential dwellings within the community;
      (4)   Be installed and placed on an excavated and backfilled foundation
and enclosed at the perimeter such that the home is located not less than 12
inches above the grade, and be permanently affixed, with the running gear and
towing hitch removed and set upon a foundation base having an anchoring system
that is totally concealed under the structure; and
      (5)   Comply with all other applicable requirements of the zoning
district in which the manufactured home or mobile home is situated (such as lot
size and setback requirements), and comply with all other applicable laws,
regulations and ordinances.
   (B)   The assembly, installation, placement and siting of the manufactured
home or mobile home shall otherwise comply with this chapter and all other
applicable laws, regulations, codes and ordinances.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 7-25-2022)
§ 155.136 ONE DWELLING PER LOT.
   Unless otherwise provided in this chapter, no more than one structure,
manufactured home or mobile home may be constructed, maintained or used as a
dwelling or dwelling unit on any lot.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 7-25-2022) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.137 SUBSTANDARD LOTS.
   The city may, by duly granted conditional use permit, allow any lot that
does not meet the requirements of this chapter for yards, courts or other area
of open space to be utilized for single-family residential purposes so long the
requirements for such yard, court or open space is within 75% of that required
by this chapter.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 7-25-2022)
§ 155.138 ACCESS TO PUBLIC WAY REQUIRED.
   No building may be constructed, erected or maintain upon any lot that does
not abut upon a public street, or that does not then have perpetual legal right
of access from the lot to a public street established of record as shown in the
official property records of the county. Said perpetual legal right of access
shall be a minimum width of 25 feet unless said legal access was established of
record as a lesser width prior to enactment of this chapter.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 7-25-2022) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.139 TRAFFIC/SIGHT OBSTRUCTIONS.
   Unless authorized by the City Council, no owner of any lot shall cause,
permit or suffer any trees, shrubbery, hedges, walls, fences, gates, buildings,
structures or other improvements, or any portion thereof, situated on said lot
to encroach upon, obstruct or interfere with the use of any public sidewalk,
alley, street or public way, or to obstruct or interfere with traffic
visibility from any adjacent public sidewalks, alleys, streets or public ways.
Unless otherwise authorized by the City Council, all such improvements on any
lot shall be maintained at a distance of six to 12 inches from inside the
exterior lot boundary. All such improvements situated on the lot with within 50
feet of the corner of the block in which said lot is situated shall not exceed
three feet in height above the curb line for the adjacent street.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 7-25-2022) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.140 EXISTING CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to require any change in the place,
construction or designed use of any structure upon a lot which actual
construction was lawfully commenced prior to enactment this chapter, and the
construction of which has been diligently carried on and is completed within
one year from the date of enactment of this chapter.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 7-25-2022)
§ 155.141 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   Unless otherwise provided in this chapter, accessory buildings shall be
subject to the following additional regulations.
   (A)   Where an accessory building is structurally attached to a main
building, it shall be subject and must conform to, all provisions of this
chapter applicable to the main building.
   (B)   An accessory building may not be located nearer than five feet to any
interior lot line and not nearer than five feet to the rear lot line on any
lot.
   (C)   An accessory building shall not be erected on any lot prior to
construction of the main building on said lot.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 7-25-2022)
§ 155.142 STANDS FOR SALE OF MERCHANDISE OR PRODUCE PROHIBITED.
   Unless permitted by the city provided in this section, the storage, display
or sale of goods, merchandise or produce shall not be permitted on or from any
public property, public sidewalks, streets, alleys or public ways situated
within any zoning district. The City Council may issue permits allowing such
activities on terms and conditions the City Council deems in the best interest
of the city; provided, however, that, the effective duration of any such permit
so issued shall not exceed four days in any one calendar month per applicant.
The City Council may place such other conditions on any permit issued by the
City Council pursuant to this section as it deems in the best interest of the
city.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 7-25-2022)
§ 155.143 MAINTENANCE OF PROPERTY; GARBAGE CANS, RECEPTACLES.
   Unless otherwise authorized by the city, no owner or occupant of any lot
shall cause, permit or suffer any solid waste, garbage, junk, inoperable or
abandoned vehicles, or other refuse collected or generated on or from said lot
to accumulate upon said lot outside of an enclosed structure situated on the
lot:
   (A)   So as to constitute a public or private nuisance or health or safety
hazard to any person or property;
   (B)   So as to obstruct any public property, public sidewalk, public street,
alley or public way; or
   (C)   In any manner in violation of any applicable laws, regulations, codes
or ordinances.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 7-25-2022)
§ 155.144 PARKING.
   All bed and breakfasts, boarding houses, motels, hotels and apartments shall
have off-street parking equal or greater to the number of guest rooms available
for rent.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 7-25-2022)
§ 155.145 SIDING AND ROOFING.
   Structures of any kind or character within the city shall be roofed and
sided in accordance with the applicable provisions of the city’s Building Code.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 7-25-2022)
§ 155.146 SHIPPING CONTAINERS.
   Shipping containers, as that term is generally understood in the freight
industry, and enclosed cargo van trailers, sometimes locally known as semi-
trailers, as herein defined, in permanent use as of the effective date hereof
may continue to be used; provided that, its location does not change in Zones
A, B and C. Shipping containers are allowed for business use in the Business
District of Zone C and in Zone D and does not have to be permanently placed in
one location.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 7-25-2022)
§ 155.147 CONDITIONAL USES; CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS.
   (A)   Authority to issue; allowable conditional uses in any zoning district.
      (1)   The City Council may issue conditional use permits to authorize use
of lands within the city not otherwise permitted in a zoning district under
this chapter, subject to the provisions of this section. The term CONDITIONAL
USE PERMIT, as used in this chapter, shall have the same meaning as a special
use permit as provided in Idaho Code Title 67, Chapter 65, as amended.
      (2)   Unless otherwise provided by this chapter, the following uses of
lots and structures may be permitted by the city as a conditional use within
any zoning district by issuance of a conditional use permit subject to the
provisions of this chapter:
         (a)   Accessory buildings, structures and parking areas for any
permitted conditional use;
         (b)   Banks, credit unions and other financial institutions;
         (c)   Bed and breakfasts, boarding houses and lodging houses;
         (d)   Billboards;
         (e)   Bus terminal, railroad passenger station or any other
transportation terminal facilities;
         (f)   Cemeteries, crematories or mausoleums;
         (g)   Churches and accessory buildings used for religious teaching;
         (h)   Communication antennae and towers;
         (i)   Community halls and centers, public or private;
         (j)   Extraction of gravel, sand or other raw materials;
         (k)   Florist shops and greenhouses;
         (l)   Grocery, mini-marts and convenience stores;
         (m)   Hospitals, sanitariums, clinics, quick-care clinics and medical,
dental, therapy and counseling offices;
         (n)   Libraries and museums;
         (o)   Municipal and government buildings, structures and facilities;
         (p)   Nursery schools, day nurseries and childcare centers;
         (q)   Parking lots and areas, public and private;
         (r)   Police stations, fire stations or place for storage of municipal
property or equipment;
         (s)   Professional services, including, but not limited to, legal,
accounting, engineering, architectural investment and financial, insurance and
real estate services;
         (t)   Public administration buildings, auditoriums, gymnasiums or any
other publicly-owned structures;
         (u)   Public or private park or playground, including rodeo and sports
arenas and grounds;
         (v)   Public or private utility facilities, including, but not limited
to, water, sewer, garbage, communications, telephone, television, internet,
electricity and other similar facilities;
         (w)   Public or private monuments;
         (x)   Railroad right-of-way;
         (y)   Recreation centers and facilities, public or private;
         (z)   Schools, public or private;
         (aa)   Sport shooting ranges as may otherwise be permitted by law;
         (bb)   Manufactured/mobile home and recreational vehicle courts and
parks may be permitted as a conditional use within Residence Zones A or B, and
Zone D within the city, and may be additionally be located within Zone C if
outside the Business District;
         (cc)   Telephone or communication exchange facilities;
         (dd)   Undertaking establishments; and
         (ee)   Veterinary clinics and hospitals.
   (B)   Applications; fees. Applications for conditional use permits must be
filed with the City Clerk/Treasurer and shall be referred to the City Council
for hearing and decision as hereafter provided. Applications must be signed by
the applicant and the record fee title owner of the subject lot consenting to
the application. The applicant shall provide the city all information deemed
necessary by the City Council to process the application. The City Council may
by resolution from time to time establish and amend a fee schedule for
conditional use permit applications, including fees sufficient to pay the cost
of any notices, publications and inspections required by law or otherwise
deemed necessary to process the application. The applicant shall pay the
applicable conditional use permit application fee at the time the application
is filed with the city. The city shall have no obligation to process any
application filed with the city unless the applicable application fee is paid
in full by the applicant. The City Council shall have the authority to waive
all or any portion of the applicable application fee when it deems such a
waiver to be in the best interest of the city.
   (C)   Hearing; decision; conditions; judicial review. Prior to granting or
denying a conditional use permit, the city shall comply with the notice and
hearing requirements under Idaho Code Title 67, Chapter 65, as amended,
applicable to special use permit applications. Unless otherwise determined by
resolution of the City Council, the public hearing on the application shall be
initially commenced within 30 days after all notices required by law have been
duly given. In addition:
      (1)   The approval or denial of any conditional use permit application
shall be based upon standards and criteria which are set forth in the
Comprehensive Plan, this chapter, other applicable city ordinances and as
otherwise provided by law, including, but not limited to, Idaho Code Chapter
65, Title 67, as amended. In addition, no conditional use permit may be granted
unless the City Council finds that issuance of the conditional use permit is:
         (a)   Consistent with the city’s Comprehensive Plan; and
         (b)   In the best interest of the public.
      (2)   The approval or denial of any application provided for in this
section shall be accompanied by a written decision of the city in compliance
with Idaho Code Title 67, Chapter 65, as amended;
      (3)   The City Council may attach conditions to conditional use permits
issued as deemed in the best interest of the city, including, but not limited
to, any conditions authorized under Idaho Code Title 67, Chapter 65, as
amended; and
      (4)   Judicial review of any final decision of the city under this
section may be taken in the same manner as provided for judicial review of
final local land use planning decisions under Idaho Code Title 67, Chapter 65,
as amended.
   (D)   Applicability/non-transferability of permits. Unless otherwise
provided in the issued conditional use permit, a conditional use permit issued
by the city shall apply to and run with the lot for which the permit is issued
only, and shall inure to benefit of the owner and the owner’s successors in
interest to the subject lot. A conditional use permit is not transferable from
one lot to another. A conditional use permit shall not be considered as
establishing a binding precedent to grant other or additional conditional use
permits.
   (E)   Violation. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to
violate any term or condition of any conditional use permit issued by the city
pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 7-25-2022) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.148 DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   In addition to any other conditions authorized under this chapter, the
city may require or permit as a condition of issuing any conditional use
permit, or other permit or license, or for granting any variance or request to
rezone, that the subject lot owner and developer, or either of them, enter into
a development agreement with the city containing the lot owner’s and/or
developer’s written commitment to the city concerning the use or development of
the subject lot as provided in Idaho Code § 67-6511A, as amended, on and
containing such terms and conditions as the City Council deems in the best
interest of the city.
   (B)   (1)   All development agreements shall be in writing, and shall be
duly executed acknowledged by the lot owner and/or developer as may be
applicable.
      (2)   Developer agreements shall be recorded in the official real
property records of the County Recorder.
   (C)   (1)   Unless terminated, a developer agreement made or amended
pursuant to this section is binding on the developer and all owners of the
subject lot, and shall also be binding on every subsequent owner, and each
other person acquiring an interest in lot as provided in this section.
      (2)   A development agreement is binding on the lot owner and developer
even if it is unrecorded; however, an unrecorded development agreement is
binding on all subsequent owners or other person acquiring an interest in the
lot only if the subsequent owner or other person has actual notice of the
commitment.
   (D)   A development agreement may only be amended or terminated, in whole in
part, upon compliance with the notice and hearing provisions of Idaho Code §
67-6509, as amended. A development agreement may be terminated, and any zoning
designation upon which the use is based reversed, for violation of any term or
condition of the development agreement as provided in §§
155.215 through
155.217 of this chapter.
   (E)   (1)   Requiring or permitting any development agreement as a condition
of any conditional use permit, other permit or license, variance or request for
rezone, shall not obligate the city to recommend, issue, grant or adopt any
such conditional use permit, other permit or license, variance or request for
rezone, or any ordinance necessary to effectuate the same.
      (2)   Nothing in this section is intend to, nor shall it, apply to,
prohibit, impair or otherwise affect the authority of the city to place
conditions on issuing or granting any conditional use permit, variance or
rezone request that the city determines does not necessitate a development
agreement with the lot owner or developer.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 7-25-2022)
MANUFACTURED/MOBILE HOME AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLE COURTS AND PARKS
§ 155.160 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   HOUSING SPACE. A plot of ground within a manufactured/mobile home or
recreational vehicle court or park designated for the accommodation of one
mobile home, manufactured home or recreational vehicle for occupancy.
   MANUFACTURED HOME, MOBILE HOME and RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. The terms
“manufactured home”, “mobile home” and recreational vehicle” shall each have
the same definitions as provided in §
155.004 of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED/MOBILE HOME COURT OR PARK. Any lot upon which two or more
manufactured homes or mobile homes, or any combination thereof, are situated
for purposes of occupancy by person(s) other than the owner of said parcel or
lot, including, but not limited under, any long-term or short-term rental or
lease arrangement with the owner.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE COURT OR PARK. Any lot, including but not limited to
any manufactured/mobile home court or park, upon which two or more recreational
vehicles are situated for purposes of occupancy by person(s) other than the
owner of said parcel or lot, including, but not limited under, any long-term or
short-term rental or lease arrangement with the parcel or owner.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 7-25-2022)
§ 155.161 APPLICABILITY; RV PARK PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Compliance. Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, this
subchapter shall apply to all manufactured/mobile home courts and parks, and
all recreational vehicle courts and parks, within the city. All manufactured/
mobile home courts and parks and all recreation vehicle courts and parks within
the city subject to this subchapter shall be in compliance with the provisions
of this subchapter.
   (B)   RV park permits required. No person shall own, maintain or operate any
recreational vehicle court or park within the city without a recreational
vehicle park permit issued by the city as provided in this subchapter.
      (1)   Authority to issue. The City Council may issue recreational vehicle
park permits (hereafter “RV park permits”) pursuant to this section.
      (2)   Applications; fees.
         (a)   Applications for RV park permits must be filed with the City
Clerk/Treasurer and shall be referred to the City Council for decision as
hereafter provided. Applications must be signed by the applicant and the record
fee title owner of the affected property consenting to the application, and
shall include a written plan for the proposed recreational vehicle park,
including, but not limited to, the following information:
            1.   The extent and area used for recreational vehicles parking
purposes;
            2.   Roadways and driveways;
            3.   The location of housing spaces sites and for motor vehicle
parking;
            4.   The location and number of sanitary conveniences, including
toilets, service rooms, washrooms, laundries and utility rooms, to be used by
the occupants of recreational vehicles;
            5.   Method and plan of sewage disposal, coupled with
certifications by the State Sanitarian that the plan of sewage disposal would
be approved upon completion;
            6.   A method and plan of garbage removal, all in accordance with
the city’s solid waste standards;
            7.   A method and plan for water supply, for potable water, a plan
for light, for fire protection and irrigation all as required by the Fire Code
and the state’s Department of Health and Welfare Health District; and
            8.   Provide reasonable plans for appropriate attractive
landscaping.
         (b)   The application shall also include all other information deemed
necessary by the city to process the application. The City Council may by
resolution from time to time establish and amend a fee schedule for
applications for RV park permits, including fees sufficient to pay the cost of
any notices, publications or inspections required by law or otherwise deemed
necessary by the city to process the application. The applicant shall pay the
applicable application fee at the time the application is filed with the city.
The city shall have no obligation to process any application filed with the
city unless the applicable application fee is paid in full by the applicant.
The City Council shall have the authority to waive all or any portion of the
applicable application fee when it deems such a waiver to be in the best
interest of the city.
   (C)   Hearing; decision; conditions; judicial review. Prior to granting or
denying a RV park permit, the city shall comply with the notice and hearing
requirements under Idaho Code Title 67, Chapter 65, as amended, applicable to
special use permit applications. Unless otherwise determined by resolution of
the City Council, the public hearing on the application shall be initially
commenced within 30 days after all notices required by law have been made. In
addition:
      (1)   The approval or denial of any application shall be based upon
standards and criteria which are set forth in the Comprehensive Plan, this
subchapter and other applicable city ordinances and regulations, as otherwise
provided in Idaho Code Title 67, Chapter 65, as amended. In addition, no RV
park permit may be granted unless the City Council finds that issuance the
permit is:
         (a)   Not inconsistent with the city’s Comprehensive Plan; and
         (b)   In the best interest of the public.
      (2)   The approval or denial of any application provided for in this
section shall be accompanied by a written decision of the city in compliance
with Idaho Code Title 67, Chapter 65, as amended;
      (3)   The City Council may attach conditions to RV park permits issued as
deemed in the best interest of the city, including, but not limited to, any
conditions authorized under Idaho Code Title 67, Chapter 65, as amended; and
      (4)   Judicial review of any final decision of the city under this
section may be taken tn the same manner as provided for judicial review of
final local land use planning decisions under Idaho Code Title 67, Chapter 65,
as amended.
   (D)   Non-transferability of permits. Unless otherwise provided in the
issued RV park permit, an RV park permit issued by the city shall apply to and
run with the land for which the permit is issued only, and shall inure to
benefit of the owner and the owner’s successors in interest to said land. An RV
park permit is not transferable from one parcel of land to another. An RV park
permit shall not be considered as establishing a binding precedent to grant
other conditional use permits.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 7-25-2022) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.162 EXCEPTION; EXISTING COURTS/PARKS; VARIANCES.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this subchapter, manufactured/
mobile home and recreation vehicle courts and parks existing within the city as
of the date of enactment of this subchapter shall be exempt from the provisions
of this subchapter as non-conforming uses, subject to provisions of §§
155.005,
155.130 through
155.148,
155.200 through
155.204 and
155.215 through
155.217 of this chapter as may be applicable.
   (B)   Except as others provided in this section, a variance of any
requirement, specification or standard under this subchapter may be applied for
and granted in the same manner as provided for variances under §§
155.005,
155.130 through
155.148,
155.200 through
155.204 and
155.215 through
155.217 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 7-25-2022)
§ 155.163 IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   In addition to all other requirements under this subchapter, all
manufactured/mobile home and recreational vehicle courts or parks shall have or
provide:
      (1)   A convenient means of pedestrian and vehicular access to each unit
space, parking areas and service buildings;
      (2)   An adequate lawful supply of potable water;
      (3)   Lawful method for disposal of sewage and solid waste generated from
or collected on the site;
      (4)   Electrical service for lighting and power; and
      (5)   Diversion of surface water away from buildings, unit spaces,
service and recreational areas, and its disposal for the site.
   (B)   All improvements required under this subchapter shall be:
      (1)   Designed and constructed in compliance with ail applicable laws,
regulations, codes and ordinances; and
      (2)   Kept in good, safe, clean and sanitary condition and repair by the
owner of said court or park.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 7-25-2022)
§ 155.164 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS; SPACING, ROADS AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   General. Each manufactured/mobile home and recreational vehicle court
or park shall be designed, constructed and maintained in compliance with the
provisions of this subchapter. The owner of any proposed new manufactured/
mobile home or recreational vehicle court or park created or established after
enactment of this chapter must prepare and submit a site plan for approval by
the city indicating the layout of housing spaces, roads, walks, service
buildings, service areas, utilities and grading within said court or park prior
to commencement of construction or operation of said court or park.
   (B)   Spacing requirements.
      (1)   Recreational vehicles.
         (a)   The minimum space between recreational vehicles, and between
said recreation vehicles and any structure, must be as follows:
            1.   Side to side spacing: not less than 15 feet; and
            2.   End to end spacing: not less than ten feet.
         (b)   No recreational vehicle housing space shall be located closer
than 25 feet from the right-of-way line of a main street or ten feet from any
court or park property line. All spacing requirements shall be as measured from
the closest point on the recreational vehicle’s body to the nearest other
recreational vehicle, structure, street or property line as applicable.
      (2)   Mobile homes and manufactured homes. The minimum setback and
spacing requirements for mobile homes and manufactured homes situated within
any manufactured/mobile home court or park shall be the same as applicable in
the applicable zoning district as if said units were framed construction house
and/or buildings.
   (C)   Roads, walks and parking areas.
      (1)   General requirements. Safety and convenience must be a major
consideration in the layout of roads, walks and parking areas within any
manufactured/mobile home or recreational vehicle court or park. All roads
within said court or park must be continuous, unless a road ends in an
appropriate cul-de-sac the design of which shall be in accordance with Chapter
157.
      (2)   Servicing. Suitable vehicular access for firefighting equipment
delivery of fuel, removal of garbage and refuse and for other necessary
services must be provided, and shall otherwise be in compliance with all
applicable laws, regulations, codes and ordinances.
      (3)   Widths of main access road. Main access roads within any trailer,
double-wide manufactured home or recreational vehicle court or park shall be
two lane, with an improved traveled width of not less than 38 feet wide.
      (4)   Parking area. The same number of off-street motor vehicle parking
spaces must be provided within the court or park as the number of manufactured/
mobile home and recreational vehicle housing spaces within the court or park.
   (D)   Service buildings. Each manufactured/mobile home or recreational
vehicle court or park that provide more than one housing space for recreational
vehicles must provide one or more service buildings containing the requisite
number of plumbing fixtures and other service equipment as described in this
section. Each required service building must conform to the following
requirements.
      (1)   Location. The service building shall be located not more than 200
feet from any dependent recreational vehicle housing space.
      (2)   Construction. The design and construction of service buildings must
conform to all applicable laws, regulations, codes and ordinances, including,
but not limited to, the Federal Americans with Disabilities Act, being 42
U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq.
      (3)   Restroom facilities. Separate men’s and women’s restrooms must be
provided and distinctly marked. A vestibule or screen wall must be provided to
prevent direct view into the restrooms when exterior doors are open.
      (4)   Plumbing. Adequate laundry facilities, which must be separate and
apart from toilet rooms. Furthermore, there must be separate shower facilities
for men and women. All plumbing installations shall be made and maintained in
compliance with all applicable laws, regulations, codes and ordinances.
      (5)   Electrical. All electrical installations shall be made and
maintained in compliance with all applicable laws, regulations, codes and
ordinances.
      (6)   Refuse collections. Refuse collection facilities must conform and
be maintained in compliance with all applicable laws, regulations, codes and
ordinances.
      (7)   Site engineering.
         (a)   Grading and drainage must be designed and constructed so that
water will drain away from housing spaces, service buildings and common areas
within the court or park, and off the site in a manner in compliance with all
applicable laws, regulations, codes and ordinances.
         (b)   Walks, driveways and retaining walls must be so constructed as
not to interfere with drainage.
      (8)   Slopes of housing spaces, roads, walks and service areas.
         (a)   Housing spaces must be graded toward abutting roadway to prevent
surface water draining across adjacent housing spaces. Grading under housing
spaces shall be provided to prevent puddling of water.
         (b)   Where swales for the carriers of storm water are needed or
required between housing spaces and any roadway, they must be of a shallow
type, generally not to exceed eight inches in depth.
         (c)   Unless otherwise specified by a licensed engineer or the city,
the following minimum and maximum slope values shall be applicable:
 
                 Minimum Slope Percent Maximum Slope Percent
Housing space     0.50                  5
Recreation areas  0.50                  4
Roads             0.50                  8
Sod/planted areas 1.00                  10
Walks             0.50                  10
 
      (9)   Construction of roads, parking areas, walks and service areas.
         (a)   Roads and parking areas. Roads must be constructed of concrete
or asphalt or of gravel, crushed stone, slag or other locally available
suitable materials, with a light bituminous surface treatment, and treated with
a legally acceptable dust preventive material. Roads must be crowned at the
center to shed water to drainage facilities.
         (b)   Walks. Walks must be constructed of concrete unless the
developer proposes an alternate plan which would provide safe and stable
footing from among the following other materials, asphalt, gravel, fine stone
or cinders. Any plan must show the proposed location of sidewalks, paths and
streets within any court with each such improvements being separately located,
identified and defined. Sidewalks shall be located adjacent to all interior
streets unless waived by the City Council for good cause shown.
      (10)   Management. In every manufactured/mobile home or recreational
vehicle court or park that provides more than one housing space for
recreational vehicles, there shall be an on-site office attended by the person
in charge of said court or park. It is hereby made the duty of the park owner
and each attendant or person in charge on-site to:
         (a)   Maintain all roads, common areas and service buildings in a
clean, orderly and sanitary conditional at all times;
         (b)   Prevent animals kept or harbored within the court or park from
running at large or otherwise becoming a nuisance;
         (c)   Maintain the required office area at least one approved fire
extinguisher or such additional numbers as the otherwise required by the Fire
Code; and
         (d)   Prevent open fires within the court or park, except as allowed
in approved appliances or enclosures.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 7-25-2022)
§ 155.165 UNLAWFUL ACTS; TEMPORARY OCCUPANCY PERMITS.
   (A)   Additional unlawful acts.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any mobile home,
manufactured home or recreational vehicle upon or within any street, alley,
way, highway or other public place within the city, except that motorized
recreational vehicles may be parked in vehicle parking spaces designated by the
city or highway agency with jurisdiction; provided that, they are parked in
compliance with all applicable laws, regulations, codes and ordinances. Unless
otherwise authorized by the city or highway agency with jurisdiction, no mobile
home, manufactured home or recreational vehicle parked, whether lawfully or
unlawfully, upon or within any street, alley, way, highway or other public
place within the city may be occupied or used for residential, dwelling or
business purposes for any period of time while so parked.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any mobile home,
manufactured home or recreational vehicle on any private property within the
city:
         (a)   Without the consent of the owner of said private property; and
         (b)   As otherwise in compliance with this subchapter and all
applicable laws, regulations, codes and ordinances.
      (3)   Unless otherwise provided in this chapter, it shall be unlawful for
any person to use or occupy any recreational vehicle situated upon any lot for
residential or dwelling purposes for any period of time exceeding a total of
seven days in any calendar year, except within an approved manufactured/ mobile
home or recreational vehicle court or park, as defined in this subchapter.
   (B)   Temporary occupancy permits.
      (1)   Authority to issue. Notwithstanding any of the other provisions of
this chapter, the City Council may issue temporary occupancy permits
authorizing temporary use and occupancy of any recreational vehicle otherwise
prohibited under this chapter as provided in this section.
      (2)   Temporary occupancy permits.
         (a)   Authority to issue. The City Council may issue temporary
occupancy permits to authorize temporary use or occupancy of a recreational
vehicle otherwise prohibited under this subchapter as provided in this section.
         (b)   Applications; fees.
            1.   Applications for temporary occupancy permits must be filed
with the City Clerk/Treasurer and shall be referred to the City Council for
decision as hereafter provided. Applications must be signed by the applicant
and the record fee title owner of the lot where the recreational vehicle will
be used or occupied under the permit consenting to the application. The
applicant shall provide the city all information deemed necessary by the City
Council to process the application, including, but not limited to:
               a.   The legal description of the lot where the recreational
vehicle will be used or occupied;
               b.   The name and address of the record owner of said lot;
               c.   The scope of the intended use or occupancy, including the
number of persons who will use/occupy the recreational vehicle; and
               d.   The requested duration for the permit.
            2.   The City Council may, by resolution, from time to time
establish and amend a fee schedule for applications for temporary occupancy
permits, including fees sufficient to pay the cost of any notices, publications
or inspections required by law or otherwise determined necessary by the city to
process the application. The applicant shall pay the applicable application fee
at the time the application is filed with the city. The city shall have no
obligation to process any application filed with the city unless the applicable
application fee is paid in full by the applicant. The City Council shall have
the authority to waive all or any portion of the application fee when it deems
such a waiver to be in the best interest of the city.
         (c)   Hearing; decision; conditions; judicial review. Prior to
granting or denying a temporary occupancy permit, the city shall comply with
the notice and hearing requirements under Idaho Code Title 67, Chapter 65, as
amended, applicable to special use permit applications. Unless otherwise
determined by resolution of the City Council, the public hearing on the
application shall be initially commenced within 30 days after all notices
required by law have been duly given. In addition:
            1.   The approval or denial of any application shall be based upon
standards and criteria set forth in the Comprehensive Plan, this chapter and
other applicable city ordinances and regulations, as otherwise provided in
Idaho Code Title 67, Chapter 65, as amended. In addition, no temporary
occupancy permit may be granted unless the City Council finds that issuance of
the conditional use permit is:
               a.   Consistent with the city’s Comprehensive Plan; and
               b.   In the best interest of the public.
            2.   The approval or denial of any application provided for in this
section shall be accompanied by a written decision of the city in compliance
with Idaho Code Title 67, Chapter 65, as amended.
         (d)   Duration. Notwithstanding any other provision of this section,
no temporary occupancy permit may be issued nor shall remain in effect for an
effective duration longer than 180 days from the date of issuance of the
permit; provided, however, that, the City Council may issue renewed permits
upon new application by the permit holder, including, but not limited to,
payment any application permit renewal fee. Each temporary occupancy permit
shall state a commencement date and termination date for the permit subject to
the provisions of this division (B)(2). The temporary occupancy permit shall
automatically terminate upon expiration of the termination date stated in the
permit unless the permit is renewed prior to expiration of the current
temporary occupancy permit as provided under this division (B)(2).
         (e)   Conditions. The City Council may attach conditions to temporary
occupancy permits issued as deemed in the best interest of the city, including,
but not limited to, any conditions authorized under Idaho Code Title 67,
Chapter 65, as amended.
      (3)   Judicial review. Judicial review of any final decision of the city
under this section may be taken in the same manner as provided for judicial
review of final local land use planning decisions under Idaho Code Title 67,
Chapter 65, as amended.
      (4)   Applicability/non-transferability of permits. Unless otherwise
provided in the issued temporary occupancy permit, a temporary permit issued by
the city shall apply to the applicant and permitted occupants for the subject
lot specified in the permit for the duration of the permit only. A temporary
occupancy permit is not transferable to any other person, recreational vehicle
or from one lot to another. A temporary occupancy permit shall not be
considered as establishing a binding precedent to renew any existing occupancy
permit or grant other or additional temporary occupancy permits.
      (5)   Violations.
         (a)   It shall be a violation of this subchapter for any person to
violate any term or condition of this chapter, or any temporary occupancy
permit issued by the city pursuant to this chapter.
         (b)   In addition to all other remedies of the city, which shall be
non-exclusive and cumulative, the city may revoke any temporary occupancy
permit in the event the permit holder is in violation of terms or conditions of
the permit or is otherwise in violation of the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 7-25-2022)
§ 155.166 ENFORCEMENT; VIOLATIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter may be enforced by the city in the same
manner as provided for enforcement of the city’s Building Code as set forth in
§§
155.180 through
155.185 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 7-25-2022)
BUILDING CODE
§ 155.180 TITLE.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall be known as the “Nezperce Building
Code”.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 7-25-2022)
§ 155.181 APPLICABILITY.
   The provisions of this subchapter, including, but not limited to, all
adopted codes, shall be applicable to all lands, buildings, structures and
improvements situated within the city in accordance its provisions.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 7-25-2022)
§ 155.182 CODE ADOPTION.
   (A)   Copies of adopted codes. One copy of each code adopted under division
(B) below shall be kept in the office of the Clerk/Treasurer of the city and
shall be made available for public inspection in the Clerk/Treasurer’s office
during normal business hours.
   (B)   Adopted codes. The following codes are hereby adopted by the city for
regulation of the erection, construction, enlargement, alteration, repair,
moving, conversion, occupancy, use, height, area and maintenance of all
buildings and structures situated within the city, including, but not limited
to, installation of manufactured homes in accordance with the provision of
Idaho Code Title 44, Chapter 22, excluding all fee schedules contained in said
adopted codes.
      (1)   State codes.
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, the city hereby
adopts the current editions of the following codes, published by the
International Code Council, as adopted and amended by the state’s Division of
Building Safety, state’s Building Code Board or otherwise by the state,
together with any amendments or revisions set forth in Idaho Code § 39-4109, as
amended, and including subsequent versions of said adopted codes:
            1.   International Building Code, including all rules promulgated
by the Board to provide equivalency with the provisions of the Americans with
Disabilities Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq. accessibility guidelines and
the Federal Fair Housing Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 3601 through 3619
accessibility guidelines;
            2.   International Residential Code, parts I through IV and IX; and
            3.   International Energy Conservation Code, excluding all fee
schedules, and excluding any reference to the flood requirements which shall be
governed by Chapter 154 of this code of ordinances. The adopted versions of the
foregoing codes shall be deemed superseded by successive versions of the codes
as they are amended and adopted by the state or state’s Building Code Board.
         (b)   Unless otherwise provided in this chapter, the adopted versions
of the foregoing codes as set forth above shall be deemed superseded by
successive versions of or amendments to said codes when the same are adopted by
the State Division of Building Safety, State Building Code Board or otherwise
by the state, for application within the state.
      (2)   Additional adopted codes.
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, the city hereby
adopts the current editions of the following additional codes and regulations
as published by the publishers of said codes as of the date of adoption hereof,
excluding all fee schedules, and excluding any reference to flood requirements
which shall be governed by Chapter 154 of this code of ordinances: the latest
edition of the Uniform Code for the Abatement of Dangerous Buildings prepared
by the International Conference of Building Officials (ICBO).
         (b)   Unless otherwise provided in this chapter, the adopted versions
of the foregoing codes as set forth above shall be deemed superseded by
successive versions of or amendments to said codes when the same are published
by the publisher of said codes.
   (C)   Mobile homes, manufactured homes and modular buildings. The
installation, erection and/or assembly of mobile homes, manufactured homes and
modular buildings, shall be governed and performed in compliance with all
applicable laws, regulations, codes and ordinances, including but not limited
to all regulations and standards of the state’s Division of Building Safety. In
addition:
      (1)   No mobile home, manufactured home or modular building over 20 years
old shall be installed on a building site unless the same is in compliance with
all applicable laws, regulations, codes and ordinances, including, but not
limited to, all rules and regulations of the state’s Division of Building
Safety; and
      (2)   Unless otherwise provided in this chapter, any manufactured home or
mobile home installed within the city after enactment of this chapters,
including within a manufacture/mobile home court or park, or recreational
vehicle court or park, must have a roof or self-supporting roof structure
covering the entire roof (i.e., a ramada) of said manufactured home or mobile
home with no less than 65 pounds per square foot snow-load capacity. Design and
construction of the self-supporting roof cover shall be subject to all
applicable laws, regulations, codes and ordinances.
   (D)   Exemptions.
      (1)   Agricultural buildings. Agricultural buildings shall be exempt from
the requirements of this chapter; provided, they are situated on land actively
devoted to agricultural pursuits as defined by Idaho Code Title 63, Chapter 6,
and are, at the time of application, being assessed as lands actively devoted
to agriculture. An AGRICULTURAL BUILDING is defined as any structure on land
actively devoted to agriculture that is used solely for growing, raising or
producing plants, animals or crops, and not primarily for human occupation or
habitation. An agricultural exemption permit is still required, and the permit
shall be governed by the laws in effect at the time a complete permit
application is received. An agricultural exemption permit will be processed in
the same manner as a building permit application and will be subject to
compliance with all other laws, ordinances and department procedures in effect
at the time. Signoffs from other public agencies and an initial erosion and
storm water risk assessment may be required. No building permit plan review fee
or building inspections will, however, be required. In the case of a high-risk
site, a site disturbance plan will be required.
      (2)   Industrial chemical process and mineral extraction and processing
equipment exemption. Equipment used primarily for industrial chemical process
purposes and for mineral extraction and mineral processing shall be exempt from
the requirements of this chapter. This exemption does not include the erection
and fabrication of new boilers, pressure vessels and other equipment required
to condition a building for personnel or human comfort and safety, which shall
mean facilities or installations for heating, ventilating, air conditioning,
refrigerating equipment, elevators, dumbwaiters, escalators and boilers and
pressure vessels associated with building heating systems.
      (3)   Federal snow load standards; manufactured/mobile homes. Any
manufactured homes or mobile home constructed in compliance with any snow load
standard established under federal law in effect and applicable to construction
of the manufactured home or mobile home at the time of its construction is
exempt from the provisions of division (C)(2) above; provided, however, that,
all porches, roofs, additions and other structures and buildings attached to or
affixed to any such exempt manufactured home or mobile home shall remain
subject to all applicable laws, codes, regulations and ordinances, including,
but not limited to, any applicable snow load standards.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 7-25-2022)
§ 155.183 FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter or any codes
adopted pursuant of this chapter, the City Council may, from time to time, by
resolution adopt and amend a schedule of fees for applications, permits,
inspections and all other services performed or permits or licenses issued by
the city pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   The current fee schedule in effect at the time of adoption hereof
shall remain in effect until later amendment by the City Council.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 7-25-2022)
§ 155.184 SETBACKS FOR PUBLIC BUILDINGS.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, the city may alter the
setback line in case of a public or government building after a public hearing
if the City Council determines that such alteration is in the best interest of
the city.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 7-25-2022)
§ 155.185 VARIANCES.
   A variance of any requirement, specification or standard under this chapter
may applied for and be granted in the same manner as provided for variances
under §§
155.005, 155.130 through 155.148, 155.200 through 155.204 and 155.215 through
155.217 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 7-25-2022)
VARIANCES
§ 155.200 DEFINITION.
   (A)   A VARIANCE is a modification or waiver of:
      (1)   The bulk and placement requirements of the ordinance as to lot
size, lot coverage, width, depth, front yard, side yard, rear yard, setbacks,
parking space, height of buildings or affecting the size or shape of a
structure or the placement of the structure upon lots, or the size of lots; or
      (2)   Any other requirement, specification or standard under this
chapter.
   (B)   A VARIANCE shall not be considered a right or special privilege, but
may be granted to an applicant only if:
      (1)   Undue hardship, including, but not limited to, undue economic
hardship, because of characteristics of the site or conditions not the fault of
the applicant would result if the variance is not granted; and
      (2)   Granting the variance is:
         (a)   Consistent with the city’s Comprehensive Plan; and
         (b)   In the best interest of the city.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 7-25-2022)
§ 155.201 AUTHORITY TO ISSUE.
   The City Council may grant variances subject to the provisions of this
section and as otherwise authorized by law, including, but not limited to,
Idaho Code Title 67, Chapter 65, as amended.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 7-25-2022)
§ 155.202 APPLICATIONS; FEES.
   Applications for variances must be filed with the City Clerk/Treasurer and
shall be referred to the City Council for hearing and decision as hereafter
provided. Applications must be signed by the applicant and the record fee title
owner of the subject lot consenting to the application. The applicant shall
provide the city all information deemed necessary by the City Council to
process the application. The City Council may, by resolution, from time to time
establish and amend a fee schedule for applications for conditional use
permits, including fees sufficient to pay the cost of any notices, publications
or inspections required by law or otherwise deemed necessary by the city to
process the application. The applicant shall pay the applicable variance
application fee at the time the application is filed with the city. The city
shall have no obligation to process any application filed with the city unless
the applicable application fee is paid in full by the applicant. The City
Council shall have the authority to waive all or any portion of the applicable
application fee when it deems such a waiver to be in the best interest of the
city.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 7-25-2022)
§ 155.203 HEARING; DECISION; CONDITIONS; JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   (A)   Prior to granting or denying a variance, the city shall comply with
the notice and hearing requirements applicable to hearings on conditional use
permit applications under this chapter. Unless otherwise determined by
resolution of the City Council, the public hearing on the application shall be
initially commenced within 30 days after all notices required by law have been
duly given.
   (B)   In addition:
      (1)   The approval or denial of any variance shall be based upon
standards and criteria which are set forth in the Comprehensive Plan, this
chapter, other applicable city ordinances, and as otherwise provided by law,
including, but not limited to, in Idaho Code Title 67, Chapter 65, as amended;
      (2)   The approval or denial of any application provided for in this
section shall be accompanied by a written decision of the city in compliance
with Idaho Code Title 67, Chapter 65, as amended;
      (3)   The City Council may impose conditions upon any variance granted as
deemed in the best interest of the city, including, but not limited to, any
conditions authorized under Idaho Code Title 67, Chapter 65, as amended; and
      (4)   Judicial review of any final decision of the city under this
section may be taken in the same manner as provided for judicial review of
final local land use planning decisions under Idaho Code Title 67, Chapter 65,
as amended.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 7-25-2022)
§ 155.204 APPLICABILITY/NON-TRANSFERABILITY.
   Unless otherwise provided in the issued variance, a variance issued by the
city shall apply to and shall run with the lot for which the permit is issued
only, and shall inure to the benefit of owner and owner’s successors in
interests to said land. A variance is not transferable from one lot to another.
A variance shall not be considered as establishing a binding precedent to grant
other variances.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 7-25-2022)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 155.215 VIOLATIONS.
   Violation of any provision this chapter, any term or condition of any
conditional use permit, variance or other permit issued or granted by the city
pursuant to this chapter or any term or condition of any development agreement
made by the owner or developer of a lot pursuant to §
155.148 of this chapter, shall constitute a misdemeanor, and shall be
punishable by a fine, jail, or both, as provided by state law.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 7-25-2022)
§ 155.216 ENFORCEMENT GENERALLY.
   The provisions of this chapter may be enforced by the City Mayor, City
Building Official, City Attorney and any state peace officer; provided,
however, that, nothing in this section is intended to, nor shall it, prohibit
the city from pursuing all remedies for any violation of this chapter as may be
provided under this chapter or as otherwise provided by law, with all said
remedies of the city being cumulative and not exclusive.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 7-25-2022)
§ 155.217 ADDITIONAL REMEDIES; AMENDMENT, TERMINATION OR REVOCATION.
   In the event any lot owner or developer is in violation of any term or
condition of any conditional use permit, variance or request to rezone issued
or granted by the city pursuant to this chapter or any term or condition of any
development agreement made by the owner or developer of a lot pursuant to §
155.148 of this chapter, the city may after notice and hearing as provided
under Idaho Code § 67-6509, as amended, modify, amend, terminate or revoke, in
whole or in part, said conditional use permit, variance, rezone or development
agreement as deemed in the best interest of the city. Said remedy of the city
shall be in addition to all other remedies of the city for such violations;
provided, however, that, the city shall not commence proceedings to modify,
amend, terminate or revoke, in whole or in part, said conditional use permit,
variance, rezone or development agreement pursuant to this section prior to
giving the lot owner and/or developer, as may be applicable, written notice of
said violation at least 30 days prior to commencement of such proceedings,
unless the City Council finds that a lesser notice period is reasonable under
the circumstances then existing.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 7-25-2022)
§ 155.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to violate any
term or condition of any variance issued by the city pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   It shall be a violation of §
155.161 of this chapter for any person to violate any term or condition of §
155.161 of this chapter or any term or condition of any RV park permit issued
under §
155.161 of this chapter. In addition to all other remedies of the city, which
shall be non-exclusive and cumulative, the city may revoke any RV park permit
in the event the permit holder is in violation of terms or conditions of the
permit or is otherwise in violation of the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   (1)   The following provisions shall apply to enforcement of the
city’s Building Code, per §§
155.180 through
155.185 of this chapter.
         (a)   Building Official. The Mayor, with the consent and approval of
the City Council, may appoint one or more Building Officials and Deputy
Building Officials to enforce §§
155.180 through
155.185 of this chapter. Each duly appointed Building Official and Deputy
Building Official shall have the authority to enforce all provisions of this
chapter. The city may enter into any agreements with such appointed persons to
act as Building Officials and Deputies as deemed necessary and proper by the
City Council.
         (b)   Enforcement and penalties. In addition to all other remedies
provided under this chapter and as may be provided by law, the following
remedies are available to enforce compliance with the provisions of §§
155.180 through
155.185 of this chapter.
            1.   Injunction; public nuisance. The city may seek relief from a
court of competent jurisdiction to restrain any conduct in violation of §§
155.180 through
155.185 of this chapter, to compel compliance with §§
155.180 through
155.185 of this chapter, or to abate any nuisance arising from or existing by
reason of a violation of §§
155.180 through
155.185 of this chapter. Said remedies may be pursed in addition to all other
remedies provided by this chapter or by law. Any condition or activity in
violation of §§
155.180 through
155.185 of this chapter, including any code adopted under §§
155.180 through
155.185 of this chapter, or in violation of any stop work order or no occupancy
order issued under §§
155.180 through
155.185 of this chapter, is hereby declared to be a public nuisance.
            2.   Criminal penalties. Violation of §§
155.180 through
155.185 of this chapter by any person, including, but not limited to, any
violation of any term or condition of any stop work order, no occupancy order
or permit issued pursuant to §§
155.180 through
155.185 of this chapter, shall constitute a misdemeanor, and shall be
punishable by a fine, jail, or both, as provided by state law. Each structure
that is in violation of §§
155.180 through
155.185 of this chapter, and each day a violation continues, will be considered
a separate violation.
            3.   Stop work/no occupancy orders. The Building Official may issue
stop work orders to prohibit any work, activity or condition in violation of §§
155.180 through
155.185 of this chapter. The Building Official may issue an order of no
occupancy to prohibit occupancy of any works, building or structures in
violation of §§
155.180 through
155.185 of this chapter. Such orders may be combined in a single document. Such
orders shall be written, and direct that work be stopped, and/or that the
affected works, structure or building may not be occupied, as may be
applicable. Such orders shall be served by posting the order in a prominent
location on the affected premises, works, building or structure with such
service effective upon posting, or personal service upon any occupant of the
affected premises, works, building or structure with service being effective
upon personal service. All persons engaged in doing or causing such work to be
done, or occupying the affected premises, works, building or structure, shall
stop work and not occupy the work, structure or building as ordered until
authorized by the Building Official to proceed. Stop work and no occupancy
orders may be appealed according to the procedure provided in this chapter for
notices of Building Code violations. Nothing in this section shall prohibit or
limit the authority or reasons the building official may issue stop work or no
occupancy orders otherwise permitted under §§
155.180 through
155.185 of this chapter, or any other provision of law.
            4.   Withholding permits. The Building Official may withhold
issuance of any permits, including building permits, on lots or parcels of land
with buildings, structures or activities in violation of §§
155.180 through
155.185 of this chapter.
            5.   Compliance agreements. The Building Official may enter into
formal compliance agreements on a case-by-case basis, subject to the following
provisions or conditions.
               a.   The Building Official finds that the violations that are
the subject of the compliance agreement do not pose an imminent threat to
people or property.
               b.   The party responsible for compliance agrees to remedy the
violation(s) in an expeditious manner by a certain date.
               c.   The party responsible for compliance agrees to hold the
Building Official and the city harmless and to defend against any claims
arising through operation of the compliance agreement. The responsible party
shall provide evidence of general liability coverage for person injury and
property damage for the premises subject to the compliance agreement, with the
city named as an additional insured.
               d.   The responsible party shall pay any costs and/or attorney
fee by the city incurred to enforce a compliance agreement.
            6.   Notice of violation. In addition to all other remedies, if a
permit issued under §§
155.180 through
155.185 of this chapter expires prior to the final inspection, or if the
applicant, owner or occupant fails to obtain a certificate of occupancy or
certificate of completion as required by §§
155.180 through
155.185 of this chapter, the Building Official may issue and record a notice of
Building Code violation in the official property records of the county, subject
to the following provisions.
               a.   The Building Official shall prepare and serve said notice
of violation upon the owner or occupant of the affected lot or structure,
either by certified mail, personal service or posting in a conspicuous place on
the premises. The notification shall include:
                  i.   The name of the property owner and the legal description
or street address of the affected property;
                  ii.   The nature of the violation;
                  iii.   The remedial action that must be undertaken to resolve
the violation; and
                  iv.   The length of time allotted, if any, to resolve the
violation.
               b.   The notice of violation shall advise the owner of the
appeal process. The city may consider a written appeal, submitted by the
property owner, and received no later than 20 days after the notice of was
mailed to the owner. The appeal shall be heard by the City Council on a date
specified by City Council. If the appeal is denied, the City Council may, in
its discretion, specify an exact number of days to gain compliance with §§
155.180 through
155.185 of this chapter before the notice of violation is recorded. If the
appeal is approved, the city will specify actions to be taken by the building
official to release the violation. The city may elect to add or remove
conditions of remedial action as it deems necessary and appropriate to secure
compliance with §§
155.180 through
155.185 of this chapter.
               c.   At such time the violation is resolved, the owner shall pay
the fee specified in the current adopted fee schedule and the building official
shall record a release of notice of violation in the official property records
of the County Recorder. A copy of the recorded release shall also be mailed to
the owner via certified mail.
      (2)   Nothing herein is intended to, nor shall it, prevent the city from
taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or correct any
violation of §§
155.180 through
155.185 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 7-25-2022)
CHAPTER 156: COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE PLAN
Section
   
156.01   Comprehensive Land Use Plan adopted by reference
§ 156.01 COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE PLAN ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The City Council hereby adopts the “City of Nezperce Comprehensive
Land Use Plan”, dated 1-10-2022.
   (B)   Said adopted plan is a final print of prior drafts which have been the
subject of the public hearings referenced above and which reflect responses to
public comments upon the proposed amendments.
   (C)   Copies of said Comprehensive Land Use Plan shall be maintained on file
in the office of the City Clerk/Treasurer. Individual copies may be purchased
at the cost of production from the city. An electronic copy is available free-
of-charge.
(Res. R2022-3, passed 1-10-2022)
CHAPTER 157: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
157.001   Short title
   
157.002   Authority
   
157.003   Purpose
   
157.004   Scope
   
157.005   Jurisdiction and compliance
   
157.006   Interpretation
   
157.007   Administration
   
157.008   Combining of permits
   
157.009   Severability
   
157.010   Definitions
Procedure for Subdivision Approval
   
157.025   Subdivision approval required
   
157.026   Land held in joint ownership
   
157.027   Pre-application
   
157.028   Simple subdivision procedure
   
157.029   Preliminary plats
   
157.030   Amended subdivision plat
   
157.031   Final plat
   
157.032   Combined plat procedure
Design Standards
   
157.045   Minimum design standards required
   
157.046   Dedication
   
157.047   Location
   
157.048   Specifications
   
157.049   Street names
   
157.050   Pedestrian walkways
   
157.051   Easements
   
157.052   Lots
Improvement Standards
   
157.065   Responsibility for plans
   
157.066   Required public improvements
   
157.067   Guarantee of completion of improvements
Special Development Subdivisions
   
157.080   Purpose
   
157.081   Hillside subdivisions
   
157.082   Planned unit and condominium subdivisions
   
157.083   Mobile home subdivisions
   
157.084   Large scale development subdivisions
   
157.085   Cemetery subdivisions
   
157.086   Subdivisions within floodplain
   
157.087   Subdivisions within areas of critical concern
Administration and Enforcement
   
157.100   Administration
   
157.101   Variances
   
157.102   Amendment procedures
   
157.103   Detection of violations
   
157.104   Enforcement
 
   
157.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 157.001 SHORT TITLE.
   These regulations shall be known and cited as the City of Nezperce
Subdivision Regulations, hereinafter referred to as this chapter.
(Ord. 2025-07, passed 3-10-2025)
§ 157.002 AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is adopted pursuant to authority conferred by Idaho Code Title
50, Chapter 13 and Idaho Code Title 67, Chapter 65.
(Ord. 2025-07, passed 3-10-2025)
§ 157.003 PURPOSE.
   The purposes of this chapter are to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare of present and future residents by ensuring that the
subdivision of land results in:
   (A)   The harmonious development of the area;
   (B)   Patterns of lots, blocks, streets, open space and sites for public
facilities that are consistent with the city’s Comprehensive Plan;
   (C)   New developable lots having networks of utilities that are efficient
and cost-effective to maintain;
   (D)   Systems of open space and stormwater drainage, and other natural areas
that connect with and complement similar areas on adjacent lots where possible;
   (E)   To provide standards for such development;
   (F)   Adequate open space for travel, light, air and recreation;
   (G)   Adequate provisions for water supply, drainage, sanitary sewage and
other health requirements;
   (H)   Prevention of noise-sensitive land uses or other uses that would
conflict with operations of the airport;
   (I)   The facilitation of real property transfers by accurate description;
   (J)   The conservation of land by encouraging its most effective and
economical use;
   (K)   The avoidance of scattered subdivisions of land that would result in
any of the following:
      (1)   Lack of essential public services; or
      (2)   Unnecessary imposition of excessive expenditure of public funds for
the supply of such services.
   (L)   Logical procedures for achieving all of these purposes.
(Ord. 2025-07, passed 3-10-2025)
§ 157.004 SCOPE.
   (A)   This chapter is to be in full force and effect from and after its
passage, approval and publication according to the state statutes.
   (B)   If any one or more of the sections, divisions or any other part of
this chapter is for any reason held to be unconstitutional or invalid, such
decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this
chapter and the same shall remain in full force and effect.
   (C)   Regulations of this chapter shall apply to all real property,
structures or fixtures attached thereto in the city, except as may be altered
under Idaho Code §§ 67-6525 (annexation) and 67-6526 (area of impact) or their
successors. All persons, the United States, the Nez Perce Tribe, the state,
county, city and all their respective agencies, boards, departments,
institutions and local special purpose districts, shall comply with this
chapter unless otherwise excepted by law.
(Ord. 2025-07, passed 3-10-2025)
§ 157.005 JURISDICTION AND COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   This chapter shall apply to the subdividing of all land within the
incorporated city, including property within one mile outside the limits of the
where an adopted city subdivision ordinance will prevail or as mutually defined
by both city and county under requirements of Idaho Code § 50-1306, as amended
or subsequently codified.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful hereafter to make a subdivision of land, as
defined in this chapter, or to set apart land for any public street, road,
alley or any part thereof, until plans of the proposed subdivision have been
submitted to and approved by the City Council or any committee as authorized by
the City Council.
   (C)   No person, firm, corporation or other legal entity shall hereafter
sell, lease or offer for sale or lease any lot, piece or parcel of land which
is within a subdivision as defined by this chapter, without having first
recorded a plat of said subdivision in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter and state law.
(Ord. 2025-07, passed 3-10-2025) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.006 INTERPRETATION.
   All subdivisions as herein defined shall be submitted for review and
recommendation by the City Council and shall comply with the provisions of this
chapter. This chapter shall not apply to any lot or lots forming a part of any
subdivision created and recorded prior to the effective date hereof, except to
the further dividing of lots; nor is it intended by this chapter to repeal,
abrogate, annul or in any way impair or interfere with existing private
restrictions placed upon property by deed, covenant or other private
agreements, or with restrictive covenants running with the land to which the
city is a party.
(Ord. 2025-07, passed 3-10-2025)
§ 157.007 ADMINISTRATION.
   The Council shall carry out the provisions as herein specified. The Council
shall receive and make recommendations on all subdivision applications or other
issues related to city planning and zoning. The Council may choose to designate
a Planning and Zoning Committee to receive and make recommendations on all
subdivision applications or other issues related to city planning and zoning.
The Council shall appoint an Administrator to carry out the provisions as
herein specified and to serve at the pleasure of the Council. The Administrator
shall receive and process all subdivision applications.
(Ord. 2025-07, passed 3-10-2025)
§ 157.008 COMBINING OF PERMITS.
   The Council may coordinate with other departments and agencies concerning
all permits which may be required in this chapter and previously or
subsequently adopted city ordinances. A one-step permit application and
processing procedure may be developed with the respective department and
agencies for the purpose of reducing errors, misunderstanding, confusion and
unnecessary delay for everyone involved.
(Ord. 2025-07, passed 3-10-2025)
§ 157.009 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   This chapter shall supplement all other regulations, and where at
variance with other laws, regulations, ordinances or resolutions, the more
restrictive requirements shall apply.
   (B)   Where any word, phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, section or other
part of this chapter is held invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, such
judgment shall affect only that part so held invalid.
(Ord. 2025-07, passed 3-10-2025)
§ 157.010 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING. Any structure not intended for human occupancy but that
serves as an accessory function to the principal building on the property.
   ADMINISTRATOR. An official, having knowledge in the principles and practices
of subdividing who is appointed by the Board to administer this chapter.
   AFFECTED PERSON. One having an interest in real property which may be
adversely affected by approval or disapproval of a proposed subdivision or
development.
   AGRICULTURAL USES. Farming, dairying, pasturage, cultivation, tillage,
horticulture, floriculture, silviculture, viticulture, vermiculture, animal,
poultry and fish husbandry, as the principal land use and the necessary
accessory uses for packing, treating or storing the produce. AGRICULTURAL USES
shall not include commercial riding stables, race tracks, slaughterhouses,
plants, factories, works for the reduction of animal matter (rendering plant)
or commercial poultry, kennels or feed lots.
   BLOCK. A group of lots, tracts or parcels within well-defined boundaries,
usually streets.
   BUILDING. Any structure securely fixed to the land, and which is designated
or intended for the shelter, enclosure or protection of persons, animals,
material goods for commercial or industrial uses, or property of any kind.
   CEMETERY. A lot that has been platted for the setting of sites for the
burial of animal or human remains.
   CITY. The City of Nezperce, Idaho
   COMMERCIAL USE. A use other than agriculture that involves the sale of
products or services for profit or compensation.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. An adopted document that herein may be referred to as
the Comprehensive Development Plan or the Plan. The document shall show the
general location and extent of present and proposed development, including, but
not limited to, housing, industrial and commercial uses, streets, parks,
schools and other community facilities.
   CONDITIONAL APPROVAL. An affirmative action by the Council that a
recommendation of full approval will be granted upon satisfaction of specified
stipulations by the subdivider.
   CONDOMINIUM. An estate consisting of undivided interest in common in real
property in an interest or interests in real property or in any combination
thereof.
   COUNCIL. The City Council of Nezperce, Idaho.
   COUNTY RECORDER. The Office of the Lewis County Recorder.
   COVENANT. A written promise, pledge or agreement, especially one specifying
restrictions or conditions imposed by the seller of land upon its subsequent
use by the purchaser.
   CULVERT. A drain that channel water under a bridge, street, road or
driveway.
   DEDICATION. The setting apart of land; or interests in land, for use by the
public by ordinance, resolution or entry in the official minutes as by the
recording of a plat. Dedicated land becomes public land only when accepted by
the Board as a public DEDICATION by the passage of an ordinance, a resolution
or an entry of approval in the official minutes of the Board.
   DEVELOPER. Authorized agent(s) of a subdivider or the subdivider himself or
herself.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any grading, vegetation removal, construction activity or any
other activity excluding maintenance that changes the existing character or use
of the land or has any impact on adjoining properties.
   DWELLING UNIT.
      (1)   Any building or other structure proposed or built for occupancy by
people, or a portion of such building proposed for occupancy by people.
      (2)   A pre-fab DWELLING UNIT which is a building or other structure,
proposed or built for occupancy by people that is designed for initial
transportation on streets and highways which arrives at a site where it is
installed on a permanent foundation.
   EASEMENT. Authorization by a property owner for the use by another, and for
a specified purpose, of any designated part of his or her property. Also, a
right acquired by prescription.
   ENGINEER. A person licensed by the state to practice professional
engineering.
   FLAG LOT. An irregular lot, the purpose of which is to allow access to an
otherwise landlocked lot and whose shape resembled a flag and a pole. That
portion of the lot connecting to a street is represented by the pole and shall
not be less than 25 feet in width.
   FLOOD; FLOODING. The temporary inundation of normally dry land areas by
overflow from streams or by unusual and rapid accumulation of surface waters
from any source.
   FLOODPLAIN. The floodplain includes the channel, floodway and floodway
fringe, as established per the engineering practices as specified by the Army
Corps of Engineers, as following:
      (1)   CHANNEL. A natural or artificial watercourse of perceptible extent,
with definite bed and banks to confine and conduct continuously or periodically
flowing water.
      (2)   FLOOD. The temporary inundation of land adjacent to and inundated
by overflow from a river, stream, lake or other body of water.
      (3)   FLOOD OF 100-YEAR FREQUENCY. A flood magnitude which has a 1%
chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year.
      (4)   FLOODWAY. The channel or a watercourse and those portions of the
floodplain adjoining the channel, which are reasonably required to carry and
discharge the floodwater of any watercourse.
      (5)   FLOODWAY FRINGE. The part of the floodplain which is beyond the
floodway, such areas will include those portions of the floodplain which will
be inundated by a flood of 100-year frequency.
   GOVERNING BODY. The Mayor and Council of the City of Nezperce.
   GREENBELT. Planted and landscaped area designed to act as a buffer area
between non-compatible use area, as well as providing, in some cases,
recreational or conservation open space. GREENBELTS are generally wider and of
a more multi-purpose nature than screening or planting strips.
   HEALTH AUTHORITY. The North Central District Health Department, the State
Department of Labor and Industrial Services, Plumbing Division, and the State
Division of Environmental Quality.
   HIGHWAY. A street designated as a highway by an appropriate state or federal
agency or as defined by law.
   HILLSIDE SUBDIVISION. Any subdivision, or portion thereof, having an average
slope of 12% or more, or where adverse conditions associated with soil
stability, erosion or sedimentation are present.
   IMPROVEMENT. Any alteration to the land or other physical construction
associated with subdivision and/or building site development.
   LARGE SCALE SUBDIVISION. A subdivision, the size of which consists of 30 or
more dwelling units.
   LOT. A parcel or plot of land held under fee ownership by one or more
owners, inclusive of any open spaces required by this chapter. Without
limitation of the foregoing general definition, the term LOT shall also be
deemed to include, but is not limited to, any parcel or plot of land; platted
and identified as a separate LOT or parcel on any duly recorded townsite or
subdivision plat; or assessed as a unique tax parcel by the County Assessor for
real property tax purposes.
   LOT AREA. The total area of a lot measured on a horizontal plane within the
boundary lines exclusive of public and private roads, and access easements to
other property.
   LOT TYPES.
      (1)   LOT, CORNER. A lot situated at the intersection of two or more
streets.
      (2)   LOT DEPTH. The horizontal distance between the front and the rear
lot lines.
      (3)   LOT FRONTAGE. The front of a lot shall be that boundary of a lot
along a public street, and for a corner lot, the front shall be the shorter of
the lot boundaries along a street.
      (4)   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot with frontage on only one street.
      (5)   LOT, REVERSED CORNER. A corner lot, the rear of which abuts upon
the side of another lot whether across an alley or not.
      (6)   LOT, THROUGH. A lot with frontage on more than one street, other
than corner or reversed corner lots.
      (7)   LOT WIDTH. The horizontal distance between the side lot lines.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. As defined in Idaho Code § 39-4105(8) and any successor
code thereto. Unless a MANUFACTURED HOME is to be placed in a manufactured/
mobile home park, it must be placed on a permanent foundation constructed in
conformance to Idaho Code § 44-2205.
   MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION. A subdivision designed and intended for
exclusive manufactured home residential use where residence is in manufactured
homes exclusively and land owned by occupant.
   MANUFACTURED/MOBILE HOME PARK. Any area, tract, plot or parcel of land
developed and designed primarily for the placement of two or more manufactured/
mobile homes located and maintained for dwelling purposes on a permanent or
semi-permanent basis.
   MOBILE HOME. As defined in Idaho Code § 39-4105(9) and any successor code
thereto.
   MONUMENT. Any permanent marker either of concrete, galvanized iron pipe, or
iron or steel rods, used to identify any tract, parcel, lot or street lines, as
specified in Idaho Code § 50-1303.
   NOXIOUS WEED. A kind of species of plant having the potential to cause
injury to public health, crops, livestock, land or other property; and which is
designated as noxious by the Director of State Department of Agriculture.
   NOXIOUS WEED; CITY. Any plant having the potential to cause injury to public
health, crops, livestock, land or other property; and which is designated as
noxious by the Council.
   OPEN SPACE. An area open to the sky for outdoor recreation activity.
Streets, buildings or other covered structures are not included in computing
these areas.
   ORIGINAL PARCEL OF LAND. A lot or tract as recorded on any plat or record on
file in the Office of the County Recorder, or any unplatted contiguous parcel
of land held in one ownership and of record at the effective date of this
chapter.
   OWNER. The individual, firm, association, syndicate, partnership or
corporation holding title as vendor under land contract, or holding any other
title of record.
   PERFORMANCE BOND. An amount of money or other negotiable security paid by
the subdivider or his or her surety to the Clerk/Treasurer which guarantees
that the subdivider will perform all actions required by the governing body
regarding an approved plat, and provides that if the subdivider defaults and
fails to comply with the provisions of an approved plat, the subdivider or his
or her surety will pay damages up to the limit of the bond, or the surety
itself will complete the requirements of the approved plat.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT SUBDIVISION. A subdivision designed as a
combination of residential, commercial and industrial uses or one or the above,
planned for a tract of land to be developed as a unit under single ownership or
control, which is developed for the purpose of selling individual lots or
estates, whether fronting on private or dedicated streets, which may include
two or more principal buildings.
   PLAT. The drawing, mapping or planning of a subdivision or other tract of
land or a replatting of such, including certificates, descriptions and
approvals as described in Idaho Code § 50-1304.
      (1)   FINAL PLAT. The final formal presentation by drawings, required
supporting data and certifications, of a proposed land subdivision development,
which has previously received preliminary approval. The original and one copy
of the FINAL PLAT shall be filed with the County Clerk and Recorder.
      (2)   PRELIMINARY PLAT. The first formal presentation of drawings of a
proposed land subdivision development, including supporting data.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK. Rental space for recreational vehicles on a
limited basis, generally overnight, but normally not longer than a week. This
may include motor homes and pickup campers.
   RESERVE STRIP. A strip of land between a partial street and adjacent
property, which is reserved or held in public ownership for future street
extension or widening.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land dedicated or reserved for use as a public
street, crosswalk, railroad, road, electric transmission line, oil or gas
pipeline, water main, sanitary or storm sewer main, or for other special uses.
New road RIGHTS-OF-WAY shall be dedicated to public use.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a street, road or highway improved, designed or
ordinarily used for vehicular travel, exclusive of sidewalks, shoulders, berms
and other portions of the public right-of-way.
   SETBACKS. The space between every structure and all property lines on the
lot on which structures are located, required lo be left open and unoccupied by
buildings or structures, either by the front, side or rear yard requirements of
this chapter, or by delineation on a recorded subdivision map. Refer to the
Zoning Code in Chapter 155 for specifics.
   SIDEWALK. A paved or improved path, dedicated to public use usually running
adjacent and roughly parallel to a street providing for pedestrian movement
adjacent to, but separated from vehicular movement.
   SIMPLE SUBDIVISION. The result of an act dividing an original lot or parcel
of land into more than two but fewer than four parts for the purpose of
transfer of ownership or development. A SIMPLE SUBDIVISION may not include new
street dedication or street widening, or major special development
considerations, such as development on a floodplain or hillside or the like.
   SKETCH PLAN. Plan of a proposed development in schematic form.
   STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS. The specifications as specified in this chapter or
as otherwise officially adopted by the Board.
   STREET. A right-of-way which provides vehicular access to adjacent
properties, the dedication of which has been officially accepted. STREET also
includes the terms highway, thoroughfare, parkway, road, avenue, boulevard,
land, place and other such terms.
      (1)   ALLEY. A minor street providing secondary access at the back or
side of a property otherwise abutting a street.
      (2)   ARTERIAL. A street designated for the purpose of carrying fast and/
or heavy traffic.
         (a)   MAJOR ARTERIAL. Corresponds to state primary roads.
         (b)   MINOR ARTERIAL. Corresponds to state secondary roads.
      (3)   COLLECTOR. A street designated for the purpose of carrying traffic
from minor streets to other COLLECTOR streets and/or arterial streets.
      (4)   CUL-DE-SAC. A street connected to another street at one end only
and provided with a turn-around space at its terminus.
      (5)   FRONTAGE. A minor street, parallel to and adjacent to an arterial
street, to provide access to abutting properties.
      (6)   LOOP. A minor street with both terminal points on the same street
of origin.
      (7)   MINOR. A street which has the primary purpose of providing access
to abutting properties.
      (8)   PARTIAL. A dedicated right-of-way providing only a portion of the
required street width, usually along the edge of a subdivision or tract of
land.
      (9)   PRIVATE. A street that is not accepted for public use or
maintenance which provides vehicular and pedestrian access.
   SUBDIVIDER. Deemed to be the individual firm, corporation, partnership,
association, syndicate, trust or other legal entity that executes the
application and initiates proceedings for the subdivision of land in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter. The SUBDIVIDER need not be the owner of
the property; however, he or she shall be an agent of the owner or have
sufficient proprietary rights in the property to represent the owner.
   SUBDIVISION. The result of an act of dividing an original lot or parcel of
land into more than two parts for the purpose of transfer of ownership or
development; which shall also include the dedication or a public street and the
addition to or creation of a cemetery. However, this chapter shall not apply to
any of the following:
      (1)   The sale or exchange of land between adjoining property owners, or
an adjustment or lot or property lines, where such sale, exchange or adjustment
does not create additional lots, and does not reduce the area, frontage or
width, depth or building setback lines of each building site below the minimum
zoning requirements shall not be deemed a SUBDIVISION;
      (2)   An allocation of land in the settlement of an estate or court
decree for the distribution of property;
      (3)   The unwilling sale of land as a result of legal condemnation as
defined and allowed in the state statutes;
      (4)   Widening of existing streets to conform to the Comprehensive Plan;
      (5)   The acquisition or street rights-of-way by a public agency in
conformance with the Comprehensive Plan; or
      (6)   The exchange of land for the purpose of straightening property
boundaries which does not result in the change of the present land usage.
   SURVEYOR. Any person who is licensed in the state as a public land surveyor
to do professional surveying.
   USABLE LOT AREA. The portion of a lot usable or adaptable for residential
construction use, excluding areas which are covered by water, excessively steep
or are included in certain types of easements.
   UTILITIES. Installation for conducting water, sewage, gas, electricity,
television, stormwater and similar facilities providing service to and used by
the public.
   VARIANCE. A modification of the strict terms of the relevant regulations
where such modification will not be contrary to the public interest and where,
owing to conditions peculiar to the property and not the result of this action
of the applicant, a literal enforcement of this chapter would result in
unnecessary and undue hardship.
   VICINITY MAP. A small-scale map showing the location of a tract of land in
relation to a larger area.
(Ord. 2025-07, passed 3-10-2025)
PROCEDURE FOR SUBDIVISION APPROVAL
§ 157.025 SUBDIVISION APPROVAL REQUIRED.
   (A)   No part of a proposed simple subdivision shall have been previously
processed under the simple subdivision regulations within the past ten years
and a simple subdivision shall not be granted within the boundaries of a
previously recorded platted subdivision.
   (B)   Any person desiring to create a subdivision as herein defined shall
submit all required applications to the Administrator. No final plat shall be
filed with the County Recorder or improvements made on the property until the
plat has been acted upon by and approved by the Council. No lots shall be sold
until the plat has been recorded in the Office of the County Recorder and
accepted by the County Assessor.
(Ord. 2025-07, passed 3-10-2025) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.026 LAND HELD IN JOINT OWNERSHIP.
   Property held by two or more owners with undivided interests shall be
considered a single ownership and any subdivision of that property to divide
interests or separate ownership shall be subject to the same subdivision
standards as are provided for property held by a single owner.
(Ord. 2025-07, passed 3-10-2025)
§ 157.027 PRE-APPLICATION.
   (A)   Application. The subdivider shall submit a completed pre-application
to enable the Administrator to review and comment on the proposed subdivision.
      (1)   The pre-application shall include the following:
         (a)   Completed application form;
         (b)   Vicinity map which may be a freehand pencil sketch showing the
relationship of the proposed subdivision to existing community facilities, and
other developments which serve or influence it;
         (c)   Sketch plan which may be a freehand pencil sketch made directly
on a print of a topographic survey, and which shall include the entire
development scheme of the proposed subdivision, in schematic form and
including;
         (d)   The development name, if any;
         (e)   The general layout and approximate dimensions of streets, blocks
and lots;
         (f)   The existing conditions and characteristics of the land on, and
adjacent to, the proposed subdivision site;
         (g)   Perimeter boundary line of proposed subdivision;
         (h)   The areas set aside for schools, parks and other public
facilities;
         (i)   Existing and proposed public utilities; and
         (j)   Application fee, if any, as provided for in the master fee
schedule.
      (2)   A pre-application conference will be held before the Council. The
purpose of the conference is to discuss the proposed subdivision concept, its
conformity with the Comprehensive Plan, its relationship to surrounding
development, any site conditions that may require special consideration or
treatment, and the requirements of this chapter, the Zoning Code (Chapter 155)
and other city ordinances.
      (3)   At the pre-application conference, the applicant will receive a
pre-application conference checklist of items required to be submitted with the
subdivision application and preliminary plat, as well as notes of major
concerns expressed in the conference.
   (B)   Administrator action. The Administrator shall check the pre-
application for its general conformance or non-conformance with this chapter
and place the pre-application conference, if in acceptable conformance, on the
Council agenda for action at the next regularly scheduled meeting. At the
Council meeting, the Council members shall be polled so the developer can have
the benefit of their comments. If the developer chooses to proceed, the
Administrator will provide the necessary forms and checklists for the following
steps to the developer.
   (C)   Time limitation. A completed preliminary plat and application must be
submitted to the Administrator within six months after the pre-application
conference.
(Ord. 2025-07, passed 3-10-2025)
§ 157.028 SIMPLE SUBDIVISION PROCEDURE.
   The purpose of the simple subdivision regulation is to provide a simplified
and abbreviated procedure for the platting of small and uncomplicated
subdivisions. A request to combine both preliminary and final plat into one
application shall be acted upon by the Council. It may be used when:
   (A)   The proposed subdivision will consist of not more than four parts
total;
   (B)   No new street dedication or street widening is involved;
   (C)   No major special development considerations are involved, such as
development on a floodplain or hillside or the like; or
   (D)   All required information for both preliminary and final plat is
complete and in acceptable form.
(Ord. 2025-07, passed 3-10-2025)
§ 157.029 PRELIMINARY PLATS.
   (A)   Preliminary plat application. The subdivider shall file with the
Administrator a completed subdivision permit application, pre-application
conference checklist, the preliminary plat checklist, together with the
required fees and supporting date, at least 15 days prior to the Council
meeting where the application will be considered.
   (B)   Checklists. The applicant must submit all items on the checklists with
the application. Should items be found to be missing or deficient, the
application will be withdrawn from scheduling until the required information is
submitted.
   (C)   Contents of the preliminary plat. The contents of the preliminary plat
and related information shall be in such form as stipulated by the Council;
however, any additional maps or data deemed necessary by the Administrator may
also be required.
   (D)   Submittal. The subdivider shall submit to the Administrator at least
the following:
      (1)   Ten copies of the preliminary plat of the proposed subdivision,
drawn in accordance with the requirements hereafter stated; each copy or the
preliminary plat shall be on good quality paper, shall have dimensions of not
less than one-inch to 100 feet, shall show the drafting date, and shall
indicate thereon, by arrow, the generally northerly direction;
      (2)   Ten sets of preliminary engineering plans (not meant to be-cross
sections or detailed designs) for streets, water, sewers, sidewalks, surface
and subsurface drainage and other required public improvements; however, such
engineering plans shall contain sufficient information and detail to enable
proposed improvements to applicable regulations, ordinances and standards;
      (3)   A written application requesting approval of the preliminary plat;
and
      (4)   Appropriate information that sufficiently details the proposed
development within any special development area such as hillside, planned unit
development, floodplain, cemetery, mobile home, large scale division, hazardous
and unique areas of development.
   (E)   Requirements of preliminary plats. The following shall be shown on the
preliminary plat or shall be submitted separately:
      (1)   Name of subdivision. The name of the proposed subdivision;
      (2)   Plat subdividers and engineer/surveyor. The names, addresses and
telephone numbers of the subdivider or subdividers and the engineer or surveyor
who prepared the plat;
      (3)   Property owner. The name and addresses of the record owner of the
property and all adjoining property owners whether or not bisected by a public
right-of-way as shown on record in the County Assessor’s Office;
      (4)   Legal description. The legal description of the subdivision;
      (5)   Statement of intended use. A statement of the intended use of the
proposed subdivision, such as, residential single-family, two-family and
multiple-family housing, commercial, industrial, recreational or agricultural
and a showing or any sites proposed for parks, playgrounds, schools, churches
or other public uses;
      (6)   Map of area. A map of the entire area scheduled for development if
the proposed subdivision is a portion of a larger holding intended for
subsequent development;
      (7)   Vicinity map. A vicinity map showing the relationship of the
proposed plat to the surrounding area (one-fourth mile minimum radius, scale
optional);
      (8)   Existing land use and zoning. The land use and existing zoning of
the proposed subdivision and the adjacent land;
      (9)   Streets and rights-of-way. Streets, street names, rights-of- way
and roadway widths, including any adjoining streets or roadway;
      (10)   Contour lines. Contour lines, shown at five-foot intervals where
land slope is greater than 10% and at two-foot intervals where land slope is
10% or less, referenced to an established bench mark, including location and
elevation;
      (11)   Lot lines and blocks. Lot lines and blocks showing the dimensions
and numbers of each;
      (12)   Site report. A site report as required by the appropriate health
district where individual wells or septic systems are proposed;
      (13)   Utilities. Any existing or proposed utilities, including, but not
limited to, storm and sanitary sewers, irrigation laterals, ditches, drainages,
bridges, culverts, water mains, televisions, telephone, electric cables, fire
hydrants and their respective profiles;
      (14)   Restrictive covenants and/or deed restrictions.
         (a)   A copy of any proposed restrictive covenants and/or deed
restrictions; and
         (b)   Any covenants and/or deed restrictions are a private contract
between the developer and the property owner(s) and as such will not be
enforced by the city;
      (15)   Dedications to the public and/or easements. Any dedications to the
public and/or easements together with a statement of location, dimensions and
purposes of such;
      (16)   Additional required information. Any additional required
information for special developments as specified in this chapter; and
      (17)   Variance. A statement as to whether or not a variance, as
specified in this chapter will be requested with respect to any provision of
this chapter describing the particular provision, the variance requested, and
the reason therefor.
   (F)   Fee. At the time of submission of an application for a preliminary
plat, a fee shall be paid in the amount as established in the master fee
schedule for a preliminary plat review.
   (G)   Administrator action.
      (1)   Upon the determination that the proposed subdivision is in
compliance with the requirements of this chapter and the Comprehensive Plan,
the Administrator shall certify the application as complete and affix the date
of application acceptance therein. The Administrator shall thereafter place the
preliminary plat on the agenda for consideration at the next regular meeting of
the City Council for the purpose of a technical review, which meeting is to be
held no less than 15 day after the said date of certification and no more than
30 days thereafter.
      (2)   The Administrator shall refer the preliminary plat application and
shall prepare a recommendation to the City Council.
   (H)   Technical review recommendation.
      (1)   Council shall review the preliminary plat for technical
deficiencies and may bring in a committee to advise on technical
considerations. Council shall provide a recommendation to the subdivider on how
technical deficiencies of the preliminary plat might be overcome.
      (2)   The preliminary plat shall be placed on the agenda of the next
regular Council meeting which is held not less than 30 days after the technical
review.
   (I)   Public notification.
      (1)   The Administrator shall notify all adjoining property owners who
appear on the list of property owners’ names and addresses that has been
provided by the subdivider under this section. Such written notification shall
be mailed at least 15 days prior to the Council meeting for technical review.
      (2)   The Administrator’s failure to comply with the notification
provision shall not invalidate the Council’s action; provided the spirit of the
procedure is observed.
   (J)   Public hearing. The Council will hold a public hearing of the
application, the preliminary plat, the report of the Administrator, any
deficiency report from the Council meeting for technical review and any
comments on the proposed subdivision received from other public agencies or
concerned persons. The Council may request investigations, examinations, tests
and site evaluations as it deems necessary to verify the information contained
in the application or shown on the plat. The applicant grants the Council or
its agent permission to enter upon the land in question for these purposes by
virtue of the subdivision application.
      (1)   Council findings. In determining the acceptance of a proposed
subdivision, the Council shall consider the standards set forth in this chapter
and at least the following:
         (a)   Conformance of the subdivision with the Comprehensive Plan;
         (b)   Availability of public services to accommodate the proposed
development;
         (c)   The continuity of the proposed development with the capital
improvement program;
         (d)   Public financial capability of supporting services for the
proposed development; and
         (e)   Other health, safety or environmental problems that may be
brought to the Council’s attention.
      (2)   Action on preliminary plat. The Council may approve, approve
conditional, disapprove or table the preliminary plat for additional
information. Such action shall occur within 30 days of the date of the regular
meeting at which the plat is first considered by the Council, following the
technical review session. The action and the reasons for such actions shall be
stated in writing by the Administrator and forwarded to the applicant.
         (a)   If conditions are placed on preliminary plat approval, all
conditions must be met within one year of original preliminary plat hearing.
         (b)   If the preliminary plat approval is denied, the applicant will
be provided with a written statement from the Administrator containing the
specific reasons for the denial. The applicant may reapply for preliminary plat
approval; provided that all deficiencies that caused the original application
to be denied have been substantially corrected and a new application fee is
submitted.
      (3)   Appeal. Any person who appeared in person or writing before the
Council may appeal in writing the decision of the Council. Such appeal must be
submitted to the Council within 15 days from such Council action.
(Ord. 2025-07, passed 3-10-2025)
§ 157.030 AMENDED SUBDIVISION PLAT.
   (A)   An amended plat is required to effect a change in the configuration of
any part of a recorded subdivision plat. An amended plat requires at least
partial vacation of a recorded subdivision plat and may include vacation of an
entire plat. The Administrator shall determine the nature of the required
vacation.
   (B)   If the new plat appears to be a simple design change with no apparent
impacts, then the new plat may be accepted as a final plat and shall follow
final plat procedures. If the proposed new plat has major changes which create
new impacts on roads, water, sewer, easements or neighboring properties, then
the new plat shall comply with the procedures described above as required by
the Administrator. This may be all steps, including the pre-application
conference.
   (C)   The amended subdivision application fee as established by the Council
shall be paid by the subdivider to the Administrator. Proof of such payment
shall be submitted prior to the plat being placed on the agenda for the Council
meeting.
(Ord. 2025-07, passed 3-10-2025)
§ 157.031 FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   Final plat submitted. A final plat must conform to an approved
preliminary plat. If a preliminary plat is approved with conditions, the final
plat submittal must satisfy those conditions.
      (1)   The final plat, fees and all required accompanying material shall
be filed with the Administrator at least 15 days prior to the Council meeting
where the final plat will be considered.
      (2)   The applicant must submit all items on the final plat checklist.
Should items noted as submitted be found to be missing or deficient, the final
plat will be withdrawn from scheduling until the required information is
submitted.
   (B)   Mylar submittal. The subdivider shall submit two reproducible copies
of the final plat and when applicable, two copies of the final engineering
construction drawings for streets, water, sewer, sidewalks and other public
improvements, one of which, shall be a reproducible Mylar copy.
   (C)   Content of finalized plat. The final plat shall include and be in
compliance with all items required under Idaho Code Title 50, Chapter 13 and
shall be drawn at such a scale and contain lettering of such size as to enable
the same to be placed on one sheet of 18" x 24" drawing paper, with no part of
the drawing nearer to the edge than one inch. The reverse of said sheet shall
not be used for any portion of the drawing, but may contain written matter as
to dedications, certifications and other information. The final plat shall
include at least the following:
      (1)   A written application for approval of such final plat as stipulated
by the Council;
      (2)   Proof of current ownership of the real property included in the
proposed final plat;
      (3)   Such other and further information as the Council may deem
necessary to establish whether or not all proper parties have signed and/or
approved said final plat;
      (4)   Conformance with the approved preliminary plat and meeting all
requirements or conditions thereof;
      (5)   Conform to all requirements and provisions of this chapter;
      (6)   Acceptable engineering practices and local standards;
      (7)   The outline of any property, other than streets or alleys, which is
offered for dedication to public use, fully dimensioned by lengths and
bearings, with the area marked “Public” and showing the proposed site;
      (8)   A title which shall include the name of the subdivision, name of
city, if appropriate, county and state, and the location and description of the
subdivision referenced to quarter-quarter section, section, township and range;
      (9)   Scale, north arrow and the date;
      (10)   Certification and signature by the registered engineer or surveyor
who prepared the plat certifying to the accuracy of the survey and plat and to
the maximum percentage of grade of all streets and roads;
      (11)   Certification of owner, including dedication of all street rights-
of-way and sites for public use, and grants of any existing or proposed
easements;
      (12)   All covenants and deed restrictions required by the Council for
final plat approval;
      (13)   Certification and signature of the Mayor, City Clerk/Treasurer and
the City Engineer verifying that the subdivision meets the city requirements
and has been approved by the City Council; and
      (14)   Certification of the sanitary restrictions on the face of the play
per Idaho Code § 50-1326.
   (D)   Final plat review fee. A fee as established in the master fee schedule
for a final plat review plus the actual cost of all necessary traffic-control,
pedestrian and street identification signs to be placed in the subdivision. The
city shall locate and install all signs at cost to the developer.
   (E)   Inspection fees. A fee of the greater of 1% or the actual construction
cost and inspection fees incurred by the city shall be charged for engineering
inspection. Additionally, any and all special testing expenses incurred by the
city for testing during the construction period and at the end thereof shall
likewise be paid by the developer.
   (F)   Agreement to inspect; Inspector.
      (1)   Inspection of public improvements under construction. Before
approving a final plat and construction plans and specifications for public
improvements, an agreement between the subdivider and the City Council shall be
made to provide for checking or inspecting the construction and its conformity
to the submitted plans.
      (2)   Inspector to be hired by city. Any inspector hired by the city and
paid in accordance with this section shall be a city employee or independent
contractor engaged by the city and the frequency of inspections, required
testing and fee reimbursement required pursuant to this section shall be
adjusted at the discretion of the city depending on project size and
complexity.
   (G)   Administrator review.
      (1)   Acceptance. Upon receipt of the final plat, and compliance with all
other requirements as provided for herein, the Administrator shall certify the
application complete and shall affix the date of acceptance thereon.
      (2)   Resubmittal of final plat. The Administrator shall review the final
plat for compliance with the approved or conditionally approved preliminary
plat. If the Administrator determines that there are substantial differences in
the final plat than that which was approved as a preliminary plat or conditions
that have not been met, the Administrator may require that the final plat be
submitted for technical review in the same manner as required in the
preliminary plat procedure.
      (3)   Compliance. Upon submission to the Council, if determination that
the final plat is in compliance with the preliminary plat and all conditional
requirements have been met, the Administrator shall place the final plat on the
Council agenda within 45 days from the date that an acceptable final plat
application was received and acknowledged by the Administrator.
      (4)   Agency review. The Administrator may transmit one copy of the final
plat or other documents submitted, for review and recommendation to the
departments and agencies as he or she deems necessary to ensure compliance with
the preliminary approval and/or conditions of preliminary approval. Such agency
review shall also include the construction standards of improvements,
compliance with health standards, the cost estimates for all improvements and
legal review of the performance bond.
   (H)   City Council action. The City Council at its next meeting following
receipt of the Administrator’s report shall consider technical findings and
comments from concerned persons and agencies to arrive at a decision on the
final plat. The City Council shall approve, disapprove, conditionally approve
or table the final plat for additional information within 30 days or the date
of the regular meeting where the final plat is first considered. A copy of the
approved plat shall be filed with the Administrator.
   (I)   Approval period. A final plat shall be filed with the County Recorder
within one year after written approval by the City Council, otherwise such
approval shall become null and void unless prior to such expiration date an
extension of time is requested by the subdivider and granted by the City
Council.
   (J)   Method of recording. Upon approval of the final plat by the City
Council after due consideration of the plat, the subdivider’s prepayment of
fees for construction of improvements or posting of a surety bond, and the
inclusion of the following signatures on the final plat, the subdivider shall
submit the final plat to the County Recorder for recording:
      (1)   Certification and signature of the Mayor, City Clerk and the City
Engineer verifying that the subdivision meets the city requirements and has
been approved by the City Council; and
      (2)   Certification of the sanitary restrictions on the face of the plat
per Idaho Code § 50-1326.
   (K)   Recording of plat within one year. If an approved plat has not been
recorded within one year from the date of its approval, then, before it can be
recorded, there must be endorsed on the plat or recorded with it, and referred
to thereon, a certificate of the City Council dated within 30 days of the
recording, that the approval has not been modified, amended or rescinded nor
the plan changed.
(Ord. 2025-07, passed 3-10-2025)
§ 157.032 COMBINED PLAT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The developer may request that a subdivision application be processed
as both a preliminary plat and a final plat (combined plat) if all the
following exist:
      (1)   The proposed subdivision is a simple subdivision;
      (2)   No major development considerations are involved such as,
development in a floodplain,
planned unit development, large scale development or the like; and
      (3)   All required information for both preliminary and final plat is
complete and in acceptable final plat form.
   (B)   A request to process the subdivision under the combined plat procedure
shall be considered by the Council at its next regularly scheduled meeting,
following application. Applications shall be received by the Administrator at
least 15 days prior to Council meeting where the application will be
considered.
   (C)   If the Council grants the developer’s request for the subdivision to
be processed as a combined plat, the preliminary plat procedure shall be
followed. Recommendation shall be made to the Council following the public
hearing as specified for a final plat.
(Ord. 2025-07, passed 3-10-2025)
DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 157.045 MINIMUM DESIGN STANDARDS REQUIRED.
   All plats submitted pursuant to the provisions of this chapter and all
subdivisions, improvements and facilities done and constructed or made in
accordance with said provisions shall comply with the minimum design standards
set forward hereinafter in this subchapter; provided, however, that any higher
standards adopted by any highway district, the State Highway Department or
health agency shall prevail over those set forth herein.
(Ord. 2025-07, passed 3-10-2025)
§ 157.046 DEDICATION.
   Within a proposed subdivision, arterial and collector streets shall be
dedicated to the public in all cases; in general, all other streets shall also
be dedicated to public use.
(Ord. 2025-07, passed 3-10-2025)
§ 157.047 LOCATION.
   Street and road locations shall conform to the following.
   (A)   Street location and arrangements. When an official street plan or
Comprehensive Plan has been adopted, subdivision streets shall conform to such
plans.
   (B)   Minor streets. Minor streets shall be so arranged as to discourage
their use by through traffic.
   (C)   Stub streets. Where adjoining areas are not subdivided, the
arrangement of streets in new subdivisions shall be such that said streets
extend to the boundary line of the tract to make provisions for the future
extension of said streets into adjacent areas. A reserve strip may be required
and held in public ownership.
   (D)   Relation to topography. Streets shall be arranged in proper relation
to topography so as to result in useable lots, safe streets and acceptable
gradients.
   (E)   Alleys. Alleys shall be provided in multiple dwelling or commercial
subdivisions unless other provisions are made for service access and off-street
loading and parking. Dead-end alleys shall be prohibited in all cases.
   (F)   Cul-de-sacs. Cul-de-sac streets shall not be more than 500 feet in
length and shall terminate with an adequate turn-around having a minimum radius
of 60 feet for right-of-way.
   (G)   Half streets. Half streets shall be prohibited except where unusual
circumstances make such necessary to the reasonable development of a tract in
conformance with this chapter and where satisfactory assurance for dedication
of the remaining part of the street is provided. Whenever a tract to be
subdivided borders an existing half street or partial street, the other part of
the street shall be dedicated within such tract.
   (H)   Private streets. Private streets and roads shall be prohibited except
within a planned unit development.
(Ord. 2025-07, passed 3-10-2025) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.048 SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Street right-of-way widths. Minimum right-of-way standards shall be as
follows:
      (1)   Major arterial: 120 feet;
      (2)   Minor arterial: 80 feet;
      (3)   Collector street: 60 feet; and
      (4)   Minor street: 50 feet.
   (B)   Street grades. Street grades shall not exceed 10% on either minor
streets or collector streets and 6% on arterial streets.
   (C)   Street alignment.
      (1)   Horizontal alignment. When street lines deflect from one another by
more than ten degrees in alignment, the centerlines shall be connected by a
curve having a minimum radius of 500 feet for arterial streets and 130 feet for
collector streets. Between reverse curves on collector streets and arterial
streets there shall be a minimum tangent distance of 20 feet.
      (2)   Vertical alignment. Minimum stopping sight distances shall be 200
feet.
(Ord. 2025-07, passed 3-10-2025)
§ 157.049 STREET NAMES.
   The naming of streets shall conform to the following: street names shall not
duplicate any existing street names within the city except where a new street
is a continuation of an existing street; street names that may be spelled
differently but sound the same as existing streets shall not be used.
(Ord. 2025-07, passed 3-10-2025)
§ 157.050 PEDESTRIAN WALKWAYS.
   Right-of-way for pedestrian walkways in the middle of a long block or in an
area of open space in planned unit developments may be required where necessary
to obtain convenient pedestrian circulation to schools, parks or shopping
areas; the pedestrian easement shall be at least eight feet wide.
(Ord. 2025-07, passed 3-10-2025)
§ 157.051 EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Unobstructed utility easements shall be provided along front lot
lines, rear lot lines and side lot lines when deemed necessary; total easement
width shall not be less than 20 feet.
   (B)   Where a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, drainageway,
channel or stream, there shall be provided a stormwater easement or drainage
right-of-way conforming substantially to the width of such a watercourse and
such further width of construction or both as well be adequate for the purpose.
(Ord. 2025-07, passed 3-10-2025)
§ 157.052 LOTS.
   Lots shall conform to the following.
   (A)   Zoning. The lot width, depth and total area shall not be less than the
requirements of any applicable zoning ordinance.
   (B)   Planned unit developments. In any planned unit development,
subdivision lots may vary in size, frontage and setbacks with the approval of
the Council so long as the intent of the lot requirements is not violated.
(Ord. 2025-07, passed 3-10-2025)
IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS
§ 157.065 RESPONSIBILITY FOR PLANS.
   It shall be the responsibility of the subdivider of every proposed
subdivision to have prepared by a licensed/bonded registered engineer, a
complete set of construction plans, including profiles, cross-sections,
specifications and other supporting data for all required streets, utilities
and other public facilities. Such construction plans shall be based on
preliminary plans which have been approved with the final plat. Construction
plans are subject to approval by the responsible public agencies. All
construction plans shall be prepared in accordance with the public agencies,
standards or specifications.
(Ord. 2025-07, passed 3-10-2025)
§ 157.066 REQUIRED PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS.
   Every subdivider shall be required to install the following public and other
improvements in accordance with the conditions and specifications as follows.
   (A)   Monuments. Monuments shall be set in accordance with Idaho Code § 50-
1303. In addition, brass caps shall be located at all street intersections and
where the street centerline intersects the subdivision boundaries, and at the
point of curve, point of tangent or point of intersection in the street as
needed.
   (B)   Streets and alleys.
      (1)   All streets and alleys shall be constructed in accordance with
standards adopted by the City Council.
      (2)   No street cut will be allowed in new streets once completed and
accepted by the city for inclusion within the city street system, subject to
the following time limitations: the no street cut policy shall be for a period
of ten years from the date of acceptance of the street by the city. All
utilities will be stubbed from the street to the property line and
appropriately marked beyond the edge of the pavement or beyond the back of the
curb and gutter, whichever situation exists. All utility companies, developers
and property owners will be advised of this policy by the Public Works
Department prior to the approval of the construction plans for the streets
where utilities are to be constructed.
   (C)   Curbs and gutters. Vertical curbs and gutters shall be required on
collector and arterial streets. Rolled curbs and gutters may be allowed on
minor streets. All construction shall be in accordance with standards and
specifications adopted by the City Council.
   (D)   Bicycle pathways. A bicycle pathway may be provided within a
subdivision as part of the right-of-way or separate easement, as may be
recommended by the Council.
   (E)   Installation of public utilities. Underground utilities are encouraged
and may be required subject to the City Council adopted policies and
ordinances.
   (F)   Driveways. All driveways opening in curbs shall be as specified by the
Public Works Department, Highway District or State Highway Department.
   (G)   Storm drainage.
      (1)   An adequate storm drainage system shall be required in all
subdivisions. The requirements for each subdivision shall be established by the
City Council. Construction shall follow specifications adopted by the City
Council. Blue-green systems of on-site retention should be considered.
      (2)   The owner/developer of the subdivision shall be responsible for the
maintenance of the storm drainage system for a period of three years or until
75% of the lots are built upon after plat recording, whichever is later. This
requirement shall not, however, exceed a maximum of a ten-year guarantee
period. At the end of the maintenance period, the system shall be cleaned and
shown to be operational and then turned over to the city for future ownership
and maintenance.
   (H)   Public water supply and sewer system.
      (1)   Unless exempted as herein provided, each platted lot requiring
water and sewer services must be connected to the current city water and/or
sewer system regardless of whether the property is within the city or within
the area of city impact.
      (2)   All public water supply or sewage systems (serving two or more
separate premises or households) shall be constructed in accordance with any
adopted local plans and specifications. All new public water distribution
systems shall be extensions of existing public systems wherever possible. The
same is true of sewage collection systems.
   (I)   In the event that the proposed public water distribution system is not
an extension of an existing system, there shall be a showing by the subdivider/
developer that the extension is not feasible and not in the best interest of
the public.
   (J)   Idaho Code § 50-1326 requires that all water and sewer plans be
submitted to the State Department of Environmental Quality or its authorized
agent for approval.
   (K)   Maintenance and operation of public water supply and sewer systems.
The subdivider shall provide for a perpetual method of maintenance and
operation of the public water supply or sewer system to ensure the continued
usefulness of the system.
   (L)   Fire hydrants and water mains. Adequate fire protection shall be
required in accordance with city standards.
   (M)   Street name signs. Street name signs shall be installed in the
appropriate locations at each street intersection in accordance with local
standards.
   (N)   Sidewalks and pedestrian walkways. Sidewalks shall be required on both
sides of the street. Sidewalks shall have an easement at least 11 feet in width
and include a concrete walk at least four feet in width. Sidewalks and
crosswalks shall be constructed in accordance with the standards and
specifications as adopted by the City Council.
   (O)   Greenbelts. Greenbelts or landscaping screening may be required for
the protection of residential properties from adjacent major arterial streets,
waterways, railroad rights-of-way or other features. Subdividing plats shall
show the location of any greenbelt area. Greenbelts shall be maintained by the
subdivider or property owners’ association.
   (P)   Street lighting. Streetlights may be required to be installed at
street intersections throughout the subdivision. A subdivider shall conform to
the requirements of the city and the public utility providing such lighting.
   (Q)   Traffic-control signs. Traffic-control signs as legally required or
deemed necessary.
   (R)   Improvement guarantees. The owner/developer shall provide a written
warranty guaranteeing the improvements for a period of two years from the time
the city accepts the system as complete. Furthermore, the owner/developer shall
provide to the city a performance bond through properly authorized state
sureties in the amount of 20% of the construction costs to enforce and fund the
warranty.
(Ord. 2025-07, passed 3-10-2025)
§ 157.067 GUARANTEE OF COMPLETION OF IMPROVEMENTS,
   (A)   Financial guarantee arrangement. In lieu of the actual installation of
required public improvements before the filing of the final plat, the City
Council may permit the subdivider to provide a financial guarantee of
performance in one or a combination of the following arrangements for those
requirements which are over and beyond the requirements of any other agency
responsible for the administration, operation and maintenance of the applicable
public improvements.
   (B)   Surety bond.
      (1)   Accrual. The bond shall accrue to the city covering construction
operation and maintenance of the specific public improvements.
      (2)   Amount. The bond shall be in an amount equal to 110% of the total
estimated cost for completing construction of the specified public
improvements, as estimated by the City Engineer or the Superintendent of Public
Works and approved by the City Council.
      (3)   Term length. The term length in which the bond is in force shall be
for a period to be specified by the City Council for the specified public
improvement.
      (4)   Bonding for surety company. The bond shall be with a surety company
authorized to do business in the state acceptable to the City Council.
      (5)   Escrow agreement. The escrow agreement form shall be drawn up and
furnished by the City Council.
   (C)   Cash deposit, certified check, negotiable bond or irrevocable letter
of credit.
      (1)   Treasurer, escrow agent or trust company. A cash deposit, certified
check, negotiable bond or an irrevocable bank letter of credit, such surety
acceptable by the City Council, shall be deposited with an escrow agent or
trust company.
      (2)   Dollar value and escrow time. For each cash deposit, certified
checks and such other arrangements listed above shall be the same as for surety
bonds.
      (3)   Progressive payment. In the case of cash deposits or certified
checks, an agreement between the City Council and subdivider may provide for
progressive payment out of the cash deposit or reduction of the certified
check, negotiable bond or irrevocable letter of bank credit to the extent of
the cost of the completed portion of the public improvement, in accordance with
a previously entered into agreement.
   (D)   Conditional approval of final plat. With respect to final guarantees,
the approval of all final subdivision plats shall be conditioned on
accomplishment of one of the following:
      (1)   The construction of improvements required by this chapter shall
have been completed by the subdivider and approved by the City Council; or
      (2)   Surety acceptable to the City Council shall have been filed in the
form of a cash deposit, certified check, a negotiable bond, irrevocable letter
of credit or surety bond.
   (E)   Penalty in case of failure to complete construction of public
improvement. In the event the subdivider shall, in any case, fail to complete
such work within the period of time as required by the conditions of the
guarantee for the completion of public improvements, it shall be the
responsibility of the City Council to proceed to have such work completed. In
order to accomplish this, the City Council shall reimburse itself for the cost
and expense thereof by appropriating the cash deposit, certified check,
irrevocable bank letter of credit or negotiable bond which the subdivider may
have deposited in lieu of a surety bond, or may take such steps as may be
necessary to require performance by the bonding or surety company, and as
included in a written agreement between the City Council and the subdivider.
(Ord. 2025-07, passed 3-10-2025)
SPECIAL DEVELOPMENT SUBDIVISIONS
§ 157.080 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to identify various types of developments
that normally pose special concerns to the Commission and elected officials
when reviewing and acting upon subdivision requests. This subchapter outlines
the plan submittal requirements and design standards that shall be taken into
consideration when acting on special developments. The provisions of this
subchapter are in addition to the plan requirements, design standards and
improvement standards that are required by §§
157.025 through
157.032,
157.045 through
157.052 and
157.065 through
157.067.
(Ord. 2025-07, passed 3-10-2025)
§ 157.081 HILLSIDE SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Appearance and preservation. In order to preserve, retain, enhance and
promote the existing and future appearance, natural topographic features,
qualities and resources of hillsides, special consideration shall be given to
the following:
      (1)   Skyline and ridge tops;
      (2)   Rolling grassy land forms, including knolls, ridges and meadows;
      (3)   Tree and shrub masses, grass, wildflowers and topsoil;
      (4)   Rock outcroppings;
      (5)   Stream beds, draws and drainage swales, especially where tree and
plant formations exist; and
      (6)   Characteristic vistas and scenic panoramas.
   (B)   Hillside development evaluation.
      (1)   Generally. All development proposals shall take into account and
shall be judged by the way in which land use planning, soil mechanics,
engineering geology, hydrology, civil engineering, environmental and civic
design, architectural and landscape design are applied in hillside areas,
including, but not limited to, the following:
         (a)   Planning of development to fit the topography, soil, geology
hydrology and other conditions existing on the proposed side;
         (b)   Orientation of development on the site so that grading and other
site preparation is kept to an absolute minimum;
         (c)   Shaping of essential grading to blend with natural land forms
and to minimize the necessity of padding and/or terracing building sites;
         (d)   Division of large tracts into smaller workable units on which
construction can be completed within one construction season so that large
areas are not left bare and exposed during winter and spring runoff periods;
         (e)   Completion of paving as rapidly as possible after grading;
         (f)   Allocation of areas not well suited for development because of
soil, geology or hydrology limitation for open space and recreation use;
         (g)   Minimizing disruption of existing plant and animal life; and
         (h)   Consideration of the view from and of the hillside. Areas having
soil, geology or hydrology hazards shall not be developed unless it is shown
that their limitations can be overcome; that hazard to life or property will
not exist; that the safety, use or stability of a public way or drainage
channel is not jeopardized; and that the natural environment is not subjected
to undue impact.
      (2)   Engineering plans. The developer shall retain a professional
engineer to obtain the following information.
         (a)   Soils report. For any proposed hillside development, a soils
engineering report shall be submitted with the preliminary plat. This report
shall include data regarding the nature, distribution and strength of existing
soils, conclusions and recommendations for grading procedures, design criteria
for corrective measures, and opinions and recommendations covering the adequacy
of sites to be developed.
         (b)   Geology report.
            1.   For any proposed hillside development, a geology report shall
be submitted with the preliminary plat. This report shall include an adequate
description of site geology and an evaluation of the relationship between the
proposed development and the underlying geology and recommendations for
remedial actions.
            2.   The investigation and subsequent report shall be completed by
a professional geologist registered in the state.
         (c)   Hydrology report.
            1.   For any proposed hillside development, a hydrology report
shall be submitted with the preliminary plat. This report shall include an
adequate description of the hydrology, conclusions and recommendations
regarding the effect of hydrologic conditions on the proposed development site
and opinions and recommendations covering the adequacy of sites to be
developed.
            2.   Flood frequency curves shall be provided for the area of
proposed development.
         (d)   Grading plan.
            1.   A preliminary grading plan shall be submitted with each
hillside preliminary plat proposal and shall include the following information:
               a.   Approximate limiting dimensions, elevations or finish
contours to be achieved by the grading, including all cut and fill slopes,
proposed drainage channels and related construction;
               b.   Preliminary plans and approximate locations of all surface
and subsurface drainage devices, wall, dams, sediment basins, storage
reservoirs and other protective devices to be constructed; and
               c.   A description of methods to be employed in disposing of
soil and other material that is removed from the grading site, including the
location of the disposal site.
            2.   A final grading plan shall be submitted with each final plat
and shall include the following information:
               a.   Limiting dimensions, elevations or finish contours to be
achieved by the grading, including all proposed cut and fill slopes, proposed
drainage channels and related construction;
               b.   Detailed plans and locations of all surface and subsurface
drainage devices, wall, dams, sediment basins, storage reservoirs and other
protective devices to be constructed; and
               c.   A schedule showing when each stage of the project will be
completed including the total area of soil surface which is to be disturbed
during each stage together with each estimated starting and completion dates.
In no event shall the existing (“natural”) vegetation ground cover be
destroyed, removed or disturbed more than 15 days prior to grading.
   (C)   Development standards.
      (1)   Soils.
         (a)   Fill areas shall be prepared by removing organic material, such
as vegetation and rubbish and any other material which is determined by the
soils engineer to be detrimental to proper compaction or otherwise not
conducive to stability; no rock or similar irreducible material with a maximum
dimension greater than eight inches shall be used as fill material in fills
that are intended to provide structural strength.
         (b)   Fills shall be compacted to at least 95% of maximum density, as
determined by AASHTO T99 and ASTM D698.
         (c)   Cut slopes shall be no steeper than two horizontal to one
vertical; subsurface drainage shall be provided as necessary for stability.
         (d)   Fill slopes shall be no steeper than two horizontal to one
vertical; fill slopes shall not be located on natural slopes two to one or
steeper, or where fill slope toes out within 12 feet horizontally of an
existing or planned cut slope.
         (e)   Tops and toes of cut and fill slopes shall be set back from
property lines a distance of three feet plus one-fifth of the height of the cut
or fill, but need not exceed a horizontal distance of ten feet; tops and toes
of cut and fill slopes shall be set back from structures a distance of six feet
plus one-fifth the height of the cut or fill, but need not exceed ten feet.
         (f)   The maximum horizontal distance of disturbed soil surface shall
not exceed 75%.
      (2)   Roadways.
         (a)   Road alignments should follow natural terrain and no unnecessary
cuts or fills shall be allowed in order to create additional lots or building
sites.
         (b)   One-way streets shall be permitted and encouraged where
appropriate for the terrain and where public safety would not be jeopardized.
Maximum width shall be 17 feet between the backs of curbs.
         (c)   The width of the graded section shall extend three feet beyond
the curb or back edge of pavement on both the cut and fill sides of the
roadway. If the sidewalk is to be installed parallel to the roadway, the graded
section shall be increased by the width of the sidewalk plus one foot beyond
the curb back.
         (d)   Standard vertical curb (six inches) and gutter shall be
installed along both sides of all paved roadways.
         (e)   A pedestrian walkway plan shall be required.
      (3)   Driveways and parking. Combination of collective private driveways,
cluster parking areas and on-street parallel parking bays shall be used to
attempt to optimize the objectives of minimum soil disturbance, minimum
impervious cover, excellence of design and aesthetic sensitivity.
      (4)   Vegetation and revegetation.
         (a)   The developer shall submit a slope stabilization and
revegetation plan which shall include a complete description of the existing
vegetation, the vegetation to be removed and the method of disposal, the
vegetation to be planted, and slope stabilization measures to be installed. The
plan shall include analysis of the environmental effects of such operations,
including the effects on slope stability, soil erosion, water quality, and fish
and wildlife.
         (b)   Vegetation sufficient to stabilize the soil shall be established
on all disturbed areas as such stage of grading is completed. Areas not
contained within lot boundaries shall be protected with perennial vegetative
cover after all construction is completed. Efforts shall be made to plant those
species that tend to recover from fire damage and do not tend to contribute to
rapid spread of fire.
         (c)   The developer shall be fully responsible for any destruction of
native vegetation proposed for retention. He or she shall carry the
responsibility both for his or her own employees and for all subcontractors
from the first day of construction until the notice of completion is filed. The
developer shall be responsible for replacing such destroyed vegetation with
like species of mature size if such size is practical.
      (5)   Maintenance. The owner of any private property on which grading or
other work has been performed pursuant to a grading plan approved, or a
building permit granted under the provisions of this chapter shall continuously
maintain and repair all graded surfaces and erosion prevention devices,
retaining walls, drainage structures or means and other protective devices,
plantings and ground cover installed or completed.
      (6)   Utilities. All new service utilities shall be placed underground,
where practical.
(Ord. 2025-07, passed 3-10-2025)
§ 157.082 PLANNED UNIT AND CONDOMINIUM SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Intent. To permit greater flexibility in the use and design of
structures and land in situations where modifications of specific provisions of
this chapter or the city zoning ordinance will not be contrary to its intent
and purpose or significantly inconsistent with the planning on which it is
based and will not be harmful to the neighborhood in which they occur.
   (B)   Minimum area. A planned unit development to be annexed for the
following principle uses shall contain an area of not less than:
      (1)   Three acres for residential use, except for a mobile home
subdivision;
      (2)   Five acres for mobile home subdivision;
      (3)   Five acres for residential use with subordinance commercial use;
      (4)   Ten acres for commercial use; or
      (5)   Ten acres for industrial use.
   (C)   Site development plan. The developer shall provide the Council with a
colored rendering of adequate scale to show the completed development that will
include at least the following:
      (1)   Architectural style and building design;
      (2)   Building materials and colors;
      (3)   Landscaping;
      (4)   Screening;
      (5)   Garbage areas;
      (6)   Parking; and
      (7)   Open space.
   (D)   Private streets. Private street construction standards shall be based
upon recommendations from the City Engineer or Superintendent of Public Works.
Adequate construction standards may vary depending on the size of the
development and the demands placed upon such improvements.
   (E)   Homeowners’ association. The homeowners’ association bylaws and other
similar deed restrictions, which for the control and maintenance of all common
areas, recreation facilities or open spaces shall meet with the approval of the
City Council. Any and all powers as specified in such agreements may also be
assigned to the City Council for the purpose of assessing property for
delinquencies and enforcement of motor vehicle speed to protect the best
interests of the owners involved and of the general public.
   (F)   Storage areas. Storage areas shall be provided for the anticipated
needs of boats, recreation vehicles and trailers. For typical residential
development, one adequate space shall be provided every two living units. This
may be reduced by the City Council if there is a showing that the needs of a
particular development are less.
   (G)   Parking space. There shall be a minimum of two off-street parking
spaces per dwelling unit. An additional off-street parking space for every
three units may be required by the Council to accommodate visitor parking.
   (H)   Maintenance building. A maintenance building shall be provided; size
and location to be suitable for the service needs that are necessary for the
repair and maintenance of all common areas.
   (I)   Open space. The location of open space shall be appropriate to the
development and shall be or such shape and area to be useable and convenient to
the residents or the development.
   (J)   Control during development. Single ownership or control during
development shall be required and a time limit may be imposed to guarantee the
development is built and constructed as planned.
(Ord. 2025-07, passed 3-10-2025)
§ 157.083 MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   General. Mobile home subdivisions shall be subject to any requirements
set forth in the Zoning Code (
Chapter 155).
   (B)   Special requirements. The following special requirements shall apply
to mobile home subdivisions:
      (1)   A minimum acreage of five acres will be required for planned unit
mobile home subdivisions;
      (2)   Screening from adjacent areas other than subdivisions of the same
type by aesthetically acceptable fences, living plant material and/or existing
natural vegetation or landscaped berms to be maintained by the homeowners’
association; and
      (3)   Creation of a homeowners’ association to assure all common areas
are adequately maintained.
(Ord. 2025-07, passed 3-10-2025)
§ 157.084 LARGE SCALE DEVELOPMENT SUBDIVISIONS.
   Due to the impact of a large scale development on public facilities and
services, the developer shall submit the following information with the
preliminary plat:
   (A)   Identification of all public services that must be provided to be the
development (i.e., fire protection, police protection, central water and sewer,
road construction, parks and open space, recreation, maintenance, schools,
solid waste disposal and the like);
   (B)   Estimate of public service costs to provide adequate service to the
development;
   (C)   Estimate of tax revenue that will be generated by the development; and
   (D)   Suggestions for public means of financing the services if the cost of
the public services would not be offset by tax revenues generated by the
development.
(Ord. 2025-07, passed 3-10-2025)
§ 157.085 CEMETERY SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Function. The developer shall provide the Council with written
documentation that will sufficiently explain the functions of the proposed
cemetery for either animal or human remains.
   (B)   Compliance with state statutes. The developer shall submit a written
statement that has been prepared by an attorney that adequately assures the
compliance of the proposed cemetery with the procedural management requirements
that are outlined in Idaho Code Title 27.
(Ord. 2025-07, passed 3-10-2025)
§ 157.086 SUBDIVISIONS WITHIN FLOODPLAIN.
   (A)   Flood areas. For any proposed subdivision that is located within or
partially within a floodplain, the developer shall provide the Council with a
development plan of adequate scale and supporting documentation that will show
and explain at least the following:
      (1)   All planned developments;
      (2)   The location of the floodway and floodway fringe per engineering
practices as specified by the Army Corps of Engineers;
      (3)   The location of the present water channel;
      (4)   Any planned rerouting of waterways;
      (5)   All major drainageways;
      (6)   Areas of frequent flooding;
      (7)   Means of floodproofing buildings; and
      (8)   Means of insuring loans for improvements within the floodplain.
   (B)   Justification for development.
      (1)   Upon the determination the buildings are planned within a
floodplain or that alterations of any kind are anticipated within the
floodplain area that will alter the flow of water, the developer shall
demonstrate conclusively to the Council that such development will not present
a hazard to life, limb or property; will not have adverse effects on the
safety, use or stability of public way or drainage channel or the natural
environment.
      (2)   No subdivision or part thereof shall be approved if levees, fills,
structures or other features within the proposed subdivision will individually
or collectively significantly increase flood flows, heights or damages. If only
part of a subdivision can be safely developed, the City Council shall limit
development to that part and shall require that development proceed consistent
with that determination.
(Ord. 2025-07, passed 3-10-2025)
§ 157.087 SUBDIVISIONS WITHIN AREAS OF CRITICAL CONCERN.
   (A)   General. Hazardous or unique areas may be designated as areas of
critical concern by the Council, by an appointed Natural Resource Commission of
the city or by the state. Special consideration shall be given to any proposed
development within an area of critical concern to assure that the development
is necessary and desirable and in the public interest in view of the existing
unique conditions. Hazardous or unique areas that may be designated as areas of
critical concern include, but are limited to, the following:
      (1)   Avalanche paths;
      (2)   Earthquake locations;
      (3)   Fault zones;
      (4)   Unstable soils;
      (5)   Unique animal life;
      (6)   Unique plant life;
      (7)   Scenic areas;
      (8)   Historical designation;
      (9)   Floodplain; and
      (10)   Other areas of critical concern.
   (B)   Plan submission. The developer shall prepare and submit (or have
prepared) an environmental impact statement along with the preliminary plat
application for any development that is proposed within an area of critical
concern.
   (C)   Content of environmental impact statement. The content of the
environmental impact statement shall be prepared by an interdisciplinary team
of professionals that shall provide answers to the following questions:
      (1)   What changes will occur to the area of concern as a result of the
proposed development?;
      (2)   What corrective action or alternative development plans could occur
so as not to significantly change the area of concern?;
      (3)   What changes in the area of concern are unavoidable?; and
      (4)   What beneficial or detrimental effects would the development have
on the environmental (i.e .. animal life, plant life, social concerns, economic
situation, noise, visual pollution and other)?
(Ord. 2025-07, passed 3-10-2025)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 157.100 ADMINISTRATION.
   The City Council shall appoint an administrator to carry out the provisions
as herein specified and to serve at the pleasure of the Council. The
Administrator shall receive and process all subdivision applications.
(Ord. 2025-07, passed 3-10-2025)
§ 157.101 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Purpose. City Council may, as a result of unique circumstances such as
topographic-physical limitations or a planned unit development, consider a
variance from the provisions of this chapter on a finding that undue hardship
would result from the strict compliance with specific provisions or
requirements of this chapter or that application of such provision or
requirement is impractical.
   (B)   Findings. No variance shall be favorable acted upon by the City
Council unless there is a finding as a result of a public hearing that all of
the following exist:
      (1)   That there are such special circumstances or conditions affecting
the property that the strict application of the provisions of this chapter
would clearly be impracticable or unreasonable; in such cases, the subdivider
shall first state his or her reasons in writing as to the specific provision or
requirements involved;
      (2)   That strict compliance with the provisions of this chapter would
result in extraordinary hardship to the subdivider because of unusual
topographic, other physical conditions or other such conditions which are not
self-inflicted, or that these conditions would result in inhibiting the
achievement of the objectives of this chapter;
      (3)   That the granting of the specified variance will not be detrimental
to the public welfare or injurious to other property in the area in which the
property is situated;
      (4)   That such variance will not violate the provisions of the state
statutes; and
      (5)   That such variance will not have the effect of nullifying the
interest and purpose of this chapter and the Comprehensive Plan.
(Ord. 2025-07, passed 3-10-2025)
§ 157.102 AMENDMENT PROCEDURES.
   The City Council may, from time to time, amend, supplement or repeal the
regulations and provisions of this chapter in the manner prescribed by the
state statutes. A proposed amendment, supplement or repeal may be originated by
the City Council or by petition.
(Ord. 2025-07, passed 3-10-2025)
§ 157.103 DETECTION OF VIOLATIONS.
   The Administrator shall periodically research the County Assessor’s records
and perform the necessary investigation to detect any violation of this
chapter.
(Ord. 2025-07, passed 3-10-2025)
§ 157.104 ENFORCEMENT.
   No subdivider shall offer to the County Recorder, for recording a plat which
does not conform in all respects to this chapter which has not been given final
plat approval by the City Council. If any such plat is prematurely recorded, it
shall constitute a misdemeanor and shall be punishable as provided for in this
subchapter.
   (A)   No public board, agency, commission, official or other authority shall
proceed with the construction of or authorize the construction of any of the
public improvements required by this chapter until the final plat has received
the approval by the City Council. The City Attorney shall have the authority in
addition to taking whatever criminal action is deemed necessary to take steps
to civilly enjoin any of this chapter.
   (B)   No permit shall be issued for the erection of any building on any lot
in a subdivision unless such lot is shown on a plat approved by the Council and
that any condition limiting the right to erect or maintain buildings on such
lot have been satisfied or waived by the Council.
(Ord. 2025-07, passed 3-10-2025) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.999 PENALTY.
   Violations of any of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply
with any of its requirements shall constitute a misdemeanor as set forth in §
10.99. Each day of such violation shall constitute a separate offense. The land
owner, tenant, subdivider, builder, public official or any other person who
commits, participates in, assists in or maintains such violation may each be
found guilty of a separate offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the
City Council or any other public official or private citizen from taking lawful
action as is necessary to restrain or prevent any violation of this chapter or
of the state statutes.
(Ord. 2025-07, passed 3-10-2025)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
[Reserved]
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Idaho Code
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO IDAHO CODE
Idaho Code Section Code Section
Idaho Code Section      Code Section
                        112.20;
Chapter 9               112.24;
                        112.31
                        112.45;
Chapter 13              112.47;
                        112.48
Chapter 38              154.25
Title 6, Chapter 9      31.15
18-111                  10.12
18-113                  151.99
20-501 et seq.          130.49
Title 27                157.085
31-4410                 Ch. 50
39-4105(8)              157.010
39-4105(9)              157.010
39-4109                 155.182
Title 44, Chapter 22    155.064;
                        155.182
44-2201 through 44-2205 152.06
44-2205                 157.010
46-1020 through 46-1024 154.01
46-1021                 154.05
Title 49, Chapter 4     91.15
49-514                  71.13
49-1104                 71.13
Title 49, Chapter 18    91.20
49-1801 et seq.         91.16;
                        91.21
Title 50                30.26
50-204                  31.01
50-206                  31.02
50-208                  31.18
50-208a                 31.16
50-219                  31.15
                        91.16;
50-334                  91.23;
                        91.25;
                        91.99
50-344                  Ch. 50
50-602                  30.01
50-701                  30.20
50-704                  30.30
50-706                  30.24
Title 50, Chapter 9     10.03
50-1008                 91.23;
                        151.26
Title 50, Chapter 13    157.002;
                        157.031
50-1303                 157.010—
                        157.066
50-1304                 157.010
50-1306                 157.004
50-1326                 157.031;
                        157.066
Title 63, Chapter 6     155.182
Title 67, Chapter 52    10.12
                        155.005;
                        155.146;
                        155.161;
Title 67, Chapter 65    155.165;
                        155.201;
                        155.203;
                        157.002
67-6509                 155.148;
                        155.217
67-6511A                155.148
67-6525                 157.004
67-6526                 157.004
67-6531                 155.004
                        
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Section 2025 Code Section
Prior Code Section 2025 Code Section
1-101              10.05
1-102              10.05
                   10.08;
1-103              10.12—
                   10.14
1-201              11.01
1-301              11.02
1-401              11.03
1-501              10.99
1-502              10.99
1-601              31.01
1-602              31.02
1-603              31.03
1-701              31.15
1-801              31.16
1-901              31.17
1-1001             31.18
1-1101             30.01
1-1102             30.02
1-1103             30.03
1-1104             30.04
1-1105             30.05
1-1106             30.06
1-1107             30.07
1-1108             30.08
1-1201             30.20
1-1202             30.21
1-1203             30.22
1-1204             30.23
1-1205             30.24
1-1206             30.25
1-1207             30.26
1-1208             30.27
1-1209             30.28
1-1210             30.29
1-1211             30.30
1-1212             30.31
1-1213             30.32
2-101              31.31
2-102              31.31
2-103              31.31
2-301              51.01
2-301              151.20
2-302              51.02
2-302              151.21
2-303              51.15
2-303              151.22
2-304              51.16
2-304              151.23
2-305              51.17
2-305              151.24
2-306              51.18
2-306              151.25
2-307              51.19
2-307              151.26
2-308              51.20
2-308              151.27
2-309              51.21
2-309              151.28
2-310              51.22
2-310              151.29
2-311              51.23
2-311              151.29
2-312              51.24
2-312              151.30
2-313              51.35
2-313              151.31
2-314              51.36
2-314              151.32
2-315              51.37
2-315              151.33
2-316              51.38
2-316              151.34
2-317              51.39
2-318              51.40
2-319              51.41
2-321              51.42
2-322              51.43
2-323              51.44
2-324              51.45
2-325              51.46
2-326              51.47
2-327              51.48
2-328              51.99
2-329              51.49
2-330              51.50
2-331              51.51
2-332              51.52
2-333              51.53
                   51.65—
2-334              51.69;
                   51.99
2-401              52.01
2-402              52.02
2-403              52.03
2-404              52.04
2-405              52.05
2-406              52.06
2-407              52.07
2-408              52.08
3-201              150.02
3-202              150.02
3-301              150.15
3-302              150.16
3-303              150.17
3-304              150.18
3-305              150.19
3-306              150.99
3-401              152.01
3-402              152.02
4-101              110.01
4-102              110.02
4-103              110.03
4-104              110.04
4-105              110.05
4-201              111.01
4-202              111.02
4-301              111.15
4-302              111.16
4-303              111.17
4-304              111.18
4-305              111.19
4-306              111.20
4-307              111.21
4-308              111.22
4-309              111.23
4-310              111.24
4-311              111.25
4-312              111.26
4-313              111.27
5-101              112.01
5-102              112.02
5-103              112.03
5-104              112.04
5-105              112.05
5-106              112.06
5-107              112.07
5-108              112.08
5-201              112.20
5-202              112.21
5-203              112.22
5-204              112.23
5-205              112.24
5-206              112.25
5-207              112.26
5-208              112.27
5-209              112.28
5-210              112.29
5-211              112.30
5-212              112.31
5-213              112.32
5-214              112.99
5-301              112.45
5-302              112.46
5-303              112.47
5-304              112.48
5-305              112.99
6-101              130.01
6-102              130.02
6-103              130.20
6-104              130.21
6-106              130.22
6-107              130.23
6-108              130.24
6-109              130.45
6-110              130.46
6-111              130.47
6-112              130.48
6-113              130.49
6-114              130.03
6-115              130.04
6-116              130.05
6-117              130.50
6-118              130.51
6-119              130.52
6-120              130.53
6-121              130.06
6-122              130.07
6-123              130.54
6-124              130.55
6-126              130.21
6-127              130.56
6-128              130.25
6-129              130.26
6-130              130.57
6-132              130.30
6-133              130.30
6-134              130.30
6-135              130.30
6-136              130.58
6-137              130.27
6-138              130.08
6-139              130.59
6-140              130.60
6-141              130.28
6-142              130.61
6-143              130.62
6-144              130.29
6-201              90.01
6-202              90.02
6-203              90.03
6-204              90.04
6-205              90.04
6-206              90.04
6-207              90.04
6-208              90.05
6-209              90.06
6-210              90.99
6-401              91.02
6-501              131.01
6-502              131.02
6-503              131.03
6-504              131.04
6-601              132.01
6-602              132.02
6-701              130.63
6-702              130.63
7-101              50.01
7-102              50.02
7-103              50.03
7-104              50.04
7-105              50.05
7-106              50.06
7-107              50.20
7-108              50.21
7-109              50.22
7-110              50.23
7-111              50.24
7-112              50.25
7-113              50.26
7-114              50.27
7-115              50.28
7-116              50.29
7-117              50.30
7-118              50.31
7-119              50.99
7-201              91.01
8-101              153.01
8-102              153.02
8-103              153.03
8-104              153.04
8-105              153.05
8-106              153.06
8-107              153.07
8-108              153.08
8-109              153.09
8-110              153.10
8-111              153.11
8-112              153.12
8-113              153.12
8-201              70.01
8-201(a)           70.02
8-202              70.40
8-203              70.15—
                   70.26
8-204              71.01
8-205              71.02
8-206              71.03
8-207              71.04
8-208              71.05
8-209              72.01—
                   72.10
8-210              71.45
8-211              71.46
8-212              71.47
8-213              71.48
8-214              71.06
8-215              70.41
8-216              70.42
8-217              70.43
8-218              70.44
8-219              70.45
8-220              71.07
8-221              71.08
8-222              71.09
8-223              71.25
8-224              71.26
8-225              71.27
8-226              71.28
8-227              71.29
8-228              71.30
8-229              71.10
8-230              70.46
8-231              70.47
8-231              70.99
8-232              70.99
8-301              71.11
8-301              71.99
8-302              71.12
8-303              71.13
                   
 
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
1993-1   2-1-1993    130.31
1995-1   7-11-1995   152.03
1995-2   7-11-1995   31.04
2009-1   3-9-2009    32.04
2010-3   7-13-2010   153.06
2011-6   8-2-2011    32.04
2011-8   9-6-2011    31.31
2012-2   3-6-2012    31.04
R2012-6  9-4-2012    32.04;
                     153.06
                     32.04;
R2016-3  1-12-2016   112.23;
                     112.46
R2016-5  2-9-2016    32.04
R 2016-7 6-14-2016   32.02
R2017-1  10-11-2016  32.04;
                     50.28
R-2018-1 12-5-2017   32.03
R-2018-1 12-5-2017   92.15—
                     92.18
R-2018-5 7-10-2018   31.15
R2019-2  2-12-2019   30.02
R2019-3  8-13-2019   32.04
R2020-2  7-13-2020   32.01
R2020-5  -10-2020    32.04
R2021-2  - -2021     92.01—
                     92.04
R2021-4  5-10-2021   90.22
R2022-3  1-10-2022   156.01
R2022-11 8-22-2022   32.04;
                     50.28
R2023-03 6-12-2023   32.04;
                     52.01
R2024-1  10-10-2023  32.04;
                     52.01
R2024-03 10-10-2023  32.04
R2024-06 6-10-2024   150.15
R2024-08 7-8-2024    92.01
R2024-09 8-12-2024   31.15
R2024-11 8-12-2024   51.53
                    
 
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
                     90.20—
1997-1   2-4-1997    90.32;
                     90.99
                     51.01;
                     51.02;
                     51.15—
                     51.24;
1997-3   9-2-1997    51.35—
                     51.53;
                     51.65—
                     51.69;
                     51.99
2001-2   5-8-2001    51.53
2002-1   5-7-2002    90.24
2003-3   8-5-2003    31.30
2004-2   9-7-2004    51.01;
                     51.53
                     90.22;
2005-1   4-7-2005    90.24;
                     90.29
2005-9   - -2005     32.04
2007-2   9-6-2007    50.28
2008-4   5-12-2008   52.01
2008-7   10- -2008   51.01;
                     52.02
                     91.15—
2011-3   6-7-2011    91.25;
                     91.99
2011-9   9-6-2011    150.15
                     151.01—
2012-1   - -2011     151.05;
                     151.99
2012-4   4-3-2012    151.04
                     154.01—
                     154.10;
                     154.25—
2013-3   2-5-2013    154.27;
                     154.40—
                     154.49;
                     154.99
2016-1   10-13-2015  51.45
2016-4   1-12-2016   112.05
                     30.08;
2019-4   8-13-2019   30.31;
                     31.17
2019-8   9-10-2019   30.23
2021-5   6-14-2021   90.99
2021-9   9-13-2021   150.01
                     155.001—
                     155.005;
                     155.020—
                     155.025;
                     155.040—
                     155.045;
                     155.060—
                     155.065;
                     155.080—
                     155.090;
                     155.105—
2022-3   7-25-2022   155.115;
                     155.130—
                     155.148;
                     155.160—
                     155.166;
                     155.180—
                     155.185;
                     155.200—
                     155.204;
                     155.215—
                     155.217;
                     155.999
2025-03  2-10-2025   30.08
2025-4   2-10-2025   30.31
2025-5   2-10-2025   51.45
                     51.01;
2025-06  2-10-2025   51.39;
                     52.02
                     157.001—
                     157.010;
                     157.025—
                     157.032;
                     157.045—
                     157.052;
2025-07  3-10-2025   157.065—
                     157.067;
                     157.080—
                     157.087;
                     157.100—
                     157.104;
                     157.999
                    
 
 
