COUNTY CODE
of
OWYHEE COUNTY, IDAHO
2010
Code current through:
Res. 20-27, passed 9-21-2021
Published by:
STERLING CODIFIERS
an
American Legal Publishing Company
525 Vine Street  *  Suite 310  *  Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
   This code of the County of Owyhee County, as supplemented, contains
ordinances up to and including Resolution 20-27, passed September 21, 2021. 
Ordinances of the County adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions
of this code to the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith.
Consult the County office in order to ascertain whether any particular
provision of the code has been amended, superseded or repealed.
Sterling Codifiers
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they have not been incorporated into
the code and they may not show the original ordinances in their entirety.
Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions concerning
the ordinances listed.
ADOPTING ORDINANCES
ORDINANCE NO. 10-01
   ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE OWYHEE COUNTY CODE
BE IT ORDAINED by the board of county commissioners of the county of Owyhee,
Idaho, as follows:
   Section 1: From and after the date of passage of this ordinance, the county
code of the county of Owyhee, Idaho, known as the Owyhee County code, prepared
by Sterling Codifiers, Inc. containing the compilation of all ordinances of a
general nature together with the changes made to said ordinances, under the
direction of the governing body of the county, shall be accepted in all courts
without question as the official code and law of the county as enacted by the
board of county commissioners.
   Section 2: There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification,
the loose-leaf type of binding together with the continuous supplement service,
provided by Sterling Codifiers, Inc., whereby each newly adopted ordinance of a
general and permanent nature amending, altering, adding or deleting provisions
of the official county code is identified by the proper catchline and is
inserted in the proper place in each of the official copies, one copy of which
shall be maintained in the office of the county clerk, certified as to
correctness and available for inspection at any and all times that said office
is regularly open.
   Section 3: All ordinances of a general nature included in this official
county code shall be considered as a continuation of said ordinance provision
and the fact that some provisions have been deliberately eliminated by the
governing body shall not serve to cause any interruption in the continuous
effectiveness of ordinances included in said official county code. All
ordinances of a special nature, such as tax levy ordinances, bond ordinances,
franchises, vacating ordinances and annexation ordinances shall continue in
full force and effect unless specifically repealed or amended by a provision of
the county code. Such ordinances are not intended to be included in the
official county code.
   Section 4: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of such code, or
to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such
code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the county to be
misrepresented thereby.
   Section 5: All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith, are,
to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
   Section 6: This ordinance and the code adopted by the same shall be recorded
and shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage, approval and
publication as provided by law.
APPROVED this 23rd day of November 23, 2010.
ATTEST:
                                             
County Clerk Charlotte Sherburn
Date:                          
Publish Summary Owyhee Avalanche
Date:                            
                                                
   JERRY HOAGLAND, CHAIRMAN
                                                
   RICHARD FREUND, MEMBER
                                                
   GEORGE HYER, MEMBER
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
OWYHEE COUNTY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the board of county commissioners, this code is hereby
declared to be and shall hereafter constitute the official county code of
Owyhee County, state of Idaho. This code of ordinances shall be known and cited
as the OWYHEE COUNTY CODE and is hereby published by authority of the board of
county commissioners and shall be supplemented to incorporate the most recent
legislation of the county as provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this code by title in any legal documents. (2010 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of the county of general and permanent effect, except
the excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2010 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this code shall set forth the title, chapter and section
number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall constitute
sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to the
amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this code. Each such replacement page shall be
properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of the county
code. (2010 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
board of county commissioners. The county clerk shall see that the replacement
pages are properly inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of
the county clerk. Any person having custody of a copy of the county code shall
make every effort to maintain said code current as to the most recent
ordinances passed. Such person shall see to the immediate insertion of new or
replacement pages when such are delivered or made available to such person
through the office of the county clerk. Said code books, while in actual
possession of officials and other interested persons, shall be and remain the
property of the county and shall be returned to the office of the county clerk
when directed so to do by order of the board of county commissioners. (2010
Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the county passed prior to the adoption of this code
are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this code or are by
necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation
ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations; franchise
ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
county; and all special ordinances. (2010 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this code or by virtue of the
preceding section, excepting as the county code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case, this code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (2010 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.    Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as
to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done,
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or
claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.    Scope Of Section: This section shall extend to all repeals, either by
express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any
new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.    Actions Now Pending: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the county herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the county under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this code. (2010 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this code or any part thereof or any portion adopted by reference herein is
for any reason held to be unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any
court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or
effectiveness of the remaining portions of this code, or any part thereof, or
any portion adopted by reference herein. The board of county commissioners
hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection,
subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the
fact that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs,
sentences, clauses or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or
ineffective. (2010 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
   A.    Whenever any word in any section of this code importing the plural
number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons,
any single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although
distributive words may not have been used. When any subject matter, party or
person is referred to in this code by words importing the singular number only,
or a particular gender, several matters, parties or persons and the opposite
gender and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be included; provided, that
these rules of construction shall not be applied to any section of this code
which contains any express provision excluding such construction or where the
subject matter or context may be repugnant thereto.
   B.    The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the county has
been changed in the content of this code to "title", "chapter", "section" and/
or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and clarification
purposes only. Such change to the county's ordinances is not meant to amend
passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (2010 Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
BOARD: The board of county commissioners of Owyhee County, Idaho.
CODE: The county code of Owyhee County.
COMMISSIONERS: The board of county commissioners, Owyhee County, Idaho.
COUNTY: The county of Owyhee, state of Idaho 1 .
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this code to a county employee by
title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of Owyhee
County".
GENDER: A word importing either the masculine or feminine gender only shall
extend and be applied to the other gender and to persons.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive or obnoxious to the health and welfare of the
inhabitants of the county; or any act or thing repugnant to, or creating a
hazard to, or having a detrimental effect on the property of another person or
to the community.
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this code.
OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made in this code to a county officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of Owyhee
County".
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
STREET: Shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with others.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person, or in case he is unable to write, by his proper
mark. (2010 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 31-139.
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of the county code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted. (2010 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY:
Any person convicted of a violation of any section or provision of this code,
where no other penalty is set forth, shall be punished by a fine not to exceed
one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), or by imprisonment not to exceed six (6)
months, or by both such fine and imprisonment, for any offense 1 , or by a fine
not to exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00), and no imprisonment, when the
offense is designated as an infraction by state law or provision of this code 2
. (2010 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 31-714.
2 2. IC §§ 18-111, 18-113, 18-113A.
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.    Application Of Penalty:
      1.    The penalty provided in this chapter shall be applicable to every
section of this code the same as though it were a part of each and every
separate section. Any person convicted of a violation of any section of this
code where any duty is prescribed or obligation imposed or where any action
which is of a continuing nature is forbidden or is declared to be unlawful
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor unless otherwise provided. A separate
offense shall be deemed committed upon each day such duty or obligation remains
unperformed or such act continues unless otherwise specifically provided in
this code.
      2.    Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act
constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this code, and there shall
be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of
this chapter shall apply.
   B.    Imposition Of Penalty: In all cases where the same offense is made
punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of this code, the
prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed; but not more than one
recovery shall be had against the same person for the same offense; provided,
that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be considered a recovery
or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
   C.    Breach Of Provisions: Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to
do any act constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this code and
there shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the
provisions of this chapter shall apply. (2010 Code)
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty unless the intention of
the board of county commissioners to impose such fine or penalty on such
officer or employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the section
creating the duty. (2010 Code)
CHAPTER 5
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
SECTION:
1-5-1: Regular Meetings
1-5-1: REGULAR MEETINGS:
   A.    Purpose: Pursuant to Idaho Code section 31-710, meetings, the regular
meetings of the board of commissioners must be held at their respective county
seats on the second Monday of each month of the year, or if the board
determines that county affairs require regular meetings more often, then at
such times as may be provided for in advance by ordinance, and must continue
from time to time until all the business before them has been addressed. Such
other meetings must be held, to canvass elections, returns, equalize taxation,
and for other purposes as are prescribed by law or provided by the board.
   B.    Monday As The Official Regular Meeting Day: As contemplated by the
above referenced statute, the Owyhee County board of commissioners does find
that the affairs of Owyhee County require that regular meetings of the board be
held more often than once per month, and that the best interests of the county
require that the board generally meet each Monday, except as otherwise provided
herein and on other days, if necessary, for special meetings and purposes as
may be provided by the board upon advanced notice. (Ord. 11-01, 1-24-2011)
   C.    Time Of Meetings: Each regular meeting of the board of county
commissioners shall commence at nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. Mountain Time, unless
the time for any meeting is changed by unanimous resolution of the board. Such
change of time shall be made at least five (5) days prior to the scheduled
meeting and notice of the change of time shall be posted in five (5)
conspicuous places in the county including at the courthouse door in Murphy,
Idaho. (Ord. 01-04, 11-13-2001; amd. Ord. 09-01, 2-23-2009, eff. 4-7-2009)
   D.    Meeting Location: As contemplated by the above referenced statute the
meetings of the Owyhee County board of commissioners are to be held at the
county seat being the Owyhee County Courthouse, Murphy, Idaho. The regular
place of meeting at such county seat location shall be courtroom no. 2, of the
Owyhee County Courthouse; except in the event of the special circumstance, or
courtroom unavailability, then in such event, in another room of a county
building, or other site.
   E.    Exemptions: The Owyhee County board of commissioners shall not meet to
undertake official county business if:
      1.    The given Monday falls on a legal holiday as contemplated and
articulated by Idaho Code section 73-108;
      2.    The given Monday falls on the fifth week of the month;
      3.    Two (2) of the three (3) commissioners are unavailable for meeting
to constitute a quorum, as contemplated by Idaho Code sections 31-701 and 31-
707. (Ord. 11-01, 1-24-2011)
CHAPTER 6
ASSERTIONS OF RIGHTS OF WAY AND FEDERAL AND STATE MANAGED LANDS, RECORDING
SECTION:
1-6-1: Purpose
1-6-2: Recording
1-6-3: Form For Filing
1-6-4: Recording Fee
1-6-1: PURPOSE:
The vast majority of land in the county is managed by a federal or state
agency. Ever since initial settlement of county lands, owners of private land
and of private property interests have, of necessity, asserted and used rights
of way upon and across such federally managed and state managed lands in order
to obtain that beneficial and economically efficient use of their private land
and property interests which is vital to the commerce and economic stability of
the county. The purpose of this chapter is to promote and foster commerce and
economic stability within the county by authorizing the county recorder to
receive and record assertions of such rights of way upon and across federally
managed and state managed lands. (Ord. 93-02, 4-12-1993, eff. 4-21-1993)
1-6-2: RECORDING:
The county recorder shall receive for recording and shall record assertions of
right of way which are filed with the recorder on a form to be provided by the
recorder. (Ord. 93-02, 4-12-1993, eff. 4-21-1993)
1-6-3: FORM FOR FILING:
Any assertion of right of way must be filed on the form provided by the county
recorder and all information required by said form shall be provided by the
person asserting the right of way. The right of way form must be signed by the
person asserting the right of way and the signature must be notarized. The
assertion of right of way must be accompanied by a legal description of the
asserted right of way or a map which clearly designates the location of the
asserted right of way. The recorder shall receive and record the right of way
form, the supporting legal description and/or map and other documents upon
which the assertion is based. (Ord. 93-02, 4-12-1993, eff. 4-21-1993)
1-6-4: RECORDING FEE:
The county recorder shall charge a recording fee in accordance with Idaho state
law. (Ord. 93-02, 4-12-1993, eff. 4-21-1993)
TITLE 2
BOARDS, COMMISSIONS AND COMMITTEES
CHAPTER 1
HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-1-1: Purpose
2-1-2: Definitions
2-1-3: Created
2-1-4: Organization, Officers, Rules, Meetings
2-1-5: Powers, Duties, And Responsibilities
2-1-6: Special Restrictions
2-1-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to promote the educational, cultural, economic
and general welfare of the public of the county through the identification,
evaluation, designation, and protection of those buildings, sites, areas,
structures, and objects which reflect significant elements of the county's, the
state's and the nation's historic, architectural, archaeological, and cultural
heritage. (Ord. 87-01, 1-12-1987)
2-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases when used in this chapter shall have, unless
the context clearly indicates otherwise, the following meanings:
COMMISSION: The historic preservation commission of the county of Owyhee.
COUNTY: The county of Owyhee.
HISTORIC PRESERVATION: The research, documentation, protection, restoration and
rehabilitation of buildings, structures, objects, districts, areas, and sites
significant in the history, architecture, archaeology or culture of this state,
its communities or the nation.
HISTORIC PROPERTY: Any building, structure, area or site that is significant in
the history, architecture, archaeology or culture of this county, the state, or
the nation. (Ord. 87-01, 1-12-1987)
2-1-3: CREATED:
   A.    Created; Membership: There is hereby created a historic preservation
commission which shall consist of seven (7) members who shall be appointed by
the board of county commissioners (hereinafter "board").
   B.    Qualifications: All members of the commission shall have a
demonstrated interest, competence, or knowledge in history or historic
preservation. The board shall appoint at least three (3) voting members with
professional training or experience in the disciplines of architecture,
history, architectural history, urban planning, archaeology, engineering, law,
or other historic preservation related disciplines. (Ord. 05-02, 6-6-2005)
   C.    Term: Initial appointments to the commission shall be made as follows:
One 1-year term; two (2) 2-year terms; two (2) 3-year terms. All subsequent
appointments shall be made for three (3) year terms. Commission members may be
reappointed to serve additional terms. Vacancies shall be filled in the same
manner as original appointments and the appointee shall serve for the remainder
of the unexpired term.
   D.    Reimbursement Of Expenses: The members of the commission may be
reimbursed, with prior approval by the board of commissioners, by the county
for expenses incurred in connection with their duties. (Ord. 87-01, 1-12-1987)
2-1-4: ORGANIZATION, OFFICERS, RULES, MEETINGS:
   A.    Rules Of Procedure And Bylaws: The commission shall have the power to
make whatever rules are necessary for the execution of its duties as set forth
in this chapter. Rules of procedure and bylaws adopted by the commission shall
be available for public inspection.
   B.    Officers: The commission shall elect officers from among the
commission members. The chairman shall preside at meetings of the commission.
The vice chairman shall, in the absence of the chairman, perform the duties of
the chairman.
   C.    Meetings; Written Records: All meetings of the commission shall be
open to the public, and follow the requirements of Idaho's open meeting laws.
The commission shall keep minutes and other appropriate written records of its
resolutions, proceedings, and actions.
   D.    Technical Experts: The commission may recommend to the board of
commissioners, within the limits of its funding, the employment of or the
contracting with other parties for the services of technical experts or other
persons as it deems necessary to carry on the functions of the commission.
(Ord. 87-01, 1-12-1987)
2-1-5: POWERS, DUTIES, AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
The commission shall be advisory to the board and shall be authorized to:
   A.    Conduct A Survey: Conduct a survey of local historic properties.
   B.    Recommend Acquisition: Recommend the acquisition of fee and lesser
interests in historic properties, including adjacent or associated lands, by
purchase, bequest, or donation.
   C.    Recommend Methods And Procedures: Recommend methods and procedures
necessary to preserve, restore, maintain and operate historic properties under
the ownership or control of the county.
   D.    Recommend Lease, Sale, Other Transfer Or Disposition: Recommend the
lease, sale, other transfer or disposition of historic properties subject to
rights of public access and other covenants and in a manner that will preserve
the property.
   E.    Enter Into Contracts: Contract, with the approval of the
commissioners, with the state or federal government, or any agency of either,
or with any other organization.
   F.    Cooperate With Federal, State And Local Governments: Cooperate with
the federal, state, and local governments in the pursuance of the objectives of
historic preservation.
   G.    Make Recommendations In Planning Processes: Make recommendations in
the planning processes undertaken by the county, the city, the state, or the
federal government and agencies of these entities.
   H.    Recommend Ordinances; Provide Information: Recommend ordinances and
otherwise provide information for the purposes of historic preservation in the
county.
   I.    Promote And Conduct An Educational And Interpretative Program: Promote
and conduct an educational and interpretive program on historic preservation
and historic properties in the county.
   J.    Right Of Entry; Consent Required: Commission members, employees or
agents of the commission may enter private property, buildings, or structures
in the performance of their official duties only with the express consent of
the owner or occupant thereof.
   K.    Review Property Nominations: Review nominations of properties to the
national register of historic places for properties within the county's
jurisdiction. (Ord. 87-01, 1-12-1987)
2-1-6: SPECIAL RESTRICTIONS:
Under the provisions of Idaho Code section 67-4612, the county may provide, by
ordinance, special conditions or restrictions for the protection, enhancement
and preservation of historic properties. (Ord. 87-01, 1-12-1987)
CHAPTER 2
SNOWMOBILE ADVISORY COMMITTEE
SECTION:
2-2-1: Established; Membership
2-2-2: Duties
2-2-1: ESTABLISHED; MEMBERSHIP:
   A.    Established: Pursuant to Idaho Code section 67-7107, the board of
county commissioners establishes the county snowmobile advisory committee.
   B.    Membership: The committee shall consist of a minimum of three (3) and
a maximum of seven (7) members.
   C.    Compensation; Term: Members appointed serve without salaries and wages
and at the pleasure of the board of county commissioners. (Ord. 04-01, 2-2-
2004)
2-2-2: DUTIES:
   A.    Serve In Advisory Capacity: The committee is established to serve in
an advisory capacity to the board on matters relating to the establishment and
maintenance of parking and loading areas on public and private property and on
the expenditure of monies deposited in the county snowmobile fund.
   B.    Meetings With Board: The committee shall meet with the board as
necessary to make recommendations regarding the expenditure of funds, but shall
meet with the board at least once each year during the second quarter of the
fiscal year.
   C.    Coordination With National Resources Committee: In addition to its
advising and reporting duties to the board, the committee shall also coordinate
its activities and recommendations with the Owyhee County natural resources
committee in order to provide for consistency and continuity of snowmobile
plans with the plans and actions of the natural resources committee. (Ord. 04-
01, 2-2-2004)
CHAPTER 3
NATURAL RESOURCES ADVISORY COMMITTEE
SECTION:
2-3-1: Purpose
2-3-2: Establishment; Designation Of Duties
2-3-3: Membership
2-3-4: Organization Of Committee
2-3-5: Cooperation With Committee
2-3-6: Ratification Of Prior Planning Activities
2-3-1: PURPOSE:
The lands within the county which produce the natural resources vital to the
economy of the county are either managed by federal or state agencies or are
critically affected by lands managed by such agencies. All private property and
county or municipally owned property lying within the county is affected by
federal and/or state management practices. Such practices have the potential
to, and often do, adversely impact the continuation of the culture, custom and
economic stability of the county. By resolution, the board of county
commissioners has previously established a land use planning committee which
has served as an advisory committee to the board regarding planning for and
implementation of plans for the federally and state managed lands lying within
the county. That committee has assisted the board with development of a land
use plan for the federally and state managed lands, and it has become clear
that the planning process for such lands must be a long term undertaking if the
custom, culture and economic stability of the county is to be preserved. The
purpose of this chapter is to provide for the land use committee as a standing
advisory committee to continue advising the board regarding the management of
the federally and state managed lands lying within the county and the
relationship of that management to continuation of the custom, culture and
economic stability of the county. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
2-3-2: ESTABLISHMENT; DESIGNATION OF DUTIES:
There is hereby established the Owyhee County natural resources advisory
committee. The committee shall serve as an advisory committee to the board of
county commissioners with regard to the following:
   A.    Development of plans for use of the federally and state managed lands
lying within the county;
   B.    Implementation of plans for use of the federally and state managed
lands lying within the county;
   C.    Study of and development of legislation pertaining to management of
the federally and state managed lands lying within the county;
   D.    Study of and development of comments and input regarding proposed
legislation and administrative regulations regarding management of the
federally and state managed lands lying within the county;
   E.    Study of and development of comments and input regarding proposed
federal or state plans, regulations, orders, decisions and other actions
regarding management of the federally and state managed lands lying within the
county;
   F.    Conduct public information meetings and other means of gathering
information regarding public input into the management of the federally and
state managed lands lying within the county;
   G.    Meet and communicate with federal and state agency personnel, other
public officials and citizen groups in order to develop coordination of
planning for the management of the federally and state managed lands lying
within the county and recommend actions to establish and implement such
coordination;
   H.    As directed or requested by the board of commissioners, perform other
functions regarding the management of federally and state managed lands lying
within the county and the relationship of the management to the custom,
culture, and economic stability of the county. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
2-3-3: MEMBERSHIP:
The committee shall consist of not fewer than twenty (20) members and not more
than sixty (60) members. All members shall be appointed by the board of
commissioners in accordance with the following provisions:
   A.    Initial Appointments; Term: As to the members initially appointed
subsequent to enactment hereof, one-half (1/2) of the members shall be
appointed to serve a two (2) year term.
   B.    Subsequent Appointments; Terms: As to the members appointed subsequent
to the initial appointment, they shall be alternately appointed to three (3)
and two (2) year terms, so that as far as practicable, the membership maintains
continuity of membership in proportion to the one-half (1/2) formula
established by subsection A of this section.
   C.    Eligibility For Membership: Eligibility for membership shall be
involvement in, and interest in, and expertise in the various multiple uses of
the federally and state managed lands and the custom, culture, and economic
stability of the county. The board shall select members for appointment from a
list maintained by the clerk of the board which contains the following:
      1.    The names of persons who, in writing, have requested appointment
and stated their involvement in, interest in, and expertise in the multiple
uses, customs, culture, and economic stability of the county; and
      2.    The names of persons recommended for membership by the committee
with a written statement of their involvement in, interest in, and expertise of
the persons in the multiple uses, customs, culture and economic stability of
the county.
   D.    Resignation Or Removal; Replacement: Upon receipt by the board of a
written resignation by a member of the committee, or of a written
recommendation by the committee that a member be removed because of failure to
participate in committee business and activities, the board shall remove the
member's name from the committee and shall appoint a replacement for the
remainder of the term being served by the member removed. Such appointments
shall be made in accordance with the procedure established in subsection C of
this section. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
2-3-4: ORGANIZATION OF COMMITTEE:
   A.    Officers: The committee members shall elect a chairperson, at least
one vice chairperson, a secretary and any other officers the committee deems
desirable or necessary. The term for such officers shall be two (2) years, and
all officers elected are eligible for reelection.
   B.    Action Board: The committee shall name an action board which shall
have the authority to advise the board of commissioners on matters requiring
such prompt action that awaiting a committee meeting is impracticable. The
action board membership shall be established by the committee but shall include
at least all officers of the committee. The action board shall report its
activities to the committee at the next meeting of the committee.
   C.    Subcommittees: The committee is authorized to establish whatever
subcommittees it deems desirable and necessary to the conduct of its business
and affairs. The chairman shall name the members of the subcommittees.
Membership on the committee is not a requirement for membership on a
subcommittee.
   D.    Meetings: The committee shall establish and publicly announce its own
meeting schedule, but it shall meet at least one time per calendar month. All
meetings of the committee shall be public meetings. The action board and
subcommittee may meet without the public meeting requirements set by Idaho law,
but action board and subcommittee reports shall be made at each committee
meeting.
   E.    Operating Procedure: Other than the requirements set forth in
subsections A through D of this section, the committee may establish its
operating and meeting policies and procedures. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
2-3-5: COOPERATION WITH COMMITTEE 1 :
All offices and personnel of the county under the direct supervision of the
board of commissioners shall assist and cooperate with the committee in the
performance of its duties to the extent reasonable and practicable in light of
performance of county business. All other officers and personnel of the county
are requested, by the provisions of this title, to assist and cooperate with
the committee in the manner set forth above. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 9-1-5 of this code.
2-3-6: RATIFICATION OF PRIOR PLANNING ACTIVITIES:
The work of the land use committee which has operated under guidance from the
board prior to enactment hereof is hereby ratified and approved. (Ord. 09-09,
10-6-2009)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
LIQUOR, BEER AND WINE SALES
SECTION:
3-1-1: Definitions
3-1-2: Adoption Of Beer, Liquor Or Wine Laws
3-1-3: List Of Licenses
3-1-4: License Required
3-1-5: License Fees
3-1-6: Application For License
3-1-7: Qualifications Of Applicant
3-1-8: Issuance Of License
3-1-9: License Renewal; Effective Date
3-1-10: Transfer Of License
3-1-11: Extension On Days Of Sale
3-1-12: Notice To License Holders As To Change In Hours Or Fees
3-1-13: Consumption On Premises
3-1-14: Persons Underage
3-1-15: Revocation Of License
3-1-16: Penalty
3-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
   A.    General Definitions: When used in this chapter, the following defined
terms shall have the following meaning:
    BARTENDER: Any person, whether agent, servant, employee, licensee, or any
person in any other capacity, who pours, mixes, prepares, serves or delivers
any beer, liquor or wine by the drink upon any licensed premises.
   BEER 1 : Any beverage obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion
or decoction of barley, malt, and/or other ingredients in drinkable water.
   BOARD: The Owyhee County board of commissioners.
   CATERING LICENSE: Any license obtained for the limited sale of beer, liquor,
or wine off premises as permitted by the Idaho Code.
   LIQUOR 2 : 1. The product of distillation of any fermented liquor, rectified
either once or oftener, whatever may be the origin thereof, or synthetic ethyl
alcohol; or
      2.    Any beverage which contains alcohol obtained by distillation mixed
with drinkable water and other substances in solution, including among other
things, brandy, rum, whiskey and gin; or
      3.    Any liquid or solid, patented or not, containing alcohol spirits,
or wine and susceptible of being consumed by a human being, for beverage
purposes and containing more than four percent (4%) of alcohol by weight.
   PREMISES 3 : The building and contiguous property owned, or leased or used
under a government permit by a licensee as part of the business establishment
in the business of the sale of liquor by the drink or beer at retail, which
property is improved to include decks, docks, boardwalks, lawns, gardens, golf
courses, ski resorts, courtyards, patios, poolside areas or similar improved
appurtenances in which the sale of liquor by the drink or beer at retail is
authorized under the provisions of law.
   RESTAURANT 4 : Any restaurant, cafe, hotel, dining room, coffee shop,
cafeteria, railroad dining car or other eating establishment having kitchen and
cooking facilities for the preparation of food and where hot meals are
regularly served to the public.
   RETAIL BEER LICENSE: A license for the sale of beer in the original unbroken
container.
   RETAIL BEER LICENSE BY THE DRINK: A license for the sale of beer by the
drink on the premises authorized by the Idaho Code and approved by the board.
   RETAIL LIQUOR LICENSE BY THE DRINK: A license for the sale of liquor by the
drink on premises authorized by the Idaho Code and approved by the board.
   RETAIL WINE LICENSE: A license for the sale of wine in the original unbroken
container.
   RETAIL WINE LICENSE BY THE DRINK: A license for the sale of wine by the
drink on the premises authorized by the Idaho Code and approved by the board.
   RETAILER 5 : A person licensed to sell beer to consumers at premises
described in the license.
   WINE 6 : Includes table wine and dessert wine, unless the context requires
otherwise.
     Dessert Wine: Only those beverages that are designated or labeled,
pursuant to the federal alcohol administration act, as "sherry", "madeira" or
"port", which contain more than sixteen percent (16%) alcohol by volume, but do
not exceed twenty one percent (21%) alcohol by volume.
     Table Wine: Any alcoholic beverage containing not more than sixteen
percent (16%) alcohol by volume obtained by the fermentation of the natural
sugar content of fruits or other agricultural products containing sugar whether
or not other ingredients are added. (Ord. 90-04, 12-10-1990; amd. 2010 Code)
   B.    Other Definitions: Except as stated herein to the contrary, this
chapter shall adopt the definition of all words and phrases used in Idaho Code
as is presently defined in Idaho Code chapter 23 or as hereinafter altered,
modified or repealed.
   C.    Ordinary Meaning: All other words used in this chapter that are not
defined herein or defined in Idaho Code chapter 23 shall be given the ordinary
and commonly understood and accepted meaning.
   D.    Change Of Definition: The definitions expressly set forth herein may
be changed by resolution of the board. (Ord. 90-04, 12-10-1990)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 23-1001.
2 2. IC § 23-105(a), (b), (d).
3 1. IC §§ 23-902, 23-1001(h).
4 2. IC § 23-942.
5 3. IC § 23-1001(i).
6 4. IC § 23-1303(a).
3-1-2: ADOPTION OF BEER, LIQUOR OR WINE LAWS:
The county adopts, by reference, except as stated herein, the laws of the state
of Idaho pertaining to the sale and distribution of beer, liquor or wine as
contained in Idaho Code chapter 23. (Ord. 90-04, 12-10-1990)
3-1-3: LIST OF LICENSES:
The list of licenses required by this chapter for the premises to sell beer,
liquor or wine during the period of the license which shall correspond to the
dates of renewal and termination as established by the Idaho department of law
enforcement for state licenses shall be as follows:
   A.    Retail beer;
   B.    Retail beer by the drink;
   C.    Catering;
   D.    Liquor by the drink;
   E.    Retail wine; and
   F.    Retail wine by the drink. (Ord. 02-05, 9-23-2002)
3-1-4: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell beer, liquor, or wine at retail, or
beer, liquor or wine by the drink, within the corporate limits of the county,
before having first procured a separate license therefor for each license
needed for the premises. (Ord. 90-04, 12-10-1990)
3-1-5: LICENSE FEES:
The fees for licenses required by this chapter shall be set by resolution of
the board. (Ord. 90-04, 12-10-1990)
3-1-6: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Application for license shall be in writing, signed and sworn to by the
applicant, upon application forms furnished by the clerk. Such application
shall be filed by the clerk and presented to the board at the next meeting of
the board for their approval, rejection or further consideration. (Ord. 90-04,
12-10-1990)
3-1-7: QUALIFICATIONS OF APPLICANT:
The applicant for a license shall possess all of the qualifications necessary
to obtain a license from the commissioner of law enforcement of the state, as
prescribed by the laws of the state, and maintain such qualifications
throughout the period for which such license is issued. The possession of such
license regularly issued by the department of law enforcement shall be prima
facie evidence of the applicant's qualifications to receive a license
hereunder. (Ord. 90-04, 12-10-1990)
3-1-8: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
Upon filing the application for a license and production of evidence as
required by section
3-1-7 of this chapter as to the qualifications of the applicant and by the
payment of the required license fee, the clerk shall, upon approval of the
board, issue to the applicant a license or licenses as set forth herein for
such calendar year or the remainder thereof. (Ord. 90-04, 12-10-1990)
3-1-9: LICENSE RENEWAL; EFFECTIVE DATE:
The date of renewal of licenses issued pursuant to this chapter shall be the
same as the date established for renewal of state liquor, beer and wine
licenses by the Idaho department of law enforcement. The effective time period
for licenses issued pursuant to this chapter shall be the same as the effective
time period established for state liquor, beer and wine licenses by the Idaho
department of law enforcement. (Ord. 02-05, 9-23-2002)
3-1-10: TRANSFER OF LICENSE:
Any license obtained herein is transferable upon approval by the board. Any
person who has obtained a premises which already has a license or licenses
shall be required to obtain a transfer of such licenses. The fee imposed for
such transfer of such licenses shall be fifteen dollars ($15.00) for the
remainder of the calendar year. (Ord. 90-04, 12-10-1990)
3-1-11: EXTENSION ON DAYS OF SALE:
The sale of liquor shall be allowed by the drink on any Sunday, Memorial Day
and Thanksgiving. (Ord. 90-04, 12-10-1990)
3-1-12: NOTICE TO LICENSE HOLDERS AS TO CHANGE IN HOURS OR FEES:
Any person who has procured a license for beer, liquor, or wine shall be
notified thirty (30) days in advance of any hearing which proposes to change
the hours of sale or any change in the license fees for beer, liquor or wine.
(Ord. 90-04, 12-10-1990)
3-1-13: CONSUMPTION ON PREMISES:
Retailers who do not possess a valid license for the retail sale of beer,
liquor or wine by the drink shall not permit consumption of beer, liquor or
wine on the licensed premises and may sell the beer, liquor or wine only in its
original unbroken, sealed container. Beer, liquor or wine sold for consumption
on the retailer's premises may be sold only if the retailer has a valid beer,
liquor or wine by the drink license, and only during hours that liquor by the
drink may be sold pursuant to the laws of this state; and beer and wine by the
drink may be sold pursuant to resolution of the board. (Ord. 90-04, 12-10-1990)
3-1-14: PERSONS UNDERAGE:
   A.    Purchase, Consumption Or Possession: No person under the age of twenty
one (21) years may purchase, consume or possess beer, liquor or wine.
   B.    Give, Sell Or Deliver: No person shall give, sell or deliver beer,
liquor or wine to any person under the age of twenty one (21) years.
   C.    Misrepresentation Of Age:
      1.    By Underage Person: No person under the age of twenty one (21)
years shall, by any means, represent to any retailer or distributor or to any
agent or employee of such retailer or distributor that he is twenty one (21)
years or more of age for the purpose of inducing such retailer or distributor,
or his agent or employee, to sell, serve or dispense beer, liquor or wine to
such person.
      2.    By Any Other Person: No person shall, by any means, represent to
any retailer or distributor or the agent or employee of such retailer of
distributor, that any other person is twenty one (21) years or more of age,
when in fact such other person is under the age of twenty one (21) years, for
the purpose of inducing such retailer or distributor, or the agent or employee
of such retailer or distributor, to sell, serve or dispense beer, liquor or
wine to such other person. (Ord. 90-04, 12-10-1990)
3-1-15: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
The right shall be and remain at all times vested in the board, and the board
may, as hereinafter provided, revoke or cancel any license for fraud or
misrepresentation in its procurement, or for any conduct or act of the licensee
or his employees or any conduct or act permitted by him on the premises where
such business is conducted, or in connection therewith or adjacent thereto,
tending to render such business or such premises where the same is conducted as
a public nuisance or a menace to the health, peace, safety or general welfare
of the county; provided, that revocation or suspension of the state license by
the commissioner of law enforcement shall be deemed prima facie evidence for
revocation or suspension of the license issued herein. (Ord. 90-04, 12-10-1990)
3-1-16: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter or fails to
comply with any of the terms and conditions of this chapter shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor. (Ord. 90-04, 12-10-1990)
TITLE 4
HEALTH AND SANITATION
CHAPTER 1
MURPHY WATER SYSTEM; CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL
SECTION:
4-1-1: Purpose
4-1-2: Definitions
4-1-3: Responsibility
4-1-4: Policy
4-1-5: Violations
4-1-1: PURPOSE:
   A.    To protect the safe drinking water supply of the Murphy water system
from the possibility of contamination or pollution by requiring compliance with
state and local plumbing codes, health regulations, OSHA and other applicable
industry standards for public water system(s) or private water system(s).
Compliance with these minimum safety codes will be considered reasonable
vigilance for prevention of contaminants or pollutants which could backflow
into the public drinking water systems; and (Ord. 02-06A, 10-21-2002, eff. 10-
30-2002; amd. 2010 Code)
   B.    To promote reasonable elimination or control of cross connections in
the plumbing fixtures and industrial piping system(s) of the consumer, as
required by state and local plumbing codes, health regulations, OSHA and other
applicable industry standards to assure water system safety; and
   C.    To provide for the administration of a continuing program of backflow
prevention which will systematically and effectively prevent the contamination
or pollution of all drinking water systems. (Ord. 02-06A, 10-21-2002, eff. 10-
30-2002)
4-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
APPROVED BACKFLOW ASSEMBLY: A backflow assembly accepted by the department of
health, bureau of drinking water/sanitation, as meeting an applicable
specification or as suitable for the proposed use.
AUXILIARY WATER SUPPLY: Any water supply on or available to the premises other
than the purveyor's public water supply will be considered as an auxiliary
water supply. These auxiliary waters may include water from another purveyor's
public potable water supply or any natural source(s) such as a well, spring,
river, stream, harbor, etc., or used waters or industrial fluids. These waters
may be contaminated or polluted or they may be objectionable and constitute an
unacceptable water source over which the water purveyor does not have authority
for sanitary control.
BACK PRESSURE: The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures, or substances
under pressure into the feeding distribution pipes of a potable water system
from any source(s) other than the intended source.
BACK SIPHONAGE: The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures, or substances
into the distribution pipes of a potable water supply system from any source(s)
other than the intended source, caused by the reduction of pressure in the
potable water supply system.
BACKFLOW: The reversal of the normal flow of water caused by either back
pressure or back siphonage.
BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY: An assembly or means designed to prevent
backflow. Specifications for backflow prevention assemblies are contained
within the uniform plumbing code chapter 6 and IDAPA 58.01.08.
CONTAMINATION: A degradation of the quality of the potable water supply by
sewage, industrial fluids or waste liquids, compounds or other materials.
CROSS CONNECTION: Any physical connection or arrangement of piping or fixtures
which may allow nonpotable water or industrial fluids or other material of
questionable quality to come in contact with potable water inside a
distribution system. This would include any temporary connections, such as
swing connections, removable sections, four-way plug valves, spools, dummy
sections of pipe, swivel or changeover devices or sliding multiport tubes or
other plumbing arrangements.
CROSS CONNECTION, CONTAINMENT: The installation of an approved backflow
assembly at the water service connection to any customer's premises where it is
physically and economically infeasible to find and permanently eliminate or
control all actual or potential cross connections within the customer's water
system; or, it shall mean the installation of an approved backflow prevention
assembly on the service line leading to and supplying a portion of a customer's
water system where there are actual or potential cross connections which cannot
be effectively eliminated or controlled at the point of the cross connection
(isolation).
CROSS CONNECTION, CONTROLLED: A connection between a potable water system and a
nonpotable water system with an approved backflow prevention assembly properly
installed and maintained so that it will continuously afford the protection
commensurate with the degree of hazard.
WATER PURVEYOR: The person designated to be in charge of the water department
of the Murphy water system is invested with the authority and responsibility
for the implementation of an effective cross connection control program and for
the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 02-06A, 10-21-2002,
eff. 10-30-2002)
4-1-3: RESPONSIBILITY:
   A.    Murphy Water System:
      1.    Protection Of Drinking Water Distribution System: The Murphy water
system shall be responsible for the protection of the drinking water
distribution system from foreseeable conditions leading to the possible
contamination or pollution of the drinking water system due to the backflow of
contaminants or pollutants into the drinking water supply.
      2.    Drinking Water System Surveys/Inspections: Drinking water system
surveys/inspections of the consumer's water distribution system(s) shall be
conducted or caused to be conducted by individuals deemed qualified by and
representing the Murphy water system. Survey records shall indicate compliance
with the aforementioned health and safety standards. All such records will be
maintained by the Murphy water system.
      3.    Notice To Customers: The Murphy water system shall notify, in
writing, all consumers of the need for the periodic system survey to ensure
compliance with existing applicable minimum health and safety standards.
      4.    Selection Of Approved Backflow Prevention Assembly: Selection of an
approved backflow prevention assembly for containment control required at the
service entrance shall be determined from the results of the system survey.
   B.    Consumer:
      1.    Compliance: To comply with this chapter as a term and condition of
supply and consumer's acceptance of service is admittance of his/her awareness.
      2.    Purchase, Install, Test And Maintain Device/Assembly: It shall be
the responsibility of the consumer to purchase, install, test and maintain any
backflow prevention device/assembly required to comply with this chapter.
   C.    Plumbing Official:
      1.    Enforce Plumbing Code: The plumbing official's responsibility to
enforce the applicable sections of the plumbing code begins at the point of
service (downstream or consumer side of the meter) and continues throughout the
developed length of the consumer's water system.
      2.    Review All Plans: The plumbing official will review all plans to
ensure that unprotected cross connections are not an integral part of the
consumer's water system. If a cross connection cannot be eliminated, it must be
protected by the installation of an air gap or an approved backflow prevention
device/assembly, in accordance with the state plumbing code.
      3.    Water Vacating Drinking Water Supply: Water vacating the drinking
water supply must do so via approved air gap or approved mechanical backflow
prevention assembly, properly installed and in accordance with the state
plumbing code.
   D.    Certified Backflow Assembly Technicians, Surveyors Or Repair Persons:
Whether employed by the consumer or a utility to survey, test, repair, or
maintain backflow prevention assemblies, the certified backflow technicians,
surveyors or repair persons will have the following responsibilities:
      1.    Responsibilities:
         a.    Ensuring acceptable testing equipment and procedures are used
for testing, repairing or overhauling backflow prevention assemblies.
         b.    Make sure of such testing and/or repair to the consumer and
water purveyor.
         c.    The report shall include the list of materials or replacement
parts used.
         d.    Ensuring replacement parts are equal in quality to parts
originally supplied by the manufacturer of the assembly being repaired.
         e.    Not changing the design, material or operational characteristics
of the assembly during testing, repair or maintenance.
         f.    A certified technician shall perform all tests of the mechanical
devices/assemblies and be responsible for the competence and accuracy of all
tests and reports.
         g.    Ensuring their license is current, the testing equipment being
used is acceptable to the state, and is in proper operating condition.
         h.    Be equipped with, and be competent to use, all necessary tools,
gauges, and other equipment necessary to properly test, and maintain backflow
prevention assemblies.
         i.    The certified technician conducting the test must tag each
double check valve, pressure vacuum breaker, reduced pressure backflow assembly
and high hazard air gap, showing the serial number, date tested and by whom.
      2.    Consumer Requiring Commercially Available Technician: In the case
of a consumer requiring a commercially available technician, any certified
technician is authorized to make the test and report the results of that test
to the consumer and water purveyor. (Ord. 02-06A, 10-21-2002, eff. 10-30-2002)
4-1-4: POLICY:
   A.    Protection Required: No water service connection to any premises shall
be installed or maintained by the public water purveyor unless the water supply
is protected as required by state laws, regulations, codes, and this chapter.
Service of water to a consumer found to be in violation of this chapter shall
be discontinued by the water purveyor after due process of written notification
of violation and an appropriate time suspended for voluntary compliance, if:
      1.    A backflow prevention assembly required by this chapter for control
of backflow and cross connections is not installed, tested, and maintained; or
      2.    If it is found that a backflow prevention assembly has been removed
or bypassed; or
      3.    If an unprotected cross connection exists on the premises; or
      4.    If the periodic system survey has not been conducted.
Service will not be restored until such conditions or defects are corrected.
   B.    Inspection: The customer's system(s) shall be open for inspection at
all reasonable times to authorized representatives of the water purveyor to
determine whether cross connections or other structural or sanitary hazards,
including violation of this chapter, exist and to audit the results of the
required survey.
   C.    Approved Backflow Prevention Assembly Required: Whenever the public
water purveyor deems a service connection's water usage contributes a
sufficient hazard to the water supply, an approved backflow prevention assembly
shall be installed on the service line of the identified consumer's water
system at or near the property line, or immediately inside the building being
served; but, in all cases, before the first branch line leading off the service
line.
   D.    Type Of Assembly Required: The type of protective assembly required
under subsection C of this section shall depend upon the degree of hazard which
exists at the point of cross connection (whether direct or indirect),
applicable to local and state requirements or resulting from the required
survey. (Ord. 02-06A, 10-21-2002, eff. 10-30-2002)
   E.    Presently Installed Assemblies Not Meeting Requirements: All presently
installed backflow prevention assemblies which do not meet the requirements of
this section but were approved assemblies for the purposes described herein at
the time of installation and maintenance requirements under subsection F of
this section, shall be excluded from the requirements of these rules so long as
the water purveyor is assured that they will satisfactorily protect the public
water system. Whenever the existing assembly is moved from the present
location, requires more than minimum maintenance, or when the water purveyor
finds that the operation or maintenance of this assembly constitutes a hazard
to health, the unit shall be replaced by an approved backflow prevention
assembly meeting the local and state requirements. (Ord. 02-06A, 10-21-2002,
eff. 10-30-2002; amd. 2010 Code)
   F.    Annual Certified Survey/Inspection And Operational Tests: It shall be
the responsibility of the consumer, at any premises where backflow prevention
assemblies are installed, to have certified survey/inspections and operational
tests made at least once per year at the consumer's expense. In those instances
where the public water purveyor deems the hazard to be great, he may require
certified surveys/inspections and tests at a more frequent interval. It shall
be the duty of the public water purveyor to see that these tests are made
according to the standards set forth by the state and local regulations.
   G.    Safety Hazard: No backflow prevention assembly shall be installed so
as to create a safety hazard, e.g., installed over an electrical panel, steam
pipes, boilers, pits, or above ceiling level. (Ord. 02-06A, 10-21-2002, eff.
10-30-2002)
4-1-5: VIOLATIONS:
If violations of this chapter exist or if there has not been any corrective
action taken by the consumer within ten (10) days of the written notification
of deficiencies noted within the survey, then the public water purveyor shall
deny or immediately discontinue service to the premises by providing a physical
break in the service line until the customer has corrected the condition(s) in
conformance with the state and local statutes relating to plumbing, safe
drinking water supplies and the regulations adopted pursuant thereto. (Ord. 02-
06A, 10-21-2002, eff. 10-30-2002)
CHAPTER 2
SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL
SECTION:
4-2-1: Definitions
4-2-2: Designated Sites
4-2-3: Exception
4-2-4: Fees
4-2-5: Notice Of Annual Use Fee
4-2-6: Dumping, Depositing Or Accumulation Prohibited
4-2-7: Interference With Operation Of Sites
4-2-8: Liquid Waste
4-2-9: Penalty
4-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
COMMERCIAL UNIT: Any establishment used, inhabited or maintained for commercial
or business purposes in Owyhee County; including, but not limited to,
restaurants, retail and wholesale establishments, hospitals, nursing homes,
motels, service stations, professional offices, banks and mobile home parks.
HOUSEHOLD: Each single-family housing unit with cooking facilities or each unit
producing solid waste in Owyhee County.
INDIVIDUAL: Any person, company, corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship
or any other for profit or nonprofit organization.
LIQUID WASTE: Every waste not solid waste or a hazardous substance as provided
by the environmental protection agency.
NONRESIDENT VEHICLE: A vehicle, device or container dumped, dumping or
delivering waste generated, produced or collected at any site or location not
in Owyhee County.
SOLID WASTE: Any and all trash and litter, including by example, all of such
trash and litter associated with construction or demolition of buildings, to
include paper, cardboard, wood scrap, shingles, bricks or concrete, and waste
materials of an inert nature such as ashes, plastics, metals, cinders, tires,
appliances, tree and shrub parts, and those items which are by their nature
noxious, odoriferous or subject to the development of bacteria, virus or other
hazards to health including waste accumulations of animal or vegetable matter,
and including waste that attends the preparation, use, serving, cooking,
dealing in, or storing of meats, fish, fowl, fruits and vegetables and those
hazardous substances allowed by environmental protection agency to be placed in
sanitary landfills. The term "solid waste" does not include sewage, human body
waste, or "hazardous wastes" as determined and defined by the United States
environmental protection agency.
U.S. ECOLOGY IDAHO, INC.: Site A and site B for the dumping of hazardous wastes
regulated by the state department of health and welfare, division of
environment, hazardous materials bureau and the environmental protection
agency. (Ord. 87-03, 9-8-1987; amd. Ord. 03-04, 9-8-2003)
4-2-2: DESIGNATED SITES:
The only lawful sites for the dumping and depositing of solid waste in the
county shall be at those areas designated by the board of county commissioners
by resolution. Such designated sites shall be maintained and operated by solid
waste personnel under the direction of the board of county commissioners. (Ord.
03-04, 9-8-2003)
4-2-3: EXCEPTION:
This chapter does not apply to the chemical waste dumping at U.S. Ecology
Idaho, Inc., near Grand View and Bruneau in the county. That site falls under
the direction and jurisdiction of the environmental protection agency and the
state of Idaho. (Ord. 03-04, 9-8-2003)
4-2-4: FEES:
   A.    Usage Fees: Because of the increased costs of operating the solid
waste program and to continue to implement the county's goal of effectuating a
self-supporting solid waste program, the fees charged for the use of the solid
waste site(s) may be established, changed or modified by resolution of the
board of county commissioners. The fees charged shall defray the costs of
operating the solid waste site(s) specifically approved by the board of county
commissioners.
   B.    Fee Determined By Solid Waste Personnel; Signs: The size of a load of
solid waste brought to a site by users shall be determined, for purposes of
assessing the fee as provided for in subsection A of this section, by the solid
waste personnel operating the access port of the site. The solid waste
personnel shall prepare and post signs at the sites setting forth the required
fees and setting forth examples or diagrams of loads by which the personnel of
the division will determine the fee to be assessed.
   C.    Nonresident Vehicle Fees:
      1.    Collection: Nonresident vehicle fees shall be collected by the
solid waste personnel at the sites provided for in section
4-2-2 of this chapter and all fees shall be paid at the time of dumping, unless
previous charge arrangements have been made by the users with the solid waste
division and approved by the board of county commissioners.
      2.    Charge Application: Those individuals desiring to charge
nonresident vehicles fees must complete a charge application provided by the
board of county commissioners. That application must be approved by the board
of county commissioners before the charge privileges will be extended. The
charge application approved for use is attached to the ordinance codified
herein.
      3.    Billing; Payment: Those individuals who have applied for and been
extended charge privileges will be billed by the board of county commissioners
or their designated representative, and payment must be made within thirty (30)
days of the billing to avoid one and one-half percent (11/2%) late payment
charges. (Ord. 2016-01, 8-1-2016, eff. 8-1-2016)
4-2-5: NOTICE OF ANNUAL USE FEE:
The county treasurer ex officio tax collector is hereby authorized to give
notice of the annual use fee on any tax notice. The clerk ex officio auditor-
recorder is hereby authorized to send notice of the yearly fees to any and all
properties (real or personal) not appearing on the tax rolls including, but not
limited to, exempt properties. (Ord. 87-03, 9-8-1987)
4-2-6: DUMPING, DEPOSITING OR ACCUMULATION PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any individual to dump or deposit solid waste in any
area or in any place in the county other than one of the sites provided for in
section
4-2-2 of this chapter. It shall further be unlawful for any individual to
permit or allow to accumulate solid waste in or about any yard, lot, place or
premises, or upon any adjacent street, alley or sidewalk, owned, leased, used
or occupied by such individual. (Ord. 87-03, 9-8-1987)
4-2-7: INTERFERENCE WITH OPERATION OF SITES:
It shall be unlawful for any individual to interfere with the operation of the
solid waste sites provided for in section
4-2-2 of this chapter by dumping or depositing solid waste at those sites
without paying fees provided for in section
4-2-4 of this chapter. (Ord. 87-03, 9-8-1987)
4-2-8: LIQUID WASTE:
Liquid waste may be dumped at the solid waste sites provided for in section
4-2-2 of this chapter only on an emergency basis and only with prior approval
by, and upon conditions set by, the board of county commissioners. (Ord. 87-03,
9-8-1987)
4-2-9: PENALTY:
Penalty for violation of this chapter shall be that provided by Idaho law 1
for the violation of any ordinance. (Ord. 87-03, 9-8-1987)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 31-714.
CHAPTER 3
SECURED WASTE HAULING
SECTION:
4-3-1: Short Title
4-3-2: Authority
4-3-3: Definition
4-3-4: Hauling Waste Without Providing Cover Secured To Vehicle
4-3-5: Penalty
4-3-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter is entitled the OWYHEE SECURED WASTE ORDINANCE. (Ord. 91-03, 8-12-
1991, eff. 8-15-1991)
4-3-2: AUTHORITY:
This chapter is enacted pursuant to authority conferred by the Idaho
constitution article 12, section 2, and Idaho Code sections 31-714, 31-801, and
31-828. (Ord. 91-03, 8-12-1991, eff. 8-15-1991)
4-3-3: DEFINITION:
"Waste" means garbage, refuse and other discarded solid materials, including
solid waste materials resulting from industrial, commercial and agricultural
operations, and from community activities. (Ord. 91-03, 8-12-1991, eff. 8-15-
1991)
4-3-4: HAULING WASTE WITHOUT PROVIDING COVER SECURED TO VEHICLE:
It is unlawful for any person to haul waste without providing a cover secured
to the vehicle in which said waste is being hauled. This chapter is to prevent
scattering, blowing or loss of material so transported. (Ord. 91-03, 8-12-1991,
eff. 8-15-1991)
4-3-5: PENALTY:
   A.    Infraction: A violation of the provisions of this chapter shall be an
infraction and shall be punished by a fine not to exceed one hundred dollars
($100.00). (Ord. 91-03, 8-12-1991, eff. 8-15-1991)
   B.    Failure To Pay Fine: If the violator does not pay the fine as ordered
by the court within thirty (30) days of the entry of judgment, the prosecuting
attorney shall initiate criminal contempt proceedings against the violator
pursuant to Idaho Code section 18-1801. If convicted of the criminal contempt,
the violator shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 91-03, 8-12-1991, eff. 8-15-1991; amd. 2010 Code)
TITLE 5
PUBLIC SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
EMERGENCY COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM (911)
SECTION:
5-1-1: Authorization
5-1-2: Intent; Purpose
5-1-3: Establishment Of Emergency Communications System; Telephone User Fee
Assessment
5-1-4: Emergency Communications Committee
5-1-5: Administrator
5-1-1: AUTHORIZATION:
This chapter is authorized by Idaho Code title 31, chapter 48 enacted as the
emergency communications act of 1988 by the Idaho legislature. (Ord. 09-08, 9-
15-2009)
5-1-2: INTENT; PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide the organizational structure for an
emergency communications system in the county. Such system is to be funded by
telephone user fees and collected for the purpose of maintaining and operating
a 911 emergency communications system at the approval of the county voters.
(Ord. 09-08, 9-15-2009)
5-1-3: ESTABLISHMENT OF EMERGENCY COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM; TELEPHONE USER FEE
ASSESSMENT:
The previously created emergency communications system shall continue to be
funded by the telephone user fees which shall be assessed at the rate of one
dollar ($1.00) per month. (Ord. 09-08, 9-15-2009)
5-1-4: EMERGENCY COMMUNICATIONS COMMITTEE:
   A.    Responsibilities: The emergency communications committee shall be
responsible for gathering facts and data and advising as to maintenance and
governing of the emergency communications system and address a proposed plan
for implementation of an enhanced 911 system. The emergency communications
committee shall also be responsible for recommending expenditures and priority
of expenditures to be made from telephone user fees and for recommending an
annual operational budget for such system to the county board of commissioners.
Any such recommendations are subject to the approval, modification or outright
rejection by the county board of commissioners.
   B.    Membership And Terms Of Committee Members: The emergency
communications committee shall be composed of eight (8) members total. The
representatives and respective terms of the emergency communications committee
shall be:
   Representative                  Term
Grand View ambulance and fire                   2 years
Marsing ambulance and fire                      4 years
Murphy-Reynolds Creek fire                      2 years
Homedale ambulance and fire                     2 years
Bruneau quick response unit and fire department 2 years
Homedale police department                      4 years
Owyhee County assessor                          4 years
Owyhee County civil defense coordinator         4 years
 
As set forth above and referenced above, four (4) of the eight (8) member
emergency communications committee shall be appointed to four (4) year terms
and the remaining four (4) members shall be appointed to serve two (2) year
terms. The length of the term of any particular member shall be as set forth
above, or as otherwise amended by the county board of commissioners. Members of
the committee may be reappointed at the consent and with the written approval
of the county board of commissioners.
   C.    Organization:
      1.    Chairman: The emergency communications system shall select one of
its members to serve as chairman and the chairman shall have the same voting
right as any other member of the committee.
      2.    Secretary: The emergency communications committee shall also select
one of its members to serve as secretary. Such secretary shall be responsible
for keeping and maintaining the minutes of the meetings and shall have the same
voting right as any other member of the emergency communications committee.
      3.    Rules: Such committee shall establish its organizational rules
including scheduling of meetings and rules for meeting protocol.
   D.    Per Diem And Mileage Allowances:
      1.    Mileage: Each member of the emergency communications committee
shall be entitled to reimbursement of mileage incurred in the performance of
the duties and responsibilities of such committee at the rate of forty five
cents ($0.45) per mile, unless some lesser rate of compensation is set by the
county board of commissioners by resolution.
      2.    Per Diem: Each member of the emergency communications committee
shall be entitled to a per diem allowance for each meeting attended at a rate
to be set by the board of commissioners by resolution, for justifiable services
performed. (Ord. 09-08, 9-15-2009)
5-1-5: ADMINISTRATOR:
   A.    Designation: The county sheriff shall serve as the administrator of
the emergency communications system and shall manage, maintain and be
responsible and govern said system.
   B.    Recommendations: The administrator shall meet and work with the
emergency communications committee and shall make recommendations to the
committee as to dispatch equipment needs, maintenance and operational needs and
plans and programs for continued efficient operation of a 911 emergency
communications system, including a plan for an enhanced 911 program. The
administrator shall not be a member of the emergency communications board and
shall not vote on matters before the committee but may otherwise make
independent recommendations to the county board of commissioners regarding the
911 emergency system and proposed program(s).
   C.    Maintenance And Operation: The administrator shall keep the board of
county commissioners advised as to the maintenance and operation of the county
emergency communications system. (Ord. 09-08, 9-15-2009)
CHAPTER 2
MINORS
SECTION:
5-2-1: Running Away
5-2-2: Parental Responsibility
5-2-1: RUNNING AWAY:
   A.    Unlawful: It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of
eighteen (18) years living or found outside the incorporated limits of any city
in the county to run away from his parents, guardian or other legal custodian
or to remain away from his parents, guardian or other legal custodian.
   B.    Acts Placing Minor Beyond Control Of Parent, Guardian Or Legal
Custodian: It shall further be unlawful for any person under the age of
eighteen (18) years living or found outside the incorporated limits of any city
in the county to commit any act or acts placing him beyond the control of his
parents, guardian, or other legal custodian. (Ord., 12-27-1976)
5-2-2: PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY:
   A.    Title: This section shall be known as the OWYHEE COUNTY PARENTAL
RESPONSIBILITY ORDINANCE.
   B.    Purpose: The purpose of this section is to provide law enforcement
officials, school district officials, and other persons responsible for the
health, safety and education of children with a method for assisting parents
who are trying to provide well and care well for their children and a tool for
holding accountable parents who are not making that effort.
   C.    Definitions: As used in this section, the following words and terms
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
    CHILD: Any person under sixteen (16) years of age.
   PARENT: Any person who is the parent, lawful guardian or other person
lawfully charged with the care or custody of a child, except that this
definition does not include a foster parent.
   D.    Failure To Supervise: A parent of a child commits the offense of
failure to supervise a child if the child commits any of the following acts:
      1.    Commits an act bringing the child within the purview of the
juvenile corrections act, Idaho Code title 20, chapter 5, or commits a crime
for which the child is required to be tried as an adult, or for which
jurisdiction under the juvenile corrections act is subject to waiver pursuant
to Idaho Code title 20, chapter 5; or
      2.    Fails to attend school or is not comparably instructed as provided
in Idaho Code title 33, section 33-202.
   E.    Exclusions: A parent shall not be guilty of violating this section if
the parent demonstrates to a court of competent jurisdiction upon appearance
before such court any of the following:
      1.    The parent is the victim of the act bringing the child within the
purview of the juvenile corrections act, Idaho Code title 20, chapter 5; or
      2.    Prior to being charged with a violation of this section, the parent
reported to a law enforcement agency, the juvenile court, the department of
health and welfare, or other appropriate agency the act of the child which
resulted in the charge brought under this section; or
      3.    The parent took reasonable steps to control the conduct of the
child at the time the parent is alleged to have failed to supervise the child.
   F.    Violation:
      1.    First Offense: When a child commits any act set forth in subsection
D of this section for the first time, the parent shall be advised by an officer
of the sheriff's office of the content of this section and penalties for
violation of this section. This advisement shall be made by serving a copy of
this section upon the child and the parent. Documentation of this advisement
shall be maintained by the sheriff.
      2.    Second And Subsequent Offenses: When a child commits any act set
forth in subsection D of this section, after the child and parent have been
warned pursuant to subsection F1 of this section, the parent shall be charged
by issuance of a citation or summons with failure to supervise a child in
violation of this section.
   G.    Penalty: If a parent pleads guilty or is found guilty of the offense
of failure to supervise a child, the parent shall be declared guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be subject to the following penalty:
      1.    A fine of not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), and/or
completion of parenting classes or other treatment or counseling as defined by
the court; and
      2.    The court may order the parent to pay restitution to or make whole
any victim who suffers economic loss as a result of the child's act in
violation of this section, in accordance with the standards and requirements of
Idaho Code sections 19-5304 and 19-5305; provided, that the restitution ordered
to be paid shall not exceed the amount of two thousand five hundred dollars
($2,500.00). (Ord. 00-01, 9-25-2000, eff. 11-1-2000)
CHAPTER 3
RECREATIONAL ACTIVITIES RESTRICTED
SECTION:
5-3-1: Jump Creek Recreation Site
5-3-2: Boating On Snake River Near C.J. Strike Project
5-3-1: JUMP CREEK RECREATION SITE:
   A.    Hours Restricted: It shall be unlawful for any person to be within the
area known as the Jump Creek recreation site, otherwise described as T2N, R5W
section 27, SE1/4SW1/4NW1/4, S1/2SE1/4NW1/4, E1/2NW1/4SW1/4, W1/2NE1/4SW1/4,
NE1/4NE1/4SW1/4 in Owyhee County, Idaho, before and/or after the specified
hours on the months referenced hereinbelow:
      1.    Spring, Summer And Fall Hours: April 1 through October 1 of each
year, six o'clock (6:00) A.M. through nine o'clock (9:00) P.M.
      2.    Winter Hours: October 2 through March 30 of each year, eight
o'clock (8:00) A.M. through six o'clock (6:00) P.M.
   B.    Exceptions: Exceptions from the provisions of subsection A of this
section are federal, state or local government personnel on official duty,
emergency service personnel on official duty, public utility personnel
performing emergency utility services, and other persons licensed or permitted
to be within the site during the hours of prohibition.
   C.    Violation:
      1.    Penalty: Violation for being within the Jump Creek site shall be an
infraction and subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
      2.    Disposition Of Portion Of Fine: The portion of any fine imposed for
a violation of this section which is designated for distribution to the county
shall be paid into the search and rescue account in the budget of the sheriff's
office. (Ord. 2016-03, 11-7-2016, eff. 1-1-2017)
5-3-2: BOATING ON SNAKE RIVER NEAR C.J. STRIKE PROJECT:
   A.    Purpose: The purpose of this section is to promote and protect the
public safety and welfare below Idaho Power Company's C.J. Strike project due
to abrupt changes in flow due to spill or change in flow through the C.J.
Strike project turbines.
   B.    Definition: "Boat" includes all motorized and nonmotored watercraft
including, but not limited to, jet and propellered watercraft of any type or
size, jet skis, canoes, rowboats, sailboats, paddleboats, windsurfers and
inflatable devices.
   C.    Prohibited Acts: It shall be unlawful for any person, other than law
enforcement or employees of Idaho Power, to engage in any type of boating
activity on the Snake River between the dam at the C.J. Strike project and the
bridge immediately downstream from the dam. (Ord. 01-01, 6-11-2001)
   D.    Penalty: Engaging in boating activity in the Snake River at C.J.
Strike dam and bridge immediately downstream from the dam is an infraction
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 01-01, 6-11-2001; amd. 2010 Code)
CHAPTER 4
FIREWORKS
SECTION:
5-4-1: Short Title
5-4-2: Authority; Purpose
5-4-3: Fireworks Defined
5-4-4: Public Fireworks
5-4-5: Penalty
5-4-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter is entitled the OWYHEE COUNTY FAIRGROUND FIREWORKS ORDINANCE.
(Ord. 92-02, 8-10-1992, eff. 8-10-1992)
5-4-2: AUTHORITY; PURPOSE:
   A.    Authority: This chapter is enacted pursuant to authority conferred by
Idaho Constitution article 12, section 2 and Idaho Code sections 31-714, 31-
801, and 31-828.
   B.    Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to provide for and further the
health, safety and welfare of the public by prohibiting fireworks on the real
property known as the Owyhee County fairgrounds, located in Homedale, Owyhee
County, Idaho. Fireworks use at the fairgrounds can create fire hazards, health
hazards, and other problems which may have a harmful effect upon the health,
safety, and welfare of the public. (Ord. 92-02, 8-10-1992, eff. 8-10-1992)
5-4-3: FIREWORKS DEFINED:
"Fireworks" is defined as those common and/or special fireworks devices
primarily designed to produce a visible or audible effect by combustion,
deflagration, explosion or detonation. The term "fireworks" is further defined
so as to include, by way of example but not to be limited to, the following:
blank cartridges, toy pistols, toy cannon, toy canes or toy guns in which
explosives are used, fire balloons, firecrackers, torpedoes, skyrockets,
rockets, roman candles, fountains, wheels, dago bombs, sparklers, snakes,
whistles and other fireworks of like construction and any fireworks containing
any combustible or explosive substance for the purpose of producing a visible
or audible effect by combustion, deflagration, explosion or detonation. (Ord.
92-02, 8-10-1992, eff. 8-10-1992)
5-4-4: PUBLIC FIREWORKS:
   A.    Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person to display, sell, discharge
or use fireworks on the Owyhee County fairgrounds, Homedale, Owyhee County,
Idaho. (Ord. 92-02, 8-10-1992, eff. 8-10-1992; amd. 2010 Code)
   B.    Exception: Any adult person or other group desiring to make a public
display of fireworks shall first make written application to either the Owyhee
County sheriff or to the Owyhee County commissioners. The sheriff or the
commissioners shall have power, in their discretion, to grant or deny the
application, subject to such reasonable conditions, if any, as they shall
prescribe. (Ord. 92-02, 8-10-1992, eff. 8-10-1992)
5-4-5: PENALTY:
A violation of the provisions of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor and shall
be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 92-02, 8-10-1992, eff. 8-10-1992; amd. 2010 Code)
TITLE 6
PUBLIC HIGHWAYS; TRAFFIC CONTROL
CHAPTER 1
TRAFFIC CONTROL
SECTION:
6-1-1: Title
6-1-2: Statute Adopted
6-1-3: Purpose
6-1-4: Speed Limits
6-1-5: Vehicle Weight Limits
6-1-6: Motorcycles And ATVs, Designated Roadways
6-1-7: Signs
6-1-8: Obstruction, Injury And Damage To Public Roads
6-1-9: Allowing Water To Flow Upon Or Impair Public Roads
6-1-10: Responsibility For Damage To Public Roads
6-1-11: Responsibility For Cost Of Rescue And Retrieval Efforts
6-1-12: Responsibility For Failure To Abate Dust And Mitigate Damage
6-1-13: Penalties
6-1-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the OWYHEE COUNTY TRAFFIC CONTROL ORDINANCE.
(Ord. 05-03, 8-1-2005, eff. 10-1-2005)
6-1-2: STATUTE ADOPTED:
There is hereby adopted for the purpose of establishing rules and regulations
for the use of all streets and public thoroughfares of the county the Idaho
motor vehicle laws, more particularly Idaho Code title 49 with its definitions
and as the same may hereafter be revised by the Idaho legislature or amended by
the governing body, and the same is hereby adopted and incorporated as an
ordinance of the county as though fully set forth at length herein. (Ord. 05-
03, 8-1-2005, eff. 10-1-2005)
6-1-3: PURPOSE:
There are several county roads and sections thereof which require the setting
of speed limits and weight limits in order to protect the health and safety of
motor vehicle operators, prevent great expenditures of public funds for
assisting and rescuing operators who attempt to drive overweight vehicles into
areas where the road will not support the vehicles and/or drive vehicles at
speeds excessive for the road conditions. Operators of vehicles also cause
damage to the county roads and sections thereof because of the weight of the
vehicles and the manner of operation without regard for protecting the road
surfaces. The purpose of this chapter is to establish speed limits, vehicle
restrictions, and weight limits on those county roads and sections thereof
where the need for prevention and protection is present, to provide for proper
placement of traffic control signs, provide for punishment of violators,
provide for owners and operators of vehicles to be responsible for and to
mitigate damage to roads caused by their operations, and provide for punishment
of violators. (Ord. 05-03, 8-1-2005, eff. 10-1-2005)
6-1-4: SPEED LIMITS:
   A.    Authority To Establish: Designated Limits: The board of commissioners,
after consulting with any appropriate representative(s) from the county road
department or the county sheriff's office, are hereby authorized to establish
and alter specific speed limits throughout the county. The board may consider
any traffic investigation or study when establishing such speed limits.
   B.    Speed Limit Schedule: The established speed limits for the county will
be in accordance with the speed limit schedule adopted by resolution of the
county board of commissioners. A copy of current speed limits on any road
identified for such specified limit is on file in the office of the clerk of
the district court. Any section of road not specifically identified for a speed
limit shall be governed by the speed restrictions set forth in Idaho Code.
(Ord. 05-03, 8-1-2005, eff. 10-1-2005)
6-1-5: VEHICLE WEIGHT LIMITS:
   A.    Authority To Establish: The board of commissioners, after consulting
with any appropriate representative(s) from the county road department or the
county sheriff's office are hereby authorized to establish and alter specific
limits on vehicle weights throughout the county. The board may consider any
traffic investigation or study when establishing such weight limits.
   B.    Weight Limit Schedule: The established vehicle weight limits for the
county will be in accordance with the weight limit schedule adopted by
resolution of the board of commissioners. A copy of current vehicle weight
limits on any county road is on file in the office of the clerk of the district
court. Any section of road not specifically identified for a weight limit shall
be governed by the weight restrictions set forth in Idaho Code. (Ord. 05-03, 8-
1-2005, eff. 10-1-2005)
6-1-6: MOTORCYCLES AND ATVs, DESIGNATED ROADWAYS:
   A.    Authority To Establish: Pursuant to Idaho Code title 49, chapter 2,
the county will allow operation of unregistered motorcycles and all-terrain
vehicles or ATVs on certain specified public highways and roads within the
county. The board of commissioners, after consulting any appropriate
representative(s) from the county road department or the county sheriff's
office, are hereby authorized to establish and alter certain public highways
and roads to be designated where unregistered motorcycles and ATVs may be
operated. The board may consider any traffic investigation or study when
establishing such highways and roads.
   B.    Copy Of Designated Public Highways And Roads: Public highways may be
designated for such motorcycle and ATV use in accordance with a resolution
adopted by the board. A copy of current public highways and roads designated
for such motorcycle and ATV use is on file in the office of the clerk of the
district court. (Ord. 05-03, 8-1-2005, eff. 10-1-2005)
6-1-7: SIGNS:
The county road department is hereby authorized and directed to erect and
maintain speed limit signs, weight limit signs, and vehicle restriction signs
consistent with the limits passed by resolution by the county commissioners,
and to erect and maintain stop signs, yield signs, or other official traffic
control devices, to designate through highways, or to designate intersections
or other roadway junctions at which vehicular traffic on one or more of the
roadways should yield, or stop and yield, before entering the intersection or
junction. (Ord. 05-03, 8-1-2005, eff. 10-1-2005)
6-1-8: OBSTRUCTION, INJURY AND DAMAGE TO PUBLIC ROADS:
Any person who obstructs, injures or damages any public road is guilty of a
misdemeanor. (Ord. 05-03, 8-1-2005, eff. 10-1-2005)
6-1-9: ALLOWING WATER TO FLOW UPON OR IMPAIR PUBLIC ROADS:
Any person who runs water across any public road without first constructing a
good and sufficient ditch or ditches to convey the water, or who fails to
bridge such ditch or ditches, or to keep such bridge or ditches in good repair,
and all persons, companies or corporations who make, cause or allow any water
used by them for the purpose of irrigation, or any other purpose, to flow into
or upon any public highway, road or street, in any other manner than that
authorized by law, are guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 05-03, 8-1-2005, eff. 10-
1-2005)
6-1-10: RESPONSIBILITY FOR DAMAGE TO PUBLIC ROADS:
   A.    Damage Due To Speed Or Weight: The owner and the operator of any
vehicle which is operated in violation of the speed limits and/or weight limits
set in section
6-1-4 or
6-1-5 of this chapter shall be jointly and severally responsible for all damage
which the road or any bridge thereon may sustain as a result of the illegal
operation.
   B.    Damage Due To Obstruction, Injury, Damage Or Water Flow: Any person
who violates section
6-1-8 or
6-1-9 of this chapter shall be responsible for all damage which a public road
or bridge may sustain or for impairment to a public road or bridge as a result
of the illegal activity. (Ord. 05-03, 8-1-2005, eff. 10-1-2005)
6-1-11: RESPONSIBILITY FOR COST OF RESCUE AND RETRIEVAL EFFORTS:
The owner and the operator of any vehicle which is operated in violation of the
speed limits and/or weight limits set in sections
6-1-4 and
6-1-5 of this chapter shall be jointly and severally responsible for all costs
of rescue and retrieval efforts connected with rescuing operator or vehicle
when the vehicle has become stuck or otherwise inoperable as a result of the
violation. (Ord. 05-03, 8-1-2005, eff. 10-1-2005)
6-1-12: RESPONSIBILITY FOR FAILURE TO ABATE DUST AND MITIGATE DAMAGE:
   A.    Failure To Abate: The owner and operator of any vehicle who fails to
abate dust created by operation of the vehicle, when dust abatement is
necessary to prevent or mitigate damage to the road and when the need for dust
abatement has been specifically brought to the attention of the owner and/or
operator in a written notice provided by the county road supervisor, shall be
jointly and severally responsible for all damage which the road may sustain as
a result of the operation of the vehicle and the failure to abate dust.
   B.    Failure To Mitigate: The owner and operator of any vehicle who fails
to take action to mitigate damage to the road resulting from operation of the
vehicle, when the need for mitigation has been specifically brought to the
attention of the owner and/or operator in a written notice provided by the
county road supervisor, shall be jointly and severally responsible for all
damage which the road may sustain as a result of the operation of the vehicle
and the failure to take mitigation action. (Ord. 05-03, 8-1-2005, eff. 10-1-
2005)
6-1-13: PENALTIES:
   A.    Infraction:
      1.    It shall be an "infraction" as defined by Idaho Code section 49-110
(5) for any person to violate sections
6-1-4 and
6-1-6 of this chapter, and the penalty for violation of sections
6-1-4 and
6-1-6 of this chapter shall be by fine consistent with rule 9 of the Idaho
infraction rules.
      2.    It shall be an "infraction" as defined by Idaho Code subsection 49-
110(5) for any person to violate section
6-1-5 of this chapter, and the penalty for violation of section
6-1-5 of this chapter shall be by fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00) plus
those costs consistent with the Idaho infraction rules. (Ord. 05-03, 8-1-2005,
eff. 10-1-2005; amd. 2010 Code)
   B.    Misdemeanor:
      1.    It shall be a misdemeanor for any person to exceed the vehicle
weight restriction set by ordinance, rule, or resolution pursuant to section
6-1-5 of this chapter by ten percent (10%) of the limit or more.
      2.    Any other violation of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor. (Ord.
05-03, 8-1-2005, eff. 10-1-2005)
      3.    Any misdemeanor offense in this chapter shall be punishable as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 05-03, 8-1-2005, eff. 10-1-2005; amd. 2010 Code)
CHAPTER 2
VEHICLE LICENSURE; ADMINISTRATIVE FEE
SECTION:
6-2-1: Short Title
6-2-2: Fee
6-2-3: Term
6-2-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the ADMINISTRATIVE FEE FOR VEHICLE LICENSURE
ORDINANCE. (Ord. 88-01, 6-13-1988)
6-2-2: FEE:
Pursuant to the authority of Idaho Code section 31-870, the county assessor
shall collect an administration fee of three dollars ($3.00) in addition to
each motor vehicle registration tax or fee amount collected, which
administration fee shall be paid to the county treasurer to be placed in the
county current expense fund. (Ord. 88-01, 6-13-1988)
6-2-3: TERM:
The assessor's collection of the administrative fee shall commence on July 1,
1988, and shall continue thereafter until changed by the board of county
commissioners. (Ord. 88-01, 6-13-1988; amd. 2010 Code)
CHAPTER 3
AIR COMPRESSION BRAKES
SECTION:
6-3-1: Restriction On Use
6-3-2: Penalty
6-3-1: RESTRICTION ON USE:
   A.    Murphy: It shall be unlawful to use air compression brakes (also known
as "jake brakes") on either trucks or other vehicles, through the Townsite of
Murphy, Idaho, on State Highway 78 between mile marker 29 and mile marker 30;
providing that this prohibition shall not apply in emergency conditions under
which the use of air compression brakes is necessary to prevent an accident or
injury to persons or property. (Ord. 02-08, 11-4-2002)
   B.    Bruneau: It shall be unlawful to use air compression brakes (also
known as "jake brakes") on either trucks or other vehicles through the Townsite
of Bruneau, Idaho, on State Highway 51 between mile marker 71 and mile marker
74; providing, that this prohibition shall not apply to emergency conditions
under which the use of air compression brakes is necessary to prevent an
accident or injury to persons or property. (Ord. 06-02, 12-26-2006)
   C.    State Highway 19:
      1.    Williams Lane To Johnstone Road: It shall be unlawful to use air
compression brakes (also known as "jake brakes") on either trucks or other
vehicles, through the herein identified portions of Idaho State Highway 19
between Williams Lane (Idaho Transportation Department milepoint 2.57) and
Johnstone Road (Idaho Transportation Department milepoint 3.976), providing
that this prohibition shall not apply in emergency conditions under which the
use of air compression brakes is necessary to prevent an accident or injury to
persons or property. (Ord. 2017-01, 10-16-2017)
6-3-2: PENALTY:
Violation of this chapter shall constitute a misdemeanor, punishable as
appropriate under State Statutes relating sentence provisions applicable to
misdemeanors where no specific penalty is provided. (Ord. 06-02, 12-26-2006)
CHAPTER 4
PARKING
SECTION:
6-4-1: Purpose
6-4-2: Definition Of Vehicle
6-4-3: Unlawful Parking
6-4-4: Law Enforcement Exemption
6-4-5: Violation
6-4-1: PURPOSE:
The increasing number of vehicles used for recreation in the county has
resulted in threats to health, safety and protection of private property. In
order to prevent safety and health hazards which result from parking vehicles
in roadway rights of way and on property where recreational activities take
place, and in order to prevent damage to private property resulting from
parking on such property without consent or blocking access by such parking,
this chapter is enacted. (Ord. 07-01, 4-9-2007)
6-4-2: DEFINITION OF VEHICLE:
The term "vehicle" as used in this chapter means any device in, upon or by
which any person or property may be transported. (Ord. 07-01, 4-9-2007)
6-4-3: UNLAWFUL PARKING:
It shall be unlawful to park a vehicle where parking has been prohibited and
posted by county, federal or state authority. The registered owner of an
unattended, unlawfully parked vehicle is responsible and may be cited. (Ord.
07-01, 4-9-2007)
6-4-4: LAW ENFORCEMENT EXEMPTION:
Law enforcement action in the regular course of law enforcement work is exempt
from the terms of this chapter. (Ord. 07-01, 4-9-2007)
6-4-5: VIOLATION:
Violation of this chapter shall be an infraction, and shall be punishable as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 07-01, 4-9-2007; amd. 2010 Code)
CHAPTER 5
PUBLIC LANDS
SECTION:
6-5-1: Disobey Signs
6-5-2: Entry Onto Or Crossing In Disturbing Or Destructive Manner
6-5-3: Public Land Restricted By Closure Or Other Restriction
6-5-1: DISOBEY SIGNS:
   A.    Purpose: The increase of public usage of the public lands and
adjoining private lands in the county as the population of the entire area
grows threatens and causes damage to the land, and threatens and causes dangers
which result in accidents and personal and property damage. This section is
designed to assist law enforcement, and county, federal and state resource
agencies in protecting the public land by properly signing where and how it can
be used.
   B.    Public Land Defined: The term "public land" as used in this section,
means land managed by federal or state government.
   C.    Obey Signs: All persons shall obey any sign placed by the county or
any federal or state agency regarding the use of public land.
   D.    Law Enforcement Exemption: Law enforcement action in the regular
course of law enforcement work is exempt from the terms of this section. (Ord.
07-02, 4-9-2007)
   E.    Penalty: Violation of this section shall be an infraction and shall be
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 07-02, 4-9-2007; amd. 2010 Code)
6-5-2: ENTRY ONTO OR CROSSING IN DISTURBING OR DESTRUCTIVE MANNER:
   A.    Purpose: The increasing number of people using the public lands for
recreation, with said number increasing as the population of the entire area
increases, causes damage to the public land when people bypass the designated
recreation areas and strike off across country where recreation is not allowed.
This causes damage to the public land, but it also creates a hazard to public
safety and health because vehicles are operated in areas which are unsafe and
people get lost and broken down in areas where rescue must be undertaken by law
enforcement and emergency services of the county. This section is designed to
help prevent unlawful entry onto and across public land.
   B.    Unlawful To Enter Or Cross Public Land In Disturbing, Harmful,
Damaging, Or Destructive Way: No person shall enter upon or cross public land
in a manner that is disturbing, harmful, damaging or destructive to public
land.
   C.    Owner And Operator Responsible For Costs: The owner and operator of
any vehicle which is operated or left unattended in violation of this section
shall be jointly and severally responsible for all costs of law enforcement and
emergency response, rescue, or retrieval efforts connected with this violation.
   D.    Exemption Of Regular Law Enforcement: Law enforcement action in the
regular course of law enforcement work is exempt from the terms of this
section. (Ord. 07-03, 4-9-2007)
   E.    Penalty: Violation of this section shall be an infraction, and shall
be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 07-03, 4-9-2007; amd. 2010 Code)
6-5-3: PUBLIC LAND RESTRICTED BY CLOSURE OR OTHER RESTRICTION:
   A.    Purpose: The increasing number of persons using the public lands and
adjoining private lands in the county has resulted in shortage of parking in
signed areas and this has caused people to drive their vehicles onto public
land that has been restricted by the land manager for purposes of safety,
protection of the land and the environment, and protection of adjoining private
land. This section makes it possible to protect the public land, public health
and safety, and private land by making it unlawful to park or operate a vehicle
on restricted public land.
   B.    Public Land Defined: The term "public land" as used in this section
means land managed by federal or state government.
   C.    Unlawful To Operate In Restricted Areas: No person shall operate or
park a vehicle on public land that is restricted by either permanent or
temporary closure or where use has been restricted by trail designation or
other travel restriction imposed by the manager of said public land. The
registered owner of an unattended vehicle which is unlawfully on public land is
responsible and may be cited.
   D.    Liability For Costs: The owner and operator of any vehicle which is
operated or left unattended in violation of this section shall be jointly and
severally responsible for all costs of law enforcement and emergency response,
rescue, or retrieval efforts connected with violation.
   E.    Exemption Of Regular Law Enforcement: Law enforcement action in the
regular course of law enforcement work is exempt from the terms of this
section. (Ord. 07-04, 4-9-2007)
   F.    Penalty: Violation of this section shall be an infraction, and shall
be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 07-04, 4-9-2007; amd. 2010 Code)
CHAPTER 6
ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES, UTILITY TYPE VEHICLES AND MOTORBIKES
SECTION:
6-6-1: Purpose
6-6-2: Designation Of Roads And Portions Closed To Use
6-6-3: Murphy And Bruneau Townsites
6-6-4: License And Registration Required
6-6-5: Exemptions
6-6-6: Maximum Speed Limit; Rules Of The Road
6-6-7: Penalty
6-6-8: Appendix A, Roads Or Portions Thereof Closed To Use
6-6-1: PURPOSE:
   A.    Pursuant to Idaho Code, section 49-426(3) Owyhee County scheduled,
noticed and held a public hearing so that citizens could provide input into the
decision as to whether any public roads within the Owyhee County highway system
should be closed to use by all-terrain vehicles, utility type vehicles and
motorbikes. The prior ordinance 02-02 had designated roads and portions of
roads which were open to use by such vehicles, but Idaho Code section 49-426(3)
provides that all county roads would be open to such use after January 1, 2009,
unless the county adopted an ordinance closing certain designated roads or
portions of such roads to such use. After taking into account the testimony
received at the public hearing, after considering matters of public safety and
the considerable cost for search, rescue and assistance to the county, after
considering testimony in favor of unlimited use and testimony in favor of even
more restrictive closures, the board of county commissioners decided to
designate the roads and portions of roads set forth in this chapter as closed
to use of all-terrain vehicles, utility type vehicles and motorbikes. (Ord. 10-
03, 12-13-2010)
6-6-2: DESIGNATION OF ROADS AND PORTIONS CLOSED TO USE:
It shall be unlawful to operate or allow to be operated any all-terrain
vehicle, utility type vehicle and motorbike as those terms are defined in Idaho
Code, section 67-7101 on the roads and portions of roads in Owyhee County set
forth in appendix A (Spread Sheet of Roads and descriptions), and generally
referenced on Owyhee County maps Appendix B and Appendix C (graphic showing
Reynolds Creek Road authorized crossing points), affixed to the ordinance
codified herein. (Ord. 10-03, 12-13-2010; amd. Ord. 2021-01, 7-12-2021)
6-6-3: MURPHY AND BRUNEAU TOWNSITES:
   A.    Murphy: Roads within the Murphy townsite shall be open to all- terrain
vehicles, utility type vehicles and motorbikes.
   B.    Bruneau: Roads within the Bruneau townsite will be open to all-terrain
vehicles, utility type vehicles and motorbikes. (Ord. 10-03, 12-13-2010)
6-6-4: LICENSE AND REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to operate or allow to be operated an all- terrain
vehicle, a utility type vehicle or motorbike on any county road in the Owyhee
County highway system without a license and without being registered pursuant
to Idaho statute. (Ord. 10-03, 12-13-2010)
6-6-5: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.    Law Enforcement: Use of all-terrain vehicles, utility type vehicles
and motorbikes by qualified law enforcement officers in the pursuit of
legitimate law enforcement action is exempt from the provisions of this
chapter.
   B.    Agricultural Use: Agricultural use is exempt from the provisions of
this chapter pursuant to Idaho law. (Ord. 10-03, 12-13-2010)
6-6-6: MAXIMUM SPEED LIMIT; RULES OF THE ROAD:
On those county roads within the Owyhee County highway systems which are open
to all-terrain vehicles, utility type vehicles and motorbikes, such vehicles
shall not exceed a maximum speed limit of twenty five (25) miles per hour. All
such vehicles shall be subject to all rules of the road established by the
state of Idaho and Owyhee County. (Ord. 10-03, 12-13-2010)
6-6-7: PENALTY:
Pursuant to Idaho Code section 31-714, the penalty for the violation of this
and like ordinances passed by the board of county commissioners shall not
exceed a fine of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) and not to exceed six (6)
months in jail, and/or both such fine and imprisonment. (Ord. 10-03, 12-13-
2010)
6-6-8: APPENDIX A, ROADS OR PORTIONS THEREOF CLOSED TO USE:
A&A Road                  T6S R3E section 3 to section 6 (connects only to 20
                          Mile Road which is closed all the way through)
Alma Road                 T5S R3E section 7 to section 8 (paved)
Bachman Grade Road        T7S R3W section 13 to T4S R1W section 36
Bailey Road               T1S R3W section 13 (paved)
Bates Creek Road          T4S R1W section 24 to section 21
Beet Dump Road            T5S R2E section 12 to section 1 (paved)
Black Sands Road          T5S R4E section 33 to T6S R4E section 3 (paved)
Cattle Drive              T7S R4E section 4 to T7S R5E section 5 (paved)
China Ditch Road          T1S R3W section 12 to section 1 (paved)
Clover Three Creek Road   T7S R6E section 27 to T10S R9E section 32
Colyer Road               T6S R5E section 24 to section 15 (paved)
Crane Falls Road          T6S R6E section 18 to T5S R5E section 5 (paved)
                          T5S R3E section 33 to T6S R3E section 9 (connects
Dairy Road                only to 20 Mile Road which is closed all the way
                          through)
Davis Road                T6S R4E section 25 to T6S R5E section 33 (paved)
Hot Creek Road            T6S R5E section 26 to T7S R6E section 27 (paved)
Hot Springs Road          T6S R6E section 19 to T7S R6E section 27 (paved)
Lemley Road               T4S R2E section 29 to section 19 (paved)
Millet Lane               T5S R3E section 8 to section 8 (paved)
Missile Base Road         T6S R1E section 25 to T5S R2E section 2 (from Highway
                          78 to end of pavement)
Mormon Boulevard          T6S R4E section 11 to T7S R4E section 14 (paved)
Mud Flat Road             T10S R4W section 14 to T5S R3E section line of 26 and
                          27 (paved from Highway 78 to Oreana cutoff)
Oreana Loop Road          T4S R2E section 30 to T4S R1E section 18 (paved)
Parkinsons Road           R4S R2E section 27 to section 22 (county portion
                          paved)
Pleasant Valley Road      T5S R6W section 26 to T6S R6W section 13 (Oregon
                          line; paved)
Quail Lane                T5S R3E section 16 to section 16 (paved)
River Road                T4S R2E section 34 to T6S R4E section 4, excluding
                          all portions within the Grand View city limits
Shoofly Cut Off Road      T6S R3E section 34 to T7S R5E section 18
Silver City Road          T3S R1W section 18 to T4S R2W section 5 (paved
                          portion from Highway 78 to Diamond Basin only)
Strike Dam Cut Off Road   T5S R4E section 33 to section 33 (paved)
Trout Creek Road          T5S R5W section 1 to T5S R6W section 26 (from
                          Pleasant Valley Road to the end of Cow Creek Road)
Upper Reynolds Creek Road T1S R2W section 17 to T2S R3W section 36 (paved
                          portion from Highway 78 to end of pavement)
Vista Road                T5S R3E section 16 to section 16 (paved)
Wilson Creek Road         T1S R3W section 2 to section 9 (paved)
20 Mile Road              T6S R3E section 34 to section 33 (paved)
 
(Ord. 10-03, 12-13-2010)
TITLE 7
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODES AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Jurisdiction
7-1-2: Adoption Of Codes
7-1-3: Superseded By Successive Versions Of Codes
7-1-4: Exceptions
7-1-5: Amendments To Adopted Codes
7-1-6: Duty Of Building Official
7-1-7: Permit Fees
7-1-8: Appeal
7-1-9: Violations
7-1-1: JURISDICTION:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all areas of unincorporated lands
within Owyhee County. (Ord. 2015-01, 2-9-2015)
7-1-2: ADOPTION OF CODES:
As provided by Idaho Code section 39-4116 the following codes and their
amendments, including subsequent revisions and supplements, are hereby adopted
by reference and made a part of this chapter as though fully set forth herein:
   A.    2012 international building code, as adopted by the state of Idaho or
the Idaho building code board, together with any amendments or revisions to the
international building code made by the Idaho building code board through the
negotiated rulemaking process;
   B.    2012 international residential code, except parts five and six, as
adopted by the state of Idaho or the Idaho building code board, together with
any amendments or revisions to the international residential code made by the
Idaho building code board through the negotiated rulemaking process;
   C.    2012 international energy conservation code, as adopted by the state
of Idaho or the Idaho building code board, together with any amendments or
revisions to the international residential code made by the Idaho building code
board through the negotiated rulemaking process;
   D.    2012 international existing building code, as adopted by the state of
Idaho or the Idaho building code board, together with any amendments or
revisions to the international existing building code made by the Idaho
building code board through the negotiated rulemaking process; and
   E.    2004 Idaho manufactured home installation standards, prepared by the
state of Idaho, together with any amendments or revisions to the Idaho
manufactured home installation standards made by the Idaho building code board
through the negotiated rulemaking process. (Ord. 2015-01, 2-9-2015)
7-1-3: SUPERSEDED BY SUCCESSIVE VERSIONS OF CODES:
The adopted versions of the foregoing codes shall be deemed superseded by
successive versions of such codes as they are adopted or approved by the state
of Idaho building code board, such successive versions to become law of the
county on the effective date set for the successive versions by the state of
Idaho building code board, unless the board of county commissioners
specifically provides otherwise. (Ord. 2015-01, 2-9-2015)
7-1-4: EXCEPTIONS:
   A.    Agricultural Building Defined: An "agricultural building" is a
structure designed and constructed to house farm implements, hay, grain,
poultry, livestock, or other horticultural products where said structure is
situated on land which shall consist of at least a single parcel of land five
(5) or more acres in size, exclusive of any public right of way. This structure
shall not be a place of human habitation or a place of employment where
agricultural products are processed, treated, packaged or sold, nor shall it be
a place used by the public. In order to qualify the property owner shall have
an approved "agricultural exemption" from the county assessor.
   B.    Exempted: As set forth in Idaho Code section 39-4116(5), agricultural
buildings shall be exempt from the requirements of the building code adopted
herein but shall remain subject to placement requirements established by zoning
regulations. (Ord. 2015-01, 2-9-2015)
7-1-5: AMENDMENTS TO ADOPTED CODES:
The following sections of the foregoing adopted codes are amended as stated
herein:
   A.    International building code, 2012 edition: The following sections are
hereby amended:
      1.    Section 101.1. Insert Owyhee County.
      2.    Section 101.4.1, "Gas", is deleted and repealed in its entirety.
      3.    Section 101.4.2, "Mechanical", is deleted and repealed in its
entirety.
      4.    Section 101.4.3, "Plumbing", is deleted and repealed in its
entirety.
      5.    Section 103.3, "Deputies", delete last sentence.
      6.    Section 105 Permits: "105.1.1 Annual Permit", is deleted and
repealed in its entirety.
      7.    Section 105 Permits: "105.1.2 Annual Permit Records", is deleted
and repealed in its entirety.
      8.    Section 105 Permits: "105.2 Work Exempt From Permit", to amend the
list under "Building" as follows:
      1.    One-story detached accessory structures used as tool and storage
sheds, playhouses and similar uses, provided the floor area is not greater than
200 square feet.
      9.    Section 105 Permits: "105.2 Work Exempt From Permit", will add to
list under "Building" as follows:
      14.    Agricultural building as defined in this article.
      10.    Section 105 Permits: "105.3 Application For Permit", will add the
following sentence:
No building permit may be issued, and no person may enter into occupancy or
begin the proposed use, until a certificate of compliance from the zoning
official has been issued as required by Owyhee County ordinance 09-09.
      11.    Section 105 Permits: "105.5 Expiration", add a second paragraph:
If work has not been completed, the final inspection performed and the project
approved for occupancy or use within two (2) years from the date of such permit
being issued, that Owyhee County permit shall expire by limitation and become
null and void. Prior to work recommencing after the permit has expired, a new
permit shall be obtained.
      12.    Section 107 Submittal Documents: "107.1 General", delete the first
two (2) sentences and replace with the following:
Construction documents, special inspection and structural observation programs,
and any other data including deferred submittals, shall be submitted in two (2)
sets with each application for a permit. The construction documents shall be
prepared by or under the direct supervision of an Idaho registered architect or
Idaho registered engineer and are required to be stamped or sealed with that
Idaho registered design professional's stamp or seal.
      13.    Section 112 Service Utilities: "112.1 Connection To Service
Utilities", add a second paragraph to read as follows:
A final inspection and approval is required upon completion and prior to
occupancy and use of all buildings and structures. Lack of building official
approval may result in the termination of utility services to said building or
structure and prosecution under international building code section 114.3.
      14.    Section 1608 Snow Loads: "1608.1 General", is amended to read as
follows:
Design snow loads shall be determined in accordance with section 7 of ASCE 7-
98, but the design roof load shall not be less than a uniform snow load of
twenty five (25) psf below six thousand feet (6,000') and thirty-five (35) psf
above six thousand feet (6,000'). The minimum roof snow load for Owyhee County
shall be twenty-five (25) pounds per square foot.
      15.    Section 1608 Snow Loads: "1608.2 Ground Snow Loads", is amended to
read as follows:
The ground snow load to be used in determining the design snow loads for Owyhee
County shall be twenty (20) psf.
      16.    Section 3410 Moved Structures: "3410.1 Conformance", amend the
section to add a second paragraph as follows:
Any building or structure, excluding manufactured homes moved into or within
Owyhee County, shall be inspected by a state of Idaho licensed/registered
architect or engineer. This inspection shall be followed by a report bearing
the stamp/seal of the licensed/registered architect/engineer accompanying the
Owyhee County building permit application. The report shall contain the
following information:
         i.    Identifies the particular building.
         ii.    States that the licensed/registered architect/engineer does not
find any structural condition indicating a deficiency that would preclude the
continued use of the building.
         iii.    States that the roof cover meets the requirements of the 2012
IBC, chapter 15.
         iv.    If the building is a dwelling, provide an energy code analysis
of the specific dwelling showing that the dwelling meets the requirements of
the 2012 international energy conservation code. If the dwelling does not
comply with the 2012 international energy conservation code, a plan shall be
submitted for the modifications needed to attain that compliance.
         v.    This report shall be accompanied by an Idaho licensed/registered
architect/engineer foundation design for that specific building.
      17.    Section 3412 Compliance Alternatives: "3412.2 Applicability",
insert August 9, 1993.
   B.    International residential code for one- and two-family dwellings, 2012
edition: The following sections are hereby amended:
      1.    Section R101.1. Insert Owyhee County.
      2.    Section R105 Permits: "R105.3 Application For Permit", will add the
following sentence:
No building permit may be issued, and no person may enter into occupancy or
begin the proposed use, until a certificate of compliance from the zoning
official has been issued as required by Owyhee County ordinance 09-09.
      3.    Section R105 Permits: "R105.5 Expiration", add a second paragraph:
If work has not been completed, the final inspection performed and the project
approved for occupancy or use within two (2) years from the date of such permit
being issued, that Owyhee County permit shall expire by limitation and become
null and void. Prior to work recommencing after the permit has expired, a new
permit shall be obtained.
      4.    Section R111 Service Utilities: "R111.1 Connection To Service
Utilities", add a second paragraph to read as follows:
A final inspection and approval is required upon completion and prior to
occupancy and use of all buildings and structures. Lack of building official
approval may result in the termination of utility services to said building or
structure and prosecution under international residential code section R113.3.
      5.    Section R301.2, "Climatic And Geographic Design Criteria", table
R301.2(1) shall be changed to read as follows:
   TABLE R301.2(1) CLIMATIC AND GEOGRAPHIC DESIGN CRITERIA
 
       Wind Design                  Subject To Damage From             Ice
Ground                    Seismic                               Winter Barrier             Air      Mean
Snow   Speedd Topographic Design                Frost           Design Underlay- Flood     Freezing Annual
Load   (mph)  Effectsk    Categoryf Weatheringa Line   Termitec Tempe  ment      Hazardsg  Indexi   Tempj
                                                Depthb                 Requiredh

20 psf
 
Roof
snow
load
below
6,000                                                                            FIRM maps
feet:                                                  Slight          Not       as
25 psf 90     No          B         Severe      24"    to       10° F required  currently 980      51° F
                                                      moderate                  adopted
Roof
snow
load
above
6,000
feet:
35 psf
 
      1.    For S1: 1 pound per square foot -0.0479kN/m2, 1 mile per hour =
1.609 km/h.
      2.    Language explaining the letters (a) through (k), inclusively, found
in the above table, is included with the table in the international residential
code and is incorporated by reference as if fully written herein.
   C.    International energy conservation code, 2012 edition: The following
section(s) are hereby amended:
      1.    Section 101.1. Insert Owyhee County.
   D.    International existing building code, 2012 edition: The following
section(s) are hereby amended:
      1.    Section 101.1. Insert Owyhee County.
      2.    Section 1401 Performance Compliance Methods: "1401.2
Applicability", insert March 21, 2005.
(Ord. 2015-01, 2-9-2015)
7-1-6: DUTY OF BUILDING OFFICIAL:
The building official of the county, named by the board of county
commissioners, shall have the duty of enforcing the county building code, and
shall have the further duty of advising the commissioners when a successive
version of any of the codes adopted in section
7-1-2 of this chapter is adopted and made effective by the state of Idaho
building code board. (Ord. 2015-01, 2-9-2015)
7-1-7: PERMIT FEES:
   A.    Fee Schedule Established: Fees to enforce this chapter shall be
established by resolution of the board of county commissioners (board). The
board shall establish a permit fee schedule, which schedule shall reflect the
fees which are to be charged by the official responsible for charging those
fees. The fee schedule shall be kept on file in the office of the county clerk
and in the office of the building inspector or building official and shall be
made available to the public upon request. Said fee schedule shall be reviewed
regularly as required by law. The building official, the building inspector or
a designee shall charge permit fees in accordance with the schedule created by
a resolution of the board.
   B.    Agricultural Buildings: A fee may be imposed for an agricultural
building to ensure that any said building is in compliance with setback and
easement restrictions. The fee for any such agricultural building shall be
equivalent to the minimum fee established for building permits and adopted by
resolution of the board. (Ord. 2015-01, 2-9-2015)
7-1-8: APPEAL:
   A.    Right Of Appeal: Any determination or ruling by the building official,
his agents or assigns may be subject to appeal by an aggrieved party.
   B.    Notice: Notice of such appeal shall be given to the building official
within fifteen (15) days of the decision, determination, or ruling that is the
subject of said appeal. The building official shall create a form for notice of
appeal.
   C.    Hearing By Planning And Zoning Board: Any said appeal shall be heard
first by the county planning and zoning board under the hearing procedure rules
set forth by that board.
   D.    Appeal From Decision Of Planning And Zoning Board: A determination by
the planning and zoning board on a matter arising from the rules or law of this
chapter may be appealed to the board of county commissioners in the same
manner. (Ord. 2015-01, 2-9-2015)
7-1-9: VIOLATIONS:
   A.    Misdemeanor: Any violation of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor
punishable in accordance with the law of the state of Idaho.
   B.    Nuisance Or Abatement Procedures Applicable: Any building or other
structure which is erected in violation of this chapter or in violation of the
codes adopted in section
7-1-2 of this chapter, in addition to subjecting any owner, firm, corporation
or authorized agent to misdemeanor penalties, shall be subject to nuisance or
abatement procedures, which may be brought by any county official, any member
of the zoning commission, the planning and zoning administrator, the building
official, or any other person.
   C.    Costs Of Action: In the event that any abatement procedure is
successfully brought, the person building said structure or the owner of that
property upon which the structure was wrongfully erected shall pay all court
costs and attorney fees for the prosecution of that action. (Ord. 2015-01, 2-9-
2015)
CHAPTER 2
UNIFORM ADDRESSING SYSTEM
SECTION:
7-2-1: Short Title
7-2-2: Purpose
7-2-3: Standards For Assigning Street And Road Names
7-2-4: Future Public Right Of Way Dedications
7-2-5: Subdivision And Other Developments
7-2-6: Private Roads
7-2-7: Standards For Assigning Address Numbers
7-2-8: Process To Request Naming Of Road
7-2-9: Prohibited Acts
7-2-10: Administration
7-2-11: Address Fee Schedule
7-2-12: Violation; Penalty
7-2-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the UNIFORM ADDRESSING ORDINANCE OF OWYHEE
COUNTY. (Ord. 02-01, 3-11-2002)
7-2-2: PURPOSE:
A uniform system of assigning street and road names and addresses will
facilitate quicker, more efficient response of emergency service vehicles and
personnel to the citizens of the county. A uniform system of addressing will
assist law enforcement personnel in responding to calls for assistance and in
performing law enforcement duties more efficiently. It will also facilitate
more efficient public utility responses and service. This chapter is enacted
for the purpose of providing such uniform system of addressing, which will
benefit the public health and safety of the citizens of the county. (Ord. 02-
01, 3-11-2002)
7-2-3: STANDARDS FOR ASSIGNING STREET AND ROAD NAMES:
Throughout the unincorporated area of the county, road names and addresses
shall be assigned according to the following standards:
   A.    County And Public Roads: The names of county and public roads shall
include either the term "road", "street" or "avenue".
   B.    Private Roads: The names of private roads shall include either the
term "drive", "way", "place", "lane" or "circle".
   C.    Identifying Signs: Identifying signs for county and public roads shall
be green in color and identifying signs for private roads shall be blue in
color.
   D.    Existing Names:
      1.    Already existing names of roads shall be retained.
      2.    If already existing names are duplicative, but such duplicative
names are separated geographically from Homedale, Marsing, Grand View, Bruneau
and other areas of the county in such a way that no confusion will exist for
law enforcement or other emergency service and public utility personnel, then
the existing names may be retained.
      3.    If it is believed that confusion may exist from duplicative names,
the duplication will be eliminated by renaming the road or roads, and the
renaming process will take into account the following:
         a.    Date of initial naming of the roads.
         b.    Number of residences and businesses on the roads.
         c.    When the road(s) to be renamed extends into an incorporated
area, municipal officials of the incorporated area will be consulted regarding
the renaming.
   E.    Unnamed Roads: Currently unnamed roads will be named without
duplicating names by spelling or sound.
   F.    Grid For Assigning Names: Existing road names will be used as a grid
for assigning names. (Ord. 02-01, 3-11-2002)
7-2-4: FUTURE PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY DEDICATIONS:
   A.    Suggested By Person Proposing Dedication: Names for future right of
way dedications shall be suggested to the board of commissioners by the person
or persons proposing the dedication. If such suggestions are consistent with
the standards provided herein, the board shall name the right of way in
accordance with the suggestion. If the suggestion is not consistent with the
standards provided herein, names will be assigned in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter.
   B.    On Alignment And Linked To Existing Road: If a proposed right of way
is on alignment with, and linked to, so as provide a continuation of an
existing road, the name of the existing road may be applied to the new right of
way.
   C.    On Alignment But Not Linked To Existing Road: Where the proposed right
of way is on alignment with, but not linked to, an existing road, the name of
the existing road may be applied to the new right of way, providing no
confusion is created because of the interruption of continuation for linking
with the existing road.
   D.    Distinct Change Of Direction: Where the new right of way makes such a
distinct change of direction that confusion will be caused by assigning the
name of the existing road, a new name will be assigned. (Ord. 02-01, 3-11-2002)
7-2-5: SUBDIVISION AND OTHER DEVELOPMENTS:
   A.    Subdivisions: The board will require that roads shown on preliminary
and/or final plats for subdivisions be named in accordance with the provisions
of section
10-4-4 of this code. Before approval is given to the plats, the board will
require that the developer agree to erect road signs and dwelling numbers at
his/her own expense. (Ord. 02-01, 3-11-2002; amd. 2010 Code)
   B.    New Roads: New roads constructed by realtors and/or developers must be
named and signs erected and maintained in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter, said signs to be erected and maintained at the expense of the
person constructing the road. (Ord. 02-01, 3-11-2002)
7-2-6: PRIVATE ROADS:
   A.    More Than One-Fourth Mile From Named Road: Private drives, ways, lanes
or circles with three (3) or more residences, and/or residences more than one-
fourth (1/4) mile off a named road, and/or residences which may not be seen
from a named road, must be named, and signs must be erected and maintained by
the residents on the roadway.
   B.    Not Accepted Into Highway District: Private drives, ways, places or
circles which have not been accepted into a highway district may be named, and
address numbers assigned at the request of, and at the expense of the residents
located on such roadway. Such roadway signs shall be of a design approved by
the board which indicate that the roadway is not included within the highway
district road system.
   C.    Accepted Into Highway District: Signs for private drives, ways, places
or circles which have been accepted into the highway district road system will
be erected and maintained by the highway district. (Ord. 02-01, 3-11-2002)
7-2-7: STANDARDS FOR ASSIGNING ADDRESS NUMBERS:
   A.    County To Provide: The county will provide address numbers, which can
be placed at the entrance of the road leading to the residence, or on the
residence in such a way that they are visible from the road. If the owner/
occupant of the residence or business desires to provide his/her own address
numbers, the expense will be that of the owner/occupant. Privately supplied
address numbers must be visible from the road, or the address will not be
included in the county addressing system.
   B.    Number Of Addresses Restricted: No more than five hundred (500)
addresses will be assigned for every two (2) miles of drivable road.
   C.    Road Signs: Road signs will be between five and one-half feet (51/2')
to six and one-half feet (61/2') above the ground and must be visible and
readable from both sides. (Ord. 02-01, 3-11-2002)
7-2-8: PROCESS TO REQUEST NAMING OF ROAD:
Any person desiring to request that the board name a road, or rename a road,
shall file with the clerk of the board a written request setting forth the
name, the reason for the requested name, and signatures of persons in the
immediate vicinity agreeing to the request. The board shall require the
requesting person to notify everyone who resides on the road of the date upon
which the request shall be considered. (Ord. 02-01, 3-11-2002)
7-2-9: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.    Applicability: This section is applicable to the unincorporated areas
of the county, including areas of city impact.
   B.    Prohibited Acts Enumerated: It shall be unlawful for any person,
association or organization to commit any of the following acts: (Ord. 97-02,
9-24-1997)
      1.    Erect or install a street name sign not in accordance with the
provisions of the county's uniform street name and address system and official
street name map developed and maintained.
      2.    Remove, alter, change or deface a street name sign, or dwelling or
business address erected or installed as provided by this chapter.
      3.    Place or post a dwelling or business address not approved and
assigned by the county.
   C.    Violation; Penalty: Any person, association or organization who erects
a street name sign in violation of this section and not in accordance with the
map developed by the county, as well as altering or defacing a street name
sign, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be subject
to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 97-02, 9-24-1997; amd. 2010 Code)
7-2-10: ADMINISTRATION:
The board of county commissioners shall administer the addressing system
established by this chapter and may designate other county personnel to carry
out the following duties of administration:
   A.    Compile And Maintain Official Name List And Map: Compilation of, and
maintenance of, an official road name list and map, with the list and map to be
on file with the county assessor, county sheriff and county clerk.
   B.    Make List And Map Available To Other Agencies: Make the road name list
and map available to public utilities and other agencies which perform a public
service to the citizens of the county, at a cost to be set by the board. (Ord.
02-01, 3-11-2002)
7-2-11: ADDRESS FEE SCHEDULE:
   A.    Purpose: The board of commissioners does hereby find that it is
necessary to establish and maintain a rural addressing system. Such system aids
emergency personnel in responding to reported incidents and generally aids the
public and government in identifying locations, real properties and residences.
   B.    Established: Fees to enforce, locate and install such rural addressing
system shall be established by resolution of the board of county commissioners
(board). The board shall establish by resolution an address fee schedule, which
schedule shall reflect the fees which are to be charged by the official
responsible for charging those fees. The fee schedule shall be kept on file in
the office of the county clerk and in the office of the building official and
shall be made available to the public upon request. The building official or a
designee shall charge address fees in accordance with the schedule created by a
resolution of the board. (Ord. 07-07, 12-3-2007)
7-2-12: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Unless otherwise provided, a violation of this chapter shall be considered an
infraction punishable in accordance with Idaho law. (Ord. 02-01, 3-11-2002;
amd. 2010 Code)
TITLE 8
AREAS OF CITY IMPACT
CHAPTER 1
HOMEDALE AREA OF CITY IMPACT
SECTION:
8-1-1: Purpose
8-1-2: Designation Of City Impact Area
8-1-3: Comprehensive Plan
8-1-4: Zoning Ordinance
8-1-5: Subdivision Ordinance
8-1-6: Mobile Home Ordinance
8-1-7: Administration And Enforcement
8-1-8: Renegotiation Of City Impact Area
8-1-1: PURPOSE:
   A.    The city of Homedale initiated a request that an area of city impact
be designated and established in the unincorporated area of the county
adjoining the city of Homedale which the planning and zoning commission of
Homedale and the city council and mayor of Homedale have identified as a
logical urban fringe area. In making such identification, those officials have
recognized a trade area, geographic factors, and the potential delivery of
public services which are closely associated with the city of Homedale, and
have identified the area as being comprised of areas that may reasonably be
annexed to the city of Homedale in the future.
   B.    After hearing evidence for and against the designation and
establishment of the city impact area, the board of county commissioners have
determined that the city impact area as designated in this chapter will best
serve the growth and development interests and needs of the city of Homedale.
The board believes that the mandate of the Idaho local planning act is that
such local city interests and needs are primary factors to be considered in
establishing an area of city impact. This chapter is intended to serve those
legislatively mandated factors. (Ord. 95-02, 9-25-1995)
8-1-2: DESIGNATION OF CITY IMPACT AREA:
The area of city impact for the city of Homedale, Idaho, is hereby established
as that area defined by 1995 Homedale city ordinance 304 and the city impact
area map adopted by said ordinance. Said map identified as "exhibit A" by the
Homedale city ordinance and referred to in section 2 of 1995 Homedale city
ordinance 304 is set forth as follows:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/17d1c061191710f45efb1c97a7b562c8e94710bf/
IMAGES/0-0-0-764.gif]
 
(Ord. 95-02, 9-25-1995)
8-1-3: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN:
The comprehensive plan required by the Idaho local planning act and adopted by
the city of Homedale shall be applicable to and within the area of city impact
designated by section
8-1-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 95-02, 9-25-1995)
8-1-4: ZONING ORDINANCE:
The zoning ordinance required by the Idaho local planning act and adopted by
the city of Homedale shall be applicable to and within the area of city impact
designated by section
8-1-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 95-02, 9-25-1995)
8-1-5: SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE:
The subdivision ordinance adopted by the city of Homedale shall be applicable
to and within the area of city impact designated by section
8-1-2 of this chapter. The Owyhee County subdivision ordinance 1  shall not be
applicable to and within the area of city impact designated by section
8-1-2 of this chapter, but remains in force and effect as to all other
unincorporated areas of the county. (Ord. 95-02, 9-25-1995)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 10 of this code.
8-1-6: MOBILE HOME ORDINANCE:
In accordance with the provisions of 1995 Homedale city ordinance 304, the
Owyhee County mobile home, manufactured home and mobile home park ordinance
shall be applicable to and within the area of city impact designated by section
8-1-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 95-02, 9-25-1995)
8-1-7: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
Administration and enforcement of zoning ordinance, subdivision ordinance and
comprehensive plan within the city impact area designated by section
8-1-2 of this chapter shall be in accordance with the provisions of section 8
of 1995 Homedale city ordinance 304. The constitutional and statutory authority
and responsibility of the county sheriff is not to be impacted in any way by
the passage of this chapter. (Ord. 95-02, 9-25-1995)
8-1-8: RENEGOTIATION OF CITY IMPACT AREA:
   A.    Review: The county shall review with the city of Homedale the city
impact area designated by section
8-1-2 of this chapter no later than five (5) years after the effective date
hereof.
   B.    Request For Renegotiation: Additionally, upon the written request of
the city of Homedale or the county of Owyhee delivered by one governing body to
the other, renegotiation shall commence no later than thirty (30) days after
receipt of the written request. Such renegotiation shall take place in
accordance with the mandate of Idaho Code section 67-6526. (Ord. 95-02, 9-25-
1995)
CHAPTER 2
MARSING AREA OF CITY IMPACT
SECTION:
8-2-1: Title
8-2-2: Purpose; Authority
8-2-3: Area Of City Impact Defined
8-2-4: Geographic Area Of City Impact Established And Defined
8-2-5: Standards
8-2-6: Enforcement
8-2-7: Hearing Procedures Within Area Of City Impact
8-2-8: Annexation
8-2-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the MARSING, IDAHO, AREA OF CITY IMPACT
ORDINANCE. (Ord. 09-05, 8-4-2009)
8-2-2: PURPOSE; AUTHORITY:
The purpose of establishing the Marsing area of city impact is to identify an
urban fringe area in the unincorporated territory surrounding the city within
which there is potential for development or changes in land use that must be
planned in an orderly and compatible manner with the adopted comprehensive plan
and to ensure timely or economical provision of public service, and to protect
and sustain existing public services and residential communities, protect the
environment, and to promote traffic flow objectives, conform with the
comprehensive plan and zoning regulations of the area of city impact, and
protect the safety of all users of roadways affected by increased traffic from
land use decisions in the Marsing area of city impact. Residential character,
the environment, traffic safety, bicycling safety and pedestrian safety are
goals furthered by this chapter. This chapter is enacted pursuant to Idaho Code
sections 67-6526, 31-714, 31-801, and 31-828; and the Idaho constitution,
article 12, section 2, as amended or subsequently modified. (Ord. 09-05, 8-4-
2009)
8-2-3: AREA OF CITY IMPACT DEFINED:
The new area of city impact shall consist of an area where development or use
of land affects or may affect the city of Marsing in consideration of trade
areas, geographic factors, and areas that can reasonably be expected to be
annexed to the city in the future and are contiguous with the city limits of
the city of Marsing. (Ord. 09-05, 8-4-2009)
8-2-4: GEOGRAPHIC AREA OF CITY IMPACT ESTABLISHED AND DEFINED:
The officially adopted area of city impact is hereby established and shown on
the map entitled, "Marsing Area Of City Impact Map" and is officially made a
part hereof by reference, said map being specifically adopted in section
8-2A-6 of this chapter. (Ord. 09-05, 8-4-2009)
8-2-5: STANDARDS:
Upon adoption by the city and county, the following standards shall apply
wherever an agency, planning and/or zoning commission, hearing examiner, or
governing body of the county considers a zone change, comprehensive plan
change, request for a special or conditional use permit, planned unit
development variance request, other land use decision, or subdivision plat
within the area of city impact:
   A.    Marsing area of city impact comprehensive plan, and
   B.    Marsing area of city impact subdivision ordinance, and
   C.    Marsing area of city impact zoning ordinance. (Ord. 09-05, 8-4-2009)
8-2-6: ENFORCEMENT:
The county shall be responsible for the administration and enforcement of the
county ordinances and regulations within the area of city impact and shall,
except as otherwise provided, receive all permit fees for inspections performed
to recapture direct costs of inspections, administration, legal publications,
any development fees or other costs arising from fulfilling the terms of each
ordinance or regulation. (Ord. 09-05, 8-4-2009)
8-2-7: HEARING PROCEDURES WITHIN AREA OF CITY IMPACT:
   A.    County Responsibility: The county is responsible for all public
hearings and final decisions on all completed applications. A complete
application and related material and a request for comment for any subdivision
shall be sent to the city of Marsing for comment prior to the county scheduling
a public hearing. A letter from the city of Marsing commenting on any of the
aforementioned applications shall be returned to the county within thirty one
(31) days of the receipt of the request. If the city does not respond within
thirty one (31) days of the request, it shall be deemed by the county that the
city has no comment.
   B.    Renegotiation: Areas of city impact, plan, and ordinance requirements
shall remain fixed until both governing boards agree to renegotiate. In the
event the city and county cannot agree, the judicial review process of Idaho
Code section 67-6526(b) shall apply. Renegotiations shall begin within thirty
(30) days after written request by the city or county and shall follow the
procedures for original negotiation provided in this section. (Ord. 09-05, 8-4-
2009)
8-2-8: ANNEXATION:
Annexation by the city of Marsing shall be limited to those lands lying within
the area of city impact and being contiguous to the city limits of the city of
Marsing. Upon annexation, the provisions of this chapter, which sets forth the
agreement between the city of Marsing and Owyhee County, shall no longer apply
to the annexed area. (Ord. 09-05, 8-4-2009)
ARTICLE A.  IMPACT AREA MAP
SECTION:
8-2A-1: Title
8-2A-2: Purpose; Authority
8-2A-3: General City Impact Area Description
8-2A-4: Marsing Area Of City Impact Area Map
8-2A-5: Renegotiations
8-2A-6: Use Of Map With Marsing Area Of City Impact Ordinance
8-2A-1: TITLE:
This article shall be known as the MARSING, IDAHO, AREA OF CITY IMPACT MAP
ORDINANCE. (Ord. 09-04, 8-4-2009)
8-2A-2: PURPOSE; AUTHORITY:
The local planning act of 1975 requires that each county and each city in the
state of Idaho shall identify by ordinance an area of city impact within the
unincorporated area of the county and shall, in accordance with the notice and
hearing procedures provided in Idaho Code section 67-6509, adopt by ordinance a
map identifying that area of city impact. The purpose of this article is to
adopt the Marsing, Idaho, area of city impact map. This article is enacted
pursuant to Idaho Code sections 67-6526, 31-714, 31-801, and 31-828; and the
Idaho constitution, article 12, section 2, as amended or subsequently modified.
(Ord. 09-04, 8-4-2009)
8-2A-3: GENERAL CITY IMPACT AREA DESCRIPTION:
The Marsing area of city impact is generally described as that geographic area
bounded by Thompson Road on the north as if Thompson Road were extended to the
Snake River, Edison Road on the west, Pershall Road on the south as if Pershall
Road were extended to the Snake River, and the Snake River on the east. (Ord.
09-04, 8-4-2009)
8-2A-4: MARSING AREA OF CITY IMPACT AREA MAP:
A map, not drawn to scale, describing the Marsing area of city impact is as
follows:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/17d1c061191710f45efb1c97a7b562c8e94710bf/
IMAGES/0-0-0-762.gif]
 
(Ord. 09-04, 8-4-2009)
8-2A-5: RENEGOTIATIONS:
In accordance with Idaho Code section 67-6526(d), the city of Marsing or the
county may request, in writing, negotiations of any provisions of this article
at any time. Within thirty (30) days of receipt of such request by either
party, a meeting between the two (2) jurisdictions shall occur. While
renegotiation is occurring, all provisions of this article shall remain in
effect until the article is amended or a substitute ordinance is adopted by the
city of Marsing and the county, in accordance with the notice and hearing
procedures provided in Idaho Code, title 67, chapter 65, or until a declaratory
judgment from the district court is final. (Ord. 09-04, 8-4-2009)
8-2A-6: USE OF MAP WITH MARSING AREA OF CITY IMPACT ORDINANCE:
This map, as set forth in section
8-2A-4 of this article, is adopted in conjunction with the county's Marsing
area of city impact ordinance, chapter 2 of this title, and is intended to be
an integral part of this chapter. (Ord. 09-04, 8-4-2009)
ARTICLE B.  IMPACT AREA SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-2B-1: Purpose And Authority
8-2B-2: Preparation, Approval And Recording Of Plat Required, Sale By Metes And
Bounds
8-2B-3: Definitions
8-2B-4: Procedure For Obtaining Approval Of Subdivisions Requiring Submission
Of Final Plats
8-2B-5: Improvements Required
8-2B-5-1:    Performance Bond Permitted In Lieu Of Actual Construction
8-2B-5-2:    Division Of Cost Of Improvements
8-2B-6: Design Requirements
8-2B-6-1:    Roads And Streets
8-2B-6-2:    Manufactured Home Subdivisions And Manufactured Home Parks
8-2B-7: Detailed Instructions For Submission Of Final Plat
8-2B-8: Issuance Of Building And Occupancy Permits
8-2B-9: Amended Plats
8-2B-10: School Sites, Parks, Playgrounds
8-2B-11: No Permit Or License For Use In Violation
8-2B-12: Monuments
8-2B-13: Penalties
8-2B-1: PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY:
The underlying purpose and intent of this article is to promote the health,
safety, convenience and general welfare of the inhabitants of the Marsing area
of city impact in the matter of the subdivision of land and related matters
affected by such subdivisions. This chapter is enacted for the further purpose
of facilitating the orderly growth and development of the Marsing area of city
impact; lessening congestion in the streets; preventing the overcrowding of
land; avoiding undue concentration of population; securing economy in municipal
and capital expenditures; facilitating adequate provisions for transportation,
water, sewer, schools, parks and other public requirements; stabilizing the
value of the property, and increasing the security of home life. This article
is enacted pursuant to Idaho Code sections 67-6513, 31-714, 31-801, and 31-828,
and the Idaho constitution, article 12, section 2, as amended or subsequently
modified. (Ord. 09-06, 8-4-2009)
8-2B-2: PREPARATION, APPROVAL AND RECORDING OF PLAT REQUIRED, SALE BY METES AND
BOUNDS:
   A.    Failure To Comply: Whosoever, being the owner or agent of the owner of
any land located within the Marsing area of city impact, divides said land,
then transfers or sells any lots or lands without first preparing a final
subdivision plat in conformance with this article, and recording said final
plat in the office of the county recorder, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor for
each lot so transferred or sold.
   B.    Compliance Required; Exceptions: All property divisions shall be
submitted for approval by the county planning and zoning commission and shall
comply with the provisions of this article, except the following:
      1.    Administrative division of an original lot, tract, or parcel of
land, said lot, parcel or tract of land of record as of August 13th, 1979, into
four (4) or less parts. It shall be the responsibility of the applicant to
submit to the administrator a deed or other documentation sufficient to
document that the parcel being divided was a parcel of record as of August 13,
1979. A resulting parcel, lot or tract created by an administrative split or a
division is not considered a new parent parcel. Further partitioning or splits
of resulting, nonparent parcels, lots or tracts are subject to the requirements
of this article.
      2.    A onetime, administrative division of any lot, tract, or parcel of
land of record as of the date of adoption hereof into two (2) separate,
buildable parcels.
      3.    Property line adjustments that establish buildable parcels with
boundaries which differ from existing buildable parcels (lot line adjustment).
      4.    The lots created by an administrative division or lot line
adjustment must be evidenced by a record of survey prepared in conformance with
Idaho Code title 55, chapter 19, and lots may be sold using a metes and bounds
description without the necessity of recording a final subdivision plat if all
of the following conditions are met:
         a.    The proposed division and layout shall have first been approved,
in writing, by the county planning and zoning administrator;
         b.    The proposed division is not traversed by the mapped lines of a
proposed or existing street or public right of way, as shown on the master plan
of the Gem highway district, and does not require the dedication of any land
for streets or other public purposes.
         c.    Each lot in the proposed division meets the requirements of
article C of this chapter, the Marsing area of impact zoning ordinance for that
area being divided. (Ord. 09-06, 8-4-2009)
8-2B-3: DEFINITIONS:
Terms or words used herein shall be interpreted as follows:
   A.    Construction Of Words:
      1.    The present tense includes the past or future tense;
      2.    The singular includes the plural, and the plural includes the
singular;
      3.    The word "shall" is mandatory, "may" is permissive, and the word
"should" is preferred; and
      4.    The masculine shall include the feminine.
   B.    General Definitions: As used in this article, the following words and
terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them as follows:
    ADMINISTRATOR: A person appointed by the board of county commissioners to
administer this article and related ordinances. Until such person is appointed,
the administrator is the board of county commissioners.
   ALLEY: A minor street providing secondary access to the back or side of a
property otherwise abutting a street.
   AUTO WRECKING OR SALVAGE YARD: A lot, or structure or part thereof, used for
the collecting, storage and/or sale of material and salvaging of machinery or
vehicles for the use or sale of parts thereof.
   BLOCK: A piece or parcel of land or group of lots within a subdivision that
is entirely surrounded by public streets, streams, railroads, parks or the
exterior boundary of the subdivision or a combination thereof.
   BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS: The governing board of the county.
   CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE: A certificate issued by the administrator or
designee of the board of county commissioners which certifies that the proposed
land use for a building, lot, parcel or other premises is in compliance with
this chapter. The certificate must be issued before any building permit is
issued and before a person enters into occupancy. When the proposed land use is
pursuant to a conditional use permit, the certificate of compliance is issued
only after the applicant is in substantial compliance with the special
conditions imposed.
   CITY: The city of Marsing, Owyhee County, Idaho.
   CITY COUNCIL: The city council of the city of Marsing, Idaho, hereinafter
referred to as the "city council"; or the "council".
   CITY ENGINEER: The city engineer of the city of Marsing.
   CITY OF MARSING STANDARDS: The most current edition of the Idaho standards
for public works construction and any supplemental standards that may be
adopted by the city of Marsing.
   CITY PLANNER: The person employed to handle the planning duties of the city.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: The comprehensive plan, or parts thereof, providing for
the future growth and development of the Marsing area of city impact and for
the general guidelines and coordination of streets and highways, schools and
recreation areas, public building sites, and other development. A comprehensive
plan may be further defined by Idaho Code.
   CONDITIONAL APPROVAL: An affirmative action by planning and zoning
commission indicating that approval is given subject to certain specified
stipulations.
   CONDITIONAL USE: A use permitted within a zoning district only under a
conditional use permit issued pursuant to this chapter.
   CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT: A permit granted to an applicant who seeks to place
a land use in a district where the use is not allowed, said permit to be
granted only pursuant to the provisions of this chapter and to contain specific
conditions placed pursuant to provisions of this chapter.
   CONDOMINIUM: An estate consisting of: 1) an undivided interest in common
real property, in an interest or interests in real property, or in any
combination thereof, together with 2) a separate interest in real property, in
an interest or interests in real property, or in any combination thereof. See
Idaho Code section 55-101B.
   CONSERVATION: Protection of natural resources and the environment and
excludes development of the land.
   CONSERVATION EASEMENT: An easement which places limitation on the use of the
servient estate for conservation purposes.
   COTTAGE INDUSTRY/IN HOME BUSINESS: A business in a home which can be a full
or part time occupation which is conducted entirely within a dwelling unit and
which does not change the character of the dwelling unit.
   CUL-DE-SAC: A street, existing or proposed, that has access from one open
end and is terminated by a vehicular turnaround at the other end. Vehicular
turnaround geometry shall be in conformance with the requirements of the
Marsing rural fire protection district and the highway district with
jurisdiction.
   DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT: A written commitment by an applicant or owner of the
subject parcel to specifically defined property and details the development,
such agreement to be made a condition of rezoning.
   DWELLING: Any building or portion thereof which is used as the private
residence or sleeping place of one or more human beings, but not including
hotels, boarding and rooming houses, motels, tourist courts, resort cabins,
clubs, hospitals, or similar uses.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY: A building occupied as a residence by two (2) or
more families living independently of each other but not including motels or
hotels, boarding or rooming houses, tourist courts, resort cabins, clubs,
hospitals, or similar uses.
   DWELLING, ONE-FAMILY: A detached building designed exclusively for and
occupied as a residence by one family.
   DWELLING UNIT: In a dwelling or multiple-family dwelling one or more rooms
designed for and occupied as a residence by one family; example, an apartment.
   EASEMENT: An interest in land conveyed and granted by the landowner to
another person, the grantor landowner becoming the owner of the servient estate
and the grantee easement owner becoming owner of the dominant estate. Such
easement contains the right to control land use of the servient estate by
requiring the servient estate owner to change the land use of the servient
estate or any portion thereof or by prohibiting the servient estate owner from
enlarging, expanding, changing, or altering the land use of the servient estate
or any portion thereof.
   FINAL APPROVAL: Unconditional approval of the final plat as evidenced by
appropriate certifications on the plat; such approval constitutes authorization
to record a plat.
   FINAL PLAT: A drawing of a proposed subdivision or development, drawn in
conformance with Idaho Code title 50, chapter 13, this article, and accurately
to scale, which has thereon all measurements, dates, certificates and
dedications required for approval and acceptance by the proper agencies and for
recording in the office of the county recorder.
   KENNEL: Any lot or premises on which four (4) or more animals at least four
(4) months of age are harbored for commercial purposes such as boarding,
breeding or training of such animals, and where such activity is not accessory
to or incidental to an allowed use in the district.
   LOT WIDTH: The width of a lot shall be:
      1.    If the side property lines are parallel, the perpendicular distance
between these side lines.
      2.    If the side property lines are not parallel, the width of the lot
shall be the length between side lot lines at right angles to the axis of the
lot measured at the required front setback line.
   LOTS: A piece or parcel of land separated from other pieces or parcels as
shown on a recorded subdivision plat or by metes and bounds description for
purposes of sale, lease or separate use.
     Corner Lot: A lot abutting on two (2) or more intersecting streets where
the interior angle of intersection does not exceed one hundred thirty five
degrees (135°).
     Double Frontage Lot: A lot abutting two (2) parallel or approximately
parallel streets.
     Interior Lot: A lot having but one side abutting on a street.
   MAJOR STREET: A street, existing or proposed, which serves or is intended to
serve as a major trafficway and is so designated on the master plan. The
primary function of a major street is to serve through traffic.
   MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure constructed after June 15, 1976, in
accordance with the HUD manufactured home construction and safety standards,
and is transportable in one or more sections, which, in the traveling mode, is
eight feet (8') or more in width or is forty (40) body feet or more in length,
or when erected on site, is three hundred twenty (320) or more square feet, and
which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling
with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required
utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and electrical
systems contained therein, except that such term shall include any structure
which meets all the requirements of this definition except the size
requirements and with respect to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a
certification required by the secretary of housing and urban development and
complies with the standards established under 41 USC section 5401 et seq.
   MANUFACTURED HOME COURTS OR PARKS: For the purpose of this definition, the
term "manufactured home" refers also to "mobile home". A manufactured home
court or park exists when there are two (2) or more manufactured homes placed
on an acre and where such placement is not for purposes of providing
agricultural labor housing.
   MASTER PLAN: A plan, labeled "master plan of city of Marsing", including
maps or reports or both, which has been approved by the city as required by
law.
   MINOR STREET: A street, existing or proposed, which is of limited continuity
and which serves or is intended to serve the local needs of a neighborhood or
as minor access to abutting property.
   NONCONFORMING BUILDING: A building or structure or portion thereof built
prior to the effective date hereof, or any amendment hereto, and conflicting
with the provisions of the ordinance applicable to the district in which it is
located. No residence, supporting structure or agricultural building shall
become nonconforming as the result of the passage of hereof.
   NONCONFORMING USE: The use of a structure or premises conflicting with
provisions of this chapter.
   OCCUPANCY: Taking possession of and use of property; period during which a
person possesses, uses, does business in, and/or resides in a building,
structure or premises.
   OCCUPY: To take or enter upon possession of a building, structure or
premises; to live in, do business in, use a building, structure or premises.
   OFF SITE FACILITIES AND UTILITIES: Facilities and utilities installed in,
under, upon or over other property outside the legally described perimeter of a
subdivision which are required for the proper development of such subdivision
and which may be located and designed to serve such other property.
   OPEN SPACE: An area substantially open to the sky, which may be on the same
lot with a building. The area may include, along with the naturally occurring
physical characteristics of the earth, water areas, swimming pools, tennis
courts and other areas of recreational, historical or archeological value.
Streets and structures for habitation shall not be considered as part of open
space.
   OPEN SPACE EASEMENT: An easement which places limitations on the use of the
servient estate for open space purposes.
   ORIGINAL LOT, ORIGINAL TRACT, OR ORIGINAL PARCEL OF LAND: A lot, tract or
parcel of land as recorded on any plat recorded on file in the office of the
county recorder, and/or any unplatted contiguous parcel of land held in one
ownership on record in the office of the county recorder at the effective date
hereof; the effective date being August 13, 1979.
   OVERSIZED FACILITIES AND UTILITIES: Facilities and utilities which are
designed with added capacity, width, depth, etc., with the express purpose of
making service available to other properties outside the legally described
perimeter of the subdivision.
   PARCEL: A contiguous quantity of land owned by, or recorded as the property
of, the same person. Parcels purchased on different occasions with separate
financing for the purpose of increasing the size of a parcel or tract, which
parcels have not been combined into single legal description, are individual
parcels.
   PARENT PARCEL OR PARENT TRACT: A parcel or tract of contiguous lands under
the same ownership that existed on August 13, 1979, or at the date of adoption
hereof.
   PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION: The Owyhee County planning and zoning
commission appointed by the board of county commissioners to perform planning
and zoning duties as assigned under this chapter.
   PRELIMINARY PLAT: A drawing drawn to scale representing a proposal as to a
method of subdividing a tract, lot or parcel of land but which does not require
the certificates and dedication necessary for the acceptance by the planning
and zoning commission.
   RECYCLING OR SALVAGE CENTER: A lot, or structure or part thereof, used for
the collecting, storage and/or sale of material for recycle or reuse such as,
but not limited to, wastepaper, cardboard, rags, wood, scrap metal or discarded
material. May include car crushing and materials baling.
   SETBACK: The distance from the nearest point of a building or other
structure, measured to the front lot line.
   STREET: Any street, avenue, boulevard, road, land, parkway, place, viaduct,
easement for access or other way which is an existing state, county or
municipal roadway; or a street or way shown in a plat heretofore approved
pursuant to law or approved by official action; or a street or way in a plat
duly filed and recorded within the right of way boundaries, whether improved or
unimproved, and may be comprised of pavement, shoulder, curbs, gutters,
sidewalks, parking areas and lawns.
     Alley: A minor street providing secondary access to the back or side of a
property otherwise abutting a street.
     Arterial Route: A general term including expressways, major and minor
arterial streets, and interstate, state or county highways having regional
continuity.
     Collector Street: A street that provides for traffic movement within
neighborhoods of the city and between major streets and local streets and for
direct access to abutting property.
     Local Street: A street that provides for direct access to residential,
commercial, industrial or other abutting land for local traffic movements and
connects to collector and/or arterial streets.
      1.    Marginal Access Street: A street parallel and adjacent to an
arterial route and intercepts local streets and controls access to an arterial
route.
      2.    Cul-De-Sac Street; Cul-De-Sac: A street, existing or proposed,
which has access from one open end and is terminated by a vehicular turnaround
at the other end. Vehicular turnaround geometry shall be in conformance with
the requirements of the Marsing rural fire protection district and the highway
district with jurisdiction.
      3.    Loop Street: A street with both terminal points on the same street
of origin.
     Private Street: A street that is not accepted for public uses or
maintenance which provides vehicular and pedestrian access.
   STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected, which requires location on the
ground, or attached to something having a location on the ground, but not
including fences or walls used as fences eight feet (8') or less in height,
poles, lines, cables or other similar transmitting or distribution facilities
of public utilities.
   SUBDIVIDER: An individual, corporation or registered partnership owning or
controlling any tract, lot or parcel of land to be subdivided or a group of two
(2) or more persons owning any tract, lot or parcel of land to be subdivided
who have given their power of attorney to one of their group or to another
individual to act on their behalf in planning, negotiating for, in representing
or executing the purpose of the subdivision.
   SUBDIVISION: 1. The division of an original lot, tract, or parcel of land as
recorded as of August 13, 1979, into more than four (4) parts, any of which is
less than five (5) acres, for the purpose of development; or any land
development where four (4) or more home sites of any size will be sold for the
purpose of development. "Development" shall include, but not be limited to,
improvements for residential, commercial, industrial, or recreational use,
including "mobile home parks" as defined in Idaho Code section 55-2003; the
dedication of a public street; and the addition to or creation of a cemetery.
      2.    An "original lot, tract or parcel of land" is defined as a lot,
tract or parcel of land as recorded on any plat recorded on file in the office
of the county recorder, and/or any unplatted contiguous parcel of land held in
one ownership on record in the office of the county recorder at the effective
date of hereof; the effective date of this ordinance being August 13, 1979.
      3.    "Subdivision" shall also mean and include the following:
  a. The dividing of land, not an "original parcel" as defined in this section,
into three (3) or more tracts, lots, or parcels for transfer of ownership or
building development, any part of which, when subdivided, contains less than
five (5) acres.
  b. The dedicating of any street or alley through or along any tract of land.
  c. The placement of more than one manufactured building under the provisions
of Idaho Code section 39-4105(14), and/or a commercial coach under the
provisions of Idaho Code section 39-4105(13), or a "mobile home", which means a
structure similar to a manufactured home, but built to a state mobile home code
which existed prior to the federal manufactured housing and safety standards
act (HUD code) per acre upon an existing tract of land, although there is not
division of the lot, tract or parcel of land.
  d. Any dwelling or residence located on a tract of land which does not
provide a recorded right of way for ingress and egress to an existing public
road; and the use of an easement or right of way by three (3) or more adjacent
property owners for ingress and egress to an existing public road.
   UTILITIES: Installations or facilities, underground or overhead, furnished
for use by the public, including, but not limited to, electricity, gas, steam,
communications, water, drainage, irrigation, sewage disposal or flood control,
owned and operated by any person, firm, corporation, municipal department or
board duly authorized by state or city regulations. Utility or utilities as
used herein may also refer to such persons, firms, corporations, departments or
boards as applicable herein.
   VARIANCE: A modification of the bulk and placement requirements of this
chapter as to lot size, lot coverage, width, depth, front yard, side yard,
setbacks, parking space, height of buildings, or other ordinance provisions
affecting the size or shape of a structure or the placement of the structure
upon lots, or the size of lots, said modification to be allowed only upon a
showing by the applicant of undue hardship because of characteristics of the
site, and that the modification is not in conflict with public interest.
   VICINITY PLAN: Vicinity plan shall be drawn to scale and shall show a
representation of the blocks and streets of the proposed subdivision and their
relationship to existing and proposed streets and to existing and proposed
utilities.
   WAIVER: Permission granted to allow a deviation from specific development
standards or development requirements of this chapter. A waiver is different
from a variance. See subsection 8-2B-5-1G of this article for details. (Ord.
09-06, 8-4-2009)
8-2B-4: PROCEDURE FOR OBTAINING APPROVAL OF SUBDIVISIONS REQUIRING SUBMISSION
OF FINAL PLATS:
   A.    Information As To Standards And Master Plan Requirement To Be Secured:
Any person wishing to subdivide land within the Marsing area of city impact
shall secure from the Owyhee County planning and zoning administrator,
information pertaining to the required standards and to the Marsing area of
city impact plan of streets, parks, drainage, zoning, subdivision of land, and
other master plan requirements affecting the land to be subdivided.
   B.    Preparation Of Preliminary Plat And Vicinity Plan; Submission To
County Planning And Zoning Administrator: The subdivider shall then prepare a
preliminary plat and vicinity plan. Fifteen (15) copies of the preliminary plat
shall be submitted to the planning and zoning administrator for review and
comment by agencies having jurisdiction or having an interest.
      1.    The preliminary plat shall be submitted on a drawing not smaller
than twenty four inches by thirty six inches (24" x 36") and shall include:
         a.    Scale which shall be one of the following: ten (10), twenty
(20), thirty (30), forty (40), fifty (50), sixty (60) or one hundred feet
(100') to the inch.
         b.    Name of the subdivision and vicinity map drawn to scale.
Vicinity map may be submitted separately.
         c.    Name, address, and phone number of subdivider, engineer, and/or
surveyor.
         d.    Names of all adjoining subdivisions, property owners and present
property lines, including easements, utilities and streets.
         e.    North arrow and date.
         f.    Contour map at a contour interval not less than two feet (2').
         g.    The boundary lines of the tract to be subdivided. The
subdivision boundary shall be based on an actual field survey and shall bear
the stamp of a professional land surveyor.
         h.    The location, widths and other dimensions of all existing or
platted streets and other important features such as railroad lines,
watercourses, exceptional topography and buildings within the tract, or within
three hundred feet (300') of the tract to be subdivided.
         i.    The location, widths, and other dimensions of all lots, proposed
streets, proposed street names, existing utilities, alleys, easements, parks
and other open spaces, with proper labeling of spaces to be dedicated to the
public.
         j.    Plans and proposed improvements regarding the size and type of
proposed sanitary sewers or other sewage disposal facilities, culinary water
lines, drainage facilities and other proposed improvements, such as curbs,
gutters, and sidewalks, plantings and landscaping, parks, and any grading of
individual lots. The plat shall also depict all proposed off site improvements,
including water supply and distribution lines, sanitary sewer facilities,
stormwater facilities, and streets.
         k.    By note, the existing zoning classification of the tract and
adjacent land, and any requested zoning changes.
         l.    By note, the acreage of the tract.
         m.    A statement as to whether or not any variance or waiver will be
requested with respect to any provision of this chapter, describing the
particular provision and the reasons for the request.
         n.    If plat includes land for which multi-family, commercial or
industrial use is proposed, such areas shall be clearly designated together
with existing zoning classification and status of zoning change, if any.
         o.    Appropriate information that sufficiently details the proposed
development within any special development area, such as slopes greater than
ten percent (10%), planned unit development, development within a designated
floodplain, or hazardous and unique areas of development.
         p.    If grading or any other construction is to begin prior to final
plat approval, a grading plan or information on construction plans shall be
submitted and is part of the approval.
         q.    All subdivisions containing more than fifty (50) lots shall
provide a traffic impact analysis based on information that reflects current
traffic conditions. A traffic impact analysis may be required of any
development as deemed necessary by the planning and zoning commission on a case
by case basis.
         r.    Statement signed by the subdivider stating that:
The undersigned hereby agrees to install all facilities and utilities in
accordance with the Marsing area of city impact subdivision ordinance and the
Owyhee County standards.
         s.    The preliminary plat shall have a statement of preliminary
approval with a space for approval signature by chairman of the county planning
and zoning commission.
         t.    Any other data deemed necessary by the county, city or the
Marsing area of city impact engineer.
      2.    In all cases where the subdivider is not an individual, corporation
or registered partnership, the preliminary plat, when presented, shall be
accompanied by a notarized statement, bearing the signatures of all owners of
record of the property to be subdivided, designating a single individual who
shall act for and on behalf of the group, as necessary, to execute the purpose
of subdividing the property.
      3.    The county, with consideration of the recommendation from the city
of Marsing and other agencies, may approve, approve conditionally, or reject
the preliminary plat. Approval of the preliminary plat by the county shall not
constitute final plat approval or acceptance of the subdivision by the county.
   C.    Public Hearing: Upon receipt of the preliminary plat and all required
data as provided herein, a public hearing for review of said preliminary plat
shall, therefore, be placed on the commission agenda for consideration within
forty five (45) days after staff review is complete.
   D.    Local Property Owner Notification: Written notification by the
administrator will be mailed to all property owners within three hundred feet
(300') of the external boundaries of the proposed subdivision at least fifteen
(15) days prior to the planning and zoning commission meeting at which the
preliminary plat is to be considered.
   E.    Review Of Preliminary Plat:
      1.    Staff Review: Plans shall be submitted for review to the planning
and zoning administrator.
      2.    Agency Review:
         a.    The planning staff shall transmit one copy of the application to
each agency that has jurisdiction or an interest in the proposed subdivision
for their review and recommendations.
         b.    Some of the agencies which receive copies of the preliminary
plat may be as follows:
            (1)    City of Marsing;
            (2)    Marsing area of city impact engineer;
            (3)    County assessor;
            (4)    Fire chief, Marsing rural fire protection district;
            (5)    Superintendent of schools;
            (6)    State division of highways, if the subdivision abuts a state
highway;
            (7)    Utility companies: gas, power, telephone, cable TV;
            (8)    Other agencies as determined by the county;
            (9)    Irrigation and drainage companies or districts;
            (10)    Highway district having jurisdiction;
            (11)    Southwest district health.
      3.    Commission Action:
         a.    The commission shall review and approve, approve conditionally,
disapprove or table the preliminary plat for additional information.
         b.    Upon the commission's decision, the plat, together with a
complete copy of the commission findings, shall be transmitted to the
subdivider. The reason for action taken shall specify:
            (1)    The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the
application.
            (2)    The reasons for approval or denial.
            (3)    The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to gain
approval of the proposal.
         c.    Preliminary plat approval constitutes authorization for the
subdivider to proceed with preparation of the final plat and with engineering
plans and specifications for necessary improvements.
      4.    Approval: Approval is valid for twelve (12) months from the date of
commission decision.
      5.    Certification Of Final Plat: Failure to file and obtain the
certifications of the acceptance of the final plat by the developer within one
year after action by the commission shall cause all approvals of said
preliminary plat to be null and void, unless an extension of time is applied
for by the subdivider, and granted by the commission.
      6.    Phase Developments: Application for development of a proposed
subdivision in phases may be made if the subdivision is to include fifteen (15)
or more lots, parcels or sites.
         a.    In the event the development of the preliminary plat is made in
successive contiguous phases in an orderly and reasonable manner, and conforms
substantially to the approved preliminary plat, such phases, if submitted
within successive intervals of one year, may be considered for final plat
approval without resubmitting for preliminary plat approval.
         b.    Filing of final plats on phase developments may require
modification of the conditions as approved by commission. The commission
reserves the right to modify and/or add conditions to the final plat(s) to
conform with adopted policies, and/or ordinance changes for each phase
submitted after one year following the preliminary plat approval.
         c.    All items in each phase shall be completed before commission
approval will be given for any subsequent phases.
   F.    Plan And Profile Drawing Of Streets: After the preliminary plat has
been approved, the subdivider shall prepare and submit for approval, plan and
profile drawings and construction specification of streets, storm drainage
facilities, and utilities serving the subdivision. Said drawings showing final
street grades and alignment, location, size and grades for all proposed
utilities. (Ord. 09-06, 8-4-2009)
8-2B-5: IMPROVEMENTS REQUIRED:
8-2B-5-1: PERFORMANCE BOND PERMITTED IN LIEU OF ACTUAL CONSTRUCTION:
For all subdivisions, improvements shall be installed without cost to the
county or city, in accordance with the Marsing area of city impact standards.
In lieu of actual construction of the improvements, a bond in the amount of one
hundred fifty percent (150%) of the estimated construction cost, or other
acceptable form of guarantee, may, upon approval of the commission, be
furnished to the county by the subdivider at the time the subdivision final
plat is approved by the county as a guarantee that the improvements will be
constructed and paid for.
   A.    Streets: All streets to be dedicated to the public shall be graded and
paved in accordance with Gem highway district standards and as approved by the
Marsing area of city impact engineer. No public street shall be paved to a
width less than the total paved width required for the specific street by the
Gem highway district standards.
   B.    Sewer Facilities: If the development will utilize city of Marsing
sewer facilities, sanitary sewer mains and laterals shall be installed in
accordance with the city of Marsing standards and as approved by the Marsing
area of city impact engineer. No sanitary sewer mains shall be installed whose
inside nominal diameter is less than eight inches (8") unless approved, in
writing, by the Marsing area of city impact engineer. Documentation of
serviceability from the city shall be submitted with the preliminary plat.
   C.    Water Facilities: If the development will utilize city of Marsing
municipal water facilities culinary water mains, laterals and fire hydrants
shall be installed in accordance with the city of Marsing standards and as
approved by the Marsing area of city impact engineer. No culinary water mains
shall be installed whose nominal inside diameter is less than eight inches (8")
unless approved, in writing, by the Marsing area of city impact engineer, and
in no case shall fire hydrants be connected to a culinary water main whose
nominal inside diameter is less than six inches (6"). Fire hydrants shall be
installed in accordance with the city of Marsing standards at locations as
approved by the Marsing area of city impact engineer and the Marsing rural fire
protection district. Documentation of serviceability from the city shall be
submitted with the preliminary plat.
   D.    Irrigation Water: If irrigation water rights are appurtenant, or
irrigation water is available to the parcel, an irrigation system providing
irrigation water to the resulting lots must be designed and constructed, said
system to be in conformance with South Board of Control standards and policy. A
water user's agreement shall be prepared and recorded prior to issuance of a
building permit.
   E.    Curbs And Gutters, Sidewalks, Driveways And Street Signs: Curbs and
gutters, sidewalks, driveways and street signs shall be installed in accordance
with the city of Marsing standards and as approved by the Marsing area of city
impact engineer, unless a waiver is granted under subsection G of this section.
   F.    Easements: Easements shall be granted and provided by the subdivider
for the installation of all utilities, including irrigation, as required by the
Marsing area of city impact engineer.
   G.    Waiver: Whenever a tract to be subdivided is of such unusual size or
shape or is surrounded by such developments or unusual conditions that the
strict application of these regulations would result in substantial hardship or
inequity, the commission may waive or modify such requirements so that the
applicant may develop the property in a reasonable manner, provided the
commission finds that the quality of the development is not diminished, the
public welfare and the interests of the county are protected, the general
intent and spirit of these regulations are preserved, and conformity to the
Marsing area of city impact comprehensive plan is assured.
      1.    In requesting any such modification or waiver, the subdivider shall
make written request to the administrator.
      2.    Such request, together with such related data and maps as necessary
to fully illustrate the waiver sought, shall be referred by the administrator,
in writing, to the commission with the preliminary plat, allowing a minimum of
ten (10) days for review prior to public hearing.
      3.    The commission shall act upon said request at the same public
hearing as considering the preliminary plat.
      4.    Approval of such waiver and/or modification shall require a
majority vote of a quorum of the commission. The commission shall approve,
conditionally approve, or disapprove the modification, waiver, or appeal.
      5.    In granting waivers and/or modifications from these regulations,
the commission may require such conditions as will, in its judgment, secure
substantially the objectives of the standards or requirements so waived or
modified.
      6.    Any person, firm, corporation or party aggrieved by the decision
and who appeared at the original hearing may appeal the decision of the
planning and zoning commission to the board of county commissioners in the same
manner and within the same time as other appeals may be taken. (Ord. 09-06, 8-
4-2009)
8-2B-5-2: DIVISION OF COST OF IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.    Costs Of Improvements: Cost of improvements which are required under
the provisions of this article, as well as the cost of other improvements which
the developer may install, shall be borne entirely by the subdivider.
   B.    Extensions Of Utilities: Whenever any intervening property (off site)
is benefitted by the installation of water or sewer main line extensions, the
subdivider may request the city consider an agreement allowing the subdivider
to recoup a percentage of said facilities costs through "late comer fees" or
other mutually agreed upon means.
      1.    Costs: Costs for all extensions and/or oversizing, whether within
or without the existing city limits, shall be the responsibility of the
property owner or his agent.
      2.    Installation: All sewer system extensions and/or oversizing shall
be installed prior to the construction of any new streets and all design and
construction of any extensions and/or oversizing of the sewer system shall
comply with the official specifications for sewer systems and extensions as
adopted by the city.
      3.    Plans: The plans for all extensions and/or oversizing to the sewer
system shall be prepared and signed by a registered professional engineer as
per the licensing requirements of Idaho Code. Three (3) copies of the plans
shall be filed with the city and two (2) copies of the plans shall be filed
with the Idaho department of environmental quality for their review and
approval. In approving a plan for extension and/or oversizing to the sewer
system, the city reserves the right to impose other requirements such as a
special permit fee, right of way limits, sequence of construction, time limits
for having existing service disrupted, the filing of a performance bond and
other similar measures as may be required to protect the public. No work shall
commence on any such extension and/or oversizing until the project has been
approved by the city.
      4.    Obligation Of Owner: After the construction of any sewer system
extension and/or oversizing, it shall be the obligation of the owner or his
agent to have a registered professional engineer certify to the city and to the
Idaho department of environmental quality that the said system extensions and/
or oversizing were installed in accordance with the approved plans and
specifications on file with the respective agencies. Following certification by
the registered professional engineer and acceptance by the city, the entire
extension and/or oversizing of the sewer system, including the city sewer
service lines, shall become property of the city and it shall be the city's
responsibility to maintain and operate the system thereafter.
      5.    Additions After Acceptance By City: If it is necessary for the city
to permit a sewer service connection and/or sewer service line at any time
after the extension has been originally accepted by the city, the owner or his
agent shall be required to pay the sewer hookup fee as well as the standard
permit and inspection fees as may be established by the city for such purposes.
      6.    Definitions: As used in this section, the following terms shall
have these meanings:
    EQUIVALENT SINGLE-FAMILY CONNECTION (ESFC): An equivalent single-family
connection shall be based upon the sewage flow from a typical residential
dwelling and flows per the "ten states standards".
   OFF SITE SEWER MAIN: Any gravity sewer main (force mains are not included)
which is located beyond the boundary of the development, and has the capability
of providing sewer service to property located between the end of the existing
sewer system and boundary of the development for which the sewer main is being
constructed. Sewer mains located within existing roadways adjacent to the new
development boundary are not considered off site sewer extensions unless they
are requested by the city specifically to serve adjoining property.
   ON SITE OVER DEPTH: Any on site sewer main which is required by the city to
be constructed at a depth in excess of that required to provide service to the
farthest reach within the development.
   ON SITE STUB OUT: Any on site sewer main extension which is required by the
city to be constructed to the subdivision boundary for the specific purpose of
servicing adjoining property. In order to qualify, the stub out must not
service any property within the development or any property owned or planned to
be developed by the developer.
   OVERSIZED FORCE MAIN: Any on site sewage force main which is required by the
city to have an inside diameter greater than four inches (4"), or greater than
the size required to handle peak flow calculated for the development it is
intended to serve, with a minimum flow velocity of two feet (2') per second,
whichever is greater.
   OVERSIZED GRAVITY SEWER MAIN: Any on site gravity sewer main which is
required by the city to have an inside diameter greater than eight inches (8")
in order to provide capacity in excess of the peak flow calculated for the
development for which it is intended to serve.
   OVERSIZED LIFT STATION: Any on site sewage lift station which is required by
the city to have a capacity in excess of eighty (80) gallons per minute, or in
excess of the peak flow calculated for the development it is intended to serve,
whichever is greater. Pumping capacity in excess of eighty (80) gallons per
minute provided in order to facilitate pumping equipment selection is not
considered oversizing.
   PEAK FLOW: The required design flow for any development calculated in
accordance with the requirements of the recommended standards for wastewater
facilities "ten state standards".
      7.    Methods Of Computing Credits:
         a.    Oversized Gravity Sewer Main: Credits for oversized mains shall
be based upon the actual materials cost of the oversized main minus the
materials cost of an equivalent eight inch (8") diameter main.
         b.    Oversized Force Main: Credits for oversized force mains shall be
based upon the actual materials cost of the oversized line minus the materials
cost of an equivalent length of four inch (4") diameter pipe.
         c.    Oversized Lift Station: Credits for oversized lift stations
shall be based upon the actual materials cost of the oversized lift station
minus the materials cost of lift station equipment sized to meet the peak flow
demands of the development.
         d.    On Site Stub Out: Credits for on site stub outs shall be based
upon the actual construction cost of the main line stub outs.
         e.    On Site Over Depth: Credits for on site over depth shall be
based upon the actual bid amount for over depth excavation. In order to be
eligible for over depth reimbursement, the project must be bid with an item for
trench excavation on an incremental basis for depths below eight feet (8') as
applicable for the specific project.
         f.    Off Site Sewer Main: Credits for off site sewer main shall be
based upon the actual construction cost of the sewer main extension prorated on
a percent of capacity utilized basis. The capacity of the sewer main extension
shall be calculated by the city engineer based upon the total number of acres
which may be serviced by the main line. A map shall be prepared which shows the
eligible service area of the sewer main which shall serve as the basis for all
calculations. The total credit due the developer shall be calculated based upon
the following equation:
For purposes of the credit calculation, the total development area shall
include all area within the subdivision boundary including road right of way,
open area, common area, etc.
      8.    Eligible Construction Costs: In order for any constructed
facilities to be eligible for construction credits, the developer shall conform
to the following requirements:
         a.    The work for which construction credits are requested shall be
specifically agreed to, in writing, prior to the city issuing final plan
approval for construction.
         b.    All work shall be competitively bid. The bids shall be reviewed
and approved by the city prior to award.
         c.    The developer shall organize his bidding documents in a manner
such that there is an individual bid price for every item for which he is
requesting construction credits. Actual construction costs shall be established
by multiplying the quantity of work performed by the actual bid price.
         d.    The developer shall submit a tabulation of all bids received,
along with a copy of the actual contractor's payment summary for all work for
which construction credits are requested.
         e.    All construction cost change orders shall be reviewed and
approved by the city for any work for which construction credits are requested.
      9.    Credit Agreement: Upon final inspection and acceptance of the sewer
facility which is eligible for sewer construction credits, a letter outlining
the total dollar amount of credits shall be issued to the developer by the city
engineer. The developer shall then execute a credit agreement with the city.
The credit agreement shall establish the payment terms.
         a.    On Site Oversizing And Stub Outs: For all on site oversizing or
stub outs which are constructed at the request of the city, the credit due to
the developer will be paid from connection fees collected from his development
as they are collected. All connection fees collected shall be placed in a
separate account up to the full amount due to the developer. The developer
shall receive a quarterly disbursement from the dedicated credit account for up
to the full amount of the credit due.
         b.    Off Site Extensions:
            (1)    For all off site extensions, which are constructed and paid
for by the developer, the city shall establish a "late comers fee" which shall
be charged to all property located within the service area boundary, as shown
on the service area map which receives benefit from the extension and did not
participate in financing the original construction. The fees collected shall be
placed into a separate interest bearing account. The developer shall then
receive payments from this account on a quarterly basis.
            (2)    Payments shall be made for the principal plus interest until
the credit agreement is paid in full, or a period of ten (10) years, whichever
is sooner. Interest rate paid shall be established in the credit agreement. The
city shall charge a fee for administration of the "late comers" account which
shall be established in the credit agreement.
         c.    Off Site Oversizing: For all off site oversizing, which is
constructed at the request of the city, the credit due to the developer will be
paid from connection fees collected from his development as they are collected.
All connection fees collected shall be placed in a separate account up to the
full amount due to the developer. The developer shall receive a quarterly
disbursement from the dedicated credit account for up to the full amount of the
credit due.
         d.    Method Of Collecting Fees: All fees shall be based upon gross
development area and shall be collected by the city at the time a building
permit is issued. Fees may be further subdivided for collection purposes on an
individual basis as follows:
            (1)    For commercial and/or industrial developments the fees shall
be based upon the commercial lot area plus a percentage of any right of way
and/or common area as applicable.
            (2)    For residential developments the fees shall be based upon a
per equivalent single-family dwelling basis based upon the total fee
established on the gross area of the subdivision divided by the number of
equivalent single-family dwellings.
            (3)    Fees will only be collected for development which occurs
within the service area shown on the service area map which shall become an
exhibit to the credit agreement executed between the developer and city. (Ord.
09-06, 8-4-2009)
8-2B-6: DESIGN REQUIREMENTS:
8-2B-6-1: ROADS AND STREETS:
   A.    Standards And Specifications:
      1.    Publicly Owned And Maintained: All new roads to be publicly owned
and maintained within a subdivision shall conform to the Gem highway district
standards and specifications.
      2.    Private Roads Within Subdivision: All private roads within a
subdivision shall conform to the requirements of this article and city of
Marsing standards.
      3.    Other Facilities And Utilities Within Subdivision: Other facilities
and utilities installed within a subdivision shall conform to Owyhee County or
the city of Marsing standards, as applicable.
   B.    Arrangement Of Private Streets: The arrangements of private streets in
new subdivisions shall make provision for the continuation of the existing
streets in adjoining areas or their proper protection where adjoining land is
not subdivided at the same or greater width but, in no case, less than the
required minimum width unless variations are deemed necessary by the
commission. The street arrangement must be such as to cause no unnecessary
hardship to owners of adjoining property when they plat their own land and seek
to provide for convenient access to it where, in the opinion of the commission,
it is desirable to provide for street access to adjoining property and to
prevent "landlocked" parcels, proposed streets shall be extended by dedication
to the boundary of such property (to and through). In no case will a "spite
strip" be approved or allowed.
   C.    Reverse Curves: Street reverse curves shall have a tangent of at least
one hundred feet (100') unless, in the opinion of the Marsing area of city
impact engineer, such is not necessary.
   D.    Intersections: All streets shall intersect each other at right angles.
   E.    Street Grades: Minimum street grades of four tenths of one percent
(0.4%) will be required with the maximum grade being seven percent (7%). Where
the observance of this standard is impossible, the county shall have the power,
upon the recommendation of the Marsing area of city impact engineer, to grant
an exception when approved pavement surfaces and adequate leveling areas are
installed, or, in the opinion of the county, the best subdivision of the land
is thereby secured.
   F.    Break Or Change In Alignment Of Street Centerline: Any break or change
in alignment of a street centerline shall include a connective curve. The
radius of the curve for the street centerline shall be not less than three
hundred fifty feet (350') for major streets, and one hundred feet (100') for
minor streets, unless approved otherwise by the Marsing area of city impact
engineer.
   G.    New Street Names: New street names shall not duplicate those already
existing. A street obviously a continuation of another already in existence and
named shall bear the same name. Before the street is named, the proposed name
must be submitted to and be approved by the county.
   H.    Cul-De-Sacs: The maximum length of cul-de-sacs shall be five hundred
feet (500') and shall require a turnaround at the dead end whose radius shall
meet the requirements of Marsing rural fire. Approved drainage facilities shall
be installed.
   I.    Walkways: In blocks over eight hundred feet (800') in length, the
subdivider may be required to dedicate, pave, and fence a walkway through the
block at approximately the center of the block. Such walkway shall not be less
than ten feet (10') in width.
   J.    Block Width: The width of blocks shall be sufficient to allow two (2)
tiers of lots, unless otherwise approved by the county. No lot shall face a
street and back onto another street, except in the specific case of lots
backing onto a limited access or no access highway.
   K.    Lot Arrangement: The lot arrangement, design and shape shall be such
that lots will provide satisfactory and desirable sites for buildings and be
properly related to topography and conform to the requirements set forth
herein. Lots, including "flag lots", shall not contain peculiarly shaped
elongations solely to provide necessary square footage which would be unusable
for normal purposes. Flag lots must have forty feet (40') minimum frontage on a
public or private street.
   L.    Lot Minimum Requirements: All lots shown on the subdivision plat must
conform to the minimum requirements of the zoning ordinance then in effect for
the district in which the subdivision is located.
   M.    Lot Orientation: Each lot shall face and abut on a street dedicated by
the subdivision plat or an existing publicly dedicated street. Side lot lines
shall intersect front lot lines at right angles and radially unless otherwise
specifically approved by the commission.
   N.    Marketable Title: No subdivision shall be accepted and approved for
recording until a deed is presented demonstrating marketable title for all
property within the legally described perimeter of the subdivision.
   O.    Curb And Gutter, Paving, Sidewalks And Utilities: All curb and gutter,
paving, sidewalks and utilities shall be extended and installed to the borders
of the subdivision in all ordinary circumstances. However, where a street lies
within and borders a subdivision, only the curb and gutter and sidewalks which
abut lots within the subdivision will be required to be installed.
   P.    Meeting With Highway District: Whenever a proposed subdivision is
required, and the parcel borders on an existing dedicated street, the
subdivider shall be required to meet with the Gem highway district, or their
designated representative to determine and negotiate the methods and means
required for the improvement of, and the installation of utilities in such
street.
   Q.    Standard Street Monuments: The subdivider shall be required to install
standard street monuments at all street centerline intersections, at the center
of all cul-de-sac turnarounds, and at such other major locations as may be
required by the Marsing area of city impact engineer. Installation of such
monuments shall be a condition of final acceptance of the plat.
   R.    New Private Streets: All new private streets shall conform to the
width designated below and shall be constructed in a road lot. The private road
and road lot shall be owned and maintained by a road users' association or
homeowners' association and a road users' agreement detailing said ownership,
and maintenance shall be executed and recorded prior to issuance of building
permit. In no case, shall the road be constructed in an easement area or other
than an individual lot designated solely for the purpose of the private road.
Major streets: (5 foot sidewalks required on both sides  
of street):
 Property line to property line                        50 feet
 Back of curb to back of curb                          37 feet
Collector streets: (5 foot sidewalks required on both sides
of street):
 Property line to property line                        50 feet
 Back of curb to back of curb                          37 feet
Minor streets: (5 foot sidewalks required on both sides
of street):
 Property line to property line                        50 feet
 Back of curb to back of curb                          37 feet
Cul-de-sacs: (5 foot sidewalks required on both sides
of street):
 Entry road:                                            
     Property line to property line                  50 feet
     Back of curb to back of curb                    37 feet
 Turnaround:                                            
     Property line to property line (minimum)        50 feet
     Back of curb to back of curb (minimum)          45 feet
 
(Ord. 09-06, 8-4-2009)
8-2B-6-2: MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISIONS AND MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS:
   A.    Manufactured Home Subdivision: Manufactured homes on individual lots
zoned for single-family residential uses shall be subject to the same
development standards, including lot size, as a conventional single-family
residential dwelling on the same lot.
   B.    Manufactured Home Park; Definitions: For the purposes of this section,
the following definitions shall apply:
    COMMON PLAY AREA: A play area required to be established to accommodate
children less than fourteen (14) years of age and restricted to that use.
   MANUFACTURED HOME SPACE: The area that is for lease or rent as a site to
place a manufactured home, including an outdoor living area. The manufactured
home space shall be delineated on the site plan for the manufactured home park.
   SERVICE AREA: The areas necessary for the management of the manufactured
home park. Such areas may include: storage and collection areas for trash and
garbage, loading and unloading areas other than passenger vehicles, and outdoor
storage areas.
   C.    Density: The maximum density is that which can be achieved in
accordance with Southwest district health department for approval of on site
community water and community wastewater systems. Fire protection and emergency
services shall also be considered in calculating density. In no case shall the
density of the park exceed eight (8) units per acre.
   D.    Use Standards:
      1.    Limited To Manufactured Home Parks: Manufactured home parks shall
accommodate only manufactured homes, not vacation trailers or other
recreational vehicles, except when stored within a designated storage area. A
manufactured home shall not remain overnight in a park unless it is parked in a
manufactured home space. Not more than one manufactured home shall be parked at
one time in a manufactured home space.
      2.    Expansion Or Alteration: Manufactured home parks approved in
conformance with the regulations of this section may be expanded or altered
after approval is obtained from the decision making body. The application,
filed by the owner or other party in interest, shall be filed and processed in
the same manner as an application for a new manufactured home park.
      3.    Design, Construction, Operation, And Maintenance: Manufactured home
parks will be designed, constructed, operated, and maintained so as to be
harmonious and appropriate in appearance with the existing or intended
character of the general vicinity.
      4.    Public Facilities And Services: Manufactured home parks will be
served adequately by essential public facilities and services, including roads,
police and fire protection, drainage, refuse disposal, water and wastewater
disposal. Vehicular approaches must be designed to minimize interference with
traffic on surrounding streets and roads.
      5.    Screening: Manufactured home parks will be screened from adjacent
areas, other than subdivisions of the same type, by aesthetically acceptable
fences, walls, plantings, or other barriers to minimize impact on adjacent
properties and impact from adjacent properties.
   E.    Manufactured Home Space Design Standards:
      1.    Minimum Area: No manufactured home space shall contain less than
two thousand (2,000) square feet. The gross average areas of all spaces in the
park shall not be less than three thousand (3,000) square feet. No drives,
common play area, or service area shall be considered as providing any part of
the required manufactured home space.
      2.    Width And/Or Depth: No manufactured home space shall be less than
thirty feet (30') in width and/or depth.
      3.    Boundaries: The boundaries of each manufactured home space shall
have an approved fence, wall, planting, or other permanent marker defining the
perimeter of the space.
      4.    Outdoor Area: An outdoor area shall be provided for each
manufactured home space. Such outdoor living area shall be a minimum of ten
percent (10%) of the individual space but shall be greater than three hundred
(300) square feet. The minimum dimension of the area shall not be less than
fifteen feet (15').
      5.    Roads And Drives: Roads and drives serving the manufactured home
park shall comply with the standards of this chapter and the standards listed
below. The roads and drives are subject to review, field inspection, and
approval by the Marsing area of city impact engineer.
         a.    Drives: Drives shall have rolled concrete curb and gutter
sections along both sides and shall extend the length of the drive.
         b.    Sidewalks: Sidewalks shall be constructed along at least one
side of the drive, without exception.
   F.    Park Design Standards:
      1.    Off Street Parking: Two (2) off street parking spaces shall be
provided for each manufactured home space.
      2.    Common Play Area: In parks accommodating children, a common play
area shall be provided. The common play area shall be restricted to that use
and shall be a minimum of one hundred (100) square feet per manufactured home
space, and regardless of the number of spaces, the area shall be at least two
thousand five hundred (2,500) square feet.
      3.    Carports, Cabanas, Awnings: Carports, cabanas, awnings and all
other structures, whether herein defined or not, that are attached to the
manufactured home shall be considered as a portion of the manufactured home.
Such additions and structures shall be in conformance with the Owyhee County
building code.
      4.    Trailer Hitches: Trailer hitches shall not project beyond the
manufactured home space.
      5.    Distance Between Homes: The minimum distance between a manufactured
home and:
         a.    Any other manufactured home shall be ten feet (10').
         b.    Any structure shall be ten feet (10').
         c.    Any property line shall be equal to or greater than the required
setback in the district, but not less than ten feet (10').
         d.    Any drive or street shall be equal to or greater than the
required setback in the district, but not less than ten feet (10').
         e.    Any common drive or walkway shall be five feet (5'). (Ord. 09-
06, 8-4-2009)
8-2B-7: DETAILED INSTRUCTIONS FOR SUBMISSION OF FINAL PLAT:
   A.    Requirements For Final Plat: The requirements for the final plat, or
drawing to be submitted, as above provided, shall consist of a sheet of Mylar,
eighteen inches by twenty four inches (18" x 24") in size, and in compliance
with all items required under Idaho Code title 50, chapter 13. The actual map
drawn shall be made on a scale large enough to clearly show all details, and
the workmanship on finish drawings shall be neat, clean cut, and readable, and
shall be of such scale that the entire plat or diagrams shall be on one side of
the sheet, and no part thereof shall come any nearer any edge of said sheet
than one inch (1").
   B.    Number Of Copies; Required Information: The subdivider shall furnish
eleven (11) black and white prints of the final plat and three (3) sets of
construction plans when submitting the original plat; the final drawings or
plats shall contain the following information:
      1.    Name; Location: A subdivision name and the general location of the
subdivision, in bold letters at the top of the sheet.
      2.    Scale; Date: A north point and scale of the drawing, and the date.
      3.    Boundary Lines: Accurately drawn boundaries, showing the proper
bearings and dimensions of all boundary lines of the subdivision and property
ties to public survey monuments. These lines should be slightly heavier than
street and lot lines.
      4.    Proposed Streets; Lots; Blocks: The names, widths, lengths,
bearings, and curve data on centerlines of proposed streets and property lines,
alleys, easements; also the boundaries, bearings, and dimensions of all
portions within the subdivision, as intended to be dedicated to the use of the
public; the lines, dimensions, bearings and numbers of all lots, blocks and
parts within the subdivision. All lots and blocks are to be numbered
consecutively under a definite system approved by the county. All proposed
streets shall be named or numbered in a system approved by the county.
      5.    Monuments: The location of all monuments as required in section
8-2B-12 of this article.
      6.    Adjacent Monuments: The description and locations of all monuments
set and established by the county or the United States government that are
adjacent or near this proposed subdivision.
      7.    Letters And Certificates: Standard form letters for the following:
         a.    Description of land to be included in the subdivision.
         b.    Registered professional land surveyor's "certificate of survey".
         c.    Owner's dedication which shall warrant and save the county
harmless from any easements or other encumbrances and does hereby dedicate for
the perpetual use of the public all parcels of land shown on this plat as
intended for public use.
         d.    Notary public's acknowledgment.
         e.    Certification of the sanitary restriction on the plat per Idaho
Code section 50-1326.
         f.    County surveyor certificate of approval.
         g.    Owyhee County planning and zoning certificate of approval.
         h.    Owyhee County treasurer certificate.
         i.    Board of county commissioners.
         j.    County recorder certificate of filing.
      8.    Dimensions: It is necessary that all dimensions and calculations
made by the surveyor shall show proper closures in all boundaries of the
subdivision, or otherwise, in completing this survey and no plat will be
accepted that shows a plus or minus distance for closure.
      9.    Easements: Easements of not less than ten feet (10') on each side
of all rear lot lines, ten feet (10') adjacent to roadways, and five feet (5')
on side lot lines shall be required where necessary for public utilities.
      10.    Fees: At the time of submission of an application for a final
plat, a fee as established by resolution of the board of county commissioners
shall be paid.
      11.    Submittal To Marsing Area Of City Impact Engineer: The final plat,
prepared in accordance with Idaho Code and the provisions set forth herein,
shall be submitted by the administrator to the Marsing area of city impact
engineer. In the event the final plat does not conform to the approved
preliminary plat, the Marsing area of city impact engineer shall so inform the
administrator, and the plat shall then be returned to the subdivider for
revision or subsequent commission action as a new preliminary plat.
      12.    Agency Review: The administrator shall transmit copies of the
final plat and construction plans for review by departments and agencies or
others as may be deemed necessary to ensure compliance with the approved
preliminary plat.
      13.    Commission Action: After approval by the Marsing area of city
impact engineer, the plat and nine (9) approved plan sets shall be submitted to
the administrator to present to the commission for consideration.
         a.    The commission, following receipt of the final plat, shall
consider the plat and any changes from the preliminary plat approved by the
commission. If the plat conforms to the requirements of this chapter and Idaho
Code, the commission shall approve said plat.
         b.    At the time of approval of the final plat, the commission shall
accept the dedications shown thereon and shall, as a condition precedent to the
approval of any final plat, require the subdivider to complete the required
improvements. The commission may agree to accept a bond, irrevocable letter of
credit, cashier's check or other guaranty to ensure completion of street
improvements and all other public improvements, in accordance with the
preliminary plat application.
      14.    Board Of County Commissioners Signature: Upon the final plat being
approved by the commission, and all additional signatures secured on the back
of the plat, the administrator may submit the final plat to the board of county
commissioners for signature. The final plat shall not be submitted to the board
for final approval until all required improvements are constructed or until a
bond, or other guaranty to ensure completion of all required public
improvements is in place. No subdivision shall be recorded in the office of the
county recorder and no lot included in such subdivision shall be sold or
exchanged and no offer shall be made to sell or exchange any such lot unless
and until the plat is so approved and recorded.
      15.    Compliance With State Laws: The subdivider shall at all times
comply with the laws of the state of Idaho pertaining to the subdivision plats
and developments, and such laws and any subsequent amendments thereto are
hereby made a part of this chapter.
      16.    Filing With County Recorder: The final plat shall be filed with
the county recorder within one year after written approval from the board,
otherwise, such approval shall become null and void, unless, prior to said
expiration date, an extension of time is applied for by the subdivider and
granted by the commission. (Ord. 09-06, 8-4-2009)
8-2B-8: ISSUANCE OF BUILDING AND OCCUPANCY PERMITS:
No permit shall be granted for the erection of any building or other structure
within a subdivision unless and until the final plat shall have been approved
as required and all necessary improvements have been installed and accepted, or
a certified check, negotiable guarantee, or other acceptable guarantee in an
amount of one hundred fifty percent (150%) of the cost of the improvements has
been filed with the county, and an inspection with certification that cleanup
has been done. (Ord. 09-06, 8-4-2009)
8-2B-9: AMENDED PLATS:
When changes in a final plat of a subdivision which has been recorded are made,
such final plat shall be vacated and an amended final plat shall be filed and
recorded in accordance with the requirements of this chapter and state and
local laws. (Ord. 09-06, 8-4-2009)
8-2B-10: SCHOOL SITES, PARKS, PLAYGROUNDS:
In subdividing property, consideration shall be given to sites for schools,
parks, playgrounds, and other areas for public use, as shown on the master plan
or as requested by the city or county. Any provision for such open spaces
should be indicated on the preliminary plat in order that it may be determined
when and in what manner such areas will be dedicated to, or acquired by, the
appropriate agency. (Ord. 09-06, 8-4-2009)
8-2B-11: NO PERMIT OR LICENSE FOR USE IN VIOLATION:
No officer of the county shall grant any permit or license for the use of any
building or land if such would be in violation of this chapter. (Ord. 09-06, 8-
4-2009)
8-2B-12: MONUMENTS:
Monuments shall be set as required by Idaho Code. (Ord. 09-06, 8-4-2009)
8-2B-13: PENALTIES:
It shall be unlawful and constitute a public offense for any person to violate
any of the provisions of this article. Every person convicted of the violation
of this article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day the violation continues shall be considered a
separate offense. (Ord. 09-06, 8-4-2009; amd. 2010 Code)
ARTICLE C. IMPACT AREA ZONING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-2C-1: Title, Authorization, Purposes And Definitions
8-2C-2: Administration
8-2C-3: Hearing Procedures And Time Limits
8-2C-4: Zoning Districts
8-2C-4-1:    M Multi-Use Zoning District
8-2C-4-2:    R Residential Zoning District
8-2C-4-3:    C Commercial Zoning District
8-2C-5: Conditional Use Permits And Variances
8-2C-5-1:    Conditional Use Permits
8-2C-5-2:    Variances
8-2C-5-3:    Planned Unit Developments
8-2C-6: Zoning Reclassifications And Comprehensive Plan Modifications
8-2C-7: Evaluation Of Impact Of Actions
8-2C-8: Fees
8-2C-9: Nonconforming Uses
8-2C-10: Temporary Hardship Permit
8-2C-11: Enforcement
8-2C-1: TITLE, AUTHORIZATION, PURPOSES AND DEFINITIONS:
   A.    Title: This article shall be known as the MARSING AREA OF CITY IMPACT
ZONING ORDINANCE.
   B.    Authorization: This article is authorized by the Idaho constitution
article 12, section 2, Idaho Code sections 31-714, 31-828, 31-4408, and 31-4504
and is mandated by Idaho Code section 67-6526 which states that a separate
ordinance providing for application of plans and ordinances to the area of city
impact must be established and adopted.
   C.    Purposes: This article is designed to, and enacted to, protect the
public health, safety and welfare by implementing the Marsing area of city
impact comprehensive plan, and to accomplish the following purposes:
      1.    Protect and conserve the historic customs, traditions and way of
life unique to the county and the Marsing area of city impact, consistent with
a reasonable and orderly rate of growth and development and protection of
private property rights;
      2.    Protect and conserve the economic uses, including agricultural and
range uses which form the primary base of the county's economy;
      3.    Provide for reasonable and sound land development, a safe and
healthy environment, and a successful economic climate;
      4.    Require the coordination by the planning and zoning commission with
the county natural resources committee to achieve coordinated planning for the
Marsing area of city impact and protection of private property rights which are
critical to economic stability of the county and to the maintenance of a
healthy environment;
      5.    Protect and enhance private property rights and property values
consistent with the county's responsibility to protect public health, safety
and welfare;
      6.    Minimize infiltration into agricultural land areas of those
elements of urban development which will adversely impact agricultural
operations;
      7.    Provide a process for negotiating, developing, and maintaining
areas of city impact;
      8.    Designate land use districts (zoning districts) appropriate for
uses that meet the needs of the Marsing area of city impact citizens and
landowners by providing for growth compatible with protection of soil, water,
air, wildlife and other natural environmental and scientific qualities;
      9.    Preserve the recreational, archeological, architectural and
cultural history of the Marsing area of city impact and its historic resources;
      10.    Protect and conserve the natural resources in the Marsing area of
city impact by considering the impact on such resources of proposed land uses;
      11.    Maintain, protect, and enhance the Marsing area of city impact
transportation system;
      12.    Provide a means for administering the land use planning process in
a manner which can assist school districts to maintain, protect and enhance
school facilities and school transportation systems.
   D.    Definitions: As used in this article, the following words and phrases
shall have the meanings ascribed to them as follows:
    ACCESSORY BUILDING: A detached subordinate building, the use of which is
customarily incidental to that of the main building, or to the main use of the
land, and not including those buildings designated herein as agricultural
buildings.
   ACCESSORY USE: A use customarily incidental to, or subordinate to the main
use of the premises.
   ACRE: Forty three thousand five hundred sixty (43,560) square feet.
   ADMINISTRATIVE DIVISION: Division of an original lot, tract, or parcel of
land, said lot, parcel or tract of land of record as of August 13th, 1979, into
four (4) or less parts. It shall be the responsibility of the applicant to
submit to the administrator a deed or other documentation sufficient to
document that the parcel being divided was a parcel of record as of August 13,
1979. Any such division must be accomplished by a record of survey.
   ADMINISTRATOR: A person appointed by the board of county commissioners to
administer this article and related ordinances. In the absence of such
appointed person, the board of county commissioners may act as the
administrator.
   AGRICULTURAL BUILDING: A structure designed and constructed, or modified, to
house farm implements, hay, grain, poultry, livestock or other horticultural
products including structures used for processing, treating, packaging, sale or
storage of agricultural products and including commercial, packing, sale or
conditioning buildings for farm crops. Also included are structures for the
housing of agricultural workers when such workers are employed on the farm
unit.
   AGRICULTURAL LAND/PURPOSE: That land on which agricultural operation occurs.
Agricultural operation includes, without limitation, any facility for the
growing, raising or production of agricultural, horticultural and viticulture
crops and vegetable products of the soil, poultry and poultry products,
livestock, field grains, seeds, hay, apiary and dairy products, and the
processing for commercial purposes of livestock or agricultural commodities,
including the processing of such commodities into food commodities.
   AIRPORT: Any runway, land area or other facility designed or used either
publicly or privately by any person for the landing and taking off of aircraft,
including all necessary taxiways, aircraft storage and tie down areas, land
areas set aside as buffer zones or safety overruns, hangars and other necessary
buildings.
   ALLEY: A minor street providing secondary access to the back or side of a
property otherwise abutting a street.
   ANIMAL UNIT: See definition of CAFO.
   AREA, MINIMUM LOT: The total area within the property lines of the lot,
excluding adjacent streets, except as otherwise provided.
   ATTACHED ACCESSORY LIVING QUARTERS: An attached structure that is used
either as quarters for the ill, elderly or disabled. Accessory living quarters
must be incidental and subordinate in size, impact and purpose to a principal
dwelling. The attached living quarters must be accessible from inside the
primary residence. The accessory living quarters shall not have a separate
address or separate utility meters and shall not be rented separately from the
main residence, nor used for commercial purposes other than a home occupation.
Recreational vehicles shall not be permitted as accessory living quarters in
any zoning district.
   AUTO WRECKING OR SALVAGE YARD: A lot, or structure or part thereof, used for
the collecting, storage and/or sale of material and salvaging of machinery or
vehicles for the use or sale of parts thereof.
   BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS: The governing board of the county.
   BOARDING AND ROOMING HOUSES: A building or portion thereof which is used to
accommodate, for compensation, boarders or roomers, not including members of
the owner's and/or occupant's immediate family. The word "compensation" shall
include payment in money, service or other things of value.
   BUILDING: A combination of materials, whether portable or fixed, which
comprises a structure affording facilities or shelter for any use or occupancy,
and shall include a part or parts thereof and all equipment therein normally a
part of the structure.
   BUILDING CODE: A building code may be any universal construction or safety
code adopted by the county.
   BUILDING HEIGHT: The vertical distance from the grade to the highest point
on the roof surface.
   CAFO: 1. May also be referred to as "concentrated animal feeding operation"
or "confined animal feeding operation", and means a lot or facility where the
following conditions are met:
  a. Animals have been, or will be stabled or confined and fed or maintained
for a total of one hundred twenty (120) consecutive days or more in any twelve
(12) month period;
  b. Crops, vegetation, forage growth or postharvest residues are not sustained
in the normal growing season over any portion of the lot or facility; and
  c. The lot or facility is designed to confine or actually does confine as
many as or more than the number of animals specified in any of the following
categories: three hundred fifty (350) mature dairy cows, whether milked or dry;
five hundred (500) veal calves; five hundred (500) cattle other than mature
dairy cows or veal calves; one thousand five hundred (1,500) swine, each
weighing fifty five (55) pounds or more; five thousand (5,000) swine each
weighing less than fifty five (55) pounds; two hundred fifty (250) horses, five
thousand (5,000) sheep or lambs; or forty one thousand (41,000) chickens.
      2.    For the purpose of this definition, two (2) or more concentrated
animal feeding operations under common ownership are considered to be a single
animal feeding operation if they adjoin each other or if they use a common area
or system for the disposal of wastes.
   CAFO ADVISORY TEAM: Representatives of the Idaho state department of
agriculture, Idaho department of environmental quality and Idaho department of
water resources, who review a site proposed for a CAFO, determine environmental
risks and submit a suitability determination to a county.
   CAR LOTS AND MACHINERY LOTS: A retail or wholesale area for the sale of
motor vehicles and machinery.
   CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE: A certificate issued by the administrator or
designee of the board of county commissioners which certifies that the proposed
land use for a building, lot, parcel or other premises is in compliance with
this article. The certificate must be issued before any building permit is
issued and before a person enters into occupancy. When the proposed land use is
pursuant to a conditional use permit, the certificate of compliance is issued
only after the applicant is in substantial compliance with the special
conditions imposed.
   CITY: The city of Marsing.
   CITY COUNCIL: The city council of the city of Marsing, Idaho. Hereinafter
referred to as the "city council" or the "council".
   CITY OF MARSING STANDARDS: The most current edition of the Idaho standards
for public works construction and any supplement standards that may be adopted
by the city of Marsing.
   CITY PLANNER: The person employed to handle the planning duties of the city
of Marsing.
   COMMERCIAL: A business activity concerned with the buying, selling, exchange
and/or transportation of goods and services.
   CONCENTRATED ANIMAL FEEDING OPERATION: See definition of CAFO.
   CONDITIONAL APPROVAL: An affirmative action by the planning and zoning
commission indicating that approval is given subject to certain specified
stipulations.
   CONDITIONAL USE: A use permitted within a zoning district only under a
conditional use permit issued pursuant to this article.
   CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT: A permit granted to an applicant who seeks to place
a land use in a district where the use is not allowed, said permit to be
granted only pursuant to the provisions of this article and to contain specific
conditions placed pursuant to provisions of this article.
   CONFINED ANIMAL FEEDING OPERATION: See definition of CAFO.
   CONSERVATION: Protection of natural resources and the environment and
excludes development of the land.
   CONSERVATION EASEMENT: An easement which places limitation on the use of the
servient estate for conservation purposes.
   COTTAGE INDUSTRY/IN HOME BUSINESS: A business in a home which can be a full
or part time occupation which is conducted entirely within a dwelling unit and
which does not change the character of the dwelling unit.
   DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT: A written commitment by an applicant or owner for
rezoning of the subject parcel to specifically defined development, such
agreement to be made a condition of rezoning.
   DWELLING: Any building or portion thereof which is used as the private
residence or sleeping place of one or more human beings, but not including
hotels, boarding and rooming houses, motels, tourist courts, resort cabins,
clubs, hospitals, or similar uses.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY: A building occupied as a residence by two (2) or
more families living independently of each other but not including motels or
hotels, boarding or rooming houses, tourist courts, resort cabins, clubs,
hospitals, or similar uses.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A detached building designed exclusively for and
occupied as a residence by one family.
   DWELLING UNIT: In a dwelling or multiple-family dwelling one or more rooms
designed for and occupied as a residence by one family; example, an apartment.
   EASEMENT: An interest in land conveyed and granted by the landowner to
another person, the grantor landowner becoming the owner of the servient estate
and the grantee easement owner becoming owner of the dominant estate. Such
easement contains the right to control land use of the servient estate by
requiring the servient estate owner to change the land use of the servient
estate or any portion thereof or by prohibiting the servient estate owner from
enlarging, expanding, changing, or altering the land use of the servient estate
or any portion thereof.
   ENVIRONMENTAL RISK: That risk to the environment deemed posed by a proposed
CAFO site, as determined and categorized by the CAFO site advisory team and set
forth in the site advisory team's suitability determination report.
   GRADE AND OFFICIAL GRADE: Grade (ground level) is the average of the
finished ground level at the center of all walls of a building. If walls are
within twenty five feet (25') of a sidewalk or curb, ground level shall be
measured at the street, curb, sewer or structure considered.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE: A waste or combination of wastes of a solid, liquid,
semisolid, or contained gaseous form which, because of its quantity,
concentration or characteristics (physical, chemical or biological), may:
      1.    Cause or significantly contribute to an increase in deaths or an
increase in a serious, irreversible or incapacitating reversible illnesses; or
      2.    Pose a substantial threat to human health or to the environment if
improperly treated, stored, disposed of, or managed. Such wastes include, but
are not limited to, materials which are toxic, corrosive, ignitable, or
reactive, or materials which may have mutagenic, teratogenic, or carcinogenic
properties but do not include solid or dissolved material in domestic sewage,
or solid or dissolved materials in irrigation return flows or industrial
discharges which are point sources subject to national pollution discharge
elimination system permits under the federal water pollution control act, as
amended, 33 USC section 1251 et seq., or source, special nuclear, or byproduct
material as defined by the atomic energy act of 1954, as amended, 42 USC
section 2011 et seq.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE FACILITY SITE: Any property, structure, or ancillary
equipment intended and used for the transportation, treatment, storage or
disposal of hazardous wastes.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE MANAGEMENT: The systematic control of the collection, source
separation, storage, treatment, transportation, processing, and disposal of
hazardous wastes.
   HEALTH FACILITIES: Any of the following:
      1.    Hospital. A place devoted primarily to the maintenance and
operation of facilities for the diagnosis, treatment or care for not less than
twenty four (24) hours in any week of two (2) or more nonrelated individuals
suffering from illness, disease, injury, deformity, or requiring care because
of old age, or a place devoted primarily to providing for not less than twenty
four (24) hours in any week of obstetrical or other medical or nursing care for
two (2) or more nonrelated individuals. The term "hospital" includes public
health centers in general, tuberculosis, mental, chronic disease and other
types of hospitals; and related facilities, such as laboratories, outpatient
departments, nurses' home and training facilities, and central service
facilities operated in connection with hospitals;
      2.    A facility for the provision of public health services, including
related facilities such as laboratories, clinics, and administrative offices
operated in connection with said facilities;
      3.    A facility specially designed for the diagnosis, treatment,
education, training or custodial care of the mentally handicapped, including
facilities for training specialists and sheltered workshops for the mentally
handicapped, but only if such workshops are part of facilities which provide or
will provide comprehensive services for the mentally retarded;
      4.    A facility providing services for the prevention or diagnosis of
mental illness, or care and treatment of mentally ill patients, or
rehabilitation of such persons, which services are provided principally for
persons residing in a particular community or communities in or near which the
facility is situated or at a statewide facility.
   HOTELS AND MOTELS: Any building or portion thereof designed to be
commercially used, let or hired out for occupancy by persons on a temporary
basis.
   ILL, ELDERLY OR DISABLED PERSON: A person in need of special care or
supervision; or a care provider for any such person if the person in need of
such care is a resident on the site. Accessory living quarters for the ill,
elderly or disabled may include cooking facilities. To qualify as an accessory
living quarters, the structure must meet the definition of "attached accessory
living quarters" as defined in this section.
   INDUSTRIAL USE: A business establishment engaged in manufacturing or
technically productive enterprises.
   KENNEL: Any lot or premises on which four (4) or more animals at least four
(4) months of age are harbored for commercial purposes such as boarding,
breeding or training of such animals, and where such activity is not accessory
to or incidental to an allowed use in the district.
   LOT: A piece or parcel of land separated from other pieces or parcels as
shown on a recorded subdivision plat or by metes and bounds description for
purposes of sale, lease or separate use.
   LOT AREA: The area of a lot which does not include public rights of way for
roads or streets. However, irrigation ditch rights of way and public utility
easements may be included in the lot area.
   LOT LINE, FRONT: The property line dividing a lot from a street. On a corner
lot, only one street line shall be considered as a front line, and the street
frontage on which the primary entrance of the building faces shall be
considered the front line.
   LOT LINE, REAR: The line opposite the front line.
   LOT LINE, SIDE: Any lot line other than the front lot line or rear lot line.
   LOT WIDTH: The distance parallel to the front lot line measured between side
lot lines through that part of the building or structure where the lot is
narrowest.
   MAJOR SUBDIVISION: Refers to a subdivision which contains a number of lots
greater than ten (10).
   MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure, constructed after June 15, 1976, in
accordance with the HUD manufactured home construction and safety standards,
and is transportable in one or more sections, which, in the traveling mode, is
eight feet (8') or more in width or is forty (40) body feet or more in length,
or when erected on site, is three hundred twenty (320) or more square feet, and
which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling
with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required
utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and electrical
systems contained therein; except, that such term shall include any structure
which meets all the requirements of this definition except the size
requirements, and with respect to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a
certification required by the secretary of housing and urban development and
complies with the standards established under 41 USC section 5401 et seq.
   MANUFACTURED HOME COURTS OR PARKS: The term "manufactured home" refers also
to "mobile home". A manufactured home court or park exists when there are two
(2) or more manufactured homes placed on an acre and where such placement is
not for purposes of providing agricultural labor housing.
   MARSING AREA OF CITY IMPACT: The area contiguous to, and immediately outside
of the Marsing city limits as negotiated and agreed to by the board of county
commissioners and the Marsing city council.
   MARSING AREA OF CITY IMPACT ENGINEER: The engineer as agreed to by the board
of county commissioners and the Marsing city council.
   MEMBERSHIP CLUB: An association of persons, whether incorporated or
unincorporated, for some common purpose, but not including groups organized
primarily to render a service carried on as business.
   MINOR SUBDIVISION: Refers to a subdivision which contains a number of lots
that is ten (10) or less.
   MOBILE HOME: A factory assembled structure or structures generally
constructed prior to June 15, 1976, and equipped with the necessary service
connections and made so as to be readily movable as a unit or units on their
own running gear and designed to be used as a dwelling unit or units with or
without a permanent foundation.
   MODULAR BUILDING: Any building or building component, other than a
manufactured or mobile home, which is constructed according to codes and
standards adopted by the Idaho division of building safety, which is of closed
construction and is entirely or substantially prefabricated or assembled at a
place other than the building site.
   MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE LANDFILL: A discrete area of land or an excavation
that receives household waste, and that is not a land application unit, surface
impoundment, injection well, or waste pile as those terms are defined under 40
CFR 257.2. A municipal solid waste landfill also may receive other types of
RCRA subtitle D wastes, such as commercial solid waste, nonhazardous sludge,
conditionally exempt small quantity generator waste and industrial solid waste.
A municipal solid waste landfill may be a new municipal solid waste landfill,
an existing municipal solid waste landfill or a lateral expansion. Such a
landfill may be publicly or privately owned.
   NATURAL RESOURCES COMMITTEE: The committee appointed by the board of county
commissioners to serve as an advisory committee to the board regarding matters
relevant to the management of federal and state lands located within the
county, the relationship of that management to the continuation of the custom,
culture and economic stability of the county.
   NONAGRICULTURAL ACTIVITIES: Residential, commercial, or industrial property
development and use not primarily used for the growing, raising or production
of agricultural, horticultural and viticulture crops and vegetable products of
the soil, poultry and poultry products, livestock, field grains, seeds, hay,
apiary and dairy products, and the processing for commercial purposes of
livestock or agricultural commodities, including the processing of such
commodities into food commodities.
   NONCONFORMING BUILDING: A building or structure or portion thereof built
prior to the effective date hereof, or any amendment hereto, and conflicting
with the provisions of the ordinance applicable to the district in which it is
located. No residence, supporting structure or agricultural building shall
become nonconforming as the result of the passage hereof.
   NONCONFORMING USE: The use of a structure or premises conflicting with
provisions of this article.
   OCCUPANCY: Taking possession of and use of property; period during which a
person possesses, uses, does business in, and/or resides in a building,
structure or premises.
   OCCUPY: To take or enter upon possession of a building, structure or
premises; to live in, do business in, use a building, structure or premises.
   ODOR MANAGEMENT PLAN: A plan prepared by the applicant for a conditional use
permit by which the applicant will manage, control and/or mitigate any odor
resulting from the proposed use.
   OPEN SPACE: An area substantially open to the sky, which may be on the same
lot with a building. The area may include, along with the naturally occurring
physical characteristics of the earth, water areas, swimming pools, tennis
courts and other areas of recreational, historical or archeological value.
Streets and structures for habitation shall not be considered as part of open
space.
   OPEN SPACE EASEMENT: An easement which places limitation on the use of the
servient estate for open space purposes.
   ORIGINAL PARCEL: As used herein is as defined in section
8-2B-3 of this chapter.
   PARCEL: A contiguous quantity of land owned by, or recorded as the property
of, the same person. Parcels purchased on different occasions with separate
financing for the purpose of increasing the size of a parcel or tract, which
parcels have not been combined into single legal description, are individual
parcels.
   PERSON: A single entity, including any association, firm, copartnership or
corporation.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT: An area of land in which a variety of land uses
are provided for under single ownership or control, which may be subjected to
conditions of minimum area, permitted uses, ownership, common open space,
utilities, density, arrangement of land uses on the site, and permit
processing.
   PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION: The Owyhee County planning and zoning
commission appointed by the board of county commissioners to perform planning
and zoning duties as assigned under this article.
   PUBLIC WATER AND SEWER FACILITIES: Those facilities of a municipality or
sanitation district approved by the Southwest district health department and by
the Idaho department of environmental quality for general public use.
   RECREATION EASEMENT: An easement which places limitation on the use of the
servient estate for recreation purposes.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicular type unit primarily designed as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, or travel use, which either has its
own motive power or is mounted on or drawn by another vehicle. The entities
include, but are not limited to, travel trailer, camping trailer, truck camper,
fifth wheel trailer and motor home.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK: An area for the temporary placing of recreational
vehicles for the purpose of temporary lodging.
   RECYCLING OR SALVAGE CENTER: A lot, or structure or part thereof, used for
the collecting, storage and/or sale of material for recycling or reuse such as,
but not limited to, wastepaper, cardboard, rags, wood, scrap metal or discarded
material, may include car crushing and materials baling.
   SETBACK: The distance from the nearest point of a building or other
structure, measured to the front lot line.
   STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected, which requires location on the
ground, or attached to something having a location on the ground, but not
including fences or walls used as fences eight feet (8') or less in height,
poles, lines, cables or other similar transmitting or distribution facilities
of public utilities.
   SUBDIVISION: As used herein is as defined in section
8-2B-3 of this chapter.
   SUITABILITY DETERMINATION: That document created and submitted by the CAFO
site advisory team after review and analysis of a proposed CAFO site that
identifies the environmental risk categories related to a proposed CAFO site,
describes the factors that contribute to the environmental risks and sets forth
any possible mitigation of risk.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES: All wires, cables, equipment, apparatus or
other installments necessary to furnish service, by which there is accomplished
or may be accomplished, the sending or receiving of information, data, message
writing signals, signals, pictures, and sounds of all kinds, by aid of such
wires, cables, equipment, apparatus or other installations, but shall not
include the structure in which such telecommunications facilities are housed.
   TRACT: A lot, piece or parcel of land, of greater or less size, the term not
importing, in itself, any precise dimension.
   UTILITIES: Installations or facilities, underground or overhead, furnished
for use by the public, including, but not limited to, electricity, gas, steam,
communications, water, drainage, irrigation, sewage disposal or flood control,
owned and operated by any person, firm, corporation, municipal department or
board duly authorized by state or city regulations. Utility or utilities as
used herein may also refer to such persons, firms, corporations, departments or
boards, as applicable, herein.
   VARIANCE: A modification of the bulk and placement requirements of this
article as to lot size, lot coverage, width, depth, front yard, side yard,
setbacks, parking space, height of buildings, or other ordinance provisions
affecting the size or shape of a structure or the placement of the structure
upon lots, or the size of lots, said modification to be allowed only upon a
showing by the applicant of undue hardship because of characteristics of the
site and that the modification is not in conflict with public interest.
   WAIVER: Permission granted to allow a deviation from specific development
standards or development requirements of this chapter. A waiver is different
from a variance. See subsection 8-2B-5-1G of this chapter for details.
   WASTE: Any solid, semisolid, liquid or contained gaseous material for which
no reasonable use or reuse is intended or which is intended to be discarded.
   YARD: An open space other than a court, or a lot unoccupied and unobstructed
from the ground upward, except as otherwise provided in this chapter.
   YARD, BACK: A yard extending across the full width of the lot between the
rear lot line and the nearest line or point of the building.
   YARD, FRONT: A yard extending across the full width of the lot between the
front lot line and the nearest line or point of the building.
   YARD, SIDE: A yard extending from the front yard to the yard between the
side lot line and the nearest line or point of the building or accessory
buildings attached thereto.
   E.    Coordination With Natural Resources Committee: The planning and zoning
commission, the administrator, and all planning and zoning staff will cooperate
with and coordinate activities with the natural resources committee on all
issues, actions, and matters which are relevant to the duties of the natural
resources committee as set forth in title 2, chapter 3 of this code. (Ord. 09-
07, 8-4-2009; amd. 2010 Code)
8-2C-2: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.    Administration And Certificate Of Compliance:
      1.    Administration: The county board of commissioners will serve as the
chief administrative office for administration of comprehensive planning and
zoning activities conducted pursuant to this article and related ordinances in
the Marsing area of city impact. The board may appoint or designate an
administrator to handle these duties.
      2.    Certificate Of Compliance: The board of commissioners, or its
designee, shall be responsible for issuing a certificate of compliance which
certifies that a proposed land use is in compliance with this article. If the
board's administrator has a question as to whether compliance has been
achieved, the question may be directed to the board for assistance and
resolution. No building permit may be issued, and no person may enter into
occupancy or begin the proposed use, until the certificate has been issued.
When the proposed land use is dependent upon a conditional use permit, the
certificate will be issued only after the applicant is in substantial
compliance with special conditions designed to be satisfied before
construction, occupancy or commencement of use.
   B.    Planning And Zoning Commission; Duties: The planning and zoning
commission shall carry out the duties of such commission as prescribed herein
and in Idaho Code, title 67, chapter 65. The commission membership shall be set
by resolution of the board of county commissioners in compliance with the
provisions of Idaho Code section 67-6504.
   C.    Staff: Staff functions, under the administrative direction of the
board of county commissioners, shall be performed by staff designated by the
board, by resolution, and the duties of such staff and the procedures by which
they will perform their duties shall also be set by resolution.
   D.    Staff To Planning And Zoning Commission: When staff members designated
by the board are assisting the planning and zoning commission in the
performance of their duties, they shall operate under the direction of the
planning and zoning commission. Staff shall be designated to assist the
planning and zoning commission at the request of the commission.
   E.    Planning And Zoning Commission; Procedure And Time Frames: The
planning and zoning commission shall follow the procedures and time frames set
forth in this article when performing its duties.
   F.    Hearing Officer: The board of commissioners or the planning and zoning
commission may appoint a hearing officer to perform the procedural functions
set forth in this article with regard to the procedures to be followed by the
board and the commission. The hearing officer shall not make findings of fact
and conclusions of law, but may assist the board or the commission in the
preparation of such findings and conclusions. If no hearing officer is
appointed, the chairman or vice chairman of the board or commission shall serve
as hearing officer.
   G.    Hearing Examiner:
      1.    The board of county commissioners may appoint a hearing examiner to
perform the duties as set forth by the Idaho legislature including hearing
applications for subdivisions, conditional use permits and variances and
requests for zoning district boundary changes in accordance with the
comprehensive plan, as well as other duties which may be assigned by the board
of commissioners. When the hearing examiner conducts a hearing, the same
procedures as required for hearings before the planning and zoning commission
and the board of county commissioners shall apply. The hearing examiner's
decision to grant or deny the application or request shall specify, in writing,
the ordinance and standards used in evaluating the application, the reasons for
the decision, and the actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain
a permit or zoning district boundary change in accordance with the
comprehensive plan. The written decision will be filed with the clerk of the
board, and copies will be sent to the planning and zoning commission and to the
board of county commissioners.
      2.    Any person aggrieved by the hearing examiner's decision may appeal
the decision to the board of county commissioners by filing a written notice of
appeal with the clerk of the board within twenty (20) days after the decision
is filed with the clerk. The appellate procedures, including payment of fee,
shall be the same for appeals from the examiner as from the planning and zoning
commission to the board of commissioners.
      3.    Additionally, either the planning and zoning commission or the
board of county commissioners may request that the hearing examiner sit with
the planning and zoning commission or board of county commissioners during
hearings held by those bodies on applications for conditional use permits,
variances or requests for zoning district boundary changes, and at the
conclusion of such hearings, the examiner may make a recommendation to the
planning and zoning commission or board of county commissioners conducting the
hearing. Such recommendation shall specify the ordinance and standards used by
the examiner to evaluate the application or request, the reasons for the
recommendation, and the actions, if any, the examiner believes the applicant
could take to obtain a permit, variance or zoning district boundary change. The
planning and zoning commission or the board of county commissioners shall not
be bound to follow the recommendation, but may take it into consideration in
reaching their decision. Consideration of the recommendation will not relieve
the hearing body from its duty to issue a written decision in accordance with
this article. (Ord. 09-07, 8-4-2009)
8-2C-3: HEARING PROCEDURES AND TIME LIMITS:
   A.    Procedures: The following procedures shall be followed by the planning
and zoning commission, by a hearing examiner and by the board of county
commissioners in matters in which a public hearing is required:
      1.    Notice: The hearing officer (including the examiner, the chairman
or vice chairman serving as hearing officer) shall preside over the public
hearing and shall make all procedural decisions which are necessary. Before
commencing the hearing, the presiding officer will certify that at least
fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing, notice of the time and place and a
summary of the request to be heard was published in the newspaper designated by
the board of county commissioners for publication of legal notices, and that
written notice by United States mail was provided so that at least fifteen (15)
days prior to the hearing, property owners of property adjoining the subject
land site and others as required by the local land use act were notified of the
hearing.
      2.    Posting Of List Of Procedures; Sign Up Sheets: At least one-half
(1/2) hour prior to the commencement of the hearing, a list of the procedures
to be followed at the hearing shall be posted at the entrance to the hearing
room along with sign up sheets for prospective witnesses to sign.
      3.    Failure To Sign Sign Up Sheet: The hearing officer may refuse to
permit any person to testify who has not signed the sign up sheet prior to
commencement of the hearing.
      4.    Statement Of Rules And Procedure: The hearing officer shall open
the meeting with a statement of the rules and procedures to be followed during
the hearing.
      5.    Statement Of Issues: The hearing officer shall open each hearing
with a statement of the issues before the commission or board in that
particular case and relief requested by the applicant.
      6.    Administration Of Oaths: The hearing officer shall administer the
oath or affirmation to the witnesses, except at legislative hearings where
public input is solicited.
      7.    Burden Of Persuasion: The applicant for relief or action by the
board or commission shall have the burden of persuasion.
      8.    Record Of Hearing: The record of the hearing including minutes,
documents relating to the provision of notice of the hearing, documents
admitted into evidence or offered into evidence and rejected, motions and
briefs filed by any party, and the decision of the board or commission shall be
filed by the administrator with the clerk of the board of county commissioners
to be held as official records of the county.
      9.    Written Findings, Conclusions And Order: The written findings,
conclusions and order or recommendation of the commission, hearing examiner, or
board shall be filed with the administrator or clerk of the board of county
commissioners to be held as official records of the county, and a copy shall be
mailed to the applicant seeking relief or action.
   B.    Variances And Conditional Use Permits:
      1.    Application:
         a.    Form; Required Information: An application for variance or
conditional use permit must be completed on a form approved by and provided by
the administrator or the board of county commissioners. The application will
contain or be accompanied by instructions which shall advise the applicant of
the specific elements of information and fact which must be presented, and as
to which the applicant has the burden of proof, before the requested relief can
be granted. The applicant shall be advised of the requirement that full and
complete information must be provided which demonstrates how and why a variance
can be granted under the requirements for variance set forth in this article,
or how and why a conditional use permit can be granted under the requirements
for conditional use permits set forth in this article. Such instructions shall
include a list of any use-siting guidelines, use guidelines, or specific
studies which the planning and zoning commission or board of commissioners may
require for consideration. Such guidelines may be established by the board of
commissioners by resolution, or may come from this article or related
ordinances.
         b.    Filing Fee: The application must be filed with the planning and
zoning administrator or the person designated by the board, and accompanied by
a filing fee as set by the board of commissioners by resolution. It must be
signed by the owner of the land site for which a variance or conditional use is
proposed, providing that an application may be signed by a designee of the
owner, if the application contains a specific description of the relationship
of the applicant to the owner and to the proposed use and also a specific
authorization of the designee's representation signed by the owner. No
application will be accepted for filing if not accompanied by the established
filing fee.
      2.    Time Frames For Presentation Of Application To Commission And
Scheduling Of Hearing: The administrator will review and consider the
sufficiency of the application, and upon the acceptance by the administrator,
the application for variance or conditional use permit will be presented to the
planning and zoning commission at the first regularly scheduled meeting of the
commission after it is filed. If the application contains information which the
administrator believes is sufficient for conduct of a public hearing, the
hearing shall be scheduled to be held within one hundred twenty five (125) days
of the date presented to the commission. If the administrator finds the
application does not contain information complete enough to provide public
notice of the proposed use and/or to provide the basis for a meaningful public
hearing, then the administrator shall return the application to the party who
signed it with written instructions as to the deficiencies in the application
which must be cured before a hearing will be scheduled. Such action by the
administrator shall not be considered an appealable decision.
      3.    Resubmission Of Application: If an applicant resubmits an
application sent back by the administrator pursuant to the preceding
subsection, the administrator shall submit it to the commission at its next
regularly scheduled meeting. A fee for resubmission may be set by the board of
commissioners by resolution.
      4.    Consideration Of Resubmitted Application: The commission shall
consider resubmitted applications at the first regularly scheduled meeting
after the date of resubmission and acceptance by the administrator that the
application is sufficient to provide adequate public notice and to hold a
meaningful public hearing. If the administrator decides that the application is
sufficient, a hearing shall be scheduled to be held within one hundred twenty
five (125) days of the date of resubmission by the applicant. If the
administrator decides that the application is not sufficient, the application
will be denied and such decision shall be considered final unless appealed to
the board of commissioners.
   C.    Time Frames For Hearing And Decision By Planning And Zoning
Commission:
      1.    A hearing held by the commission may be recessed if the commission
finds it has not received sufficient evidence from which to determine the
issues relevant to the relief being requested. The decision to recess the
hearing shall include the date, time and place of the resumed hearing and shall
specify any limitations which will be placed on receipt of evidence at the
resumed hearing. Upon resumption of the hearing, if the commission finds that
the evidence received is still insufficient to serve as the basis for decision
of the issues relevant to the relief being requested, a second decision to
recess may be issued, again including the date, time and place of the resumed
hearing and specification of any limitations which will be placed on receipt of
evidence at the second resumption. Notice of the second resumption hearing
shall be published in accordance with the hearing requirements set by the local
planning act.
      2.    Upon conclusion of receipt of evidence as to the application, the
commission may grant the relief requested only if it is persuaded by the
applicant that the relief should be granted under this article and in
accordance with the standards established by this article. The commission may
make and announce its decision at the conclusion of receipt of evidence, with a
written decision to be filed not later than ninety five (95) days from the
announcement of decision, or may take the case under advisement, with a written
decision to be rendered no later than ninety five (95) days from the date on
which the case is taken under advisement.
   D.    Finality Of Commission Decision: The decision of the planning and
zoning commission, or board of county commissioners as to variance or
conditional use permit is not final until a written document including
findings, conclusions, and order is signed by the planning and zoning
commission, or board of county commissioners and recorded by the clerk of the
board of county commissioners.
   E.    Appeals To The Board: A party aggrieved by a final decision of the
planning and zoning commission may appeal the decision to the board of county
commissioners, providing that the following procedures must be followed:
      1.    The appeal must be filed, in writing, with the clerk of the board
of commissioners, on a form provided by the board, within twenty (20) days
after the date on which the planning and zoning commission final decision is
filed with the clerk of the board.
      2.    The notice of appeal must be accompanied by a filing fee in an
amount to be set by the board by resolution. The clerk shall not file the
notice of appeal until such fee is paid, and if the fee is not paid within the
time set for filing an appeal, the planning and zoning commission decision is
final.
      3.    The clerk shall present the notice of appeal to the board of
commissioners at its next regularly scheduled meeting after the filing of the
notice. The board shall schedule a public hearing to be noticed and conducted
in accordance with the local planning act, and with the procedures set for
hearings by this article. The hearing shall be scheduled to be conducted within
ninety five (95) days from the date the notice of appeal is presented to the
board by the clerk of the board. If a notice of appeal was not timely filed, or
if the appellate fee is not paid, the clerk shall report such facts to the
board at its first regularly scheduled meeting after the appeal time has
expired, and the board shall send to the aggrieved party a written statement of
the reasons why the board will not consider an appeal.
      4.    The board shall conduct its appeal hearing in accordance with the
procedural provisions for hearings set by this article. After consideration of
the planning and zoning commission decision and its underlying evidence, any
evidence offered by the commission or its staff in support of or explanation of
the decision, and evidence submitted by the appellant and other witnesses, the
board may affirm the commission's decision, modify the commission's decision,
reverse the commission's decision, or remand the case to the commission for
further consideration under the following standards:
         a.    Evidence Not Previously Presented To Board:
            (1)    If the appellant, or other witnesses, intend on presenting
to the board, evidence not presented to the planning and zoning commission
during its hearing which would have been relevant and material to the
commission's decision, the board shall remand the case to the commission for
consideration of the new evidence. Upon remand, the commission shall consider
the case on the next hearing date on which there is time available for the
hearing. A fee for the remand hearing will be assessed as set by resolution.
            (2)    At least twenty one (21) days prior to the date set for the
appellate hearing, the appellant shall advise the board, in writing, if he/she
intends to offer such evidence, and shall include the written advisement of the
nature and summary of the evidence intended to be offered at a preappeal
hearing date and time set by the board, the board shall decide whether the
evidence would have been relevant and material to the commission's decision. A
fee for the prehearing determination will be assessed as set by resolution.
         b.    Action Of The Board: The board shall give substantial weight to
the decision of the planning and zoning commission and shall modify or reverse
such decision only if the board is persuaded by the appellant that the decision
is contrary to the county comprehensive plan, this article or to any other
relevant federal, state or county law.
            (1)    The appellant has the burden of persuasion.
            (2)    If for any reason, within the discretion of the board, the
appeal hearing must be recessed to receive further evidence, the recessed
hearing should be resumed on the next public hearing date on which there is
time available for resumption of the hearing. The recess order shall specify
the date, time and place of the resumed hearing as well as any limitations on
receipt of evidence at the resumed hearing. There shall be no more than one
recess of an appeal hearing.
            (3)    When the evidence is completed at the appeal hearing, the
board may take the appeal under advisement and render its decision, in writing,
within ninety five (95) days of the date, upon which the case is taken under
advisement, or may announce its decision orally and file its written decision
within ninety five (95) days of the announcement.
   F.    Order To Show Cause: At any time while an application for variance or
conditional use permit is pending, and any time before a decision of the board
of county commissioners, or planning and zoning commission becomes final, if
the governing body receives an allegation that the applicant is making unlawful
use of the property which is the subject of the application, or that the
applicant is using the property in any way inconsistent with the current zoning
status, the board of county commissioners, or the planning and zoning
commission may enter a show cause order to be served on the applicant to
require that the applicant show cause at a hearing on a date certain why the
application should not be denied. Said hearing shall be noticed and scheduled
in accordance with the provisions of this article as to notice for conditional
use permit hearing proceedings. In case of an emergency, endangering public
health or safety found to exist by the governing body, the time noticed for
said hearing may be shortened to five (5) working days from the time the show
cause order is served on the applicant. (Ord. 09-07, 8-4-2009)
8-2C-4: ZONING DISTRICTS:
   A.    Zoning Districts Adopted:
      1.    In order to implement the Marsing area of city impact comprehensive
plan and to accomplish the purpose of this chapter, there are hereby adopted
the following zoning districts in the Marsing area of city impact located in
the unincorporated area of the county:
 
District M Multi-use
District R Residential
District C Commercial
 
      2.    Land use in the districts must be consistent with the provisions of
this article regarding the uses allowed and permitted within each district.
      3.    It shall be unlawful for any person to establish or maintain a land
use in any of the specified districts except in compliance with the provisions
of this article.
      4.    A conditional use permit is required for and prior to creation of
an easement which requires the servient estate owner to change or alter the
land use of the servient estate or any part thereof in existence on the stated
effective date of the easement, or which prohibits the servient estate owner
from enlarging, expanding, changing or altering the land use of the servient
estate, or any part thereof, in existence on the stated effective date of the
easement. This provision is applicable to, but not limited to, easements
popularly known as "conservation easements", "recreation easements", "open
space easements". Section
8-2C-5 of this article shall be applicable to the application for conditional
use permit filed pursuant to this section.
   B.    Map Depicts Zoning Districts:
      1.    The official zoning district maps for the Marsing area of city
impact shall be the maps accompanying the Marsing area of city impact
comprehensive plan approved on July 28, 2009.
      2.    The official map shall be maintained at the county courthouse or
courthouse annex building by the administrator of planning and zoning, and
shall be available for public use during regular business hours established for
the county courthouse by the board of county commissioners.
      3.    The legal descriptions of the zoning districts shall be as stated
in the comprehensive plan and as attached to the official maps.
      4.    Any discrepancy between the legal description of the zoning
district and the depiction of the zoning district on the official map shall be
governed by the legal description. (Ord. 09-07, 8-4-2009)
8-2C-4-1: M MULTI-USE ZONING DISTRICT:
   A.    Designation; Design: The zoning district designed for multi-use shall
be designated "district M". District M is designed for mixed and varied uses in
areas where commercial use should be anticipated, in accordance with the
Marsing area of city impact comprehensive plan.
   B.    Allowed Uses: The following uses are allowed in district M:
Agricultural operations including, without limitation, any facility for the
growing, raising or production of agricultural, horticultural and viticulture
crops and vegetable products of the soil, poultry and poultry products,
livestock, field grains, seeds, hay, apiary and dairy products and the
processing for commercial purposes of livestock or agricultural commodities,
including the processing of such commodities into food commodities, but
excluding "CAFO" as defined in subsection 8-2C-1D of this article and
meatpacking plants.
All agricultural uses currently existing prior to or on the effective date
hereof.
Boarding and rooming houses.
Churches and church schools.
Colleges and private schools.
Cottage industries and in home businesses.
Dormitories, sorority and fraternity houses.
Horse breeding and training facilities, boarding stables, riding stables,
arenas.
Hospitals, rest homes, convalescent homes, and nursing homes.
Preschool age nurseries.
Professional offices.
Public schools.
Public utility mains including public offices but not including repair or
storage facilities.
Single-family dwellings, including attached quarters, with a common wall, for a
member of the family.
Single-family residential subdivision of four (4) lots or less.
Accessory or incidental uses customarily associated with the above stated uses.
   C.    Conditional Uses:
      1.    Uses: The following uses may be permitted in district M under a
conditional use permit granted in accordance with the provisions of this
article:
Easement as referred to in subsection A4 of this section.
Municipal solid waste sites and municipal waste transfer stations.
Public parks, playgrounds and other recreational areas.
Public utilities repair or storage facilities.
Public utility substations.
Recreational vehicle parks.
Uses not identified in the allowed uses or in the permitted uses may be
permitted only through the conditional use permit process.
Uses permitted in district C.
Uses permitted in district R.
      2.    Conditions Placed On Conditional Uses: Conditions placed on a
conditional use permit granted pursuant to this article for any of the
permitted uses listed in this subsection must be complied with. Noncompliance
with the terms and conditions of the conditional use permit shall make the use
unlawful. It shall be unlawful to establish and then maintain any of the
permitted uses listed in this section without obtaining and complying with a
conditional use permit.
   D.    Setback Of Buildings: No building or structure shall be placed within
five feet (5') of the property line, or forty feet (40') of a county road or
one hundred feet (100') of a state or federal highway.
   E.    Rights Of Way: All street and road rights of way shall be developed in
accordance with any minimum standards adopted by the county or the standards of
the jurisdiction having authority. (Ord. 09-07, 8-4-2009)
8-2C-4-2: R RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICT:
   A.    Designation: The zoning district designed for residential uses shall
be designated "district R".
   B.    Design: The R zoning district is designed primarily for residential
uses. Subdivisions may be subject to a development agreement.
   C.    Minimum Lot Size: The minimum lot size in the residential district for
those developments utilizing on site septic and individual wells is that upon
which Southwest district health will permit placement of water and sewer
systems, and that which is determined to have sufficient domestic water supply.
Developments utilizing municipal services shall be subject to a development
agreement which will identify lot size and configuration, any future annexation
into the city, and other applicable details.
   D.    Allowed Uses: The following uses are allowed in district R:
All agricultural uses currently existing as of the effective date hereof.
Cottage industry/in home business.
Single-family dwellings, including attached quarters, with a common wall, for a
member of the family.
Single-family residential subdivisions.
Other uses related to or incidental to the primary use set forth in this
subsection.
   E.    Conditional Uses:
      1.    Uses: The following uses may be permitted in district R under a
conditional use permit granted in accordance with provisions of this article:
Any use not identified in the allowed uses or in the permitted uses may be
permitted only through the conditional use permit process.
Boarding and rooming houses.
Churches and church schools.
Colleges and private schools.
Convalescent and nursing homes.
Daycare facilities, preschool nurseries.
Easement as referred to in subsection A4 of this section.
Grocery stores, gasoline stations, recreational facilities and other such
service businesses as are beneficial or necessary for the support and service
of the residential developments in the district.
Hospitals.
Mobile home parks.
Multi-family dwellings.
Planned unit development.
Playgrounds and other public areas.
Public and semipublic buildings, including, but not limited to, law
enforcement, fire, health and safety buildings and uses, government services
and other public uses.
Public parks.
Public schools.
Public utility mains and substations.
Any of the above uses may be subject to a development agreement.
      2.    Lot Area; Structure Requirements: All structures placed on lots or
parcels of any size must meet standards, rules and regulations set up by
regulatory agencies or the Southwest district health department.
      3.    Conditions Placed On Conditional Use: Conditions placed on a
conditional use permit granted pursuant to this article for any of the
permitted uses listed herein must be complied with. Noncompliance with the
terms and conditions of the conditional use permit shall make the use unlawful.
It shall be unlawful to establish and then maintain any of the permitted uses
listed herein without obtaining and complying with a conditional use permit.
   F.    Setback Of Buildings: No building or structure shall be placed within
five feet (5') of the property line, or within forty feet (40') of a county
road or within one hundred feet (100') of a state or federal highway.
   G.    Rights Of Way: All street and road rights of way shall be developed in
accordance with any minimum standards adopted by the county. (Ord. 09-07, 8-4-
2009)
8-2C-4-3: C COMMERCIAL ZONING DISTRICT:
   A.    Designation: The zoning district designed for commercial uses shall be
designated "district C".
   B.    Allowed Uses: The following uses are allowed in district C:
Accessory or incidental uses customarily associated with the uses stated in
this subsection and subsection C of this section.
Agricultural operations including, without limitation, any facility for the
growing, raising or production of agricultural, horticultural and viticulture
crops and vegetable products of the soil, poultry and poultry products,
livestock, field grains, seeds, hay, apiary and dairy products and the
processing for commercial purposes of livestock or agricultural commodities,
including the processing of such commodities into food commodities, but
excluding "CAFO" as defined in subsection 8-2C-1D of this article and
meatpacking plants.
Boarding and rooming houses.
Churches and church schools.
Colleges and private schools.
Commercial businesses and uses not prohibited by federal, state or county law,
or any section of this article, excepting CAFOs, meatpacking plants and any
industrial business.
Cottage industries and in home businesses.
Dormitories, sorority and fraternity houses.
Horse breeding and training facilities, boarding stables, riding stables,
arenas.
Hospitals, rest homes, convalescent homes, and nursing homes.
Preschool age nurseries.
Professional offices.
Public schools.
Public utility mains including public offices but not including repair or
storage facilities.
Single-family dwellings, including attached quarters, with a common wall, for a
member of the family.
   C.    Conditional Uses: The following uses are permitted in district C only
under a conditional use permit issued pursuant to the provisions of this
article:
Any use not identified in the allowed uses or permitted uses sections may be
permitted only through the conditional use permit process.
Easement as referred to in subsection 8-2C-4A4 of this section.
Planned unit development.
Public and semipublic buildings including, but not limited to, law enforcement,
fire, health and safety buildings and uses, government services and other
public uses.
   D.    Setback Of Buildings: No building or structure or any portion thereof
except steps and uncovered porches less than ten feet (10') in width, shall be
erected within five feet (5') of the property line. If the property adjoins
district A, district M or district R, no building or structure or any portion
thereof shall be placed within two hundred feet (200') of a property line that
adjoins said districts. No building or structure shall be placed within forty
feet (40') of a county road, or within one hundred feet (100') of a state or
federal highway.
   E.    Rights Of Way: All street and road rights of way shall be developed in
accordance with any minimum standard adopted by the county. (Ord. 09-07, 8-4-
2009)
8-2C-5: CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS AND VARIANCES:
8-2C-5-1: CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS:
   A.    Nature Of Conditional Use Permits:
      1.    Conditional uses have been identified throughout the designations
of districts in this article. As to each permitted use specified in those
designations, the applicant requesting such use has the burden of persuading
that the use should be permitted, and then must comply with whatever special
conditions are placed on any permit granted. A conditional use permit is not
transferable from the applicant to another person, or from the site for which
the permit is granted to another land site without specific approval of the
planning and zoning commission, hearing examiner, or board of county
commissioners, whichever granted the final permit.
      2.    If substantial progress toward development of the use permitted by
a conditional use permit has not been accomplished within twenty four (24)
months from the date the permit is issued, the permit expires. The applicant
must request extension of the life of the permit from the planning and zoning
commission, hearing examiner or board of county commissioners from whichever
granted the final permit.
   B.    Exemption As To Site Operations Permitted To October 1991: No
application for conditional use permit shall be required for continued
operation on, or for expansion of use of, any site which had been established
and was being operated under state and/or federal permit or license issued
pursuant to state and/or federal law on or before October 3, 1991, the date
upon which the Owyhee County land use ordinance became effective.
   C.    Procedure For Obtaining Conditional Use Permits:
      1.    Applications for conditional use permits for those uses identified
in this article shall be filed with the administrator of the planning and
zoning commission on a form prescribed and approved by the administrator or the
board. The application must contain full information as required by the
application packet and the instructions accompanying the application in order
to be considered.
      2.    An application must be accompanied by a filing fee as adopted from
time to time by the board by resolution. If the fee is not paid, the
application will not be considered.
      3.    When a completed application is filed with the administrator, the
administrator shall present said application at the next regularly scheduled
meeting of the planning and zoning commission. Upon receipt of said completed
application and payment of the required filing fee, the administrator shall
schedule at least one public hearing on the conditional use permit application
at which interested persons shall have an opportunity to be heard. At least
fifteen (15) calendar days prior to the hearing, notice of the time and place
and a summary of the proposed conditional use permit shall be published in the
official newspaper of general circulation within the county. Notice will also
be posted at the county courthouse in Murphy, Idaho, and the office of the
clerk of court in Homedale, Idaho. The board, administrator, or the commission
may also decide to provide additional notice to property owners who may be
substantially impacted by the proposed conditional use permit.
   D.    Issuance Of Conditional Use Permit:
      1.    The applicant for conditional use permit has the burden of proof
with regard to justifying the issuance of the conditional use permit. The
planning and zoning commission may direct the administrator to require the
applicant to provide reports and testimony relevant to each of the provisions
of this subsection and may require the applicant to conduct studies of the
social, economic, fiscal and environmental effects of the proposed conditional
use.
      2.    The planning and zoning commission shall review the particular
facts and circumstances of each application for a conditional use permit in
terms of the following standards, and may issue a conditional use permit only
when it finds adequate evidence answering the following questions about the
proposed application:
         a.    Whether the article permits the use by conditional use permit.
         b.    Whether the intended use is necessary or desirable to the public
convenience and welfare.
         c.    Whether the proposed use may create a hazard, nuisance,
detriment or other injury to other property in the immediate vicinity or to the
health or safety to the citizens of the county in general.
         d.    Whether essential public services, or the general public health
or safety, or the general public environment may be negatively impacted by such
use or whether there may be a requirement of additional public funding in order
to meet the needs created by the requested use.
         e.    Whether adequate sewer, water and drainage facilities, and
utility and other service systems are to be provided by the applicant to
accommodate said use.
         f.    When a permit is granted with appropriate conditions, bonds and
safeguards which are in conformity with this article may be prescribed.
Violations of such conditions, bonds or safeguards, when made a part of the
terms under which the conditional use is granted, shall be deemed a violation
of this article.
         g.    Whether the proposed use may have adverse impact on water and
water supplies, both surface, aquifer and underground in the county.
         h.    Whether the geological base on which the use is to be placed may
or may not support such proposed use.
         i.    Whether the proposed use at the proposed site may endanger human
health, animal life and plant life in the surrounding area and/or the county in
general.
         j.    Whether the proposed use complements, benefits, and is
compatible with the surrounding land uses.
         k.    Whether special conditions could be imposed upon the proposed
use which would so minimize any adverse impact as to justify the granting of
the conditional use permit.
      3.    If the planning and zoning commission determines that the
conditional use permit should be granted but that special conditions are
necessary in order to minimize any adverse impact which might be caused by the
proposed use, the commission may apply special conditions designed to minimize
that adverse impact including, but not limited to, conditions which perform the
following functions:
         a.    Minimize adverse impact on the surrounding area and the public
health, safety and environment in general.
         b.    Control the sequence and timing of development of the proposed
use.
         c.    Control the duration of the development and use of the proposed
use.
         d.    Assure that the development is properly maintained.
         e.    Designate the exact location and nature of development.
         f.    Require the provision for on site or off site public facilities
or services.
      4.    When the commission denies a conditional use permit, it shall: a)
specify the portions of the ordinance and standards used in evaluating the
application, b) the reason for denial, and c) what actions if any that the
applicant may take to try to obtain a permit upon submission of a new
application.
      5.    When the commission grants a conditional use permit, it shall
specify the portions of the ordinance and standards used in evaluating the
application and the reasons for approval.
      6.    When a permit is granted appropriate conditions, bonds and
safeguards which are in conformity with this article may be prescribed.
Violations of such conditions, bonds or safeguards, when made a part of the
terms under which the conditional use is granted, shall be deemed a violation
of this article.
   E.    Conditional Use Permits Subject To Right To Farm Act: All conditional
uses permitted under a conditional use permit must be subjected to the
provisions of the right to farm act, and any successor legislative acts
designed to protect existing agricultural uses. A special condition must be
placed on every conditional use permit requiring the applicant to acknowledge
compliance with Idaho Code title 22, chapter 45, or successor acts and
compliance with Idaho Code section 67-6529 which protect existing agricultural
uses on agricultural lands and requiring the applicant to notify any purchaser
of a lot, parcel or tract affected by the conditional use permit of the need to
comply with such legislative acts. The conditional use permit may contain a
special condition requiring the applicant to place protective language
regarding the necessity of complying with Idaho Code, title 22, chapter 45 and
Idaho Code section 67-6529 and successor acts in any documents relating to
transfer of ownership of any lot, parcel or tract affected by the conditional
use permit. A conditional use permit may be conditioned upon the applicant's
causing the permit and special conditions to be recorded with the office of the
county recorder. No building permit may be issued for any lot, parcel or tract
affected by a conditional use permit unless a certificate of compliance,
containing reference to this subsection, is issued by the administrator or a
designee of the board of county commissioners. (Ord. 09-07, 8-4-2009)
8-2C-5-2: VARIANCES:
Variances shall not be granted on the grounds of convenience or profit, but
only where strict application of the provisions of this article would result in
unnecessary hardship. A variance shall not be considered a right or special
privilege, but may be granted to an applicant only after the applicant has met
the burden of persuasion that failure to grant the variance would impose undue
hardship on the applicant because of the characteristics of the use site, and
that granting the variance will not be inconsistent with the public interest.
(Ord. 09-07, 8-4-2009)
8-2C-5-3: PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS:
Planned unit developments may be permitted under a conditional use permit. The
application for such PUD shall be on a form approved by the administrator or
the board and must be filed with the administrator of planning and zoning along
with payment of an application fee set by the board. All procedures applicable
to applications for conditional use permits shall be applicable to applications
for PUDs. A PUD may be permitted which includes a variety of land uses under a
single ownership or control, and may be subjected to conditions as to minimum
area, permitted uses, ownership, common open space, utilities, density, and
arrangements of land uses on a site, permit processing and any other condition
which would be permissible under the conditional use permit process. (Ord. 09-
07, 8-4-2009)
8-2C-6: ZONING RECLASSIFICATIONS AND COMPREHENSIVE PLAN MODIFICATIONS:
   A.    Reclassification Or Modification Of Ordinance, Comprehensive Plan Or
Districts:
      1.    Pursuant to Idaho Code section 67-6526(d) areas of city impact,
plan, and ordinance requirements shall remain fixed until both governing boards
agree to renegotiate.
      2.    Any change, modification, or reclassification of ordinances, or of
the comprehensive plan may be initiated by the board of county commissioners,
the planning and zoning commission, or by application of one or more property
owners, purchasers or holders of valid options to purchase property.
      3.    When the application for change, modification or reclassification
is initiated by a property owner, purchaser or holders of valid options to
purchase property, the application must be submitted on a form approved by the
board of county commissioners and must be filed with the planning and zoning
administrator along with an application fee as set by the board of county
commissioners. The application must contain full information as required by the
application and the instructions accompanying the application in order to be
considered. Once the completed application is received, the planning and zoning
commission will hold a public hearing and if a favorable recommendation is
forwarded to the board, the board will initiate negotiations with the city
governing board to renegotiate the ordinance or plan.
      4.    Any change, modification, or reclassification of zones may be
initiated by the board of county commissioners, the planning and zoning
commission, or by application of one or more property owners, purchasers or
holders of valid options to purchase property. When the application for change,
modification or reclassification is initiated by a property owner, purchaser or
holders of valid options to purchase property, the application must be
submitted on a form approved by the board of county commissioners and must be
filed with the planning and zoning administrator along with an application fee
as set by the board of county commissioners. The application must contain full
information as required by the application and the instructions accompanying
the application in order to be considered.
   B.    Development Agreements 1 : Any rezoning granted under this article may
be conditioned upon the execution of a written commitment by the applicant for
rezoning that the use or development of the property subject to the rezone will
be as specifically represented in the application for rezoning and to the
planning and zoning commission or hearing examiner or board of commissioners.
Such agreements shall be subject to the following provisions:
      1.    Written commitment will be prepared on a form approved by the board
of commissioners.
      2.    The order granting the rezone shall provide that the written
commitment is binding on the owner of any parcel covered by the rezoning, each
subsequent owner and each other person acquiring an interest in the parcel. The
written commitment shall recite the same binding nature.
      3.    The written commitment must be recorded with the office of the
county recorder prior to issuance of the order to rezone.
      4.    A written commitment may be modified only by permission of the
board of commissioners; an application for such modification on a form approved
by the board and payment of a fee set by the board must be filed with the clerk
of the board; and then is subject to the processing and hearing requirements
set forth in this article for applications for conditional use permits.
      5.    A commitment may be terminated, and the zoning designation upon
which the use is based reversed, upon the failure of requirements in the
commitment after a reasonable time as fixed by the board of commissioners, or
upon the failure of the owner of a parcel covered by the zoning designation,
each subsequent owner or each other person acquiring an interest in the parcel
to comply with the conditions. A termination hearing may be held on the board's
own motion, or upon request from the planning and zoning commission or hearing
examiner, following the hearing process set forth in this article for
conditional use permits.
      6.    Entering into a written commitment shall be considered as a written
consent to reverse the rezoning decision upon failure of the conditions imposed
by the written commitment.
      7.    By requiring written commitments as conditions for rezone, the
board of commissioners has not obligated the planning and zoning commission or
hearing examiner to recommend a rezone or the board to grant the rezone. (Ord.
09-07, 8-4-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  9-8-4 of this code.
8-2C-7: EVALUATION OF IMPACT OF ACTIONS:
Upon the written request of an owner of real property, the following actions
are subject to the regulatory taking analysis provided for by Idaho Code
section 67-8003: a) denial of a permit for conditional use, subdivision,
planned unit development, variance, or b) approval of any such uses with
conditions unacceptable to the landowner. (Ord. 09-07, 8-4-2009)
8-2C-8: FEES:
   A.    Authorization To Set Fees: The board of county commissioners shall
determine the fees to be assessed related to the various actions requested and
required under the provisions of this article and related ordinances. The
determination shall be made by resolution, and shall be based upon evaluation
of actual cost of providing the services necessary to the actions requested and
required.
   B.    Payment Of Fees And Related Costs: It shall be the responsibility of
the applicant requesting an action pursuant to this article or related
ordinances to pay the fees established for the process related to the
application or request. It shall also be the responsibility of the applicant to
pay costs for services such as, but not limited to, engineering and surveying
and other professional services related to examination of applications, site
plans, plats, and conduct of special studies which may be required by the
planning and zoning commission, the hearing examiner and/or the board of county
commissioners in the process for considering the application or request.
Payment of such fees and costs must be completed prior to a hearing or other
action on the application or request. (Ord. 09-07, 8-4-2009)
8-2C-9: NONCONFORMING USES:
   A.    Continuation Of Use: A nonconforming use shall be allowed to continue
in existence throughout the life of the use as it existed on the effective date
hereof.
   B.    Enlargement Of Use: Any enlargement of a nonconforming use, either by
extending the land or site upon or in which the use exists, or by expanding the
use itself, to the extent that it changes the nature of the use is unlawful
unless permitted by conditional use permit. CAFO operations that change the
type of animal confined, for example, beef to swine, are considered a change in
the nature of the use.
   C.    Use Commenced Prior To Adoption: To avoid undue hardship, nothing in
this article shall be deemed to require a change in the plans, construction or
designated use of any building on which actual construction was lawfully begun
prior to the effective date of adoption or amendment of this article and upon
which actual building construction has been carried on diligently; provided,
that it is completed and so used within one year after the effective date
hereof.
   D.    Change To More Appropriate Nonconforming Use: If no structural
alterations are made, any nonconforming use of a structure or structure and
land may, upon the issuance of a conditional use permit by the planning and
zoning commission, be changed to another nonconforming use; provided, that the
commission shall find that the proposed use is equally appropriate or more
appropriate to the district than the existing nonconforming use. In permitting
such change the commission may require appropriate conditions and safeguards in
accordance with other provisions of this article.
   E.    Superseded By Permitted Use: Any structure, or structure and land in
combination, in or on which a nonconforming use is superseded by a permitted
use shall thereafter conform to the regulations for the district, and the
nonconforming use may not thereafter be resumed.
   F.    Abandonment Of Use: When a nonconforming use of a structure or
structure and land in combination is discontinued or abandoned for more than
one year, the board of county commissioners shall take action to comply with
Idaho Code section 67-6538 or successor statutory procedures regarding nonuse.
The structure, or structures and land in combination, shall not thereafter be
used except in conformity with the regulations of the district in which it is
located.
   G.    Nonconforming Use Created After Effective Date: A nonconforming use
which came into existence after the passage hereof shall not be deemed a
nonconforming use, but an illegal use and shall be abated.
   H.    Conditional Use: Any use which is permitted as a conditional use in a
district under the terms of this article shall not be deemed a nonconforming
use in such district, but shall, without further action, be considered a
conforming use. (Ord. 09-07, 8-4-2009)
8-2C-10: TEMPORARY HARDSHIP PERMIT:
   A.    Application: A person may apply for a granting of a temporary hardship
permit which will permit temporary dwellings for the benefit of persons who
have medical or life problems which create an undue burden on the persons or
families. The application shall be made on a form approved by the administrator
or the board of county commissioners, and shall be filed with the
administrator. The administrator shall then approve, approve with conditions,
or deny the application. The burden is on the applicant to demonstrate and
prove the hardship, and the permit shall be valid for no more than twelve (12)
months. If a longer time period or an extension of the twelve (12) month period
is requested, the application shall be processed under the provisions for
process and hearing process set for other applications filed under this
article.
   B.    Siting Of Dwelling: The dwelling authorized under this section may be
placed on a lot, parcel or tract where no such dwelling would otherwise be
authorized under this article.
   C.    Special Conditions: Special conditions may be imposed upon any permit
issued under this section designed to specifically limit the use of the
temporary use authorized by this section. (Ord. 09-07, 8-4-2009)
8-2C-11: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.    Violation: Violation of this article shall constitute a misdemeanor
punishable as provided in Idaho Code section 18-113 as it may from time to time
be amended and/or retitled. Each day the violation continues shall constitute a
separate offense. A fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00) per day will be
assessed per violation.
   B.    Notice Of Violation; Additional Remedies: When the planning and zoning
administrator or commission finds that violation of this article has occurred
or is about to occur, the administrator shall advise the board of commissioners
in a written recommendation containing factual findings upon which the
recommendation is based. Upon receiving such recommendation from the
administrator, or on its own motion after finding that a violation has occurred
or is about to occur, the board of commissioners may direct the administrator
to send an initial letter advising the party of the violation and the fine
associated with the violations. The party will have fourteen (14) days to
respond with a solution agreeable to the board. If such solution is not
received, the board may issue an order to show cause requiring a public hearing
at which the alleged offender will have the opportunity to show cause why he/
she is not in violation of this article and/or why enforcement proceedings
should not be initiated. If after the order to show cause hearing, the board is
of the opinion that a violation has occurred and that enforcement action should
be initiated, the board may direct that enforcement action be initiated to
abate the violation and/or seek imposition of penalties. A fee may be set by
resolution for the order to show cause hearing. (Ord. 09-07, 8-4-2009)
TITLE 9
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
TITLE, AUTHORITY, PURPOSES AND DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
9-1-1: Short Title
9-1-2: Authority
9-1-3: Purposes
9-1-4: Definitions
9-1-5: Coordination With Natural Resources Committee
9-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This title shall be known and cited as the OWYHEE COUNTY ZONING ORDINANCE.
(Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
9-1-2: AUTHORITY:
This title is authorized by the Idaho constitution article 12, section 2, Idaho
Code sections 31-714, 31-828, 31-4408, and 31-4504 and is mandated by Idaho
Code sections 67-6511 which provides that each board of county commissioners
"shall" establish a land use district or districts within the unincorporated
area of the county, and excludes any zoning ordinance for any area of city
impact in the county. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
9-1-3: PURPOSES:
This zoning title is designed and enacted to protect the public health, safety
and welfare by implementing the county comprehensive plan and accomplishing the
following purposes:
   A.    Protect and conserve the historic customs, traditions and way of life
unique to the county, consistent with a reasonable and orderly rate of growth
and development and protection of private property rights;
   B.    Protect and conserve the agricultural and range uses which form the
primary base of the county's economy;
   C.    Provide for reasonable and sound land development, a safe and healthy
environment, and a successful economic climate;
   D.    Require the coordination by the planning and zoning commission with
the county natural resources advisory committee 1  to achieve coordinated
planning for the entire county and protection of private property rights which
are critical to the economic stability of the county and to the maintenance of
a healthy environment;
   E.    Protect and enhance private property rights and property values
consistent with the county's responsibility to protect public health, safety
and welfare;
   F.    Minimize infiltration into agricultural land areas of those elements
of urban development which will adversely impact agricultural operations;
   G.    Provide a process for negotiating and developing areas of city impact;
   H.    Designate land use districts (zoning districts) appropriate for uses
that meet the needs of the county's citizens by providing for growth compatible
with protection of soil, water, air, wildlife and other natural environmental
and scientific qualities;
   I.    Preserve the recreational, archeological, architectural and cultural
history of the county and its historic resources;
   J.    Protect and conserve the natural resources in the county by
considering the impact on such resources of proposed land uses;
   K.    Maintain, protect, and enhance the county's transportation system; and
   L.    Provide a means for administering the land use planning process in a
manner which can assist school districts to maintain, protect and enhance
school facilities and school transportation systems. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 2, chapter 3 of this code.
9-1-4: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this title, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
ACCESSORY BUILDING: A detached subordinate building, the use of which is
customarily incidental to that of the main building, or to the main use of the
land, and not including those buildings designated herein as agricultural
buildings.
ACCESSORY USE: A use customarily incidental or subordinate to the main use of
the premises.
ACRE: Forty three thousand five hundred sixty (43,560) square feet.
ADMINISTRATOR: A person appointed by the Board of County Commissioners to
administer this title and related ordinances. Until such person is appointed,
the Administrator is the Board of County Commissioners.
AGRICULTURAL BUILDING: A structure designed and constructed, or modified, to
house farm implements, hay, grain, poultry, livestock or other horticultural
products including structures used for processing, treating, packaging, sale or
storage of agricultural products and including commercial, packing, sale or
conditioning buildings for farm crops. Also included are structures for the
housing of agricultural workers when such workers are employed on the farm
unit.
AGRICULTURAL LAND/PURPOSE: That land on which agricultural operation occurs.
Agricultural operation includes, without limitation, any facility for the
growing, raising or production of agricultural, horticultural and viticultural
crops and vegetable products of the soil, poultry and poultry products,
livestock, field grains, seeds, hay, apiary and dairy products, and the
processing for commercial purposes of livestock or agricultural commodities,
including the processing of such commodities into food commodities.
AIRPORT: Any runway, land area or other facility designed or used either
publicly or privately by any person for the landing and taking off of aircraft,
including all necessary taxiways, aircraft storage and tie down areas, land
areas set aside as buffer zones or safety overruns, hangars and other necessary
buildings.
ALLEY: A minor street providing secondary access to the back or side of a
property otherwise abutting a street.
ANIMAL UNIT: See definition of CAFO.
AREA, MINIMUM LOT: The total area within the property lines of the lot,
excluding adjacent streets, except as otherwise provided.
ATTACHED ACCESSORY LIVING QUARTERS: An attached structure that is used either
as quarters for the ill, elderly or disabled. Accessory living quarters must be
incidental and subordinate in size, impact and purpose to a principal dwelling.
The attached living quarters must be accessible from inside the primary
residence. The accessory living quarters shall not have a separate address or
separate utility meters and shall not be rented separately from the main
residence, nor used for commercial purposes other than a home occupation.
Recreational vehicles shall not be permitted as accessory living quarters in
any zoning district.
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS: The Governing Board of the County.
BOARDING AND ROOMING HOUSES: A building or portion thereof which is used to
accommodate, for compensation, boarders or roomers, not including members of
the owner's and/or occupant's immediate family. The word "compensation" shall
include payment in money, service or other things of value.
BUILDING: A combination of materials, whether portable or fixed, which
comprises a structure affording facilities or shelter for any use or occupancy,
and shall include a part or parts thereof and all equipment therein normally a
part of the structure.
BUILDING CODE: A building code may be any universal construction or safety code
adopted by the county.
BUILDING HEIGHT: The vertical distance from the grade to the highest point on
the roof surface.
CAFO: May also be referred to as "concentrated animal feeding operation" or
"confined animal feeding operation", and means a lot or facility where the
following conditions are met:
   A.    Animals have been or will be stabled or confined and fed or maintained
for a total of one hundred twenty (120) consecutive days or more in any twelve
(12) month period;
   B.    Crops, vegetation, forage growth or postharvest residues are not
sustained in the normal growing season over any portion of the lot or facility;
and
   C.    The lot or facility is designed to confine or actually does confine as
many as or more than the number of animals specified in any of the following
categories: seven hundred (700) mature dairy cows, whether milked or dry; one
thousand (1,000) veal calves; one thousand (1,000) cattle other than mature
dairy cows or veal calves; two thousand five hundred (2,500) swine each
weighing fifty five (55) pounds or more; ten thousand (10,000) swine each
weighing less than fifty five (55) pounds; five hundred (500) horses; ten
thousand (10,000) sheep or lambs; or eighty two thousand (82,000) chickens.
For the purpose of this definition, two (2) or more concentrated animal feeding
operations under common ownership are considered to be a single animal feeding
operation if they adjoin each other or if they use a common area or system for
the disposal of wastes.
CAFO ADVISORY TEAM: Representatives of the Idaho state department of
agriculture, Idaho department of environmental quality and Idaho department of
water resources who review a site proposed for a CAFO, determine environmental
risks and submit a suitability determination to the county.
CAR LOTS AND MACHINERY LOTS: A retail or wholesale area for the sale of motor
vehicles and machinery.
CEMETERY: A place dedicated to, used and intended to be used for the permanent
interment of the human dead, and shall include a burial plot for earth
interments, a mausoleum for vault or crypt interments, a crematory, or a
crematory and columbarium for cinerary interments, or any combination of one or
more of the above. This definition shall be construed to include bona fide pet
cemeteries.
CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE: A certificate issued by the administrator or
designee of the board of county commissioners which certifies that the proposed
land use for a building, lot, parcel or other premises is in compliance with
this title. The certificate must be issued before any building permit is issued
and before a person enters into occupancy. When the proposed land use is
pursuant to a conditional use permit, the certificate of compliance is issued
only after the applicant is in substantial compliance with the special
conditions imposed.
COMMERCIAL: A business activity concerned with the buying, selling, exchanging
and/or transporting of goods and services.
CONCENTRATED ANIMAL FEEDING OPERATION: See definition of CAFO.
CONDITIONAL USE: A use permitted within a zoning district only under a
conditional use permit issued pursuant to this title.
CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT: A permit granted to an applicant who seeks to place a
land use in a district where the use is not allowed, said permit to be granted
only pursuant to the provisions of this title and to contain specific
conditions placed pursuant to provisions of this title.
CONFINED ANIMAL FEEDING OPERATION: See definition of CAFO.
CONSERVATION: Protection of natural resources and the environment and excludes
development of land.
CONSERVATION EASEMENT: An easement which places limitation on the use of the
servient estate for conservation purposes.
COTTAGE INDUSTRY: A business in a home which can be a full or part time
occupation which is conducted entirely within a dwelling unit and which does
not change the character of the dwelling unit or adversely impact the
surrounding area. The dwelling must have adequate appurtenant facilities to
support the business.
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT: A written commitment by an applicant for rezoning or
owner of the subject parcel to specifically defined development, such agreement
to be made a condition of rezoning.
DWELLING: Any building or portion thereof which is used as the private
residence or sleeping place of one or more human beings, but not including
hotels, boarding and rooming houses, motels, tourist courts, resort cabins,
clubs, hospitals, or similar uses.
DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY: A building occupied as a residence by two (2) or
more families living independently of each other but not including motels or
hotels, boarding or rooming houses, tourist courts, resort cabins, clubs,
hospitals, or similar uses.
DWELLING, ONE-FAMILY: A detached building designed exclusively for and occupied
as a residence by one family.
DWELLING UNIT: In a dwelling or multiple-family dwelling, one or more rooms
designed for and occupied as a residence by one family; e.g., an apartment.
EASEMENT: An interest in land conveyed and granted by the landowner to another
person, the grantor landowner becoming the owner of the servient estate and the
grantee easement owner becoming the owner of the dominant estate. Such easement
contains the right to control land use of the servient estate by requiring the
servient estate owner to change the land use of the servient estate or any
portion thereof or by prohibiting the servient estate owner from enlarging,
expanding, changing, or altering the land use of the servient estate or any
portion thereof.
ENVIRONMENTAL RISK: That risk to the environment deemed posed by a proposed
CAFO site as determined and categorized by the CAFO site advisory team and set
forth in the site advisory team's suitability determination report.
FINAL DECISION: A written document including findings, conclusions, and order
that is signed by the decision making body, and recorded by the clerk of the
board of county commissioners.
GRADE AND OFFICIAL GRADE: Grade (ground level) is the average of the finished
ground level at the center of all walls of a building. If walls are within
twenty five feet (25') of a sidewalk or curb, ground level shall be measured at
the street, curb, sewer or structure considered.
HAZARDOUS WASTE: A waste or combination of wastes of a solid, liquid,
semisolid, or contained gaseous form which, because of its quantity,
concentration or characteristics (physical, chemical or biological) may:
   A.    Cause or significantly contribute to an increase in deaths or an
increase in a serious, irreversible or incapacitating reversible illnesses; or
   B.    Pose a substantial threat to human health or to the environment if
improperly treated, stored, disposed of, or managed. Such wastes include, but
are not limited to, materials which are toxic, corrosive, ignitable, or
reactive, or materials which may have mutagenic, teratogenic, or carcinogenic
properties but do not include solid or dissolved material in domestic sewage,
or solid or dissolved materials in irrigation return flows or industrial
discharges which are point sources subject to national pollution discharge
elimination system permits under the federal water pollution control act, as
amended, 33 USC, section 1251 et seq., or source, special nuclear, or byproduct
material as defined by the atomic energy act of 1954, as amended, 42 USC
section 2011 et seq.
HAZARDOUS WASTE FACILITY OR SITE: Any property, structure, or ancillary
equipment intended and used for the transportation, treatment, storage or
disposal of hazardous wastes.
HAZARDOUS WASTE MANAGEMENT: The systematic control of the collection, source
separation, storage, treatment, transportation, processing, and disposal of
hazardous wastes.
HEALTH FACILITIES: Any of the following:
   A.    Hospital. A place devoted primarily to the maintenance and operation
of facilities for the diagnosis, treatment or care for not less than twenty
four (24) hours in any week of two (2) or more nonrelated individuals suffering
from illness, disease, injury, deformity, or requiring care because of old age,
or a place devoted primarily to providing for not less than twenty four (24)
hours in any week of obstetrical or other medical or nursing care for two (2)
or more nonrelated individuals. The term hospital includes public health
centers in general, tuberculosis, mental, chronic disease and other types of
hospitals and related facilities, such as laboratories, outpatient departments,
nurses' home and training facilities, and central service facilities operated
in connection with hospitals;
   B.    A facility for the provision of public health services, including
related facilities such as laboratories, clinics, and administrative offices
operated in connection with said facilities;
   C.    A facility specially designed for the diagnosis, treatment, education,
training or custodial care of the mentally handicapped, including facilities
for training specialists and sheltered workshops for the mentally handicapped,
but only if such workshops are part of facilities which provide or will provide
comprehensive services for the mentally retarded;
   D.    A facility providing services for the prevention or diagnosis of
mental illness, or care and treatment of mentally ill patients, or
rehabilitation of such persons, which services are provided principally for
persons residing in a particular community or communities in or near which the
facility is situated or at a statewide facility.
HOTELS AND MOTELS: Any building or portion thereof designed to be commercially
used, let or hired out for occupancy by persons on a temporary basis.
ILL, ELDERLY OR DISABLED PERSON: A person in need of special care or
supervision; or a care provider for any such person if the person in need of
such care is a resident on the site. Accessory living quarters for the ill,
elderly or disabled may include cooking facilities. To qualify as an accessory
living quarters, the structure must meet the "attached accessory living
quarters" definition.
IN HOME BUSINESS: A business in a home which can be a full or part time
occupation which is conducted entirely within a dwelling unit and which does
not change the character of the dwelling unit, or adversely impact the
surrounding area. The dwelling must have adequate appurtenant facilities to
support the business.
INDUSTRIAL USE: A business establishment engaged in manufacturing or
technically productive enterprises.
INTERMENT SITE: Shall consist of a lot, or portion thereof, containing a burial
plot for earth interments, a mausoleum for vault or crypt interments, a
columbarium for cinerary interments, or any combination of one or more of the
above. No interment site shall be allowed on parcels smaller than three (3)
acres. No more than two (2) interments shall be allowed per parcel unless
approval is granted for the development of a platted cemetery. No future
development or easements shall be allowed upon or within five feet (5') of the
remains. Interment sites are not deemed to be equivalent to rural cemeteries as
defined in Idaho Code section 27-201 et seq.
JUNKYARD: A lot, structure or part thereof, used for the collecting, storage
and/or sale of material for recycle or reuse such as, but not limited to,
wastepaper, rags, scrap metal or discarded material, or for the collecting,
dismantling, storing and salvaging of machinery or vehicles for the use or sale
of parts thereof. A junkyard includes auto and machinery wrecking yards.
KENNEL: Any lot or premises on which four (4) or more animals at least four (4)
months of age are harbored for commercial purposes such as boarding, breeding
or training of such animals, and where such activity is not accessory to or
incidental to an allowed use in the district.
LIGHT INDUSTRIAL: Any manufacturing, processing, assembling, testing, storing,
or similar uses. Any by-products of noise, smoke, odor, glare, gas, vibration,
dust, or light are generally contained within a building or does not extend
beyond the property lines to have an unreasonable negative impact upon the
surrounding properties. It does not refer to the growing of agricultural crops,
or the raising of livestock.
LOT: An area of land occupied, or to be occupied, by a building or group of
buildings, and any accessory buildings identified with each, and having legal
access to a public right-of-way.
LOT AREA: The area of a lot which does not include public rights- of-way for
roads or streets. However, irrigation ditch rights-of- way and public utility
easements may be included in the lot area.
LOT LINE, FRONT: The property line dividing a lot from a street. On a corner
lot, only one street line shall be considered as a front line, and the shorter
street frontage shall be considered the front line.
LOT LINE, REAR: The line opposite the front line.
LOT LINE, SIDE: Any lot line other than the front lot line or rear lot lines.
LOT WIDTH: The distance parallel to the front lot line measured between side
lot lines through that part of the building or structure where the lot is
narrowest.
MAJOR SUBDIVISION: A subdivision which contains a number of lots greater than
ten (10).
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure, constructed after June 15, 1976, in accordance
with the HUD manufactured home construction and safety standards, and is
transportable in one or more sections, which, in the traveling mode, is eight
feet (8') or more in width or is forty (40) body feet or more in length, or
when erected on site, is three hundred twenty (320) or more square feet, and
which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling
with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required
utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and electrical
systems contained therein, except that such term shall include any structure
which meets all the requirements of this definition except the size
requirements and with respect to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a
certification required by the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development and
complies with the standards established under 41 USC section 5401 et seq.
MANUFACTURED HOME COURTS OR PARKS: For the purpose of this definition, the term
"manufactured home" refers also to "mobile home". A manufactured home court or
park exists when there are two (2) or more manufactured homes placed on an acre
and where such placement is not for purposes of providing agricultural labor
housing.
MEMBERSHIP CLUB: An association of persons, whether incorporated or
unincorporated, for some common purpose, but not including groups organized
primarily to render a service carried on as business.
MINOR SUBDIVISION: A subdivision which contains a number of lots that is ten
(10) or less.
MOBILE HOME: A factory assembled structure or structures generally constructed
prior to June 15, 1976, and equipped with the necessary service connections and
made so as to be readily movable as a unit or units on their own running gear
and designed to be used as a dwelling unit or units with or without a permanent
foundation.
MODULAR BUILDING: Any building or building component, other than a manufactured
or mobile home, which is constructed according to codes and standards adopted
by the Idaho division of building safety, which is of closed construction and
is entirely or substantially prefabricated or assembled at a place other than
the building site.
MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE LANDFILL: A discrete area of land or an excavation that
receives household waste, and that is not a land application unit, surface
impoundment, injection well, or waste pile as those terms are defined under 40
CFR 257.2. A municipal solid waste landfill also may receive other types of
RCRA subtitle D wastes, such as commercial solid waste, nonhazardous sludge,
conditionally exempt small quantity generator waste and industrial solid waste.
A municipal solid waste landfill may be a new municipal solid waste landfill,
an existing municipal solid waste landfill or a lateral expansion. Such a
landfill may be publicly or privately owned.
NATURAL RESOURCES ADVISORY COMMITTEE: The committee appointed by the board of
county commissioners to serve as an advisory committee to the board regarding
matters relevant to the management of federal and state lands located within
the county, the relationship of that management to the continuation of the
custom, culture and economic stability of the county, and to perform the duties
set forth in title 2, chapter 3 of this code.
NONAGRICULTURAL ACTIVITIES: Residential, commercial, or industrial property
development and use not primarily used for the growing, raising or production
of agricultural, horticultural and viticulture crops and vegetable products of
the soil, poultry and poultry products, livestock, field grains, seeds, hay,
apiary and dairy products, and the processing for commercial purposes of
livestock or agricultural commodities, including the processing of such
commodities into food commodities.
NONCONFORMING BUILDING: A building, structure or portion thereof built prior to
the effective date hereof, or any amendment hereto, and conflicting with the
provisions of the ordinance applicable to the district in which it is located.
No residence, supporting structure or agricultural building shall become
nonconforming as the result of the passage hereof.
NONCONFORMING USE: The use of a structure or premises conflicting with
provisions of this title.
OCCUPANCY: Taking possession of and use of property; period during which a
person possesses, uses, does business in, and/or resides in a building,
structure or premises.
OCCUPY: To take or enter upon possession of a building, structure or premises;
to live in, do business in, use a building, structure or premises.
ODOR MANAGEMENT PLAN: A plan prepared by the applicant for a conditional use
permit by which the applicant will manage, control and/or mitigate any odor
resulting from the proposed use.
OPEN SPACE: An area substantially open to the sky, which may be on the same lot
with a building. The area may include, along with the naturally occurring
physical characteristics of the earth, water areas, swimming pools, tennis
courts and other areas of recreational, historical or archeological value.
Streets and structures for habitation shall not be considered as part of open
space.
OPEN SPACE EASEMENT: An easement which places limitation on the use of the
servient estate for open space purposes.
ORIGINAL PARCEL: As defined in the Owyhee County subdivision ordinance 1 .
PARCEL: A contiguous quantity of land owned by, or recorded as the property of,
the same person. Parcels purchased on different occasions with separate
financing for the purpose of increasing the size of a parcel or tract, which
parcels have not been combined into single legal description, are individual
parcels.
PERSON: A single entity, including any association, firm, copartnership or
corporation.
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT: An area of land in which a variety of land uses are
provided for under single ownership or control, which may be subjected to
conditions of minimum area, permitted uses, ownership, common open space,
utilities, density, arrangement of land uses on the site, and permit
processing.
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION: The Owyhee County Planning and Zoning
Commission appointed by the Board of County Commissioners to perform planning
and zoning duties as assigned under this title.
PUBLIC WATER AND SEWER FACILITIES: Those facilities of a municipality or
sanitation district approved by the Southwest District Health Department and by
the State Department of Health for general public use.
RECREATION EASEMENT: An easement which places limitation on the use of the
servient estate for recreational purposes.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicular type unit primarily designed as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, or travel use, which either has its
own motive power or is mounted on or drawn by another vehicle. The entities
include, but are not limited to, travel trailer, camping trailer, truck camper,
fifth wheel trailer and motor home.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK: An area for the temporary placing of recreational
vehicles for the purpose of temporary lodging.
RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISIONS: The cumulative division of an original parcel into
more than four (4) parts for the purpose of residential use.
SETBACK: The distance from the nearest point of a building or other structure,
measured to the front lot line.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected, which requires location on the
ground, or attached to something having a location on the ground, but not
including fences or walls used as fences eight feet (8') or less in height,
poles, lines, cables or other similar transmitting or distribution facilities
of public utilities.
SUBDIVISION: As defined in the Owyhee County subdivision ordinance 2 .
SUITABILITY DETERMINATION: That document created and submitted by the CAFO site
advisory team after review and analysis of a proposed CAFO site that identifies
the environmental risk categories related to a proposed CAFO site, describes
the factors that contribute to the environmental risks and sets forth any
possible mitigation of risk.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES: All wires, cables, equipment, apparatus or other
installments necessary to furnish service, by which there is accomplished or
may be accomplished, the sending or receiving of information, data, message
writing signals, signals, pictures, and sounds of all kinds, by aid of such
wires, cables, equipment apparatus or other installations, but shall not
include the structure in which such telecommunications facilities are housed.
TRACT: A lot, piece or parcel of land of greater or less size, the term not
importing, in itself, any precise dimension.
VARIANCE: A modification of the bulk and placement requirements of this title
as to lot size, lot coverage, width, depth, front yard, side yard, setbacks,
parking space, height of buildings, or other ordinance provisions affecting the
size or shape of a structure or the placement of the structure upon lots, or
the size of lots, said modification to be allowed only upon a showing by the
application of undue hardship because of characteristics of the site and that
the modification is not in conflict with public interest.
WASTE: Any solid, semisolid, liquid or contained gaseous material for which no
reasonable use or reuse is intended or which is intended to be discarded.
YARD: An open space other than a court or a lot unoccupied and unobstructed
from the ground upward, except as otherwise provided in this title.
YARD, BACK: A yard extending across the full width of the lot between the rear
lot line and the nearest line or point of the building.
YARD, FRONT: A yard extending across the full width of the lot between the
front lot line and the nearest line or point of the building.
YARD, SIDE: A yard extending from the front yard to the yard between the side
lot line and the nearest line or point of the building or accessory buildings
attached thereto. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009; amd. Ord. 2016-02, 9-6-2016; Ord.
2018-04, 11-13-2018, eff. 11-21-2018)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 10, chapter 2 of this Code.
2 1. See title 10 of this Code.
9-1-5: COORDINATION WITH NATURAL RESOURCES COMMITTEE:
The Planning and Zoning Commission, the Administrator, and all planning and
zoning staff will cooperate with and coordinate activities with the Natural
Resources Committee on all issues, actions, and matters which are relevant to
the duties of the Natural Resources Advisory Committee as set forth in title 2,
chapter 3 of this Code. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
CHAPTER 2
ADMINISTRATION; GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
9-2-1: Administration; Certificate Of Compliance
9-2-2: Planning And Zoning Commission
9-2-3: Staff
9-2-4: Staff To Assist Planning And Zoning Commission
9-2-5: Hearing Officer
9-2-6: Hearing Examiner
9-2-1: ADMINISTRATION; CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE:
   A.    Chief Administrative Office: The board of county commissioners will
serve as the chief administrative office for administration of comprehensive
planning and zoning activities conducted pursuant to this title and related
ordinances. The board may appoint or designate an administrator to handle these
duties.
   B.    Issuance Of Certificate Of Compliance: The board of commissioners, or
its designee, shall be responsible for issuing a certificate of compliance
which certifies that a proposed land use is in compliance with this title. If
the board's administrator has a question as to whether compliance has been
achieved, the question may be directed to the board for assistance and
resolution. No building permit may be issued, and no person may enter into
occupancy or begin the proposed use, until the certificate has been issued.
When the proposed land use is dependent upon a conditional use permit, the
certificate will be issued only after the applicant is in substantial
compliance with special conditions designed to be satisfied before
construction, occupancy or commencement of use. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
9-2-2: PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION:
   A.    Membership: The commission membership shall be set by resolution of
the board of county commissioners in compliance with the provisions of Idaho
Code section 67-6504.
   B.    Duties: The planning and zoning commission shall carry out the duties
of such commission as prescribed herein and in Idaho Code title 67, chapter 65.
   C.    Procedures; Time Frames: The planning and zoning commission shall
follow the procedures and time frames set forth in this title when performing
its duties. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
9-2-3: STAFF:
Staff functions, under the administrative direction of the board of county
commissioners, shall be performed by staff designated by the board by
resolution, and the duties of such staff and the procedures by which they will
perform their duties shall also be set by resolution. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
9-2-4: STAFF TO ASSIST PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION:
When staff members designated by the board are assisting the planning and
zoning commission in the performance of their duties, they shall operate under
the direction of the planning and zoning commission. Staff shall be designated
to assist the planning and zoning commission at the request of the commission.
(Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
9-2-5: HEARING OFFICER:
The board of commissioners or the planning and zoning commission may appoint a
hearing officer to perform the procedural functions set forth in this title
with regard to the procedures to be followed by the board and the commission.
The hearing officer shall not make findings of fact and conclusions of law, but
may assist the board or the commission in the preparation of such findings and
conclusions. If no hearing officer is appointed, the chairman or vice chairman
of the board or commission shall serve as hearing officer. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-
2009)
9-2-6: HEARING EXAMINER:
   A.    Appointment; Duties: The board of county commissioners may appoint a
hearing examiner to perform the duties as set forth by the Idaho legislature
including hearing applications for subdivisions, conditional use permits and
variances, and requests for zoning district boundary changes in accordance with
the comprehensive plan, as well as other duties which may be assigned by the
board of commissioners.
   B.    Hearing Procedures: When the hearing examiner conducts a hearing, the
same procedures as required for hearings before the planning and zoning
commission and the board of county commissioners shall apply.
   C.    Decision Of Hearing Examiner: The hearing examiner's decision to grant
or deny the application or request shall specify, in writing, the ordinance and
standards used in evaluating the application, the reasons for the decision, and
the actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain a permit or zoning
district boundary change in accordance with the comprehensive plan. The written
decision will be filed with the clerk of the board, and copies will be sent to
the planning and zoning commission and to the board of county commissioners.
   D.    Appeal: Any person aggrieved by the hearing examiner's decision may
appeal the decision to the board of county commissioners by filing a written
notice of appeal with the clerk of the board within twenty (20) days after the
decision is filed with the clerk. The appellate procedures, including payment
of fee, shall be the same for appeals from the examiner as from the planning
and zoning commission to the board of commissioners.
   E.    Recommendations: Additionally, either the planning and zoning
commission or the board of county commissioners may request that the hearing
examiner sit with the planning and zoning commission or board of county
commissioners during hearings held by those bodies on applications for
conditional use permits, variances or requests for zoning district boundary
changes; and, at the conclusion of such hearings, the examiner may make a
recommendation to the planning and zoning commission or board of county
commissioners conducting the hearing. Such recommendation shall specify the
ordinance and standards used by the examiner to evaluate the application or
request, the reasons for the recommendation, and the actions, if any, the
examiner believes the applicant could take to obtain a permit, variance or
zoning district boundary change. The planning and zoning commission or the
board of county commissioners shall not be bound to follow the recommendation,
but may take it into consideration in reaching their decision. Consideration of
the recommendation will not relieve the hearing body from its duty to issue a
written decision in accordance with this title. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
CHAPTER 3
HEARING PROCEDURES AND TIME LIMITS
SECTION:
9-3-1: Procedures
9-3-2: Application For Variances Or Conditional Use Permits
9-3-3: Time Frames For Hearing And Decision By Commission
9-3-4: Finality Of Commission Decision
9-3-5: Appeals To The Board
9-3-6: Show Cause Order
9-3-1: PROCEDURES:
The following procedures shall be followed by the planning and zoning
commission, by the hearing examiner and by the board of county commissioners in
matters in which a public hearing is required:
   A.    Hearing Officer; Certification Of Notice Of Hearing: The hearing
officer (including the examiner, the chairman or vice chairman serving as
hearing officer) shall preside over the public hearing and shall make all
procedural decisions which are necessary. Before commencing the hearing, the
presiding officer will certify that at least fifteen (15) days prior to the
hearing, notice of the time and place and a summary of the request to be heard
was published in the newspaper designated by the board of county commissioners
for publication of legal notices, and that written notice by United States mail
was provided so that at least fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing property
owners of property adjoining the subject land site and others as required by
the local land use act were notified of the hearing.
   B.    List Of Procedures; Sign Up Sheets: At least one-half (1/2) hour prior
to the commencement of the hearing, a list of the procedures to be followed at
the hearing shall be posted at the entrance to the hearing room along with sign
up sheets for prospective witnesses to sign.
   C.    Failure To Sign Up: The hearing officer may refuse to permit any
person to testify who has not signed the sign up sheet prior to commencement of
the hearing.
   D.    Statement Of Rules And Procedures: The hearing officer shall open the
meeting with a statement of the rules and procedures to be followed during the
hearing.
   E.    Statement Of Issues: The hearing officer shall open each hearing with
a statement of the issues before the commission or board in that particular
case and relief requested by the applicant.
   F.    Administration Of Oath Or Affirmation: The hearing officer shall
administer the oath or affirmation to the witnesses, except at legislative
hearings where public input is solicited.
   G.    Burden Of Persuasion: The applicant for relief or action by the board
or commission shall have the burden of persuasion.
   H.    Record Of Hearing: The record of the hearing, including minutes,
documents relating to the provision of notice of the hearing, documents
admitted into evidence or offered into evidence and rejected, motions and
briefs filed by any party, and the decision of the board or commission, shall
be filed by the hearing officer with the clerk of the board of county
commissioners to be held as official records of the county.
   I.    Written Findings, Conclusions And Order; Recommendation: The written
findings, conclusions and order or recommendation of the commission, hearing
officer or board shall be filed with the clerk of the board of county
commissioners to be held as official records of the county, and a copy shall be
mailed to the applicant seeking relief or action. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
9-3-2: APPLICATION FOR VARIANCES OR CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS:
   A.    Filing Of Application:
      1.    Form: An application for variance or conditional use permit must be
completed on a form approved by and provided by the administrator or the board
of county commissioners.
      2.    Instructions; Guidelines: The application will contain or be
accompanied by instructions which shall advise the applicant of the specific
elements of information and fact which must be presented, and as to which the
applicant has the burden of proof, before the requested relief can be granted.
The applicant shall be advised of the requirement that full and complete
information must be provided which demonstrates how and why a variance can be
granted under the requirements for variance set forth in this title, or how and
why a conditional use permit can be granted under the requirements for
conditional use permits set forth in this title. Such instructions shall
include a list of any use-siting guidelines, use guidelines, or specific
studies which the planning and zoning commission or board of commissioners may
require for consideration. Such guidelines may be established by the board of
commissioners by resolution, or may come from this title or related ordinances.
      3.    Filing; Fee: The application must be filed with the clerk of the
board, or the person designated by the board, and accompanied by a filing fee
as set by the board of commissioners by resolution. It must be signed by the
owner of the land site for which a variance or conditional use is proposed,
providing that an application may be signed by a designee of the owner if the
application contains a specific description of the relationship of the
applicant to the owner and to the proposed use and also a specific
authorization of the designee's presentation signed by the owner. No
application will be accepted for filing if not accompanied by the established
filing fee.
   B.    Time Frames For Presentation Of Application To Commission And
Scheduling Of Hearing:
      1.    Review By Administrator: The administrator will review and consider
the sufficiency of the application, and upon the acceptance by the
administrator, the application for variance or conditional use permit will be
presented to the planning and zoning commission at the first regularly
scheduled meeting of the commission after it is filed.
      2.    Sufficient Application: If the application contains information
which the administrator believes is sufficient for conduct of a public hearing,
the hearing shall be scheduled to be held within one hundred twenty five (125)
days of the date presented to the commission.
      3.    Insufficient Application: If the administrator finds the
application does not contain information complete enough to provide public
notice of the proposed use and/or to provide the basis for a meaningful public
hearing, then the administrator shall return the application to the party who
signed it with written instructions as to the deficiencies in the application
which must be cured before a hearing will be scheduled. Such action by the
administrator shall not be considered an appealable decision.
   C.    Resubmission Of Application: If an applicant resubmits an application
sent back by the administrator pursuant to the preceding subsection, the
administrator shall submit it to the commission at its next regularly scheduled
meeting. A fee for resubmission may be set by the board of commissioners by
resolution.
   D.    Consideration Of Resubmitted Application: The commission shall
consider resubmitted applications at the first regularly scheduled meeting
after the date of resubmission and acceptance by the administrator that the
application is sufficient to provide adequate public notice and to hold a
meaningful public hearing.
      1.    Application Sufficient For Hearing: If the administrator decides
that the application is sufficient, a hearing shall be scheduled to be held
within one hundred twenty five (125) days of the date of resubmission by the
application.
      2.    Application Insufficient For Hearing: If the administrator decides
that the application is not sufficient, the application will be denied and such
decision shall be considered final unless appealed to the board of
commissioners. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
9-3-3: TIME FRAMES FOR HEARING AND DECISION BY COMMISSION:
   A.    Recess Due To Insufficient Evidence: A hearing held by the commission
may be recessed if the commission finds it has not received sufficient evidence
from which to determine the issues relevant to the relief being requested. The
decision to recess the hearing shall include the date, time and place of the
resumed hearing and shall specify any limitations which will be placed on
receipt of evidence at the resumed hearing.
   B.    Second Recess Of Hearing: Upon resumption of the hearing, if the
commission finds that the evidence received is still insufficient to serve as
the basis for decision of the issues relevant to the relief being requested, a
second decision to recess may be issued, again including the date, time and
place of the resumed hearing and specification of any limitations which will be
placed on receipt of evidence at the second resumption. Notice of the second
resumption hearing shall be published in accordance with the hearing
requirements set by the local planning act.
   C.    Decision Of Commission: Upon conclusion of receipt of evidence as to
the application, the commission may grant the relief requested only if it is
persuaded by the applicant that the relief should be granted under this title
and in accordance with the standards established by this title. The commission
may make and announce its decision at the conclusion of receipt of evidence,
with a written decision to be filed not later than ninety five (95) days from
the announcement of decision, or may take the case under advisement, with a
written decision to be rendered no later than ninety five (95) days from the
date on which the case is taken under advisement.
   D.    Motion To Reconsider: Within fifteen (15) days of recording of a
written decision, any party may file a written motion to reconsider the
commission's decision, or any portion thereof. Upon payment of fees as set by
the board of county commissioners, the motion to reconsider will be scheduled
for hearing on the next regular hearing date for which appropriate pubic notice
can be provided. If such motion is filed, the appeal deadline is tolled and the
commission's decision is not final until the motion has been decided and until
the decision of the commission on the motion to reconsider is recorded. (Ord.
09-09, 10-6-2009)
9-3-4: FINALITY OF COMMISSION DECISION:
The decision of the planning and zoning commission or county commissioners as
to the variance or conditional use permit is not final until a written document
including findings, conclusions, and order is signed by the planning and zoning
commission or board of county commissioners and recorded by the clerk of the
board of county commissioners. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
9-3-5: APPEALS TO THE BOARD:
A party aggrieved by a final decision of the planning and zoning commission may
appeal the decision to the board of county commissioners, providing that the
following procedures must be followed:
   A.    Filing; Form: The appeal must be filed, in writing, with the clerk of
the board of commissioners, on a form provided by the board, within twenty (20)
days after the date on which the planning and zoning final decision is filed
with the clerk of the board.
   B.    Filing Fee: The notice of appeal must be accompanied by a filing fee
in an amount to be set by the board by resolution. The clerk shall not file the
notice of appeal until such fee is paid, and, if the fee is not paid within the
time set for filing an appeal, the planning and zoning commission decision is
final.
   C.    Presented To Board; Hearing Scheduled: The clerk shall present the
notice of appeal to the board of commissioners at its next regularly scheduled
meeting after the filing of the notice. The board shall schedule a public
hearing to be noticed and conducted in accordance with the local planning act,
and with the procedures set for hearings by this title. The hearing shall be
scheduled to be conducted within ninety five (95) days from the date the notice
of appeal is presented to the board by the clerk of the board. If a notice of
appeal was not timely filed, or if the appellate fee is not paid, the clerk
shall report such facts to the board at its first regularly scheduled meeting
after the appeal time has expired, and the board shall send to the aggrieved
party a written statement of the reasons why the board will not consider an
appeal.
   D.    Appeal Hearing: The board shall conduct its appeal hearing in
accordance with the procedural provisions for hearings set by this title. After
consideration of the planning and zoning commission decision and its underlying
evidence, any evidence offered by the commission or its staff in support of or
explanation of the decision, and evidence submitted by the appellant and other
witnesses, the board may affirm the commission's decision, modify the
commission's decision, reverse the commission's decision, or remand the case to
the commission for further consideration under the following standards:
      1.    New Evidence:
         a.    Remand To Planning And Zoning Commission; Fee: If the appellant
or other witnesses intend on presenting to the board, evidence not presented to
the planning and zoning commission during its hearing which would have been
relevant and material to the commission's decision, the board shall remand the
case to the commission for consideration of new evidence. Upon remand, the
commission shall consider the case on the next hearing date on which there is
time available for the hearing. A fee for the remand hearing will be assessed
as set by resolution.
         b.    Prehearing; Fee: At least twenty one (21) days prior to the date
set for the appellate hearing, the appellant shall advise the board, in
writing, if he/she intends to offer such evidence, and shall include the
written advisement of the nature and summary of the evidence intended to be
offered. At a preappeal hearing date and time set by the board, the board shall
decide whether the evidence would have been relevant and material to the
commission's decision. A fee for prehearing determination will be assessed as
set by resolution.
      2.    Action Of The Board: The board shall give substantial weight to the
decision of the planning and zoning commission and shall modify or reverse such
decision only if the board is persuaded by the appellant that the decision is
contrary to the county comprehensive plan, this title or to any other relevant
federal, state or county law.
         a.    The appellant has the burden of persuasion.
         b.    If, for any reason within the discretion of the board, the
appeal hearing must be recessed to receive further evidence, the recessed
hearing should be resumed on the next public hearing date on which there is
time available for resumption of the hearing. The recess order shall specify
the date, time and place of the resumed hearing as well as any limitations on
receipt of evidence at the resumed hearing. There shall be no more than one
recess of an appeal hearing.
         c.    When the evidence is completed at the appeal hearing, the board
may take the appeal under advisement and render its decision, in writing,
within ninety five (95) days of the date upon which the case is taken under
advisement, or may announce its decision orally and file its written decision
within ninety five (95) days of the announcement. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
9-3-6: SHOW CAUSE ORDER:
At any time while an application for variance or conditional use permit is
pending, and any time before a decision of the board of county commissioners or
planning and zoning commission becomes final, if the governing body receives an
allegation that the applicant is making unlawful use of the property which is
the subject of the application, or that the applicant is using the property in
any way inconsistent with the current zoning status, the board of county
commissioners or the planning and zoning commission may enter a show cause
order to be served on the applicant to require that the applicant show cause at
a hearing on a date certain why the application should not be denied. Said
notice shall be noticed and scheduled in accordance with the provisions of this
title as to notice for conditional use permit hearing proceedings. In case of
an emergency, endangering public health or safety found to exist by the
governing body, the time noticed for said hearing may be shortened to five (5)
working days from the time the show cause order is served on the applicant.
(Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
CHAPTER 4
ZONING DISTRICTS; MAPS
SECTION:
9-4-1: Zoning Districts
9-4-2: Maps
9-4-1: ZONING DISTRICTS:
   A.    Established: In order to implement the Owyhee County comprehensive
plan and to accomplish the purpose of this title, there are hereby established
the following zoning districts in the unincorporated area of the county: (Ord.
09-09, 10-6-2009)
 
A Agricultural
M Multi-use
R Residential
C Commercial
I Industrial
H Historical
- Power zoning overlay
 
(Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009; amd. Ord. 2013-03, 8-12-2013)
   B.    Land Use Within Districts: Land use in the districts must be
consistent with the provisions of this title regarding the uses allowed and
permitted within each district.
   C.    Compliance Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to establish
or maintain a land use in any of the specified districts except in compliance
with the provisions of this title.
   D.    Conditional Use Permit, Easements: A conditional use permit is
required for and prior to creation of an easement which requires the servient
estate owner to change or alter the land use of the servient estate or any part
thereof in existence on the stated effective date of the easement, or which
prohibits the servient estate owner from enlarging, expanding, changing or
altering the land use of the servient estate, or any part thereof in existence
on the stated effective date of the easement. The provision is applicable to,
but not limited to, easements popularly known as "conservation easements",
"recreation easements", "open space easements". Chapter 5 of this title shall
be applicable to the application for conditional use permit filed pursuant to
this section. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
9-4-2: MAPS:
   A.    Official Zoning District Maps: The official zoning district maps for
the county shall be the maps accompanying the county comprehensive plan
approved in February 2002, with the exception that "rural residential" and
"river residential" shall be removed from the map and those districts shall be
shown as "residential".
   B.    Maintained At Courthouse Or Courthouse Annex: The official maps shall
be maintained at the county courthouse or courthouse annex building by the
administrator of planning and zoning and shall be available for public use
during regular business hours established for the county courthouse by the
board of county commissioners.
   C.    Legal Descriptions: The legal descriptions of the zoning districts
shall be as stated in the comprehensive plan and as attached to the official
maps. No legal description has been provided for the large A zone, and boundary
lines of that zone shall be determined by reference to adjoining zone district
boundaries.
   D.    Discrepancy Between Description And Depiction: Any discrepancy between
the legal description of the zoning district and the depiction of the zoning
district on the official maps shall be governed by the legal description. (Ord.
09-09, 10-6-2009)
CHAPTER 5
ZONING DISTRICT REGULATIONS
ARTICLE A.  A AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
9-5A-1: Purpose
9-5A-2: Designation
9-5A-3: Allowed Uses
9-5A-4: Permitted Uses Under Conditional Use Permit
9-5A-5: Building Setbacks
9-5A-6: Rights Of Way
9-5A-1: PURPOSE:
   A.    District A is designed to protect agricultural and rangeland uses.
District A is designed to protect and maintain agricultural and rangeland uses,
and to maintain viable tracts of prime agricultural and rangeland. Minor
incidental agricultural uses do not indicate, designate, or determine the use
as an agricultural use.
   B.    Residential uses that are not part of a customary use related to the
operation of an individual farm or ranch will be discouraged in district A.
Parcels proposed for residential development will not be considered
agricultural uses merely because there is some incidental agricultural use such
as pasture for family pets.
   C.    Large lot subdivisions with incidental use of nonviable agricultural
size parcels use will be discouraged. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
9-5A-2: DESIGNATION:
The zoning district designed for agricultural use shall be designated "district
A". (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
9-5A-3: ALLOWED USES:
The following uses are allowed in district A:
Agricultural operations including, without limitation, any facility for the
growing, raising or production of agricultural, horticultural and viticultural
crops and vegetable products of the soil, poultry and poultry products,
livestock, field grains, seeds, hay, apiary and dairy products and the
processing for commercial purposes of livestock or agricultural commodities,
including the processing of such commodities into food commodities, but
excluding "CAFO" as defined in section
9-1-4 of this title and meatpacking plants.
Attached living quarters to a currently existing dwelling, with a common wall,
for a member of the family who is ill, elderly, or disabled.
Cottage industries and in home businesses.
Horse breeding and training facilities, boarding stables, riding stables,
arenas.
Off-grid solar systems up to 25 kW for agricultural purposes, excluding
dwellings.
Oil and gas well sites.
Those accessory or incidental uses customarily associated with the above stated
uses. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009; amd. Ord. 2013-02, 8-12-2013; Res. 20-26, 9-21-
2021)
9-5A-4: PERMITTED USES UNDER CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT:
   A.    Permitted Uses: The following uses may be permitted in district A
under a conditional use permit granted in accordance with the provisions of
this title which calls for protection of agricultural and rangeland uses. Great
weight will be given to the soil classifications found on the parcel and the
historic and current use of the parcel(s), as well as surrounding land uses:
   Uses allowed or permitted in district R.
   Airports.
   Cemeteries.
   Confined animal feeding operations.
   Easement as referred to in subsection 9-4-1D of this title.
Energy resources developed for on site agricultural use.
   Gravel pits and quarries.
Hunting clubs, shooting facilities or fishing clubs or facilities.
   Junkyard.
   Kennels.
Land applied wastewater (nonhazardous) and agricultural byproducts wastewater.
   Meatpacking plants.
Municipal facilities for hosting of local or regional fairs.
Municipal solid waste landfills and municipal solid waste transfer stations.
   Planned unit development.
Power generation, production and/or distribution facilities.
   Preschool nurseries and/or child daycare.
Public and semipublic buildings including, but not limited to, law enforcement,
fire, health and safety buildings and uses, government services, schools,
libraries, and other public uses.
   Radio and television transmitting stations.
Recreational pursuits and opportunities accessory to or incidental to
agricultural operations.
Recreational use facilities.
Single-family dwelling for residence by a farm/ranch owner's family member,
agent, or employee who is employed full time in the operation of the farm,
ranch or agricultural unit. For the purposes of this use, "full time" is
defined as receipt during the year immediately preceding the date of the filing
of an application for conditional use of eighty percent (80%) or more of the
person's gross income from the farm or ranch or agricultural unit on which the
dwelling would be placed.
   Veterinary or animal hospitals.
Any of the above uses may be subject to a development agreement 1 .
Any use not identified in the allowed uses, and not identified as a permitted
use may be permitted only through the conditional use process.
   B.    Conditions: Conditions placed on a conditional use permit granted
pursuant to this title for any of the permitted uses listed herein must be
complied with. Noncompliance with the terms and conditions of the conditional
use permit shall make the use unlawful. It shall be unlawful to establish and
then maintain any of the permitted uses listed herein without obtaining and
complying with a conditional use permit.
   C.    CAFO: A CAFO can be permitted only upon the granting of a conditional
use permit, and the application for such permit and processing of the
application shall be subject to the following provisions:
      1.    Application; Odor Management Plan: The application for such permit
shall be filed with the planning and zoning administrator along with an odor
management plan. The application shall be on a form approved by the board,
shall contain all the information required by the board and communicated to the
applicant, and no such application will be processed unless it is accompanied
by an odor management plan.
      2.    Review: The application and odor management plan shall be reviewed
by the planning and zoning commission or hearing examiner to determine whether
they are complete enough to allow for adequate factual consideration in the
hearing process. If so, the planning and zoning commission or hearing examiner
will request that the board of commissioners request the forming of a CAFO site
advisory team pursuant to Idaho Code section 67-6529E. If not, the application
and odor management plan shall be returned to the applicant with specification
of the deficiencies.
      3.    Time Limits: The time limits set for consideration of applications
in this title shall not begin to run until the report of the CAFO site advisory
team is received by the clerk of the board of commissioners. From the date of
receipt, the time for scheduling hearings shall commence to run.
      4.    Considerations: In considering the application for CAFO conditional
use permit, the planning and zoning commission or hearing examiner shall
consider the odor management plan, the CAFO site advisory team report and any
guidelines adopted by resolution by the board of commissioners, which
guidelines shall be provided to the applicant for consideration in preparing
the application. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection 8-2C-6B of this code.
9-5A-5: BUILDING SETBACKS:
No building or structure shall be placed within five feet (5') of the property
line, or forty feet (40') of a county road or one hundred feet (100') of a
state or federal highway. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
9-5A-6: RIGHTS OF WAY:
All street and road rights of way shall be developed in accordance with any
minimum standards adopted by the county. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
ARTICLE B.  M MULTI-USE DISTRICT
SECTION:
9-5B-1: Purpose
9-5B-2: Designation
9-5B-3: Allowed Uses
9-5B-4: Permitted Uses Under Conditional Use Permit
9-5B-5: Building Setbacks
9-5B-6: Rights-Of-Way
9-5B-1: PURPOSE:
District M is designed for mixed and varied uses in areas where commercial use
should be anticipated in accordance with the County comprehensive plan. (Ord.
09-09, 10-6-2009)
9-5B-2: DESIGNATION:
The zoning district designed for multi-use shall be designated "District M".
(Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
9-5B-3: ALLOWED USES:
The following uses are allowed in District M:
Uses allowed in the A District.
Uses allowed in the C District except dairy processing plants.
Uses allowed in the R District except residential subdivisions.
Boarding and rooming houses.
Churches and church schools.
Colleges and private schools.
Dormitories, sorority and fraternity houses.
Hospitals, rest homes, convalescent homes, and nursing homes.
Light industrial.
Oil and gas well sites.
Preschool age nurseries.
Professional offices.
Public schools.
Public utility mains and substations including public offices but not including
repair or storage facilities.
Single-family dwellings and multi-family dwellings.
Other uses related to or incidental to the primary uses set forth in this
section including, but not limited to, private swimming pools. (Ord. 2018-04,
11-13-2018, eff. 11-21-2018)
9-5B-4: PERMITTED USES UNDER CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT:
   A.    Permitted Uses: The following uses may be permitted in District M
under a conditional use permit granted in accordance with the provisions of
this title:
Uses permitted in District A except for confined animal feeding operations and
meatpacking plants.
   Uses permitted in District C.
   Uses permitted in District R.
Easement as referred to in subsection 9-4-1D of this title.
Municipal solid waste sites and Municipal waste transfer stations.
Public parks, playgrounds and other recreational areas.
Public utilities repair or storage facilities.
Recreational vehicle parks.
Uses not identified in the allowed uses or in the permitted uses may be
permitted only through the conditional use permit process.
   B.    Conditions: Conditions placed on a conditional use permit granted
pursuant to this title for any of the permitted uses listed herein must be
complied with. Noncompliance with the terms and conditions of the conditional
use permit shall make the use unlawful. It shall be unlawful to establish and
then maintain any of the permitted uses listed herein without obtaining and
complying with a conditional use permit. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
9-5B-5: BUILDING SETBACKS:
No building or structure shall be placed within five feet (5') of the property
line, or forty feet (40') of a County road or one hundred feet (100') of a
State or Federal highway. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
9-5B-6: RIGHTS-OF-WAY:
All street and road rights-of-way shall be developed in accordance with any
minimum standards adopted by the County. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
ARTICLE C.  R RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
9-5C-1: Purpose
9-5C-2: Designation
9-5C-3: Minimum Lot Size
9-5C-4: Allowed Uses
9-5C-5: Permitted Uses Under Conditional Use Permit
9-5C-6: Building Setbacks
9-5C-7: Rights-Of-Way
9-5C-1: PURPOSE:
The R Zoning District is designed primarily for residential uses. Subdivisions
may be subject to a development agreement. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
9-5C-2: DESIGNATION:
The zoning district designed for residential uses shall be designated "District
R". (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
9-5C-3: MINIMUM LOT SIZE:
The minimum lot size in the Residential Zone is that upon which the Southwest
District Health will permit placement of water and sewer systems, and that
which is determined to have sufficient domestic water supply. (Ord. 09-09, 10-
6-2009)
9-5C-4: ALLOWED USES:
The following uses are allowed in District R:
All existing agricultural uses.
Cottage industry/in home business.
Oil and gas well sites.
Residential subdivisions.
Single-family, including attached quarters with a common wall for a member of
the family.
Other uses related to or incidental to the primary use set forth in this
section. (Ord. 2018-04, 11-13-2018, eff. 11-21-2018)
9-5C-5: PERMITTED USES UNDER CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT:
   A.    Permitted Uses: The following uses may be permitted in District R
under a conditional use permit granted in accordance with provisions of this
title:
Boarding and rooming houses.
Churches and church schools.
Colleges and private schools.
Convalescent and nursing homes.
Daycare facilities, preschool nurseries.
Easements as referred to in subsection 9-4-1D of this title.
Grocery stores, gasoline stations, recreational facilities and other such
service businesses as are beneficial or necessary for the support and service
of the residential developments in the district.
Hospitals.
Mobile home parks.
Multi-family dwellings.
Planned unit development.
Playgrounds and other public areas.
Public and semipublic buildings including, but not limited to, law enforcement,
fire, health and safety buildings and uses, government services and other
public uses.
Public parks.
Public schools.
Public utility mains and substations.
Other uses incidental to or related to the primary uses set forth herein.
Any of the above uses may be subject to a development agreement.
Any use not identified in the allowed uses or in the permitted uses may be
permitted only through the conditional use permit process. (Ord. 2018-04, 11-
13-2018, eff. 11-21-2018)
   B.    Lot Area; Structure Requirements: All structures placed on lots or
parcels of any size must meet standards, rules and regulations set up by the
State Board of Health or the Southwest District Health Department.
   C.    Conditions: Conditions placed on a conditional use permit granted
pursuant to this title for any of the permitted uses listed herein must be
complied with. Noncompliance with the terms and conditions of the conditional
use permit shall make the use unlawful. It shall be unlawful to establish and
then maintain any of the permitted uses listed herein without obtaining and
complying with a conditional use permit. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
9-5C-6: BUILDING SETBACKS:
No building or structure shall be placed within five feet (5') of the property
line, or within forty feet (40') of a County road or within one hundred feet
(100') of a State or Federal highway. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
9-5C-7: RIGHTS-OF-WAY:
All street and road rights-of-way shall be developed in accordance with any
minimum standards adopted by the County. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
ARTICLE D.  C COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
9-5D-1: Designation
9-5D-2: Allowed Uses
9-5D-3: Permitted Uses Under Conditional Use Permit
9-5D-4: Building Setbacks
9-5D-5: Rights-Of-Way
9-5D-1: DESIGNATION:
The zoning district designed for commercial uses shall be designated "District
C". (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
9-5D-2: ALLOWED USES:
The following uses are allowed in District C:
All existing agricultural uses.
All uses allowed in Districts R and M except residential subdivisions.
Commercial businesses and uses not prohibited by Federal, State or County law,
or any section of this title, excepting CAFOs, meatpacking plants and any
industrial business or use.
Oil and gas well sites. (Ord. 2018-04, 11-13-2018, eff. 11-21-2018)
9-5D-3: PERMITTED USES UNDER CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT:
The following uses are permitted in District C only under a conditional use
permit issued pursuant to the provisions of this title:
Easements as referred to in subsection 9-4-1D of this title.
Planned unit development.
Public and semipublic buildings, including, but not limited to, law
enforcement, fire, health and safety buildings and uses, government services
and other public uses.
Any use not identified in the allowed uses or permitted uses may be permitted
only through the conditional use permit process. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
9-5D-4: BUILDING SETBACKS:
No building or structure or any portion thereof, except steps and uncovered
porches less than ten feet (10') in width, shall be erected within five feet
(5') of the property line. If the property adjoins District A, M or R, no
building or structure or any portion thereof shall be placed within two hundred
feet (200') of a property line that adjoins said Districts. No building or
structure shall be placed within forty feet (40') of a County road, or within
one hundred feet (100') of a State or Federal highway. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
9-5D-5: RIGHTS-OF-WAY:
All street and road rights-of-way shall be developed in accordance with any
minimum standards adopted by the County. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
ARTICLE E.  I INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
9-5E-1: Purpose
9-5E-2: Designation
9-5E-3: Allowed Uses
9-5E-4: Permitted Uses By Conditional Use Permit
9-5E-5: Building Setbacks
9-5E-6: Rights Of Way
9-5E-1: PURPOSE:
District I is designed to accommodate light industries, manufacturing plants,
processing plants and other related uses which are compatible with the county's
other land uses. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
9-5E-2: DESIGNATION:
The zoning district designed for industrial uses shall be designated "district
I". (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
9-5E-3: ALLOWED USES:
The following uses are allowed in district I:
All existing agricultural uses.
Industrial businesses and uses not prohibited by federal, state or county law
or by any section of this title, except CAFOs.
Oil and gas well sites. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009; amd. Ord. 2013-02, 8-12-2013)
9-5E-4: PERMITTED USES BY CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT:
The following uses are permitted in district I only by conditional use permit
issued pursuant to the provisions of this title:
Easements as referred to in subsection 9-4-1D of this title.
Hazardous waste sites.
Municipal solid waste landfills and municipal solid waste transfer stations.
Planned unit developments.
Residential dwellings.
Any use not identified in the allowed uses or permitted uses are permitted only
by conditional use permit process. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
9-5E-5: BUILDING SETBACKS:
No building or structure or any portion thereof, except steps and uncovered
porches less than ten feet (10') in width, shall be erected within five feet
(5') of the property line. If the property adjoins districts A, R or M, no
building shall be placed within two hundred feet (200') of a property line that
adjoins said districts. No building or structure shall be placed within forty
feet (40') of a county road, or within one hundred feet (100') of a state or
federal highway. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
9-5E-6: RIGHTS OF WAY:
All street and road rights of way shall be developed in accordance with any
minimum standards adopted by the county. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
ARTICLE F.  H SILVER CITY HISTORICAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
9-5F-1: Designation
9-5F-2: Purposes
9-5F-3: Certificate Of Appropriateness, General Provisions, Procedures And
Standards
9-5F-4: Review Standards For Certificate Of Appropriateness
9-5F-5: Definitions
9-5F-6: Allowed Uses
9-5F-7: Permitted Uses Under Conditional Use Permit
9-5F-8: Prohibited Uses
9-5F-9: Certificate Of Appropriateness
9-5F-1: DESIGNATION:
   A.    The Silver City historical district shall be designated district H and
shall be shown as such on the county zoning map of Owyhee County, Idaho. The
Silver City townsite is located inside the H district but is not governed by
chapter 5 of this title. The Silver City townsite continues to be governed by
chapter 7 of this title. (Ord. 2016-02, 9-6-2016)
   B.    The Silver City historic district consists of all of Sections 25, 26,
35, and 36 in Township 4 South, Range 4 West Boise Meridian including all of
Sections 31 and 32, Township 4 South, Range 4 West Boise Meridian; including
all of Sections 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, and 10 in Township 5 South, Range 3 West,
Boise Meridian; all the above in Owyhee County, State of Idaho.
   C.    District H as depicted on the county map includes the ten thousand two
hundred forty (10,240) acres in the Silver City historic district as defined by
this title. This area is listed on the national register of historic places
(1863 - 1940) as the Silver City historic district. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
9-5F-2: PURPOSES:
The purposes for designating a historical district are:
   A.    To safeguard the county's historic aesthetic and cultural heritage as
embodied and reflected in its landmarks, views and properties;
   B.    Foster civic pride in the accomplishments of the past as represented
by the historic district;
   C.    Promote the use of the historic district for the education, pleasure,
and welfare of the people of the county;
   D.    Retain and enhance those properties which contribute to the character
of the district and to encourage their preservation, conservation and
adaptation for current use;
   E.    Assure that alterations of existing structures are compatible with the
character of the historic district;
   F.    Assure that new construction in the historic district is compatible
with the character of the historic district and Silver City townsite;
   G.    Provide development standards to minimize the impact of human made
structures and surface grading on existing landforms, unique geologic features,
existing landscape features and open space;
   H.    Protect and preserve views of major and minor ridgelines;
   I.    Minimize cut and fill, earthmoving, grading operations and other
construction on the natural terrain to ensure the finished slopes are
compatible with existing land character;
   J.    Promote architecture and designs that are compatible with the Silver
City townsite and minimize visual impacts throughout the historic district.
   K.    It is not the intent of this title to supersede any state or federal
law. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
9-5F-3: CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS, GENERAL PROVISIONS, PROCEDURES AND
STANDARDS:
   A.    Review By Historic Preservation Commission: No building permit shall
be issued for any structure or site located within the historical district
until the application for such permit has been reviewed by the county historic
preservation commission appointed by the board of county commissioners and
approved by the board and building official.
   B.    Review By Building Department: When applying for a certificate of
appropriateness, the applicant shall furnish twelve (12) copies of all detailed
plans, elevations, perspectives, specifications and location of property pins
or property boundaries to the county building department for review by the
building official to determine whether the project will require a building
permit. Following that review, and within ten (10) business days, the building
department will send the copies and the application for certificate of
appropriateness to the historic preservation commission.
   C.    Request For Meeting: Any applicant for a building permit and
certificate of appropriateness may request a meeting with the building official
and/or the historic preservation commission prior to the submittal of an
application, and will be given written notice of the meeting during which the
permit and/or certificate of appropriateness will be discussed or considered.
   D.    Additional Information: During the review process the county historic
preservation commission may require the submission of additional information,
including, but not limited to, a photo or computer simulation of the project
and associated improvements.
   E.    Technical Standards: An applicant should address the following
standards in developing a project plan:
      1.    Highest Point Of Structure: The highest point of the proposed
structure shall be more than twenty five (25) vertical feet below a major or
minor ridgeline as measured from the ground to the roofline.
      2.    Building Size: Building size for single-family residential, and
commercial structures shall be in keeping with the small scale building size or
the structures in the Silver City townsite. The maximum floor area, including
all floors, is one thousand two hundred (1,200) square feet or less. The
maximum floor area, including all floors, for accessory or appurtenant
structures is a combined total maximum size of three hundred (300) square feet.
      3.    Setbacks: Building setbacks shall be five feet (5') from the
property line and forty feet (40') from a county road.
      4.    Structure Height: The height of a structure is to be twenty four
feet (24') or less as measured from finished grade along fifty percent (50%) or
more of the longest wall.
      5.    Landscaping Plan: The improvement(s) including any required
earthmoving or grading associated with the structure shall minimize removal of
existing vegetation with emphasis on preserving mature trees. A detailed
landscaping plan shall be presented showing the location and replacement of
trees and vegetation.
      6.    Natural On Site Vegetation: A significant portion of natural on
site vegetation must be retained to naturally screen the project.
      7.    Landscaping: Landscaping will be installed and designed to screen
the project so as to prevent it from creating adverse visual impact.
      8.    Exterior Color Treatment: The exterior color treatment of a new
structure and appurtenances will be designed to blend with the historical
nature and ambience of the historic district, vegetation and landforms.
      9.    Exterior Windows And Trim: Exterior windows and trim are to be
appropriate to the historically represented date range of the structure.
      10.    Roof Angles And Composition: Roof angles and composition to be
designed to conform to existing landforms and landscape, with no A-frame roofs,
the roof with the wall to roof height not to exceed one and a half to one (1.5:
1).
      11.    Site And Design: The project shall be sited and designed to reduce
its visual impact on the ridgelines, historic sites and unique topographic
features.
      12.    Landforms: Landforms to be considered to be unique topographic
features are, but not limited to: Florida Mountain, War Eagle Mountain, Potosi
Ridge, Silver City entrance road, New York Summit and Jordan Headwaters
Ridgeline.
   F.    Variance: A person may apply to the historic preservation commission
for a variance from one or more of the technical standards set forth in
subsections A through E of this section.
      1.    Form: The variance shall be filed on a form approved by the board
of commissioners. The variance must specifically identify the standard or
standards from which relief is sought, and must contain a detailed and clear
statement of facts supporting the request for variance.
      2.    Grounds For Allowing: A variance may be granted when application of
the standard or standards would result in depriving the applicant of practical
and reasonable use of his/her property for its allowed or permitted use, and
when granting the variance does not substantially detract from the purposes set
forth in this article.
      3.    Decision Of Historical Preservation Commission: A decision by the
historical preservation commission granting a variance is final. If the
variance is denied, the decision must be in writing and must contain findings
and conclusions supporting the denial.
      4.    Appeal: A person aggrieved by a denial of a variance may appeal to
the board of county commissioners by filing an appeal on a form approved by the
board within twenty (20) days of receipt of the denial decision of the historic
preservation commission. The appeal must be accompanied by payment of a fee set
by resolution of the board. The appeal must specifically and clearly state the
action from which the appeal is taken, specifically identify the standard or
standards from which relief was sought, and must specifically and clearly state
why the denial is wrong factually and/or wrong because in violation of
ordinance or statute.
      5.    Hearing: The hearing and time lines for hearing will be governed by
the provisions for conditional use permit hearings set in chapter 6 of this
title. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
9-5F-4: REVIEW STANDARDS FOR CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS:
The following standards shall be reviewed to determine:
   A.    The degree to which the work may destroy or alter the appearance of a
structure or lot;
   B.    The degree to which the proposed work would serve to isolate the
structure from its historical, archaeological or architectural surroundings, or
would introduce visual, audible, vibratory or polluting elements that are out
of character with the resource and its setting, or that would adversely affect
the physical integrity of the resource;
   C.    The compatibility of the building materials with the aesthetic and
structural appearance of the resource;
   D.    The compatibility of the proposed design to the significant
characteristics of the structure;
   E.    Changes that have taken place in the course of time are evidence of
the history and development of a building, structure or site and its
environment, as these changes may have acquired significance in their own
right, and this significance shall be recognized and respected;
   F.    Distinctive stylistic features or examples of skilled craftsmanship,
which characterize a building, structure or site, shall be treated with
sensitivity;
   G.    Deteriorated architectural features shall be repaired rather than
replaced whenever possible. In the event that replacement is necessary, the
material being replaced shall be historically compatible to the original in
composition, design, color, texture and other visual qualities of the relevant
historical period. Repair or replacement of missing architectural features
should be based on evidence rather than conjectural design or the availability
of different architectural elements from other buildings or structures;
   H.    The purposes stated in section
9-5F-2 of this article should be reviewed as stated for certificate of
appropriateness. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
9-5F-5: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article, the following terms and phrases shall have the
meanings ascribed to them as follows:
ADAPTIVE USE: The restrained alteration of a historical or architectural
resource to accommodate uses for which the resource was not originally
constructed, but in such a way so as to maintain the general historical and
architectural character to retain significant features and characteristics.
APPURTENANT AND/OR ANCILLARY STRUCTURES: Structures that are subordinate and
supplementary to the predominant use of the parcel.
ARCHEOLOGICAL RESOURCES: Areas or location occupied as residences or utilized
by humans (historic or prehistoric) for a sufficient length of time to
construct features or deposits, which may remain in greater or lesser degrees
of preservation and order and which may lend to the increase of knowledge of
humans and their own development.
ARCHITECTURAL RESOURCES: Districts, zones, structures, buildings, sites or
landscaping that possess local interest or artistic merit, or which are
particularly representative of their class or period, or represent achievements
in architecture, or engineering technology or design.
BOARD: The Owyhee County board of commissioners.
BUILDING MATERIALS: The physical characteristics which create the aesthetic and
structural appearance of the resource, including, but not limited to,
consideration of the texture and style of the components and their
combinations, such as brick, stone, shingle, wood, concrete or stucco.
CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS: The official document issued by the historic
preservation commission prior to the approval of any application to construct,
demolish, relocate, reconstruct, restore or alter any site in the historic
district.
COMMERCIAL: As defined in section
9-1-4 of this title.
COMMISSION: The Owyhee County planning and zoning commission.
CONSERVATION: The sustained use of and appearance of a resource essentially in
its existing state.
DETAIL: Architectural aspects which, due to a particular treatment, draw
attention to certain parts or features of a structure.
FLOOR AREA: The structure area confined to the area encompassed by the outside
surface of the structure foundation.
GRADING: Earthmoving activity.
HEIGHT: The vertical dimension of a given structure or building and defined as
measured from the ground to roofline.
HISTORIC DISTRICT: The area of Owyhee County which has been so designated and
defined by legal description and demonstrated on a map, both of which are
attached to the body of the zoning ordinance on file in the office of the
county clerk.
HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION: The commission appointed by the board to
provide advice on preservation of Owyhee County historic resources.
HISTORIC RESOURCES: Districts, zones, sites, structures, buildings and
landscape that represent facets of history in the locality, state or nation;
places associated with a personality or a group important to the past.
HISTORICAL NATURE: A particular character or atmosphere pertaining to the
historical uniqueness of a specific district, zone, site, structure, building,
or landscape that represents facets of Owyhee County history.
JUNKYARD: As defined in section
9-1-4 of this title.
NEW STRUCTURE: Any structure not in existence on May 19, 2008.
ORDINARY MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR: Any work for which a building permit or any
other permit is not required, and where the purpose of the work is
stabilization, and where the work will not change the exterior appearance of
the structure. Any work not satisfying the definition of the previous sentence
shall not be considered ordinary maintenance and repair, e.g., the application
of paint to previously unpainted surfaces shall not be considered ordinary
maintenance and repair, nor shall the construction or enlargement of a driveway
or parking area be considered ordinary maintenance and repair.
OUTBUILDING: Structure built for storage and/or purposes other than habitation.
PORCH: An attached structure, covered or uncovered, without exterior walls.
PRESERVATION: Any action taken to prevent further deterioration or damage to an
item or structure while maintaining that item or structure in its present
condition and the act or process of applying measures to sustain the existing
form, integrity, and material of a building or structure and the existing form
and vegetative cover of a site. Preservation may include initial stabilization
work, where necessary, as well as ongoing maintenance of the historic building
materials.
PROPORTION: The relative physical sizes within and between buildings and
building components.
PROTECTION: The act or process of applying measures designed to affect the
physical condition of a property by defending or guarding it from
deterioration, loss or attack, or to cover or shield the property from danger
or injury. In the case of buildings and structures, such treatment is generally
of a temporary nature and anticipates future historic preservation treatment;
in the case of archeological sites, the protective measure may be temporary or
permanent.
RECONSTRUCTION: The process of reproducing by new construction the exact form
and detail of a vanished building, structure, or object, or a part thereof, as
it appeared at the specific period of time of the original structure.
REHABILITATION: The process of returning a property to a state of utility,
through repair or alteration, which makes possible an efficient contemporary
use while preserving those portions or features of the property which are
significant to its historical, architectural and cultural values.
RESTORATION: The act or process of reproducing by new construction the exact
form and detail of a vanished building structure, or object, or a part thereof,
as it appeared at a specific period or time or the removal of features added at
a later point in time.
RHYTHM: A regular pattern of shapes including, but not limited to, windows,
doors, projections and heights, within a building, structure, or group of same.
RIDGELINE: A visually prominent, relatively narrow strip or crest of land,
which includes the highest points of elevation within a watershed that
separates one drainage basin from another.
  Major Ridgeline: A ridgeline which is prominently visible in the historic
district, characterized by the lack of topographical backdrop where the sky is
visible beyond the ridge.
  Minor Ridgeline: A ridgeline which is not prominently visible from all
points. Minor ridgelines are typically lower in height, when compared to the
surrounding terrain and may be visible only to a limited area, or have a
backdrop of a nearby higher topographical feature.
SCALE: The harmonious proportion of parts of a building or structure to one
another and to the human figure.
SETTING: The surrounding buildings, structures or landscaping which provide
visual, aesthetic or auditory quality of the historic or architectural
resources.
SHAPE: The physical configuration of structures or buildings and their
component parts including, but not limited to, roofs, doors, windows and
facades.
SIGNIFICANT CHARACTERISTICS OF HISTORICAL OR ARCHITECTURAL RESOURCES: Those
characteristics which are important to or expressive of the historical,
architectural, or cultural quality and integrity of the resource and its
setting, and which include, but are not limited to, building material, detail,
height, mass, proportion, rhythm, scale, setback, setting, shape, street
accessories and workmanship.
STABILIZATION: The act or process of applying measures designated to
reestablish a weather resistant enclosure and the structural stability of an
unsafe or deteriorated property while maintaining the essential form as it
exists at present.
STREET ACCESSORIES: Those sidewalk or street fixtures which provide
cleanliness, comfort, direction or safety and are compatible in design to their
surroundings, and include, but are not limited to, trash receptacles, benches,
signs, lights, hydrants and landscaping including, but not limited to, trees,
shrubbery, and planters.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires permanent
location on the ground or which is attached to something having a permanent
location on the ground. This includes, but is not limited to, buildings, fences
(excepting fences for containment of livestock or which are used in a livestock
grazing operation), walls, driveways, sidewalks, signs and parking areas.
SUBDIVISION: As defined in title 10, chapter 2 of this code. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-
2009)
9-5F-6: ALLOWED USES:
The following uses are allowed within district H:
Currently existing agricultural uses, and those accessory or incidental uses
customarily associated with those agricultural uses.
Interior rehabilitation and stabilization of structures.
Maintenance or construction of nonresidential fences, corral/containment
facilities for livestock.
Mining operations.
Oil and gas well sites.
Ordinary maintenance and stabilization of structures. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009;
amd. Ord. 2013-02, 8-12-2013)
9-5F-7: PERMITTED USES UNDER CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT:
   A.    Uses: Any use not identified in the allowed uses and which is not
listed as a prohibited use may be permitted only following receipt of a
certificate of appropriateness and approval of a conditional use permit
pursuant to chapter 6 of this title.
   B.    Certificate Of Appropriateness; Appeal: The decision of the historic
preservation commission as to the certificate of appropriateness shall be in
writing and shall state reasons upon which the decision is based. A party
aggrieved by a denial of certificate of appropriateness may file an appeal to
the board of commissioners by filing a notice of appeal with the clerk of the
board, on the form approved by the board of commissioners, within twenty (20)
days after the date of denial. The notice must state the reasons why the denial
should be overturned and must be accompanied by a copy of the decision being
appealed and payment of the fee set by the board. A hearing on the appeal shall
be scheduled in conformity with the time limits set for hearings by this title.
The appellant may represent himself or be represented by counsel. The county
historic preservation officer shall represent the historic preservation
committee to present the historic preservation commission's reasons for denying
the certificate. The board of commissioners shall give substantial weight to
the advisory decision of the historic preservation commission, and shall
reverse their decision only if the denial is not consistent with the purposes
for establishing the historic district and the standards for review set in
section
9-5F-3 of this article, or is in violation of this title and/or federal or
state law.
   C.    Conditional Use Permit: Upon issuance of a certificate of
appropriateness, the applicant shall then file an application for a conditional
use permit pursuant to chapter 6 of this title. The conditional use permit
shall be heard by the board of commissioners.
   D.    Conditions Placed On Conditional Use Permit: Conditions may be placed
on a conditional use permit granted pursuant to this article for any of the
permitted uses listed herein. Noncompliance with the terms and conditions of
the conditional use permit shall make the use unlawful. It shall be unlawful to
establish and then maintain any of the permitted uses listed herein without
obtaining and complying with a conditional use permit. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
9-5F-8: PROHIBITED USES:
Heavy industrial development and production, with the exception of mining.
Junkyards.
Municipal solid waste transfer stations.
Subdivisions. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
9-5F-9: CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS:
A certificate of appropriateness shall be required prior to the approval of a
conditional use permit and shall also be required for the following situations
prior to commencement of work upon any structure or site located within
district H:
   A.    Whenever work requires a building permit or other permit required by
the county.
   B.    Whenever work includes the application of paint to a previously
unpainted exterior surface or the application of paint color differing from
existing color.
   C.    Whenever work includes the construction, modification or enlargement
of a driveway or parking area.
   D.    Whenever work includes the erection, moving, demolition,
reconstruction, excavation, restoration or alteration of the exterior of any
structure or site, except when such work satisfies all the requirements for
ordinary maintenance and repair.
   E.    Whenever there is to be any change in the scope of work which has been
previously approved by a prior certificate of appropriateness.
   F.    Any signage proposed within the boundaries of district H. (Ord. 09-09,
10-6-2009)
CHAPTER 6
CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS AND VARIANCES
SECTION:
9-6-1: Nature Of Conditional Use Permits
9-6-2: Exemption As To Site Operations Permitted Before October 1991
9-6-3: Procedure For Obtaining Conditional Use Permits
9-6-4: Issuance Of Conditional Use Permit
9-6-5: Conditional Use Permits Subject To Right To Farm Act
9-6-6: Variances
9-6-7: Planned Unit Developments
9-6-1: NATURE OF CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS:
   A.    Uses Identified Throughout Designated Zones: Conditional uses have
been identified throughout the designations of districts in this title.
   B.    Burden Of Persuasion; Compliance With Conditions: As to each permitted
use specified in those designations, the applicant requesting such use has the
burden of persuading that the use should be permitted, and then must comply
with whatever special conditions are placed on any permit granted.
   C.    Transferability; Administrative Decision: A conditional use permit is
not transferable from the site for which the permit is granted to another land
site. A conditional use permit may be transferred from the original applicant
to another person through an administrative discretion decision. Upon payment
of fees as set by the board of county commissioners, and submittal of a
completed request for transfer application containing all required documents as
stated on the application form, such transfer may be granted. The original
applicant must be the one seeking the transfer, and the transferee of the
permit must sign and have notarized an affidavit agreeing to, and accepting all
conditions originally placed on the conditional use permit being transferred.
The use sought in the conditional use permit must be constructed as originally
presented, and upon the same building site as presented in the original public
hearing. Upon payment of fees and submittal of the application, the
administrator will review and prepare a written decision detailing the reasons
for the action taken. The decision will be mailed to the applicant and
presented to the planning and zoning commission at the next regularly scheduled
meeting. The decision of the administrator is appealable to the board of county
commissioners. No fee will be charged for an appeal of an administrative
decision.
   D.    Extension Of Permit: If substantial progress toward development of the
use permitted by a conditional use permit has not been accomplished within
twenty four (24) months from the date the permit is issued, the conditional use
permit expires. The applicant must request extension of the life of the permit
prior to the twenty four (24) month expiration date from the planning and
zoning commission, hearing examiner or board of county commissioners, from
whichever granted the final permit. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
9-6-2: EXEMPTION AS TO SITE OPERATIONS PERMITTED BEFORE OCTOBER 1991:
No application for conditional use permit shall be required for continued
operation on or for expansion of use of any site which had been established and
was being operated under state and/or federal permit or license issued pursuant
to state and/or federal law on or before October 3, 1991. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-
2009)
9-6-3: PROCEDURE FOR OBTAINING CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS:
   A.    Application; Form: Applications for conditional use permits for those
uses identified in sections
9-5A-4,
9-5B-4,
9-5C-5 and
9-5E-4 of this title shall be filed with the administrator of the planning and
zoning commission on a form prescribed by the administrator or the board. The
applicant must contain full information as required by the application packet
and the instructions accompanying the application in order to be considered.
   B.    Filing Fee: An application must be accompanied by a filing fee as
adopted from time to time by the board by resolution. If the fee is not paid,
the application will not be considered.
   C.    Hearing; Notice: When a completed application is filed with the
administrator, the administrator shall present said application at the next
regularly scheduled meeting of the planning and zoning commission. Upon receipt
of said completed application and payment of the required filing fee, the
administrator shall schedule at least one public hearing on the conditional use
permit application at which interested persons shall have an opportunity to be
heard. At least fifteen (15) calendar days prior to the hearing, notice of the
time and place and a summary of the proposed conditional use permit shall be
published in the official newspaper of general circulation within the county.
Notice will also be posted at the county courthouse in Murphy, Idaho, and the
office of the clerk of the court in Homedale, Idaho. The board, administrator,
or the commission may also decide to provide additional notice to property
owners who may be substantially impacted by the proposed conditional use
permit. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
9-6-4: ISSUANCE OF CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT:
   A.    Burden Of Proof: The applicant for a conditional use permit has the
burden of proof with regard to justifying the issuance of the conditional use
permit. The planning and zoning commission may direct the administrator to
require the applicant to provide reports and testimony relevant to each of the
provisions of this section and may require the applicant to conduct studies of
the social, economic, fiscal and environmental effects of the proposed
conditional use.
   B.    Criteria For Issuance: The planning and zoning commission shall review
the particular facts and circumstances of each application for a conditional
use permit in terms of the following standards, and may issue a conditional use
permit only when it finds adequate evidence answering the following questions
about the proposed application:
      1.    Whether this title permits the use by conditional use permit.
      2.    Whether the intended use is necessary or desirable to the public
convenience and welfare.
      3.    Whether the proposed use may create a hazard, nuisance, detriment
or other injury to other property in the immediate vicinity or to the health or
safety to the citizens of the county in general.
      4.    Whether essential public services, or the general public health or
safety, or the general public environment may be negatively impacted by such
use or whether there may be a requirement of additional public funding in order
to meet the needs created by the requested use.
      5.    Whether adequate sewer, water and drainage facilities, and utility
and other service systems are to be provided by the applicant to accommodate
said use.
      6.    When a permit is granted with appropriate conditions, bonds and
safeguards which are in conformity with this title may be prescribed.
Violations of such conditions, bonds or safeguards, when made a part of the
terms under which the conditional use is granted, shall be deemed a violation
of this title.
      7.    Whether the proposed use may have adverse impact on water and water
supplies, both surface, aquifer and underground in the county.
      8.    Whether the geological base on which the use is to be placed may or
may not support such proposed use.
      9.    Whether the proposed use at the proposed site may endanger human
health, animal life and plant life in the surrounding area and/or the county in
general.
      10.    Whether the proposed use complements, benefits, and is compatible
with the surrounding land uses.
      11.    Whether special conditions could be imposed upon the proposed use
which would so minimize any adverse impact as to justify the granting of the
conditional use permit.
   C.    Special Conditions: If the planning and zoning commission determines
that the conditional use permit should be granted but that special conditions
are necessary in order to minimize any adverse impact which might be caused by
the proposed use, the commission may apply special conditions designed to
minimize that adverse impact including, but not limited to, conditions which
perform the following functions:
      1.    Minimize adverse impact on the surrounding area and the public
health, safety and environment in general.
      2.    Control the sequence and timing of development of the proposed use.
      3.    Control the duration of the development and use of the proposed
use.
      4.    Assure that the development is properly maintained.
      5.    Designate the exact location and nature of development.
      6.    Require the provision for on site or off site public facilities or
services.
   D.    Permit Denied: When the commission denies a conditional use permit, it
shall specify the portions of the ordinance and standards used in evaluating
the application, the reason for denial, and what actions, if any, that the
applicant may take to try to obtain a permit upon submission of a new
application.
   E.    Permit Granted: When the commission grants a conditional use permit,
it shall specify the portions of the ordinance and standards used in evaluating
the application and the reasons for approval.
   F.    Violation: When a permit is granted with appropriate conditions, bonds
and safeguards which are in conformity with this title may be prescribed.
Violations of such conditions, bonds or safeguards, when made a part of the
terms under which the conditional use is granted, shall be deemed a violation
of this title. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
9-6-5: CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS SUBJECT TO RIGHT TO FARM ACT:
   A.    Required: All conditional uses permitted under a conditional use
permit must be subject to the provisions of the right to farm act and any
successor legislative acts designed to protect existing agricultural uses.
   B.    Special Condition: A special condition must be placed on every
conditional use permit requiring the applicant to acknowledge compliance with
Idaho Code title 22, chapter 45 or successor acts and compliance with Idaho
Code section 67-6529 which protects existing agricultural uses on agricultural
lands and requires the applicant to notify any purchaser of a lot, parcel or
tract affected by the conditional use permit of the need to comply with such
legislative acts. The conditional use permit may contain a special condition
requiring the applicant to place protective language regarding the necessity of
complying with Idaho Code title 22, chapter 45 and Idaho Code section 67-6529
and successor acts in any documents relating to transfer of ownership of any
lot, parcel or tract affected by the conditional use permit. A conditional use
permit may be conditioned upon the applicant's causing the permit and special
conditions to be recorded with the office of the county recorder.
   C.    Issuance Of Building Permit Restricted: No building permit may be
issued for any lot, parcel or tract affected by a conditional use permit unless
a certificate of compliance, containing reference to this section, is issued by
the administrator or a designee of the board of county commissioners. (Ord. 09-
09, 10-6-2009)
9-6-6: VARIANCES:
Variances shall not be granted on the grounds of convenience or profit, but
only where strict application of the provisions of this title would result in
unnecessary hardship. A variance shall not be considered a right or special
privilege, but may be granted to an applicant only after the applicant has met
the burden of persuasion that failure to grant the variance would impose undue
hardship on the applicant because of the characteristics of the use site, and
that granting the variance will not be inconsistent with the public interest.
(Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
9-6-7: PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS:
Planned unit developments may be permitted under a conditional use permit. The
application for such PUD shall be on a form approved by the administrator or
the board and must be filed with the administrator of planning and zoning along
with payment of an application fee set by the board. All procedures applicable
to applications for conditional use permits shall be applicable to applications
for PUDs. A PUD may be permitted which includes a variety of land uses under a
single ownership or control, and may be subject to conditions as to minimum
area, permitted uses, ownership, common open space, utilities, density,
arrangements of land uses on a site, permit processing and any other condition
which would be permissible under the conditional use permit process. (Ord. 09-
09, 10-6-2009)
CHAPTER 7
SILVER CITY ZONING
SECTION:
9-7-1: Short Title
9-7-2: Purpose
9-7-3: Scope
9-7-4: Designated Area
9-7-5: Definitions
9-7-6: Regulations
9-7-7: Procedures
9-7-8: Review Criteria
9-7-9: Variance
9-7-10: Complaints
9-7-11: Appeals
9-7-12: Enforcement
9-7-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the SILVER CITY ZONING ORDINANCE. (Ord. 09-09,
10-6-2009)
9-7-2: PURPOSE:
It is hereby declared, as a matter of public policy, that the protection,
enhancement and perpetuation of properties of historical, cultural and
aesthetic merit are in the interests of the health, prosperity and welfare of
the people of the county and Silver City. Therefore, this chapter is intended
to:
   A.    Accomplish the protection, enhancement and perpetuation of
improvements and landscape features of landmarks and properties which represent
distinctive elements of Silver City's cultural, social, economic, political and
architectural history.
   B.    Safeguard the city's historic, aesthetic and cultural heritage as
embodied and reflected in such landmarks and properties. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-
2009)
9-7-3: SCOPE:
Other provisions of this title notwithstanding, the provisions of this chapter
control as to issues relating to the area designated in section
9-7-4 of this chapter, with the exception of enforcement which shall be
accomplished as provided in chapter 17 of this title. (Ord. 2016-02, 9-6-2016)
9-7-4: DESIGNATED AREA:
The area addressed in this chapter shall be defined as the land within:
Sec. 6, S1/2NE1/4, N1/2SE1/4, Township 5 South, Range 3 West, Boise Meridian,
Owyhee County, State of Idaho (160 acres).
   (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
9-7-5: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, certain terms are hereby defined:
AESTHETICS: Dealing with the nature of beautiful, and with judgments concerning
beauty.
DWELLING: A place of residence.
HISTORICAL NATURE: A particular character atmosphere pertaining to Silver
City's noteworthy past.
LOT: A parcel of land within the Silver City zoning ordinance area as surveyed
by the bureau of land management.
NEW STRUCTURE: Any structure not in existence on the effective date hereof.
ORDINARY MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR: Any work for which a building permit or any
other permit is not required and where the purpose of such work is
stabilization and where such work will not change the exterior appearance of
the structure.
OUTBUILDING: Structure built for storage and purposes other than residency.
PORCH: An attached structure, covered or uncovered, without exterior walls.
PRESERVATION: Any action taken to prevent further deterioration or damage to an
item or structure while maintaining that item or structure in its present
condition.
RECONSTRUCTION: The process of reproducing by new construction the exact form
and detail of a vanished structure or part thereof as it appeared at a specific
period of time.
REHABILITATION: The process of returning a property to a state of utility,
through repair or alteration, which makes possible and efficient contemporary
use.
RESTORATION: The process of returning an item or structure to its appearance at
any given point in time. This can include the reconstruction of a vanished
feature or the removal of features added at a later point in time.
STABILIZATION: A protection technique applied to structures to prevent further
deterioration.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected which requires location on the
ground, including signs. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
9-7-6: REGULATIONS:
   A.    Permitted Without Approval: The following actions are permitted
without approval of the county commissioners:
      1.    Ordinary maintenance and repair.
      2.    Interior rehabilitation and stabilization.
   B.    Permitted Upon Approval: The following actions may be permitted upon
approval of the county commissioners:
      1.    Rehabilitation and/or restoration (exterior).
      2.    Exterior stabilization that changes the appearance of a structure.
      3.    Construction of storage structure, restricted to one single story,
detached structure per lot, said structure to be no more than eighty (80)
square feet in size.
      4.    Construction of outhouse, restricted to one four foot by four foot
(4' x 4') single story structure per lot.
      5.    Relocation of outhouses or storage structures.
      6.    Excavation of any kind.
      7.    Reconstruction of attached structure known to have been an integral
part of existing primary structure.
      8.    Reconstruction of a structure that existed on the effective date
hereof that was subsequently destroyed by reasons beyond human control.
      9.    Exception: Fuel tanks for utility purposes.
   C.    Prohibited Except By Variance: The following are expressly prohibited
under this title except by variance as provided in section
9-7-9 of this chapter:
      1.    Erection of new structures other than as provided for in subsection
B of this section.
      2.    Moving, changing or demolition of any structure except when deemed
necessary by the county commissioners in the exercise of police powers or for
health or safety reasons.
      3.    Reconstruction of any detached structure not in existence on the
effective date hereof.
      4.    The use of more than one structure per lot as a dwelling.
      5.    Residential occupancy, either temporary or permanent, in mobile
homes, tents or other outbuildings. Casual use by campers, motor homes, etc.,
may be made, but the time of use may not exceed seven (7) continuous days of
use. Exception: Watchman's quarters during the winter months as sanctioned by
the Silver City taxpayers association and the bureau of land management.
   D.    Required Actions: The following actions are required: general upkeep
of structures and grounds so as to eliminate health and safety hazards and/or
any items not in keeping with the historical nature and aesthetics of the area.
(Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
9-7-7: PROCEDURES:
Application procedures pertaining to subsection 9-7-6B of this chapter:
   A.    Building Permit Application; Costs: Applicants shall submit one
complete copy of the historic building permit application with all plans and
specifications to the county planning and zoning administrator, who shall
prepare an estimate of costs and fees at the rate set by the county clerk for
photocopying and mailing at the current U.S. postal rate. The applicant shall
submit to the administrator the estimated costs and fee for the planning and
zoning review as set by the board of commissioners, or the application shall be
deemed "not submitted". The administrator shall copy and distribute, within
five (5) days, one copy to each member of the county historic preservation
committee. The administrator shall retain the original for the planning and
zoning commission records.
   B.    Review By Historic Preservation Committee: The county historic
preservation committee shall review the application and submit their
recommendations, in writing, to the planning and zoning commission within sixty
(60) days from the date of receipt of the application from the administrator.
   C.    Placement On Agenda: Upon receipt of the recommendation, the
administrator shall place the matter on the agenda of the next regularly
scheduled meeting of the planning and zoning commission for their
administrative review. The planning and zoning commission shall approve or
disapprove the application, after considering the recommendation of the Owyhee
County historical preservation committee. The planning and zoning commissioners
may schedule a meeting to discuss the application with the applicant and a
representative from the preservation commission.
   D.    Application Approved: If an application is approved, the administrator
will prepare a certificate of zoning compliance and notify the county building
official of the approval.
   E.    Application Disapproved: If an application is disapproved, the
planning and zoning commission shall send written notification to the applicant
along with their reason for denial and a copy of the historic preservation
commission's recommendation. The decision of the planning and zoning commission
is appealable to the board of county commissioners.
   F.    Appeals: Appeals shall be in conformance with the Idaho administrative
procedures act. An appeal shall not preclude the filing of an application for
variance as provided in section
9-7-9 of this chapter. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
9-7-8: REVIEW CRITERIA:
The county commissioners and the county historic preservation committee shall
be guided by the following criteria:
   A.    The purpose and intent of this title.
   B.    The degree to which the proposed work may destroy or alter the
appearance of a structure or lot.
   C.    The degree to which the proposed work would serve to isolate the
structure from its historical, archaeological or architectural surroundings, or
would introduce visual, audible, vibratory, or polluting elements that are out
of character with the resource and its setting, or that adversely affect the
physical integrity of the resource.
   D.    The compatibility of the building materials with the aesthetic and
structural appearance of the resource.
   E.    The compatibility of the proposed design to the significant
characteristics of the structure.
   F.    Changes which may have taken place in the course of time are evidence
of the history and development of a building, structure, or site and its
environment. These changes may have acquired significance in their own right,
and this significance shall be recognized and respected.
   G.    Distinctive stylistic features or examples of skilled craftsmanship
which characterize a building, structure, or site shall be treated with
sensitivity.
   H.    Deteriorated architectural features shall be repaired rather than
replaced, wherever possible. In the event replacement is necessary, the new
material should match the material being replaced in composition, design,
color, texture, and other visual qualities. Repair or replacement of missing
architectural features should be based on evidence rather than on conjectural
designs or the availability of different architectural elements from other
buildings or structures. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
9-7-9: VARIANCE:
   A.    Definition: A "variance" is a modification of the requirements of this
title.
   B.    Power To Grant: The county commissioners may grant a variance.
   C.    Application: An applicant for variance must submit a written
application for variance, including the names and addresses of all persons
owning property adjacent to the proposed variance parcel, together with one
complete historic building permit application with all plans and specifications
to the county clerk.
   D.    Fees And Costs: The clerk shall prepare an estimate of costs and fees
at the rate set by the clerk for photocopying, mailing at the current U.S.
postal rate and the regular costs of newspaper publication. Applicant shall
submit to the clerk the estimated costs and fees or the application for
variance shall be deemed as "not submitted" to the clerk.
   E.    Distribution Of Copies: The clerk shall copy and distribute, within
five (5) days, one copy of such application to each member of the county
historic preservation committee. The clerk shall retain originals for the
county commissioners' records.
   F.    Review And Recommendation Of Historic Preservation Committee: The
county historic preservation committee shall review the applications and submit
written recommendation to the county commissioners within sixty (60) days from
the date of receipt from the county clerk.
   G.    Placement On Commission Agenda: Upon receipt of the recommendation,
the county clerk shall place the matter on the next regularly scheduled
commissioners' meeting, not less than thirty (30) days nor more than sixty (60)
days from the date of the clerk's receipt of the county historic preservation
commission's recommendations.
   H.    Notice Of Hearing: Within seven (7) business days of placing the
matter on the agenda of the board of county commissioners, the clerk shall
notify the applicant and the county historic preservation committee of the
date, time and location of the hearing before the board of county
commissioners. The county clerk shall, within seven (7) business days, notify
owners of adjacent property by registered U.S. mail, of the date, time and
location of the hearing and that the application for variance and the historic
building application can be viewed at the county clerk's office and that copies
can be obtained by tendering payment of the copying fee set by the county
clerk. The county clerk shall cause to be published once a week for two (2)
consecutive weeks in a newspaper printed in the county the same information
required to be given to adjacent property owners.
   I.    Application Granted: A variance under subsections 9-7-6C1, C3, C4, and
C5 of this chapter may be granted only upon a showing by the applicant of undue
hardship because of the characteristic of the site or the original structure
and that the variance is not in conflict with the public interest and that the
variance is in keeping with the purpose and intent of this chapter.
   J.    Application Denied: A variance under subsection 9-7-6C2 of this
chapter may not be granted. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
9-7-10: COMPLAINTS:
Any citizen may file with the county commissioners informal, written complaints
concerning alleged violations of this chapter. Upon receipt by the county
commissioners of such a complaint charging property owner, resident or occupant
of the area covered by this chapter with violation of any provision of this
chapter, the commissioners may schedule a mediation hearing to consider such
complaint or, if warranted, for injunction or mandamus immediately. (Ord. 09-
09, 10-6-2009)
9-7-11: APPEALS:
Any persons aggrieved by a decision of the county commissioners shall have such
right of appeal as may be otherwise provided by law. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
9-7-12: ENFORCEMENT:
Enforcement of this chapter shall be accomplished as provided in chapter 17 of
this title. (Ord. 2016-02, 9-6-2016)
CHAPTER 8
ZONING RECLASSIFICATIONS AND COMPREHENSIVE PLAN MODIFICATIONS
SECTION:
9-8-1: Application
9-8-2: Notification Of Hearing And Hearing Procedure
9-8-3: Standards For Evaluating Applications
9-8-4: Development Agreements
9-8-1: APPLICATION:
Any change, modification, or reclassification of districts or of the county
comprehensive plan may be initiated by the board of county commissioners, the
planning and zoning commission, or by application of one or more property
owners, purchasers or holders of valid options to purchase property. When the
application for change, modification or reclassification is initiated by a
property owner, purchaser or holder of valid options to purchase property, the
application must be submitted on a form approved by the board of county
commissioners and must be filed with the clerk of the board along with an
application fee as set by the board of county commissioners. The application
must contain full information as required by the application and the
instructions accompanying the application in order to be considered. (Ord. 09-
09, 10-6-2009)
9-8-2: NOTIFICATION OF HEARING AND HEARING PROCEDURE:
   A.    Set By Statute: The hearing procedure related to requests for zoning
changes and comprehensive plan changes shall be as set forth by the Idaho
legislature in the local planning act.
   B.    Additional Expanded Notification: Notification shall be as prescribed
in that act, but the planning and zoning commission, hearing examiner, or board
of county commissioners can require additional expanded notification by
resolution or order. When such additional and expanded notification is ordered,
notice of the hearing must be given as ordered.
   C.    Hearing: The hearing on the application must be held by the planning
and zoning commission or a hearing examiner.
   D.    Submittal Of Recommendation: Within sixty (60) days after completion
of the hearing, the commission or examiner must send to the board of county
commissioners a recommendation as to whether to grant, deny or modify the
request. No zoning change, comprehensive plan change or change to the official
zoning map is effective until approved by the board of county commissioners and
then implemented by ordinance amendment specifically setting forth the change.
(Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
9-8-3: STANDARDS FOR EVALUATING APPLICATIONS:
The planning and zoning commission, hearing examiner and board of county
commissioners must evaluate an application for zoning change or modification or
comprehensive plan change or modification in light of standards set forth by
the Idaho legislature in the local planning act and in light of the county
comprehensive plan. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
9-8-4: DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS:
Any rezoning granted under this chapter may be conditioned upon the execution
of a written commitment by the applicant for rezoning that the use or
development of the property subject to the rezone will be as specifically
represented in the application for rezoning and to the planning and zoning
commission or hearing examiner and board of commissioners. Such agreements
shall be subject to the following provisions:
   A.    Form: Written commitment will be prepared on a form approved by the
board of commissioners.
   B.    Binding On Owner And Subsequent Owners: The order granting the rezone
shall provide that the written commitment is binding on the owner of any parcel
covered by the rezoning, each subsequent owner and each other person acquiring
an interest in the parcel. The written commitment shall recite the same binding
nature.
   C.    Recording: The written commitment must be recorded with the office of
the county recorder prior to issuance of the order to rezone.
   D.    Modification: A written commitment may be modified only by permission
of the board of commissioners; an application for such modification on a form
approved by the board and payment of a fee set by the board must be filed with
the clerk of the board and then is subject to the processing and hearing
requirements set forth in this title for applications for conditional use
permits.
   E.    Termination: A commitment may be terminated, and the zoning
designation upon which the use is based reversed, upon the failure of
requirements in the commitment after a reasonable time as fixed by the board of
commissioners, or upon the failure of the owner of a parcel covered by the
zoning designation, each subsequent owner or each other person acquiring an
interest in the parcel to comply with the conditions. A termination hearing may
be held on the board's own motion, or upon request from the planning and zoning
commission or hearing examiner following the hearing process set forth in this
title for conditional use permits.
   F.    Consent To Reversal: Entering into a written commitment shall be
considered as a written consent to reverse the rezoning decision upon failure
of the conditions imposed by the written commitment.
   G.    Requiring Written Commitments Not Obligation To Grant Rezone: By
requiring written commitments as conditions for rezone, the board of
commissioners has not obligated the planning and zoning commission or hearing
examiner to recommend a rezone or the board to grant the rezone. (Ord. 09-09,
10-6-2009)
CHAPTER 9
EVALUATION OF IMPACT OF ACTIONS
SECTION:
9-9-1: Actions Subject To Analysis
9-9-1: ACTIONS SUBJECT TO ANALYSIS:
Upon written request of an owner of real property, the following actions are
subject to the regulatory analysis provided by Idaho Code section 67-8003: a)
denial of a permit for conditional use, b) subdivision, c) planned unit
development, d) variance, or e) approval of any such uses with conditions
unacceptable to the landowner. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
CHAPTER 10
FEES
SECTION:
9-10-1: Authority To Set Fees
9-10-2: Payment By Applicant Of Fees And Related Costs
9-10-3: Development Impact Fee Advisory Committee
9-10-1: AUTHORITY TO SET FEES:
The board of county commissioners shall determine the fees to be assessed
related to the various actions requested and required under the provisions of
this title and related ordinances. The determination shall be made by
resolution, and shall be based upon evaluation of actual cost of providing the
services necessary to the actions requested and required. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-
2009)
9-10-2: PAYMENT BY APPLICANT OF FEES AND RELATED COSTS:
It shall be the responsibility of the applicant requesting an action pursuant
to this title or related ordinances to pay the fees established for the process
related to the application or request. It shall also be the responsibility of
the applicant to pay costs for services such as, but not limited to,
engineering and surveying and other professional services related to
examination of applications, site plans, plats and conduct of special studies
which may be required by the planning and zoning commission, the hearing
examiner and/or the board of county commissioners in the process for
considering the application or request. Payment of such fees and costs must be
completed prior to a hearing or other action on the application or request.
(Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
9-10-3: DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEE ADVISORY COMMITTEE:
The board of county commissioners shall appoint a development impact fee
advisory committee pursuant to Idaho Code section 67-8205, by October 1, 2003.
Said committee will perform the duties set forth in Idaho Code section 67-8205
and will report a recommendation to the planning and zoning commission and to
the board of county commissioners by March 1, 2004. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
CHAPTER 11
NONCONFORMING USES
SECTION:
9-11-1: Continuation Of Use
9-11-2: Enlargement Of Use
9-11-3: Existing Use
9-11-4: Change To More Appropriate Nonconforming Use
9-11-5: Superseded By Permitted Use
9-11-6: Abandonment Of Use
9-11-7: Nonconforming Use Created After Effective Date
9-11-8: Conditional Use
9-11-1: CONTINUATION OF USE:
A nonconforming use shall be allowed to continue in existence throughout the
life of the use as it existed at the time this title was enacted. (Ord. 09-09,
10-6-2009)
9-11-2: ENLARGEMENT OF USE:
Any enlargement of a nonconforming use, either by extending the land or site
upon which the use exists, or by expanding the use itself to the extent that it
changes the nature of the use, is unlawful unless permitted by conditional use
permit. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
9-11-3: EXISTING USE:
To avoid undue hardship, nothing in this title shall be deemed to require a
change in the plans, construction or designated use of any building on which
actual construction was lawfully begun prior to the effective date hereof or
amendment hereof and upon which actual building construction has been carried
on diligently; provided, that it is completed and so used within one year after
the effective date hereof. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
9-11-4: CHANGE TO MORE APPROPRIATE NONCONFORMING USE:
If no structural alterations are made, any nonconforming use of a structure or
structure and land may, upon the issuance of a conditional use permit by the
planning and zoning commission, be changed to another nonconforming use;
provided, that the commission shall find that the proposed use is equally
appropriate or more appropriate to the district than the existing nonconforming
use. In permitting such change, the commission may require appropriate
conditions and safeguards in accordance with other provisions of this title.
(Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
9-11-5: SUPERSEDED BY PERMITTED USE:
Any structure, or structure and land in combination, in or on which a
nonconforming use is superseded by a permitted use shall thereafter conform to
the regulations for the district, and the nonconforming use may not thereafter
be resumed. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
9-11-6: ABANDONMENT OF USE:
When a nonconforming use of a structure, or structure and land in combination,
is discontinued or abandoned for more than one year, the board of county
commissioners shall take action to comply with Idaho Code section 67-6538, or
successor statutory procedures regarding nonuse. The structure, or structures
and land in combination, shall not thereafter be used except in conformity with
the regulations of the district in which it is located. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
9-11-7: NONCONFORMING USE CREATED AFTER EFFECTIVE DATE:
A nonconforming use which came into existence after the passage hereof shall
not be deemed a nonconforming use, but an illegal use and shall be abated.
(Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
9-11-8: CONDITIONAL USE:
Any use which is permitted as a conditional use in a district under the terms
of this title shall not be deemed a nonconforming use in such district, but
shall, without further action, be considered a conforming use. (Ord. 09-09, 10-
6-2009)
CHAPTER 12
TEMPORARY HARDSHIP PERMIT
SECTION:
9-12-1: Application
9-12-2: Siting Of Dwelling
9-12-3: Special Conditions
9-12-1: APPLICATION:
   A.    Who May Apply: Any person may apply for a granting of a temporary
hardship permit which will permit a temporary dwelling for no longer than
twelve (12) months, for the benefit of a person who is ill, disabled, or has
medical or life problems which create an undue burden on the person or family.
The hardship must be demonstrated by supporting documents from a licensed
physician.
   B.    Application; Form; Fee: The application shall be made on a form
approved by the administrator or the board of county commissioners, and shall
be filed with the administrator with the proper fee as set by the board of
county commissioners. The application must be complete and contain all required
information. The application is subject to an administrative discretion
decision.
   C.    Decision Of Administrator: Upon payment of fees and submittal of the
complete application, the administrator will prepare a written decision
detailing the reasons for the action taken, along with all supporting
documents, and present that written decision to the planning and zoning
commission for their administrative review. The decision of the administrator
is appealable to the board of county commissioners.
   D.    Refiling Annually; Conditional Use Permit: A new application must be
filed every twelve (12) months, but the temporary use shall not be allowed to
exceed thirty six (36) months without applying for a conditional use permit.
   E.    Standard Conditions: Temporary hardship permits are subject to the
same standard conditions applicable to all conditional use permits as adopted
by resolution by the board of county commissioners. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
9-12-2: SITING OF DWELLING:
The dwelling authorized under this chapter may be placed on a lot, parcel or
tract where no such dwelling would otherwise be authorized under this title.
(Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
9-12-3: SPECIAL CONDITIONS:
Special conditions may be imposed upon any permit issued under this chapter
designed to specifically limit the use to the temporary use authorized by this
chapter. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
CHAPTER 13
TRANSFER OF DEVELOPMENT RIGHTS
SECTION:
9-13-1: Committee Created; Purpose
9-13-2: Membership
9-13-1: COMMITTEE CREATED; PURPOSE:
There shall be created a committee to prepare a recommendation to the planning
and zoning commission and to the board of commissioners regarding creation of
development rights and the procedure by which landowners can voluntarily
transfer such development rights. The recommendation shall be made after study
of and consideration of the elements related to transfer of development rights
as set forth in Idaho Code section 67-6515A. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
9-13-2: MEMBERSHIP:
The planning and zoning commission may make recommendations to the board of
commissioners as to the membership of the committee, and the board of
commissioners shall name the members of the committee by October 1, 2003. The
committee shall submit its recommendation to the planning and zoning commission
and board of commissioners no later than March 10, 2004. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-
2009)
CHAPTER 14
OIL AND GAS WELLS
SECTION:
9-14-1: Purpose
9-14-2: Definitions
9-14-3: Zoning Classifications
9-14-4: Administrative Permit Requirement
9-14-5: Administrative Permit Application
9-14-6: Issuance Of Administrative Permit
9-14-7: Site Design And Installation
9-14-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide, through zoning provisions, for the
reasonable development of land for oil and gas drilling while providing
adequate health, safety and general welfare protections of Owyhee County
residents. Oil and gas exploration, drilling, and extraction operations involve
activities that are economically important and will impact Owyhee County.
Accordingly, it is necessary and appropriate to adopt reasonable requirements
for oil and gas resource development so that these resources can be obtained in
a manner that is economically remunerative, and that minimizes potential
impacts on the residents of Owyhee County.
Local governments are preempted from regulating the same features of oil and
gas well operations or accomplishing the same purposes regulated under Idaho
statute 47-317. Local zoning regulates surface land use as authorized under the
local land use planning act 1 . (Ord. 2013-02, 8-12-2013)
 
Notes
1 1. IC 67-65.
9-14-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
ADMINISTRATIVE PERMIT: A regulatory review and/or action performed by the
planning and zoning commission of Owyhee County and not deemed a legislative or
quasi-judicial action.
ADMINISTRATOR: The Owyhee County planning and zoning administrator.
APPLICANT: Any person, owner, operator, partnership, company, corporation and
its subcontractors and agents who has an interest in real estate for the
purpose of exploring or drilling for, producing, or transporting oil or gas.
COLLECTOR STREET: A public street or road which, in addition to providing
access to abutting lots, intercepts local streets and provides a route for
carrying considerable volumes of local traffic to community facilities and
arterial streets.
COMMISSION: The Owyhee County planning and zoning commission.
DEPARTMENT: The Idaho department of lands.
DEVELOPMENT: Any work which actively promotes bringing in production.
DRILLING PAD: The area of surface operations surrounding a proposed or existing
well or wells and accessory structures and equipment necessary for drilling,
completion, recompletion, work over, development and production activities.
EXPLORATION: Geologic or geophysical activities, including, but not limited to,
the search for oil, gas, or other subsurface hydrocarbons.
LOCAL STREET: A public street or road designed to provide access to abutting
lots and to discourage through traffic.
OIL AND GAS: Crude oil, natural gas, methane gas, propane, butane, and/or any
other constituents or similar substances that are produced by drilling an oil
or gas well.
OIL AND GAS CONSERVATION COMMISSION: State of Idaho oil and gas conservation
commission.
OIL AND GAS WELL: A hole drilled into the earth for the purpose of exploring
for or extracting oil, gas, or other hydrocarbon substances.
OPERATOR: Any person, owner, applicant, partnership, company, corporation and
its subcontractors and agents who has an interest in real estate for the
purpose of exploring or drilling for, producing, or transporting oil or gas.
ROAD REPAIR AGREEMENT: A written agreement between the applicant and Owyhee
County or the applicable local highway jurisdiction obligating the applicant to
repair damage, excluding ordinary wear and tear, if any, to public streets,
including, but not limited to, bridges, caused by the operator or its
employees, agents, contractors, subcontractors, or representatives in the
performance of drilling or production of any wells authorized by a local
jurisdiction.
WELL: An oil and gas well or an injection well, including, but not limited to,
directional drilling wells. (Ord. 2013-02, 8-12-2013)
9-14-3: ZONING CLASSIFICATIONS:
Subject to the provisions of this chapter:
   A.    An oil or gas well site shall be considered a permitted use by right
within any zoning district(s), subject to the standards listed herein. (Ord.
2013-02, 8-12-2013)
9-14-4: ADMINISTRATIVE PERMIT REQUIREMENT:
   A.    No oil or gas well site, or an addition to an existing oil or gas well
site, shall be constructed or located within Owyhee County unless an
administrative permit under this chapter has been issued by the Owyhee County
planning and zoning commission (commission) to the applicant approving the
construction or preparation of the site for oil or gas development or
construction of natural gas compressor stations or natural gas processing
plants.
   B.    Each application shall be submitted with the fee established pursuant
to resolution of Owyhee County as adopted. Such fee shall be reasonably related
to the cost of administering this chapter.
   C.    Any modification to an existing and/or permitted oil or gas well site
that materially alters the size, location, number of wells, accessory equipment
or structures, shall require a modification of the administrative permit under
this chapter. Like kind replacements shall not require a permit modification.
   D.    Wells that were permitted and constructed prior to the adoption of
this chapter shall not be required to meet the requirements of this chapter.
Any modification to an existing or permitted oil or gas well site that occurs
after the effective date hereof and materially alters the size, type, location,
number of wells, or other accessory equipment or structures, shall comply with
this chapter.
   E.    Upon receiving notice from the department that an application has been
submitted, the Owyhee County planning and zoning administrator (administrator)
will notify all property owners within one mile of the affected tax parcel,
that an application for a new oil and gas operation has been filed with the
county. The notice is for informational purposes only and will not solicit any
public comments on the application.
   F.    An administrative permit shall not be required for exploration of oil
and gas. "Exploration of oil" means geologic or geophysical activities,
including, but not limited to, the search for oil, gas, or other subsurface
hydrocarbons.
   G.    The administrative permit shall be null and void, if an applicant does
not conduct said business for a period of one year. Administrative permits
issued under this chapter shall not be transferable to any other applicant,
except by majority vote of the Owyhee County planning and zoning commission,
and the filing of an application by the applicant to whom such administrative
permit is, or may be, transferred or assigned. (Ord. 2013-02, 8-12-2013)
9-14-5: ADMINISTRATIVE PERMIT APPLICATION:
   A.    At the time of administrative permit application, the applicant shall
provide to the administrator:
      1.    A narrative describing an overview of the project including the
number of acres to be disturbed for development, the number of wells to be
drilled including oil and gas conservation commission permit number(s) for all
wells, if available, at the time of submittal and provided when issued later,
and the location, number and description of equipment and structures to the
extent known.
      2.    The address of the oil or gas well site and a legal description of
the parcel on record with Owyhee County.
      3.    The contact information of the individual or individuals
responsible for the operation and activities at the oil or gas well site shall
be provided to Owyhee County and all applicable emergency responders as
determined by Owyhee County. Such information shall include a phone number
where such individual or individuals can be contacted twenty four (24) hours
per day, three hundred sixty five (365) days a year. Annually, or upon change
of relevant circumstances, the applicant shall update such information and
provide it to Owyhee County and all applicable emergency responders.
      4.    A scaled site plan of the oil or gas well site showing the drilling
pad, planned access roads, the approximate location of derricks, drilling rigs,
equipment, and structures and all permanent improvements to the site and any
postconstruction surface disturbance in relation to natural resources. Included
in this map shall be a staging area within the development site for vehicles to
locate while gaining access to the oil or gas well site.
      5.    A narrative and map describing the planned access routes to the
well sites on public roads including the transportation and delivery of
equipment, machinery, water, chemicals, and other materials used in the siting,
drilling, construction, maintenance, and operation of the oil or gas well site.
      6.    A statement that the applicant will make the operation's
preparedness, prevention, and contingency plan available to Owyhee County and
all emergency responders at least thirty (30) days prior to drilling of an oil
or gas well and at least annually thereafter while drilling activities are
taking place at the oil or gas well site.
      7.    An appropriate site orientation of the preparedness, prevention,
and contingency plan for all applicable emergency responders as determined by
Owyhee County. The cost and expense of the orientation shall be the sole
responsibility of the applicant. If multiple wells/well pads are in the same
area (covered by the same emergency response agencies), evidence for the
appropriate emergency response agencies that a training course was offered in
the last twelve (12) months shall be accepted.
      8.    A narrative describing the environmental impacts of the proposed
project on the site and surrounding land and measures proposed to protect or
mitigate such impacts shall be provided to Owyhee County. (Ord. 2013-02, 8-12-
2013)
9-14-6: ISSUANCE OF ADMINISTRATIVE PERMIT:
   A.    Within fourteen (14) business days after receipt of an administrative
permit application, the planning and zoning administrator will determine
whether the application is complete and advise the applicant accordingly.
   B.    If the application is complete and fulfills the requirements of this
chapter, the Owyhee County planning and zoning commission shall issue an
administrative permit within twenty one (21) days following the date the
complete application was submitted.
   C.    If the application is incomplete or does not fulfill the requirements
of this chapter, the planning and zoning administrator will notify the
applicant of the missing and/or inadequate material and, upon receiving said
material, the commission shall issue the administrative permit within twenty
one (21) days following the date the complete application was submitted.
   D.    As a condition of administrative permit approval, applicant shall
provide all permits and plans from the department and all other appropriate
regulatory agencies to the administrator within thirty (30) days of receipt of
such permits and plans.
   E.    If temporary housing for well site workers is proposed on the well
site, a plan showing the number and location of the units shall be provided to
the administrator. Temporary housing plans shall be in compliance with all
applicable Owyhee County regulations, and may require a conditional use permit.
(Ord. 2013-02, 8-12-2013)
9-14-7: SITE DESIGN AND INSTALLATION:
   A.    Access:
      1.    Vehicular access to a natural gas well, oil well, or well pad
solely via a residential street is prohibited unless it can be proven that the
only viable vehicular access to the well site is via the residential route. The
use of collector streets is preferred.
      2.    Owyhee County adopted professional standards pertaining to minimum
traffic site distances for all access points shall be adhered to.
      3.    Access directly to state roads from a well site may require an
Idaho transportation department (ITD) approach permit. Prior to initiating any
work at a drill site, the administrator shall be provided a copy of any
required approach permit.
      4.    Access directly to Owyhee County local streets shall require a road
repair agreement with the Owyhee County board of commissioners or the
applicable highway district prior to initiating any work at the well site.
Operator shall comply with any generally applicable bonding and permitting
requirements for Owyhee County roads that are to be used by vehicles for site
construction, drilling activities and site operations.
   B.    Height:
      1.    There shall be an exception to the height restrictions contained in
this section for the temporary placement of drilling rigs, drying tanks, pad
drilling and other accessory uses necessary for the actual drilling or
redrilling of an oil or gas well. The duration of such exemption shall not
exceed the actual time period of drilling or redrilling of an oil or gas well
or pad drilling.
   C.    Setbacks/Location:
      1.    Setback distances shall, at minimum, follow requirements listed in
Idaho statute, title 47, chapter 3 and administrative rule 20.07.02
conservation of crude oil and natural gas in the state of Idaho.
      2.    Recognizing that specific location of equipment and facilities is
an integral part of the oil and gas development, and as part of the planning
process, operator shall strive to consider the location of its temporary and
permanent operations, where prudent and possible, so as to minimize
interference with Owyhee County residents' enjoyment of their property and
future Owyhee County development activities as authorized by the Owyhee County
applicable ordinances.
      3.    Exception from the standards established in this subsection may be
granted by the commission upon good cause by the operator that it is not
feasible to meet the setback requirements from surface tract property lines and
that adequate safeguards have or will be provided to justify the exception.
   D.    Screening And Fencing:
      1.    Security fencing shall not be required at oil or gas well sites
during the initial drilling, or redrilling operations, as long as manned twenty
four (24) hour on site supervision and security are provided.
      2.    Upon completion of drilling or redrilling, security fencing
consisting of permanent chainlink fence shall be promptly installed at the oil
or gas well site to secure wellheads, storage tanks, separation facilities,
water or liquid impoundment areas, and other mechanical and production
equipment and structures on the oil or gas well site.
      3.    The commission may use its discretion to determine whether fencing
requirements shall be enforced for wellheads, storage tanks, separation
facilities, and other mechanical and production equipment and structures on the
oil or gas well site.
      4.    Security fencing shall be at least six feet (6') in height equipped
with lockable gates at every access point and having openings no less than
twelve feet (12') wide. Additional lockable gates used to access oil and gas
well sites by foot may be allowed, as necessary.
      5.    Warning signs shall be placed on the fencing surrounding the oil or
gas well site providing notice of the potential dangers and the contact
information in case of an emergency. During drilling and hydraulic fracturing,
clearly visible warning signage must be posted on the pad site.
      6.    In construction of oil or gas well sites, the natural surroundings
should be considered and attempts made to preserve existing trees and other
native vegetation. Existing trees and respective root systems should not be
disturbed whenever possible. Reforestation/revegetation of the well site will
be provided by the owner/operator as required by rules governing oil and gas
conservation.
   E.    Lighting: Lighting at the oil or gas well site, either temporary or
permanent shall be directed downward and inward toward the activity, to the
extent practicable, so as to minimize the glare on public roads and adjacent
properties.
   F.    Noise: Owyhee County recognizes that oil and gas development is
accompanied by inherent noise. However, the operator shall consider, to the
extent possible, mitigation of noise resulting from the oil or gas well
development.
   G.    Dust Control: Operator shall control fugitive dust arising from
operations. Operator shall routinely control dust by sprinkling with water or a
water/calcium chloride mixture where necessary.
   H.    Work Hours: Site development, other than drilling shall be conducted
only between seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. Monday
through Friday and between nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and five o'clock (5:00)
P.M. on Saturday. Truck deliveries of equipment and materials associated with
drilling and well servicing, site preparation and other related work conducted
on the site shall be limited to the above same work hour restrictions except in
cases of an emergency. The operator may request an exception to this section
for good cause shown. (Ord. 2013-02, 8-12-2013)
CHAPTER 15
OVERLAY DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A.  POWER ZONING OVERLAY DISTRICT
SECTION:
9-15A-1: Short Title And Purpose
9-15A-2: Establishment Of Power Zoning Overlay District
9-15A-3: Allowed Uses
9-15A-4: Development Standards
9-15A-1: SHORT TITLE AND PURPOSE:
   A.    This article shall be known as the OWYHEE COUNTY GREATER THAN 230kV
NOMINAL POWER ZONING OVERLAY DISTRICT ORDINANCE (OVERLAY ORDINANCE).
   B.    It is the purpose of this article to promote the public health,
safety, and general welfare, to minimize public and private losses and to
locate high voltage power transmission lines in areas that best suit the needs
of Owyhee County and its citizens. Specific goals are to:
      1.    Protect human life and health.
      2.    Continue to provide reliable power service to county residents.
      3.    Locate power corridors in areas of least impact to residents of the
county.
      4.    Locate power corridors in areas of least impact to extraordinary
natural, wildlife, historical, recreational, and cultural resources of the
county. (Ord. 2013-03, 8-12-2013)
9-15A-2: ESTABLISHMENT OF POWER ZONING OVERLAY DISTRICT:
There is hereby established a power zoning overlay district where power
transmission lines east of range 3 west, and greater than 230kV nominal shall
be located.
Other power transmission overlay districts may be established by rezoning the
property. (Ord. 2013-03, 8-12-2013)
9-15A-3: ALLOWED USES:
Power transmission lines east of range 3 west and greater than 230kV nominal
are allowed uses in the overlay district, and shall be located in the overlay
district unless a rezone is sought and approved in another area. (Ord. 2013-03,
8-12-2013)
9-15A-4: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   A.    Tower structures that support transmission lines shall not be located
on prime irrigated land, nor interfere with existing pivot irrigation systems
unless approved by the landowner.
   B.    Transmission lines shall preserve scenic qualities within the overlay
to the greatest extent possible.
   C.    All residential development shall be outside of any transmission line
easement. (Ord. 2013-03, 8-12-2013)
CHAPTER 16
HOME BURIAL AND PRIVATE INTERMENT
SECTION:
9-16-1: Short Title And Purpose
9-16-2: Composition
9-16-3: Recording And Notice Required
9-16-4: Responsibility
9-16-5: Setback, Consent, And State Requirements
9-16-6: Standards For Interment And Removal
9-16-7: Disestablishment Of An Interment Site
9-16-8: Procedure
9-16-9: Violations
9-16-1: SHORT TITLE AND PURPOSE:
   A.    This chapter shall be known as the HOME BURIAL AND PRIVATE INTERMENT
ORDINANCE.
   B.    Owyhee County desires that the interment of human remains on private
property be conducted in a manner that is respectful to the deceased, the
family, and the citizenry of the county and in so doing, the county enacts this
chapter to provide a method and standard of disposition, maintenance,
improvements, and beautification of an interment site. (Ord. 2016-02, 9-6-2016)
9-16-2: COMPOSITION:
Interment sites shall consist of a lot, or portion thereof, containing a burial
plot for earth interments, a mausoleum or vault or crypt interments, or a
columbarium for interments of cremated remains, or any combination of one or
more of the interments set forth in this section. No interment site shall be
allowed on parcels smaller than three (3) acres. No more than two (2)
interments shall be allowed per parcel unless approval is granted for the
development of a platted cemetery. No future development or easements shall be
allowed upon or within five feet (5') of the remains. Interment sites are not
deemed to be equivalent to rural cemeteries as defined in Idaho Code, title 27,
chapter 2 1 . (Ord. 2016-02, 9-6-2016)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 27-201 et seq.
9-16-3: RECORDING AND NOTICE REQUIRED:
An interment site shall be laid out and described specifically, by metes and
bounds on the deed of record so as to give appropriate notice to lienholders,
successors in title, and the public at large for any parcel containing an
interment site. The owner of the parcel containing the interment site shall
record such deed within sixty (60) days of the interment of human remains
thereon. If a parcel containing an interment site is sold, the seller of the
property must disclose to the buyer the existence and location of the interment
site. (Ord. 2016-02, 9-6-2016)
9-16-4: RESPONSIBILITY:
The owner of any property, which contains an interment site, has the
responsibility for maintaining the property in a manner that is respectful of
the memory of the person or persons whose remains are interred thereon. The
responsibility to maintain the interment site runs with the land and the owner
may not be relieved of that responsibility until and unless the interment site
is disestablished. The responsibility to maintain the interment site extends to
successors in title so long as human remains are interred thereon. (Ord. 2016-
02, 9-6-2016)
9-16-5: SETBACK, CONSENT, AND STATE REQUIREMENTS:
All interment sites shall meet the following requirements, prior to the time
that any human remains shall be buried or placed therein:
   A.    The location of an interment site shall be:
      1.    At least one hundred feet (100') from the boundary line of any lot
or parcel.
      2.    At least three hundred feet (300') from any wells, surface water
intake structures, and public or private drinking water supply lakes or
springs.
      3.    At least two hundred feet (200') from the high water mark of any
body of surface water such as a river, stream, lake, pond, intermittent stream,
or sinkhole.
      4.    At least one hundred feet (100') from any dwelling, school or
school lot, hospital or other medical facility, or place of business.
      5.    At least one hundred feet (100') from the right of way of any
public road.
   B.    Construction of a mausoleum, columbarium, or any monument or other
grave marker on an interment site shall comply with the applicable building
code requirements.
   C.    All uses made of interment sites shall comply with all state
requirements including, but not limited to:
      1.    Idaho Code section 39-260, registration of deaths;
      2.    Idaho Code section 39-268, final disposition of dead bodies;
      3.    Idaho Code section 39-269, disinterment;
      4.    Idaho Code title 54, chapter 11, morticians, funeral directors and
embalmers 1 ; and
      5.    The relevant sections of the Idaho administrative code (IDAPA).
(Ord. 2016-02, 9-6-2016)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 54-1101 et seq.
9-16-6: STANDARDS FOR INTERMENT AND REMOVAL:
Each interment or removal of human remains on private property shall meet the
following standards:
   A.    Noncremated human remains buried beneath the surface of the ground
shall comply with the following depth of grave requirements:
      1.    If there is an outer case around the coffin, the uppermost part of
the outer case must be deeper than two feet (2') from the natural surface.
      2.    If there is not an outer case, and there is just a coffin or just
the body with no coffin, then the remains must be buried to a depth not less
than three feet (3') from the natural surface of the ground.
      3.    Proper maintenance shall be maintained such as filling in any
depression that may be created at any time due to nature.
   B.    Each container of human remains buried beneath the surface of the
ground shall be indicated by a permanent, visible marker or monument. The
marker or monument should be placed as soon as is practicable after the remains
are interred. (Ord. 2016-02, 9-6-2016)
9-16-7: DISESTABLISHMENT OF AN INTERMENT SITE:
An interment site, once established, may be disestablished by the owner of the
property. To disestablish an interment site, the owner must do all of the
following:
   A.    Arrange to remove and properly reinter any human remains interred
therein;
   B.    Removal of the markers or monuments that indicate the presence of
human remains;
   C.    Remove, demolish, or convert to another permitted use any mausoleum or
columbarium, constructed on the interment site; and
   D.    A new deed of record must be filed indicating that the interment site
has been disestablished. (Ord. 2016-02, 9-6-2016)
9-16-8: PROCEDURE:
For any such private interment, a permit shall be required. In order to obtain
a permit, the application shall be filed with the planning and zoning
administrator on a form prescribed by the administrator or the board. The first
two (2) interments will be accomplished by administrative discretion decision.
Platted cemeteries shall only be approved by conditional use permit. (Ord.
2016-02, 9-6-2016)
9-16-9: VIOLATIONS:
In addition to any other penalties, pursuant to Idaho Code section 19-5304, the
court may order the prior owner of land who did not record the existence of an
interment site on that land and who did not disclose the existence of an
interment site to the buyer prior to selling the land, to pay reasonable costs
to disinterment and reinterment of any human remains thereon. (Ord. 2016-02, 9-
6-2016)
CHAPTER 17
ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
9-17-1: Severability
9-17-2: Misdemeanor
9-17-3: Violation
9-17-1: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase of this title is held
to be invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not
affect the validity of the remaining portions of this title and they shall
remain in full force and effect. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009; amd. Ord. 2013-02, 8-
12-2013; Ord. 2013-03, 8-12-2013; Ord. 2016-02, 9-6-2016)
9-17-2: MISDEMEANOR:
Violation of this title shall constitute a misdemeanor punishable as provided
in Idaho Code section 18-113 as it may from time to time be amended and/or
retitled. Each day the violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
A fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00) per day will be assessed per violation.
(Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009; amd. Ord. 2013-02, 8-12-2013; Ord. 2013-03, 8-12-2013;
Ord. 2016-02, 9-6-2016)
9-17-3: VIOLATION:
   A.    Recommendation To Board Of Commissioners: When the planning and zoning
administrator or commission finds that violation of this title has occurred or
is about to occur, the administrator shall advise the board of commissioners in
a written recommendation containing factual findings upon which the
recommendation is based.
   B.    Notice: Upon receiving such recommendation from the administrator, or
on its own motion after finding that a violation has occurred or is about to
occur, the board of commissioners may direct the administrator to send an
initial letter advising the party of the violation and the fine associated with
the violation.
   C.    Order To Show Cause: The party will have fourteen (14) days to respond
with a solution agreeable to the board. If such solution is not received, the
board may issue an order to show cause requiring a public hearing at which the
alleged offender will have the opportunity to show cause why he/she is not in
violation of this title, and/or why enforcement proceedings should not be
initiated.
   D.    Enforcement Action; Fee: If after the order to show cause hearing, the
board is of the opinion that a violation has occurred and that enforcement
action should be initiated, the board may direct that enforcement action be
initiated to abate the violation and/or seek imposition of penalties. A fee may
be set by resolution for the order to show cause hearing. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-
2009; amd. Ord. 2013-02, 8-12-2013; Ord. 2013-03, 8-12-2013; Ord. 2016-02, 9-6-
2016)
CHAPTER 18
SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS
SECTION:
9-18-1: Purpose
9-18-2: Definitions
9-18-3: Zoning Classifications
9-18-4: Administrative Permit Requirement
9-18-5: Administrative Permit Application
9-18-6: Site Design And Installation
9-18-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide, through zoning provisions, for the
reasonable development of residential solar energy systems while providing
adequate health, safety and general welfare protections of Owyhee County
residents. Accordingly, it is necessary and appropriate to adopt reasonable
requirements for solar energy system development that helps minimize potential
impacts on the residents of Owyhee County. For the purpose of this ordinance,
all solar installations or expansions will be considered cumulatively per
parcel whether roof mounted or ground mounted. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009; amd.
Res. 20-26, 9-21-2021)
9-18-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
                                Solar systems up to 25 kW intended to
ACCESSORY RESIDENTIAL SOLAR:    offset residential electrical usage
                                demand.
                                Any number of electrically connected
ARRAY:                          photovoltaic (PV) modules providing a
                                single electrical output.
                                An arrangement with a local electric
CUSTOMER GENERATION:            utility that allows customers to receive a
                                credit for surplus electricity generated
                                by certain renewable energy systems.
                                A solar photovoltaic system mounted on a
                                structure, pole or series of poles
GROUND-MOUNTED SYSTEM:          constructed specifically to support the
                                photovoltaic system and not attached to
                                any other structure.
                                A unit of electrical power equal to 1,000
                                Watts, which constitutes the basic unit of
                                electrical demand. A watt is a metric
KILOWATT (KW):                  measurement of power (not energy) and is
                                the rate (not the duration) at which
                                electricity is used. 1,000 kW is equal to
                                1 megawatt (MW).
PHOTOVOLTAIC (PV):              A semiconductor-based device that converts
                                light directly into electricity.
                                A solar system attached to any part or
                                type of roof on a building or structure
ROOF-MOUNTED SYSTEM:            that is either the principal structure or
                                an accessory structure on a recorded
                                parcel.
                                An energy system of which the primary
                                purpose is to harvest energy by
                                transforming solar energy into another
                                form of energy or transferring heat from a
                                collector to another medium using
SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM (SES):      mechanical, electrical, or chemical means.
                                Very small accessory systems of 2 kW or
                                less shall not be considered a solar
                                energy system for the purpose of
                                permitting except when cumulatively they
                                exceed other provisions of this ordinance.
                                A commercial facility that converts
                                sunlight into electricity, whether by
SOLAR FARM:                     photovoltaics (PV), concentrating solar
                                thermal devices (CST), or other conversion
                                technology, for the purpose of sale of
                                generated electricity.
                                Items including a solar photovoltaic cell,
SOLAR PHOTOVOLTAIC (PV) RELATED panel or array, lines, mounting brackets,
EQUIPMENT:                      inverters, framing, and foundations used
                                for or intended to be used for collection
                                of solar energy.
                                A solar collection system consisting of
                                one or more building- and/or ground-
                                mounted systems, solar photovoltaic cells,
SOLAR PHOTOVOLTAIC (PV) SYSTEM: panels or arrays and solar related
                                equipment that rely upon solar radiation
                                as an energy source for collection,
                                inversion, storage and distribution of
                                solar energy for electricity generation.
                                A number of photovoltaic modules mounted
                                such that they track the movement of the
TRACKING SYSTEM:                sun across the sky to maximize energy
                                production, either with a single-axis or
                                dual-axis mechanism. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-
                                2009; amd. Res. 20-26, 9-21-2021)
 
9-18-3: ZONING CLASSIFICATIONS:
Subject to the provisions of this chapter:
   A.   Solar energy systems producing less than 10kW shall be considered an
allowed use by right within zones A, M, R, C, and I, if they are not covered by
an airport or airspace overlay zone, and are subject to an administrative
permit and the standards listed herein.
   B.   Systems producing more than 10kW shall be allowed only by
Administrative permit, or conditional use permit approval as outlined in this
chapter. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009; amd. Res. 20-26, 9-21-2021)
9-18-4: ADMINISTRATIVE PERMIT REQUIREMENT:
   A.   No solar energy system, or an addition to an existing system, shall be
constructed or located within Owyhee County unless an administrative permit
under this chapter has been issued by the zoning official approving the
construction for a solar energy system.
   B.   Each application shall be submitted with the fee established pursuant
to resolution of Owyhee County as adopted. Such fee shall be reasonably related
to the cost of administering this chapter.
   C.   Applications for roof mounted solar energy systems of any square
footage up to 25 kW, in zones A, M, R, C, and I, not covered by an airport/
airspace overlay, and that meet the design requirements of this ordinance shall
be by administrative approval of the zoning official and shall not require a
conditional use permit. However, nothing in this ordinance is intended to allow
incremental increases over time, or multiple small systems in order to avoid
the provisions of this ordinance.
   D.   Applications for ground mounted solar energy systems of 800 square feet
or less, in zones A, M, R, C, and I, not covered by an airport/airspace
overlay, and that meet the design requirements of this ordinance shall be by
administrative approval of the zoning official and shall not require a
conditional use permit.
   E.   Solar energy system components must have an anti-reflectivity coating
to help reduce the amount of glare from the panels.
   F.   Historic Buildings - Solar energy systems on buildings within
designated historic districts or on locally designated historic buildings
(exclusive of State or Federal historic designation) must receive approval of
the Historic Preservation Commission, consistent with the standards for solar
energy systems on historically designated buildings published by the U.S.
Department of Interior. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009; amd. Res. 20-26, 9-21-2021)
9-18-5: ADMINISTRATIVE PERMIT APPLICATION:
   A.   At the time of administrative permit application, the applicant shall
provide to the administrator:
      1.   A complete application form including required submittals as
outlined on the application form.
      2.   A narrative describing an overview of the project including the
number of kW to be produced, total square footage of solar panels, and the
location, number and description of accessory equipment and structures to the
extent known.
      3.   A site plan of the property that depicts the locations of all
existing and proposed structures (including solar arrays, inverters,
transformers, electrical substations, and buildings), property lines, rights-
of-way, roads, required setbacks, and visual buffers.
      4.   Site installation acknowledgment affidavit.
      5.   Right to Farm Affidavit.
      6.   A decommissioning plan shall be required to ensure that facilities
are properly removed after their useful life. Decommissioning of solar panels
must occur in the event they are not producing power for 12 consecutive months.
The plan shall include the following:
         a.   The name, address, telephone number, and e-mail address of the
person(s) or entity(ies) responsible for implementing the decommissioning plan;
         b.   A statement of conditions that require the decommissioning plan
to be implemented;
         c.   As part of decommissioning, a removal plan that identifies all
structures, components, and non-utility owned equipment that shall be removed;
         d.   As part of decommissioning, a restoration plan to return the
property to its condition prior to the installation of the SES or to some other
condition reasonably appropriate for the designated land use after the SES is
removed; and
         e.   A timeline to complete decommissioning. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009;
amd. Res. 20-26, 9-21-2021)
9-18-6: SITE DESIGN AND INSTALLATION:
   A.   Ground- or pole-mounted solar energy systems shall not exceed 25 feet
in height when oriented at maximum tilt. Systems that exceed this height will
only be allowed by conditional use permit.
   B.   For rooftop fire safety, required setbacks of 3 feet from roof ridges,
and 1.5 feet from valleys and headwalls shall be met to allow fire fighter
access.
   C.   Setback distances for ground mounted systems shall be at least 50' from
property lines, and 100' from public roads.
   D.   Solar energy systems proposed to be located within 1,000 feet of an
airport, within approach zones of an airport, or in an airport or airspace
overlay zone will be required to complete and provide the results of the Solar
Glare Hazard Analysis Tool (SGHAT).
   E.   Lighting: Any lighting at the solar installation site, either temporary
or permanent, shall utilize motion sensors and be directed downward and inward
toward the solar installation so as to minimize the glare on public roads and
adjacent properties. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009; amd. Res. 20-26, 9-21-2021)
TITLE 10
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
TITLE, AUTHORITY, PURPOSE
SECTION:
10-1-1: Title
10-1-2: Authority
10-1-3: Purpose
10-1-4: Jurisdiction
10-1-5: Interpretation
10-1-6: Administration
10-1-7: Combining Permits
10-1-8: Severability
10-1-1: TITLE:
These regulations shall be known and cited as the OWYHEE COUNTY SUBDIVISION
REGULATIONS, hereinafter referred to as the "subdivision ordinance". (Ord. 09-
09, 10-6-2009)
10-1-2: AUTHORITY:
These regulations are authorized by Idaho Code title 67, chapter 65, as amended
or subsequently codified. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009; amd. 2010 Code)
10-1-3: PURPOSE:
The purposes of these regulations are to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare, and to provide for:
   A.    The harmonious development of the area.
   B.    The coordination of streets and roads within the subdivision with
other existing or planned streets and roads.
   C.    Adequate open space for travel, light, air and recreation.
   D.    Adequate transportation, water drainage and sanitary facilities.
   E.    The avoidance of scattered subdivision of land that would result in
either of the following:
      1.    The lack of water supply, sewer service, drainage, transportation,
fire protection, or other public services.
      2.    The unnecessary imposition of an excessive expenditure of public
funds for the supply of such services.
   F.    The requirements as to the extent and the manner in which:
      1.    Roads shall be created and improved.
      2.    Water and sewer and other utility mains, piping connections, or
other facilities shall be installed.
   G.    The manner and form of making and filing of any plat.
   H.    The administration of these regulations by defining the powers and
duties of approval authorities. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
10-1-4: JURISDICTION:
These regulations shall apply to the subdividing of all land within the
unincorporated territory of the county, except for the property within one mile
outside the limits of an incorporated city, city approval of subdivision plats
within one mile of the city limits shall be in addition to county approval, or
as mutually defined by both city and county under the requirements of Idaho
Code section 50-1306, as amended or subsequently codified, and except as
provided by Idaho Code section 31-3803. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
10-1-5: INTERPRETATION:
All "subdivisions" as herein defined shall be submitted to the county
commissioners for approval and shall comply with the provisions of these
regulations. These regulations shall supplement all other regulations. (Ord.
09-09, 10-6-2009)
10-1-6: ADMINISTRATION:
The county commissioners may appoint an administrator to carry out the
provisions as herein specified and to serve at the pleasure of the commission.
The administrator shall receive and process all subdivision applications. If an
administrator is not appointed, then the functions of the administrator
referred to herein may be carried out by the county commissioners, or the
planning commission may act as administrator if directed by the county
commissioners. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
10-1-7: COMBINING PERMITS:
The commission is hereby required to coordinate with other local departments
and local agencies concerning all permits which may be required in this title,
and previously or subsequently adopted county ordinances. A one stop permit
application and processing procedure may be developed with the respective
departments and agencies for the purpose of reducing errors, misunderstanding,
confusion and unnecessary delay for everyone involved. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
10-1-8: SEVERABILITY:
Where any word, phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, section, or other part of
these regulations is held invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, such
judgment shall affect only that part so held invalid. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
10-2-1: Interpretation Of Terms Or Words
10-2-2: General Definitions
10-2-1: INTERPRETATION OF TERMS OR WORDS:
Terms or words used herein shall be interpreted as follows:
   A.    The present tense includes the past or future tense, the singular
includes the plural, and the plural includes the singular.
   B.    The word "shall" is mandatory; "may" is permissive; and the word
"should" is preferred.
   C.    The masculine shall include the feminine. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
10-2-2: GENERAL DEFINITIONS:
As used in this title, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
ADMINISTRATOR: An official, having knowledge in the principles and practices of
subdividing, who is appointed by the county commissioners to administer this
title.
BLOCK: A group of lots, tracts, or parcels within well defined boundaries,
usually streets.
BOARD: The board of county commissioners.
BUILDING: A structure designed or used as the living quarters for one or more
families, or a structure designed or used for occupancy by people for
commercial or industrial uses.
BUILDING SETBACK LINE: An imaginary line established by a zoning ordinance that
requires all buildings to be set back a certain distance from lot lines.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/17d1c061191710f45efb1c97a7b562c8e94710bf/
IMAGES/0-0-0-766.gif]
 
BUILDING SITE: An area proposed or provided for and improved by grading,
filling, excavation or other means for erecting pads for buildings.
CEMETERY: A lot that has been platted for the selling of sites for the burial
of animal or human remains.
CITY: The city having jurisdiction of the parcel of land under consideration.
COMMISSION: The planning commission appointed by the county commissioners.
COMMITTEE: That technical committee appointed by the county commissioners, upon
recommendation from the commission, to assist with the technical evaluation of
subdivision, and to make recommendations to the commission. The membership of
the committee shall include, but not be limited to, persons that are engaged or
have been engaged in either private or public work with specific knowledge in
the following areas:
   A.    Road design and construction.
   B.    Sewer and water facility design and construction.
   C.    Health requirements for water and sewer facilities.
   D.    Environmental planning criteria such as geology, water systems,
vegetation and noise.
   E.    Solid waste.
   F.    Recreational and open space.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: An adopted document that herein may be referred to as a
comprehensive plan or comprehensive development plan. The document shall show
the general location and extent of present and proposed development, including,
but not limited to, housing, industrial and commercial uses, streets, parks,
schools, and other community facilities.
CONDOMINIUM: An estate consisting of an undivided interest in common in real
property, in an interest or interests in real property, or in any combination
thereof; together with a separate interest in real property, in an interest or
interests in real property, or in any combination thereof.
COUNCIL: The city council of a municipal governing body.
COUNTY ENGINEER: Any registered professional engineer retained by the county
commissioners to perform professional engineering for the county.
COUNTY RECORDER: The office of the county recorder.
COUNTY SURVEYOR: Any registered professional land surveyor retained by the
county commissioners to perform professional land surveying for the county or
to verify plots as provided in Idaho Code section 50-1305.
COVENANT: A written promise or pledge.
CULVERT: A drain that channels water under a bridge, street, road or driveway.
DEDICATION: The setting apart of land or interests in land for use by the
public by ordinance, resolution, or entry in the official minutes as by the
recording of a plat. Dedicated land becomes public land upon the acceptance by
the county.
DEVELOPER: Authorized agents of a subdivider or the subdivider himself.
DWELLING UNIT: Any building or other structure proposed or built for occupancy
by people.
EASEMENT: A grant by a property owner to specific persons or to the public to
use land for specific purposes. Also, a right acquired by prescription.
ENGINEER: Any person who is licensed in the state to practice professional
engineering.
FLOODPLAIN: The relatively flat area or lowland adjoining the channel of a
river, stream, lake or other body of water which has been or may be covered by
water of a flood of one hundred (100) year frequency. The floodplain includes
the channel, floodway and floodway fringe, as established per the engineering
practices as specified by the army corps of engineers, as follows:
  Channel: A natural or artificial watercourse of a perceptible extent, with
definite bed and banks to confine and conduct continuously or periodically
flowing water.
  Flood: The temporary inundation of land adjacent to and inundated by overflow
from a river, stream, lake or other body of water.
  Flood Of One Hundred Year Frequency: A flood magnitude which has a one
percent (1%) chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year.
  Floodway: The channel or a watercourse and those portions of the floodplain
adjoining the channel which are reasonably required to carry and discharge the
floodwater of any watercourse.
  Floodway Fringe: That part of the floodplain which is beyond the floodway.
Such areas will include those portions of the floodplain which will be
inundated by a flood of one hundred (100) year frequency but which may be
developed when such development will not have a significant effect upon the
floodwater carrying capacity of the floodway and the flood water levels. Such
areas are characterized by shallow flood depths and low velocities of water
flow.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/17d1c061191710f45efb1c97a7b562c8e94710bf/
IMAGES/0-0-0-768.gif]
 
GOVERNING BODY: The county commissioners of the county of Owyhee, state of
Idaho.
HIGHWAY: A street designated as a highway by an appropriate state or federal
agency.
HILLSIDE SUBDIVISION OR HILLSIDE DEVELOPMENT: Any subdivision or portion
thereof having an average slope of ten percent (10%) or more.
IMPROVEMENT: Any alteration to the land or other physical construction
associated with subdivision and building site developments.
LARGE SCALE DEVELOPMENT: A subdivision the size of which consists of fifty (50)
or more lots or dwelling units.
LOT: A parcel, plot, tract, or other land area of suitable size as required in
these regulations and the existing zoning ordinance 1 ; and created by
subdivision for sale, transfer, or lease.
LOT AREA: The area of any lot shall be determined exclusive of street, highway,
alley, road, or other rights of way.
LOT TYPES: As used in these regulations, lot types are as follows:
  Corner Lot: A lot located at the intersection of two (2) or more streets.
  Interior Lot: A lot other than a corner lot with frontage on only one street.
  Through Lot: A lot with frontage on more than one street other than a corner
lot.
MAJOR SUBDIVISION: A subdivision which contains a number of lots greater than
ten (10).
MINOR SUBDIVISION: A subdivision which contains a number of lots that is ten
(10) or less.
MOBILE HOME: A factory assembled structure or structures equipped with the
necessary service connections and made so as to be readily movable as a unit or
units on its (their) own wheels and designed to be used as a dwelling unit(s)
without a permanent foundation. The phrase "without a permanent foundation"
indicates that the support system is constructed with the intent that the
mobile home placed thereon will be moved from time to time at the convenience
of the owner.
MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION: A subdivision designed and intended for exclusive
mobile home residential use.
MONUMENT: Any permanent marker either of concrete, galvanized iron pipe, or
iron or steel rods, used to identify any tract, parcel, lot or street lines as
specified in Idaho Code section 50-1303.
OPEN SPACE: An area open to the sky for outdoor recreation activity, exclusive
of streets, buildings, or other covered structures.
ORIGINAL LOT, ORIGINAL TRACT, OR ORIGINAL PARCEL OF LAND: A lot, tract or
parcel of land as recorded on any plat recorded on file in the office of the
county recorder, and/or any unplatted contiguous parcel of land held in one
ownership on record in the office of the county recorder on the effective date
hereof, August 13, 1979.
OWNERSHIP: The individual, firm, association, syndicate, partnership, or
corporation having any interest in the land to be subdivided.
PERFORMANCE BOND: An amount of money or other negotiable security paid by the
subdivider or his surety to the county clerk and recorder which guarantees that
the subdivider will perform all actions required by the governing body
regarding an approved plat, and provides that if the subdivider defaults and
fails to comply with the provisions of an approved plat, the subdivider or his
surety will pay damages up to the limit of the bond, or the surety will itself
complete the requirements of the approved plat.
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT SUBDIVISION: A subdivision designed as a combination
of residential, commercial and industrial uses planned for a tract of land to
be developed as a unit under single ownership or control, which is developed
for the purpose of selling individual lots or estates, whether fronting on
private or dedicated streets, which may include two (2) or more principal
buildings. See map below:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/17d1c061191710f45efb1c97a7b562c8e94710bf/
IMAGES/0-0-0-770.gif]
 
PLAT: The drawing, mapping, or planning of a subdivision, cemetery, townsite or
other tract of land or a replatting of such including certifications,
descriptions and approvals:
  Final Plat: The final and formal presentation by drawings of an approved
subdivision development, the original and one copy of which is filed with the
county clerk and recorder.
  Preliminary Plat: The first formal presentation by drawings of a proposed
subdivision.
RESERVE STRIP: A strip of land between a partial street and adjacent property
which is reserved or held in public ownership for future street extension or
widening.
RIGHT OF WAY: A strip of land dedicated or reserved for use as a public way,
which normally includes streets, sidewalks and other public utilities or
service areas.
STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS: The specifications as specified in this title or as
officially adopted by the county.
STATE: The state of Idaho.
STREET: A right of way which provides access to adjacent properties, the
dedication of which has been officially accepted. The term "street" also
includes the terms highway, thoroughfare, parkway, road, avenue, boulevard,
lane, place, and other such terms.
  Alley: A minor street providing secondary access at the back or side of a
property otherwise abutting a street.
  Arterial: A street designated for the purpose of carrying fast and/or heavy
traffic.
  Collector: A street designated for the purpose of carrying traffic from minor
streets to other collector streets and/or arterial streets.
  Cul-De-Sac: A street connected to another street at one end only and provided
with a turnaround space at its terminus.
  Frontage: A minor street, parallel to and adjacent to an arterial street to
provide access to abutting properties.
  Loop: A minor street with both terminal points on the same street of origin.
  Minor: A street which has the primary purpose of providing access to abutting
properties.
  Partial: A dedicated right of way providing only a portion of the required
street width, usually along the edge of a subdivision or tract of land.
  Private: A street that is not accepted for public use or maintenance which
provides vehicular and pedestrian access.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/17d1c061191710f45efb1c97a7b562c8e94710bf/
IMAGES/0-0-0-772.gif]
 
SUBDIVIDER: Deemed to be the individual, firm, corporation, partnership,
association, syndicate, trust, or other legal entity that executes the
application and initiates proceedings for the subdivision of land in accordance
with the provisions of this title. The subdivider need not be the owner of the
property; however, he shall be an agent of the owner or have sufficient
proprietary rights in the property to represent the owner.
SUBDIVISION: A. The division of an original lot, tract, or parcel of land as
recorded as of August 13, 1979, into more than four (4) parts any of which is
less than five (5) acres for the purpose of development, or any land
development where four (4) or more homesites of any size will be sold for the
purpose of development. "Development" shall include, but not be limited to,
improvements for residential, commercial, industrial, or recreational use,
including mobile home parks as defined in Idaho Code section 55-2003; the
dedication of a public street; and the addition to or creation of a cemetery.
   B.    An "original lot, tract or parcel of land" is defined as a lot or
tract or parcel of land as recorded on any plat recorded on file in the office
of the county recorder, and/or any unplatted contiguous parcel of land held in
one ownership on record in the office of the county recorder on the effective
date hereof.
   C.    Subdivision shall also mean and include the following:
  1. The dividing of land into more than four (4) tracts, lots, or parcels for
transfer of ownership or building development, any part of which, when
subdivided, contains less than five (5) acres.
  2. The dedicating of any street or alley through or along any tract of land.
  3. The placement of more than one manufactured building under the provisions
of Idaho Code subsection 39-4105, and/or a commercial coach under the
provisions of Idaho Code subsection 39-4105, or a "mobile home" which means a
structure similar to a manufactured home, but built to a state mobile home code
which existed prior to the federal manufactured housing and safety standards
act (HUD code) per acre upon an existing tract of land, although there is no
division of the lot, tract or parcel of land.
  4. Any dwelling or residence located on a tract of land which does not
provide a recorded right of way for ingress and egress to an existing public
road; and the use of an easement or right of way by three (3) or more adjacent
property owners for ingress and egress to an existing public road.
    a. Access shall include the following:
        (1) A minimum property frontage of fifty feet (50') on the right of way
of a maintained public street or highway is required for the purpose of
ingress/egress, excluding alleys; or
        (2) A recorded private permanent perpetual easement is required of a
minimum width of twenty eight feet (28') from the right of way of a maintained
public road to the property for the purpose of ingress/egress. Use of this
private permanent perpetual easement provision is only allowed for land which
otherwise would have no frontage on the right of way of a public maintained
road.
      b. Access roadway construction standard:
        (1) Must be constructed with six inch (6") gravel base and leveling
coarse, graded and compacted, with a twenty foot (20') wide all weather driving
surface.
        (2) All access roads must be kept clear at all times.
   D.    However, this title shall not apply to any of the following:
  1. Widening of existing streets to conform to the comprehensive plan;
  2. The unwilling sale of land as a result of legal condemnation as defined
and allowed in Idaho Code;
  3. The acquisition of collector and arterial street rights of way by a public
agency in conformance with the comprehensive plan;
  4. The exchange of land for the purpose of straightening property boundaries
or convenience, which does not result in the substantial change of the present
land usage of the properties involved.
Any other transfer, development or placement of more than one mobile home,
manufactured home or commercial coach per acre on an existing tract of land
constitutes a subdivision and must have a variance from the planning commission
and the county commissioners.
SURVEYOR: Any person who is licensed in the state as a public land surveyor to
do professional surveying.
UTILITIES: Installations for conducting water, sewage, gas, electricity,
television, stormwater, and similar facilities providing service to and used by
the public.
VARIANCE: A modification of the strict terms of the relevant regulations where
such modification will not be contrary to the public interest and where, owing
to conditions peculiar to the property and not the result of the action of the
applicant, a literal enforcement of this title would result in unnecessary and
undue hardship.
VICINITY MAP: A small scale map showing the location of a tract of land in
relation to a larger area. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 9 of this code.
CHAPTER 3
PROCEDURE FOR SUBDIVISION APPROVAL
SECTION:
10-3-1: Approval Required
10-3-2: Preapplication
10-3-3: Preliminary Plat
10-3-4: Final Plat
10-3-1: APPROVAL REQUIRED:
Any person desiring to create a "subdivision" as herein defined shall submit
all necessary applications to the administrator. No final plat shall be filed
with the county recorder or improvements made on the property until the plat
has been acted upon by the commission and approved by the county commissioners.
No lots shall be sold until the plat has been recorded in the office of the
county recorder. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
10-3-2: PREAPPLICATION:
   A.    Application: The subdivider may submit a preapplication to enable the
administrator to review and comment on the proposed subdivision. The
preapplication shall include at least one copy of a sketch plan. The sketch
plan shall include the entire developmental scheme of the proposed subdivision
in schematic form and include the following:
      1.    The general layout and approximate dimension of streets, blocks,
and lots in sketch form;
      2.    The existing conditions and characteristics of the land on and
adjacent to the proposed subdivision site;
      3.    The areas set aside for schools, parks and other public facilities.
   B.    Fee: None required.
   C.    Administrator Action: The administrator shall notify the subdivider
fifteen (15) working days from the date of receiving an acceptable
preapplication as to the general conformance or nonconformance of the proposal
with this title, and shall provide the necessary forms and checklists, as well
as the additional following concerns:
      1.    Compliance of the proposed development with existing local or state
policies, goals and objectives or comprehensive plans.
      2.    Determination if additional special permits or ordinance conflicts,
such as rezone, special development permit or variance are needed, and the
manner of coordinating such permits.
      3.    Consideration of any unique environmental features or hazard
concerns that may be directly or indirectly associated with the subject
property, such as areas that have been designated by the state as areas of
critical environmental concern, unique plant or animal life, floodplain,
airport flight pattern and the like.
      4.    Consideration of other local and state agencies that the subdivider
should contact before preparing a preliminary plat. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
10-3-3: PRELIMINARY PLAT:
   A.    Application: The subdivider shall file with the administrator a
completed subdivision application form and preliminary plat data as required in
this title.
   B.    Combining Preliminary And Final Plats: The applicant may request that
the subdivision application be processed as both a preliminary and final plat
if all the following exist:
      1.    The proposed subdivision does not exceed ten (10) lots.
      2.    No new street dedication or street widening is involved.
      3.    No major special development considerations are involved, such as
development in a floodplain, hillside development or the like.
      4.    All required information for both preliminary and final plat is
complete and in an acceptable form.
A request to combine both preliminary plat and final plat into one application
shall be acted upon by the commission upon recommendation by the technical
review committee.
   C.    Content Of Preliminary Plat 1 : The contents of the preliminary plat
and related information shall be in such a form as stipulated by the
commission; however, any additional maps or data deemed necessary by the
administrator may also be required. The subdivider shall submit to the
administrator at least the following in ten (10) identical sets:
      1.    Ten (10) copies of the preliminary plat of the proposed
subdivision, drawn in accordance with the requirements hereinafter stated: a)
each copy of the preliminary plat shall be on good quality paper, b) shall have
dimensions of not less than twenty four inches by thirty six inches (24" x
36"), c) shall be drawn to a scale of not less than one inch to two hundred
feet (1" = 200'), d) shall show the drafting date, and shall indicate thereon,
by arrow, the generally northerly direction.
      2.    Ten (10) sets of preliminary engineering plans (not meant to be
cross sections or detailed designs) for streets, water, sewers, sidewalks and
other required public improvements; however, such engineering plans shall
contain sufficient information and detail to enable the technical review
committee to make a determination as to conformance of the proposed
improvements to applicable regulations, ordinances, and standards.
      3.    Ten (10) copies of the written application requesting approval of
the preliminary plat.
      4.    Appropriate information that sufficiently details the proposed
development within any special development area, such as hillside, planned unit
development, floodplain, cemetery, mobile home, large scale development,
hazardous and unique areas of development.
   D.    Requirements Of Preliminary Plats: The following shall be shown on the
preliminary plat or shall be submitted separately:
      1.    The name of the proposed subdivision.
      2.    The names, addresses and telephone numbers of the subdivider or
subdividers and the engineer or surveyor who prepared the plat.
      3.    The name and address of all adjoining owners of property whether or
not bisected by a public right of way as shown on record in the county
assessor's office.
      4.    The legal description of the subdivision.
      5.    A statement of the intended use of the proposed subdivision, i.e.,
residential single-family; two-family and multiple housing; commercial;
industrial; recreational; or agricultural; and a showing of any sites proposed
for parks, playgrounds, schools, churches or other public uses.
      6.    A map of the entire area scheduled for development if the proposed
subdivision is a portion of a larger holding intended for subsequent
development.
      7.    A vicinity map showing the relationship of the proposed plat to the
surrounding area (1/2 mile minimum radius, scale optional).
      8.    The land use and existing zoning of the proposed subdivision and
the adjacent land.
      9.    Streets, street names, rights of way and roadway widths, including
adjoining streets or roadways.
      10.    Lot lines and blocks showing the approximate dimensions and
numbers of each.
      11.    A site report as required by the appropriate health district where
individual wells or septic tanks are proposed.
      12.    Any dedications to the public and/or easements, together with a
statement of location, dimensions, and purpose of such.
      13.    Any additional required information for special developments as
specified in chapter 6 of this title.
      14.    A statement as to whether or not a variance, as specified in
chapter 8 of this title will be requested with respect to any provision of this
title describing the particular provision, the variance requested, and the
reasons therefor.
      15.    A statement of how, if any, irrigation waters would be delivered
to said subdivision.
   E.    Administrator Review:
      1.    Certification: Upon receipt of the preliminary plat and all other
required data as provided for herein, the administrator shall certify the
application as complete and shall affix the date of application acceptance
thereon. He may thereafter place the preliminary plat on the agenda for
consideration at the meeting of the technical review committee which is held no
more than forty five (45) days after certification.
      2.    Review By Other Agencies: The administrator shall refer the
preliminary plat and application to as many agencies as deemed necessary. Such
agencies may include the following:
         a.    The technical review committee members, as appointed for this
particular subdivision.
         b.    Other governing bodies having joint jurisdiction.
         c.    The appropriate utility companies, irrigation companies or
districts and drainage districts.
         d.    The superintendent of the school district.
         e.    Other agencies having an interest in the proposed subdivision.
      3.    Administrator Recommendation: Upon expiration of the time allowance
for department and agency review, the administrator shall prepare a
recommendation to the technical review committee.
   F.    Technical Review Committee Recommendation:
      1.    The technical review committee shall review the preliminary plat
from the viewpoint of the technical disciplines represented on the committee.
      2.    The committee shall make a recommendation to the commission on each
preliminary plat and on each special request that is made by the subdivider.
The committee's recommendation shall include how deficiencies or shortcomings
of the preliminary plat might be overcome.
      3.    The preliminary plat shall be placed on the agenda of the next
regular commission meeting which is held not less than forty five (45) days
after the committee meeting.
   G.    Public Notification: The administrator shall notify all adjoining
property owners. Such written notification shall be mailed at least ten (10)
days prior to the commission meeting.
   H.    Commission Action:
      1.    Hearing By Commission: Within a reasonable time, but no later than
the next regular meeting following the committee's recommendation, the
commission shall review the preliminary plat, the report from the committee,
comments from concerned persons and agencies and the report from the
administrator to arrive at a decision on the preliminary plat.
      2.    Commission's Findings: In determining the acceptance of a proposed
subdivision, the commission shall consider the objectives of this title and at
least the following:
         a.    The conformance of the subdivision with the comprehensive
development plan.
         b.    The availability of public services to accommodate the proposed
development.
         c.    The continuity of the proposed development with the capital
improvement program.
         d.    The public financial capability of supporting services for the
proposed development.
         e.    The other health, safety or environmental problems that may be
brought to the commission's attention.
      3.    Action On Preliminary Plat: The commission may approve, approve
conditionally, disapprove, or table the preliminary plat for additional
information. Such action shall occur within forty five (45) days of the date of
the regular meeting at which the plat is first considered by the commission.
The action, and the reasons for such action shall be stated, in writing, by the
administrator, and forwarded to the applicant. The administrator shall also
forward a statement of the action taken and the reasons for such action,
together with a copy of the preliminary plat to the county commissioners for
their information and record.
      4.    Action On Combined Preliminary And Final Plat: If the commission's
conclusion is favorable to the subdivider's request for the subdivision to be
considered as both a preliminary plat and final subdivision, then a
recommendation shall be forwarded to the county commissioners in the same
manner as herein specified for a final plat. The commission may recommend that
the combined application be approved, approved conditionally or disapproved.
   I.    Appeals: Any person or aggrieved party who appeared in person or
writing before the commission may appeal, in writing, the decision of the
commission relative to the final action taken by the commission. Such appeal
must be submitted to the county commissioners within thirty (30) days from such
commission action. Commissioners shall reply, in writing, within thirty (30)
days after their next regular meeting.
   J.    Approval Period:
      1.    Failure to file and obtain the certification of the acceptance of
the final plat application by the administrator within one year after action by
the commission shall cause all approvals of said preliminary plat to be null
and void unless an extension of time is applied for by the subdivider and
granted by the commission.
      2.    In the event that the development of the preliminary plat is made
in successive contiguous segments in an orderly and reasonable manner and
conforms substantially to the approved preliminary plat, such segments, if
submitted within successive intervals of one year, may be considered for final
approval without resubmission for preliminary plat approval. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-
2009)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 6 of this title for special development subdivision
  requirements.
10-3-4: FINAL PLAT:
   A.    Application: After the approval or conditional approval of the
preliminary plat, the subdivider may cause the total parcel, or any part
thereof, to be surveyed and a final plat prepared in accordance with the
approved preliminary plat. The subdivider shall submit to the administrator the
following:
      1.    Ten (10) copies of the final plat.
      2.    Ten (10) copies of the final engineering construction drawings for
streets, water, sewers, sidewalks and other public improvements.
      3.    Ten (10) eight and one-half by eleven (81/2 x 11) reduced copies of
the development plat.
      4.    Ten (10) copies of the written application for final plat.
      5.    The appropriate fee as established by resolution.
   B.    Contents Of Final Plat: The final plat shall include and be in
compliance with all items required under Idaho Code title 50, chapter 13 and
shall be drawn at such a scale and contain lettering of such size as to enable
the same to be placed on one or more sheets of legal size Mylar with no part of
the drawing nearer to the edge than one-half inch (1/2"). The final plat shall
include at least the following:
      1.    A written application for approval of such final plat as stipulated
by the commission.
      2.    Proof of current ownership of the real property included in the
proposed final plat.
      3.    Such other information as the administrator or commission may deem
necessary to establish whether or not all proper parties have signed and/or
approved said final plat.
      4.    Conformance with the approved preliminary plat and meeting all
requirements or conditions thereof.
      5.    Conformance with all requirements and provisions of this title.
      6.    Acceptable engineering practices and local standards.
      7.    The subdividers, the county and subsequent lot owners agree, by
accepting deeds to lots in the plat, that they will not interfere or complain
concerning farm operations that are in practice on adjacent farms at the time
of recording of the plat.
      8.    Any proposed or existing utilities, including, but not limited to,
storm and sanitary sewers, irrigation laterals, ditches, drainages, bridges,
culverts, water mains, fire hydrants, and their respective profiles.
      9.    A copy of any proposed restrictive covenants and/or deed
restrictions.
      10.    Contour lines shown at five foot (5') intervals where land slope
is greater than ten percent (10%) and at two foot (2') intervals where land
slope is ten percent (10%) or less, referenced to an established bench mark,
including location and elevation.
      11.    Any developer must notify any prospective purchaser of any bonded
indebtedness such as irrigation district by so stating in the proposed plat.
   C.    Administrator Review:
      1.    Acceptance: Upon receipt of the final plat and compliance with all
other requirements as provided for herein, the administrator shall certify the
application as complete and shall affix the date of acceptance thereon.
      2.    Resubmittal Of Final Plat: The administrator shall review the final
plat for compliance with the approved or conditionally approved preliminary
plat. If the administrator determines that there is substantial difference in
the final plat than that which was approved as a preliminary plat or conditions
which have not been met, the administrator may require that the final plat be
submitted to the technical review committee and commission in the same manner
as required in the preliminary plat process.
      3.    Submission To County Commissioners: Upon the determination that the
final plat is in compliance with the preliminary plat and all conditional
requirements have been met, the administrator shall place the final plat on the
county commissioners' agenda within forty five (45) days from the date that an
acceptable final plat application was received and acknowledged by the
administrator.
   D.    Agency Review: The administrator may transmit one copy of the final
plat, or other documents submitted, for review and recommendation to the
departments and agencies as he deems necessary to ensure compliance with the
preliminary approval and/or conditions of preliminary approval. Such agency
review shall also include the construction standards of improvements,
compliance with health standards, the cost estimate for all improvements and
the legal review of the performance bond.
   E.    Action Of County Commissioners: The county commissioners, at their
next meeting following receipt of the administrator's report, shall consider
the commission's findings and comments from concerned persons and agencies to
arrive at a decision on the final plat. The county commissioners shall approve,
approve conditionally, disapprove, or table the final plat for additional
information within forty five (45) days of the date of the regular meeting at
which the plat is first considered. A copy of the approved plat shall be filed
with the administrator.
   F.    Approval Period: Final plat shall be filed with the county
commissioners within one year after written approval by the county
commissioners; otherwise, such approval shall become null and void unless,
prior to said expiration date, an extension of time is applied for by the
subdivider and granted by the county commissioners.
   G.    Method Of Recording: Upon approval of the final plat by the county
commissioners, the subdivider's prepayment of: 1) recording fees, 2)
construction of off site improvements or posting of surety bond, and 3) the
inclusion of the following signatures on the final plat, the administrator
shall submit the final plat to the county recorder for recording:
      1.    Certification and signature of the county commissioners verifying
that the subdivision has been approved.
      2.    Certification and signature of the city clerk, if required, and the
county engineer verifying that the subdivision meets the county requirements
and has been approved by the county commissioners.
      3.    Certification of the sanitation restrictions on the face of the
plat per Idaho Code section 50-1326. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
CHAPTER 4
DESIGN STANDARDS
SECTION:
10-4-1: Minimum Design Standards
10-4-2: Street And Road Locations
10-4-3: Street Specifications
10-4-4: Street Names
10-4-5: Intersections
10-4-6: Pedestrian Walkways
10-4-7: Easements
10-4-8: Blocks
10-4-9: Lots
10-4-10: Planting Strips And Reserve Strips
10-4-11: Public Sites And Open Spaces
10-4-1: MINIMUM DESIGN STANDARDS:
All plats submitted pursuant to the provisions of this title, and all
subdivisions, improvements and facilities done, constructed or made in
accordance with said provisions shall comply with the minimum design standards
set forth in this chapter and conform to specifications as set forth by the
county commissioners. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
10-4-2: STREET AND ROAD LOCATIONS:
Street and road location shall conform to the following:
   A.    Street Location And Arrangements: When an official street plan or
comprehensive development plan has been adopted, subdivision streets shall
conform to such plans.
   B.    Minor Streets: Minor streets shall be so arranged as to discourage
their use by through traffic.
   C.    Stub Streets: Where adjoining areas are not subdivided, the
arrangement of streets in new subdivisions shall be such that said streets
extend to the boundary line of the tract to make provisions for the future
extension of said streets into adjacent areas. A reserve strip may be required
and held in public ownership.
   D.    Relation To Topography: Streets shall be arranged in proper relation
to topography so as to result in usable lots, safe streets and acceptable
gradients.
   E.    Alleys: Alleys shall be provided in multiple-dwelling or commercial
subdivisions unless other provisions are made for service access and off street
loading and parking. Dead end alleys shall be prohibited in all cases.
   F.    Frontage Roads: Where a subdivision abuts or contains an arterial
street, it shall be required that there be frontage roads approximately
parallel to and on each side of such arterial street or such other treatment as
is necessary for the adequate protection of residential properties and to
separate through traffic from local traffic.
   G.    Cul-De-Sac Streets: Cul-de-sac streets shall not be more than five
hundred feet (500') in length and shall terminate with an adequate turnaround
having a minimum radius of fifty feet (50') for right of way.
   H.    Half Streets: Half streets shall be prohibited except where unusual
circumstances make such necessary to the reasonable development of a tract in
conformance with this title and where satisfactory assurance for dedication of
the remaining part of the street is provided. Whenever a tract to be subdivided
borders on an existing half or partial street, the other part of the street
shall be dedicated within such tract. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
10-4-3: STREET SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.    Street Right Of Way Widths: Street and road right of way widths shall
conform to the adopted major street plan or comprehensive development plan and
the rules of the state department of highways and the highway district or
department having jurisdiction; minimum right of way standards are as follows:
 
   HIGHWAY AND STREET TYPES
 
Expressway or freeway 160 – 260 feet
Major arterial        120 feet
Minor arterial        50 – 80 feet
Collector street      50 – 60 feet
Minor street          50 – 60 feet
 
   B.    Street Grades: Street grades shall not exceed ten percent (10%) on
either minor or collector streets, and six percent (6%) for arterial streets.
   C.    Street Alignment: Street alignment shall be as follows:
      1.    Horizontal Alignment: When street lines deflect from each other by
more than ten degrees (10°) in alignment, the centerlines shall be connected by
a curve having a minimum radius of five hundred feet (500') for arterial
streets and three hundred feet (300') for collector streets. Between reverse
curves on collector and arterial streets, there shall be a minimum tangent
distance of two hundred feet (200').
      2.    Vertical Alignment: Minimum stopping sight distances shall be two
hundred feet (200') for minor streets and designed in accordance with design
speed for collector and arterial streets. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
10-4-4: STREET NAMES 1 :
The naming of streets shall conform to the following:
   A.    Duplications Of Existing Street Name: Street names shall not duplicate
any existing street name within the county except where a new street is a
continuation of an existing street; street names that may be spelled
differently but sound the same as existing streets shall not be used.
   B.    New Streets: All new streets shall be named as follows: streets having
a predominantly north-south direction shall be named "avenue" or "road";
streets having a predominantly east-west direction shall be named "street" or
"way"; meandering streets shall be named "drive", "lane", "path" or "trail",
and cul-de-sacs shall be named "circle", "court", and "place". (Ord. 09-09, 10-
6-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 7, chapter 3 of this code.
10-4-5: INTERSECTIONS:
Intersections shall conform to the following:
   A.    Angle Of Intersection: Streets shall intersect at ninety degrees (90°)
or as closely thereto as possible, and in no case shall streets intersect at
less than seventy degrees (70°).
   B.    Sight Triangles: Minimum clear sight distance at all minor street
intersections shall permit vehicles to be visible to the driver of another
vehicle when each is one hundred feet (100') from the center of the
intersection.
   C.    Number Of Streets: No more than two (2) streets shall cross at any one
intersection.
   D.    T Intersections: T intersections may be used wherever such design will
not restrict the free movement of traffic.
   E.    Centerline Offsets: Street centerlines shall be offset by a distance
of at least one hundred twenty five feet (125').
   F.    Vertical Alignment Of Intersection: A nearly flat grade with
appropriate drainage slopes is desirable within intersections. This flat
section shall be extended a minimum of one hundred feet (100') each way from
the intersection. An allowance of two percent (2%) maximum intersection grade
in rolling terrain, and four percent (4%) in hilly terrain, will be permitted.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/17d1c061191710f45efb1c97a7b562c8e94710bf/
IMAGES/0-0-0-774.gif]
 
(Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
10-4-6: PEDESTRIAN WALKWAYS:
Rights of way for pedestrian walkways in the middle of long blocks may be
required where necessary to obtain convenient pedestrian circulation to
schools, parks or shopping areas; the pedestrian easement shall be at least ten
feet (10') wide. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
10-4-7: EASEMENTS:
Unobstructed utility easements shall be provided along front lot lines, rear
lot lines, and side lot lines when deemed necessary; total easement width shall
not be less than twelve feet (12'). Unobstructed drainageway easements shall be
provided as required by the county commissioners. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
10-4-8: BLOCKS:
Every block shall be so designed as to provide two (2) tiers of lots, except
where lots back onto an arterial street, natural feature, or subdivision
boundary; blocks shall not be less than three hundred feet (300') long in all
cases. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
10-4-9: LOTS:
Lots shall conform to the following:
   A.    Future Arrangements: Where parcels of land are subdivided into
unusually large lots, i.e., when large lots are approved for septic tanks, the
parcels shall be divided, where feasible, so as to allow for future
resubdividing into smaller parcels. Lot arrangements shall allow for the
ultimate extension of adjacent streets through the middle of wide blocks.
Whenever such future subdividing or lot splitting is contemplated, the plan
thereof shall be approved by the commission prior to the taking of such action.
   B.    Sufficient Area For Septic Tank: Where individual septic tanks have
been authorized, sufficient area shall be provided for a replacement sewage
disposal system. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
10-4-10: PLANTING STRIPS AND RESERVE STRIPS:
Planting strips and reserve strips shall conform to the following:
   A.    Planting Strips: Planting strips shall be required to be placed next
to incompatible features such as highways, railroads, commercial, or industrial
uses to screen the view from residential properties. Such screening shall be a
minimum of twenty feet (20') wide, and shall not be a part of the normal street
right of way or utility easement.
   B.    Reserve Strips:
      1.    Private: Privately held reserve strips controlling access to
streets shall be prohibited.
      2.    Public: A one foot (1') reserve may be required to be placed along
half streets which are within the subdivision boundaries and shall be deeded in
fee simple to the county for future street widening. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
10-4-11: PUBLIC SITES AND OPEN SPACES:
   A.    Public Uses: Where it is determined that a proposed park, playground,
school or other public use as shown on the comprehensive development plan is
located in whole or in part within a proposed subdivision, sufficient area for
such public use shall be dedicated to the public or reserved and offered for
public purchase.
   B.    Natural Features: Existing natural features which add value to
residential development and enhance the attractiveness of the community, i.e.,
trees, watercourses, historic spots, and similar irreplaceable assets, shall be
preserved in the design of the subdivision.
   C.    Special Developments: In the case of planned unit developments and
large scale developments, the commission may require sufficient park or open
space facilities of acceptable size, location, and site characteristics that
may be suitable for the proposed development. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
CHAPTER 5
IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS
SECTION:
10-5-1: Urban Construction Standards
10-5-2: Required Public Improvements
10-5-3: Guarantee Of Completion
10-5-1: URBAN CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
   A.    Applicability: Urban construction standards shall apply as needed to
lot size of twenty thousand feet (20,000') or less except when the division is
less than ten (10) lots.
   B.    Construction Plans: It shall be the responsibility of the subdivider
of every proposed subdivision to have prepared by a registered engineer, a
complete set of construction plans, including profiles, cross sections,
specifications, and other supporting data, for all required public streets,
utilities and other facilities. Such construction plans shall be based on
preliminary plans which have been approved with the preliminary plat, and shall
be prepared in conjunction with the final plat. Construction plans are subject
to approval by the responsible public agencies. All construction plans shall be
prepared in accordance with the public agencies' standards or specifications.
(Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
10-5-2: REQUIRED PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS:
Every subdivider may be required to install the following public and other
improvements in accordance with the conditions and specifications as follows,
and the subdivider shall be required to provide all necessary information for
determination of need:
   A.    Monuments: Monuments shall be set in accordance with Idaho Code
section 50-1303.
   B.    Streets And Alleys: All streets and alleys shall be constructed in
accordance with the standards and specifications adopted by the county
commissioners.
   C.    Curbs And Gutters: Vertical curbs and gutters shall be constructed on
collector and arterial streets. Rolled curbs and gutters are required on minor
streets. All construction shall be in accordance with the standards and
specifications adopted by the county commissioners.
   D.    Bicycle Pathways: A bicycle pathway shall be provided within all
subdivisions as part of the public right of way or separate easement as may be
specified in an overall bicycle plan as adopted by the county commissioners.
   E.    Installation Of Public Utilities: Underground utilities are encouraged
and may be required subject to the county commissioners' adopted policies and
ordinances.
   F.    Driveways: All driveway openings in curbs shall be as specified by the
public works department, highway district or state highway department.
   G.    Storm Drainage: The requirements for each particular subdivision shall
be established by the county commissioners. Construction shall follow the
specifications and procedures established by the county commissioners.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/17d1c061191710f45efb1c97a7b562c8e94710bf/
IMAGES/0-0-0-776.gif]
 
   H.    Public Water Supply And Sewer Systems:
      1.    All public water supply or sewer systems (serving 2 or more
separate premises or households) shall be constructed in accordance with any
adopted local plans and specifications. All new public water supply or sewer
systems shall be an extension of an existing public system whenever possible.
In the event that the proposed public water supply or sewer system is not an
extension of an existing public system, there shall be a showing by the
subdivider that the extension is not feasible and not to the best interest of
the public.
      2.    Idaho Code section 50-1326 requires that all water and sewer plans
be submitted to the state department of environmental and community services or
its authorized agent for approval.
   I.    Maintenance And Operation Of Public Water Supply And Sewer Systems:
The subdivider shall provide for a perpetual method of maintenance and
operation of the public water supply or sewer system (serving 2 or more
separate premises or households) to ensure the continued usefulness of the
system.
   J.    Fire Hydrants And Water Mains: Adequate fire protection shall be
required in accordance with the appropriate fire district standards.
   K.    Street Name Signs: Street name signs shall be installed in the
appropriate locations at each street intersection in accordance with the local
standards. A fee covering actual costs as determined by the county
commissioners per street sign shall be paid by the subdivider.
   L.    Sidewalks And Pedestrian Walkways: Sidewalks may be required on both
sides of the street, except that where the average width of lots as measured at
the street frontage line or at the building setback line, is over one hundred
feet (100'), sidewalks on only one side of the street may be allowed.
Pedestrian walkways, when required, shall have easements at least ten feet
(10') in width and include a paved walk at least five feet (5') in width.
Sidewalks and crosswalks shall be constructed in accordance with the standards
and specifications as adopted by the county commissioners.
   M.    Greenbelt: Greenbelts or landscaping screening may be required for
protection of residential properties from adjacent major arterial streets,
waterways, railroad rights of way or other features.
   N.    Street Lighting: Streetlights may be required to be installed at
intersections throughout the subdivision. A subdivider shall conform to the
requirements of the county and the public utility providing such lighting.
(Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
10-5-3: GUARANTEE OF COMPLETION:
   A.    Financial Guarantee Arrangements: In lieu of the actual installation
of required public improvements before filing of the final plat, the county
commissioners may permit the subdivider to provide a financial guarantee of
performance (performance bond) in one or a combination of the following
arrangements for those requirements which are over and beyond the requirements
of any other agency responsible for the administration, operation and
maintenance of the applicable public improvement.
   B.    Surety Bond/Performance Bond/Property Bond:
      1.    Accrual: The bond shall accrue to the county covering construction,
operation and maintenance of the specific public improvement.
      2.    Amount: The bond shall be in an amount equal to one hundred ten
percent (110%) of the total estimated cost of completing construction of the
specific public improvement, as estimated by the county engineer and approved
by the county commissioners.
      3.    Term Length: The term length in which the bond is in force shall be
for a period to be specified by the county commissioners for the specific
public improvement.
      4.    Bond With Surety Company: The bond shall be with a surety company
authorized to do business in the state of Idaho, acceptable to the county
commissioners.
      5.    Escrow Agreement: The escrow agreement shall be drawn and furnished
by the county commissioners.
   C.    Cash Deposit, Certified Check, Negotiable Bond, Or Irrevocable Bank
Letter Of Credit:
      1.    Treasurer, Escrow Agent Or Trust Company: A cash deposit, certified
check, negotiable bond, or an irrevocable bank letter of credit, such surety
acceptable by the county commissioners, shall be deposited with an escrow agent
or trust company.
      2.    Dollar Value: The dollar value of the cash deposit, certified
check, negotiable bond, or an irrevocable bank letter of credit shall be equal
to one hundred ten percent (110%) of the estimated cost of construction for the
specific public improvement as estimated by the county engineer and approved by
the county commissioners.
      3.    Escrow Time: The escrow time for the cash deposit, certified check,
negotiable bond, or irrevocable bank letter of credit shall be for a period to
be specified by the county commissioners.
      4.    Progressive Payment: In the case of cash deposits or certified
checks, an agreement between the county commissioners and the subdivider may
provide for progressive payment out of the cash deposit or reduction of the
certified check, negotiable bond or irrevocable bank letter of credit, to the
extent of the cost of the completed portion of the public improvement, in
accordance with a previously entered into agreement.
   D.    Conditions For Approval Of Final Plat: With respect to financial
guarantees, the approval of all final subdivision plats shall be conditioned on
the accomplishment of one of the following:
      1.    Construction Of Improvements: The construction of improvements
required by this title shall have been completed by the subdivider and approved
by the county commissioners.
      2.    Acceptable Surety: Surety acceptable to the county commissioners
shall have been filed in the form of a cash deposit, certified check,
negotiable bond, irrevocable bank letter of credit or surety bond.
   E.    Inspection Of Public Improvements Under Construction: Before approving
a final plat and construction plans and specifications for public improvements,
an agreement between the subdivider and the county commissioners and state
authorities, where applicable, shall be made to provide for checking or
inspecting the construction and its conformity to the submitted plans.
   F.    Penalty For Failure To Complete Construction Of Public Improvements:
In the event the subdivider shall, in any case, fail to complete such work
within the period of time as required by the conditions of the guarantee for
the completion of public improvements, it shall be the responsibility of the
county commissioners to proceed to have such work completed. In order to
accomplish this, the board of county commissioners shall reimburse itself for
the cost and expense thereof by appropriating the cash deposit, certified
check, irrevocable bank letter of credit, or negotiable bond which the
subdivider may have deposited in lieu of a surety bond, or may take such steps
as may be necessary to require performance by the bonding or surety company, as
included in a written agreement between the county commissioners and the
subdivider. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
CHAPTER 6
SPECIAL DEVELOPMENT SUBDIVISIONS
SECTION:
10-6-1: Purpose
10-6-2: Hillside Subdivision
10-6-3: Planned Unit And Condominium Subdivisions
10-6-4: Large Scale Development Subdivision
10-6-5: Cemetery Subdivision
10-6-6: Subdivision Within Floodplain
10-6-7: Subdivision Within Area Of Critical Concern
10-6-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to identify various types of developments that
normally pose special concerns to the commission and elected officials when
reviewing and acting upon subdivision requests. This chapter outlines the plan
submittal requirements and design standards that shall be taken into
consideration when acting on special developments. The provisions of this
chapter are in addition to the plan requirements, design standards and
improvement standards that are required by chapters 3, 4 and 5 of this title.
(Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
10-6-2: HILLSIDE SUBDIVISION:
   A.    Appearance And Preservation: In order to preserve, retain, enhance and
promote the existing and future appearance, natural topographic features,
qualities and resources of hillsides, special consideration shall be given to
the following:
      1.    Skyline and ridge tops.
      2.    Rolling grassy landforms, including knolls, ridges and meadows.
      3.    Tree and shrub masses, grass, wildflowers and topsoil.
      4.    Rock outcroppings.
      5.    Streambeds, draws and drainage swales, especially where tree and
plant formations occur.
      6.    Characteristic vistas and scenic panoramas.
   B.    Hillside Development Evaluation: All development proposals shall take
into account and shall be judged by the way in which land use planning, soil
mechanics, engineering geology, hydrology, civil engineering, environmental and
civic design, architectural and landscape design are applied in hillside areas,
including, but not limited to:
      1.    Planning of development to fit the topography, soils, geology,
hydrology and other conditions existing on the proposed site.
      2.    Orientation of development of the site so that grading and other
site preparation is kept to an absolute minimum.
      3.    Shaping of essential grading to blend with natural landforms and to
minimize the necessity of padding and/or terracing of building sites.
      4.    Division of large tracts into smaller workable units on which
construction can be completed within one construction season so that large
areas are not left bare and exposed during the winter-spring runoff period.
      5.    Completion of paving as rapidly as possible after grading.
      6.    Allocation of areas not well suited for development because of
soil, geology or hydrology limitations for open space and recreation uses.
      7.    Minimizing disruption of existing plant and animal life.
      8.    Consideration of the view from and of the hills.
Areas having soil, geology or hydrology hazards shall not be developed unless
it is shown that their limitations can be overcome; that hazard to life or
property will not exist; that the safety, use or stability of a public way or
drainage channel is not jeopardized; and that the natural environment is not
subjected to undue impact.
   C.    Engineering Plans: The developer shall retain a professional engineer
(s) to obtain the following information unless the developer requests and
receives written exemption from the county commissioners for all or part of the
information:
      1.    Soils Report: For any proposed hillside development, a soils
engineering report shall be submitted with the preliminary plat. This report
shall include data regarding the nature, distribution and strength of existing
soils, conclusions and recommendations for grading procedures, design criteria
for corrective measures, and opinions and recommendations covering the adequacy
of sites to be developed.
      2.    Geology Report:
         a.    For any proposed hillside development, a geology report shall be
submitted with the preliminary plat. This report shall include an adequate
description of site geology and an evaluation of the relationship between the
proposed development and the underlying geology and recommendations for
remedial remedies.
         b.    The investigation and subsequent report shall be completed by a
professional geologist registered in the state of Idaho.
      3.    Hydrology Report:
         a.    For any proposed hillside development, a hydrology report shall
be submitted with the preliminary plat. This report shall include an adequate
description of the hydrology, conclusions and recommendations regarding the
effect of hydrologic conditions on the proposed development, and opinions and
recommendations covering the adequacy of sites to be developed.
         b.    Flood frequency curves shall be provided for the area proposed
for development.
      4.    Grading Plan:
         a.    A preliminary grading plan shall be submitted with each hillside
preliminary plat proposal and shall include the following information:
            (1)    Approximate limiting dimensions, elevations or finish
contours to be achieved by the grading, including all cut and fill slopes,
proposed drainage channels and related construction.
            (2)    Preliminary plans and approximate locations of all surface
and subsurface drainage devices, walls, dams, sediment basins, storage
reservoirs and other protective devices to be constructed.
            (3)    A description of methods to be employed in disposing of soil
and other material that is removed from the grading site, including the
location of the disposal site.
         b.    A final grading plan shall be submitted with each final plat and
shall include the following information:
            (1)    Limiting dimensions, elevations or finish contours to be
achieved by the grading, including all proposed cut and fill slopes, and
proposed drainage channels and related construction.
            (2)    Detailed plans and locations of all surface and subsurface
drainage devices, walls, dams, sediment basins, storage reservoirs and other
protective devices to be constructed.
            (3)    A schedule showing when each stage of the project will be
completed, including the total area of soil surface which is to be disturbed
during each stage together with estimated starting and completion dates. In no
event shall the existing ("natural") vegetative ground cover be destroyed,
removed or disturbed more than fifteen (15) days prior to grading.
      5.    Development Standards:
         a.    Soils:
            (1)    Fill areas shall be prepared by removing organic material,
such as vegetation and rubbish, and any other material which is determined by
the soils engineer to be detrimental to proper compaction or otherwise not
conducive to stability; no rock or similar irreducible material with a maximum
dimension greater than eight inches (8") shall be used as fill material in
fills that are intended to provide structural strength.
            (2)    Fills shall be compacted to at least ninety five percent
(95%) of maximum density, as determined by AASHO T99 and ASTM D698.
            (3)    Cut slopes shall be no steeper than two horizontal to one
vertical (2:1), subsurface drainage shall be provided as necessary for
stability.
            (4)    Fill slopes shall be no steeper than two horizontal to one
vertical (2:1), fill slopes shall not be located on natural slopes two
horizontal to one vertical (2:1) or steeper, or where fill slope toes out
within twelve feet (12') horizontally of the top of an existing or planned cut
slope.
            (5)    Tops and toes of cut and fill slopes shall be set back from
property boundaries a distance of three feet (3') plus one-fifth (1/5) of the
height of the cut or fill, but need not exceed a horizontal distance of ten
feet (10'); tops and toes of cut and fill slopes shall be set back from
structures a distance of six feet (6') plus one-fifth (1/5) the height of the
cut or fill, but need not exceed ten feet (10').
            (6)    The maximum horizontal distance of disturbed soil surface
shall not exceed seventy five feet (75').
         b.    Roadways:
            (1)    Road alignments should follow natural terrain and no
unnecessary cuts or fills shall be allowed in order to create additional lots
or building sites.
            (2)    One-way streets shall be permitted and encouraged where
appropriate for the terrain and where public safety would not be jeopardized.
Maximum width shall be seventeen feet (17') between the backs of curbs.
            (3)    The width of the graded section shall extend three feet (3')
beyond the curb back or edge of pavement on both the cut and fill sides of the
roadway. If sidewalk is to be installed parallel to the roadway, the graded
section shall be increased by the width of the sidewalk plus one foot (1')
beyond the curb back.
            (4)    Standard vertical curb (6 inches) and gutter shall be
installed along both sides of all paved roadways.
            (5)    A pedestrian walkway plan shall be required.
         c.    Driveways And Parking: Combinations of collective private
driveways, cluster parking areas and on street parallel parking bays shall be
used to attempt to optimize the objectives of minimum soil disturbance, minimum
impervious cover, excellence of design and aesthetic sensitivity.
   D.    Vegetation And Revegetation:
      1.    The developer shall submit a slope stabilization and revegetation
plan which shall include a complete description of the existing vegetation, the
vegetation to be removed and the method of disposal, the vegetation to be
planted, and slope stabilization measures to be installed. The plan shall
include an analysis of the environmental effects of such operations, including
the effect on slope stability, soil erosion, water quality and fish and
wildlife.
      2.    Vegetation sufficient to stabilize the soil shall be established on
all disturbed areas as each stage of grading is completed. Areas not contained
within lot boundaries shall be protected with perennial vegetal cover after all
construction is completed. Efforts shall be made to plant those species that
tend to recover from fire damage and do not contribute to a rapid rate of fire
spread.
      3.    The developer shall be fully responsible for any destruction of
native vegetation proposed for retention. He shall carry the responsibility
both for his own employees and for all subcontractors from the first day of
construction until the notice of completion is filed. The developer shall be
responsible for replacing such destroyed vegetation.
   E.    Maintenance: The owner of any private property on which grading or
other work has been performed pursuant to a grading plan approved for a
building permit granted under the provisions of this title shall continuously
maintain and repair all graded surfaces and erosion prevention devices,
retaining walls, drainage structures or means, and other protective devices,
plantings and ground cover installed or completed. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
10-6-3: PLANNED UNIT AND CONDOMINIUM SUBDIVISIONS:
   A.    General Provision: Planned unit and condominium developments shall be
subject to requirements set forth in title 9 of this code and also subject to
all provisions within this title.
   B.    Site Development Plan: The developer shall provide the commission with
a colored rendering of adequate scale to show the completed development that
will include at least the following:
      1.    Architectural style and building design.
      2.    Building materials and color.
      3.    Landscaping.
      4.    Screening.
      5.    Garbage areas.
      6.    Parking.
      7.    Open space.
   C.    Private Streets: Private street construction standards shall be based
upon recommendations from the county engineer. Adequate construction standards
may vary depending on the size of the development and the demands placed on
such improvements.
   D.    Homeowners' Association: The homeowners' association bylaws and other
similar deed restrictions which provide for the control and maintenance of all
common areas, recreation facilities or open space shall meet with the approval
of the county commissioners. Any and all powers as specified in such agreements
may also be assigned to the county commissioners for the purpose of assessing
property for delinquencies and enforcement of motor vehicle speed to protect
the best interests of the owners involved and of the general public.
   E.    Storage Areas: Storage areas shall be provided for the anticipated
needs of boats, campers and trailers. For typical residential development, one
adequate storage space shall be provided every two (2) living units. This may
be reduced by the county commissioners if there is a showing that the needs of
a particular development are less.
   F.    Parking Space: One additional parking space beyond that which is
required by title 9 of this code may be required for every three (3) dwelling
units to accommodate visitor parking.
   G.    Maintenance Building: A maintenance building shall be provided, size
and location to be suitable for the service needs that are necessary for the
repair and maintenance of all common areas.
   H.    Open Space: The location of open space shall be appropriate to the
development and shall be of such shape and area to be usable and convenient to
the residents of the development.
   I.    Control During Development: Single ownership or control during
development shall be required and a time limit may be imposed to guarantee the
development is built and constructed as planned. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
10-6-4: LARGE SCALE DEVELOPMENT SUBDIVISION:
Due to the impact that a large scale development would have on public utilities
and services, the developer shall submit the following information along with
the preliminary plat:
   A.    Identification of all public services that would be provided to the
development, i.e, fire protection, police protection, central water, central
sewer, road construction, parks and open space, recreation, maintenance,
schools, and solid waste collection.
   B.    Estimate the public service costs to provide adequate service to the
development.
   C.    Estimate the tax revenue that will be generated from the development.
   D.    Suggested public means of financing the services for the development
if the cost for the public services would not be offset by tax revenue received
from the development. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
10-6-5: CEMETERY SUBDIVISION:
   A.    Function: The developer shall provide the commission with written
documentation that will sufficiently explain the functions of the proposed
cemetery for either human or animal remains.
   B.    Compliance With Idaho Code: The developer shall submit a written
statement that has been prepared by an attorney that adequately assures the
compliance of the proposed cemetery with the procedural management requirements
that are outlined in Idaho Code title 27. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
10-6-6: SUBDIVISION WITHIN FLOODPLAIN:
   A.    Flood Areas: For any proposed subdivision that is located within a
floodplain, the developer shall provide the commission with a development plan
of adequate scale and supporting documentation that will show and explain at
least the following:
      1.    Location of all planned improvements.
      2.    The location of the floodway and the floodway fringe per
engineering practices as specified by the army corps of engineers.
      3.    The location of the present water channel.
      4.    Any planned rerouting of waterways.
      5.    All major drainageways.
      6.    Areas of frequent flooding.
      7.    Means of floodproofing buildings.
      8.    Means of insuring loans for improvements within the floodplain.
   B.    Justification For Development:
      1.    Upon the determination that buildings are planned within the
floodplain or that alterations of any kind are anticipated within the
floodplain area that will alter the flow of water, the developer shall
demonstrate conclusively to the commission that such development will not
present a hazard to life, limb or property; will not have adverse effects on
the safety, use or stability of a public way or drainage channel or the natural
environment.
      2.    No subdivision or part thereof shall be approved if levees, fills,
structures or other features within the proposed subdivision will individually
or collectively significantly increase flood flows, heights, or damages. If
only part of a proposed subdivision can be safely developed, the county
commissioners shall limit development to that part and shall require that
development proceed consistent with that determination. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
10-6-7: SUBDIVISION WITHIN AREA OF CRITICAL CONCERN:
   A.    Designation As Area Of Critical Concern: Hazardous or unique areas may
be designated as an area of critical concern by the county commissioners or by
the state. Special consideration shall be given to any proposed development
within an area of critical concern to assure that the development is necessary
and desirable and in the public interest in view of the existing unique
conditions. Hazardous or unique areas that may be designated as areas of
critical concern are as follows:
      1.    Avalanche paths.
      2.    Earthquake locations.
      3.    Unstable soils.
      4.    Unique animal life.
      5.    Unique plant life.
      6.    Scenic areas.
      7.    Historical significance.
      8.    Floodplain.
   B.    Plan Submission: The developer shall prepare and submit an
environmental impact statement along with the preliminary plat application for
any development that is proposed within an area of critical concern.
   C.    Content Of Environmental Impact Statement: The content of the
environmental impact statement shall usually be prepared by an
interdisciplinary team of professionals that shall provide answers to the
following questions:
      1.    What changes will occur to the area of environmental concern as a
result of the proposed development?
      2.    What corrective action or alternative development plans could occur
so as not to significantly change the area of environmental concern?
      3.    What changes in the area of environmental concern are unavoidable?
      4.    What beneficial or detrimental effect would the development have on
the environment (i.e., animal life, plant life, social concerns, economic,
noise, visual, and other)? (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
CHAPTER 7
VACATIONS AND DEDICATIONS
SECTION:
10-7-1: Application Procedure
10-7-2: Action
10-7-1: APPLICATION PROCEDURE:
   A.    Application: Any property owner desiring to vacate an existing
subdivision, public right of way or easement, or desiring to dedicate a street
right of way or easement shall complete and file an application with the
administrator. These provisions shall not apply to the widening of any street
which is shown in the comprehensive development plan, or the dedication of
streets, rights of way, or easements to be shown on a recorded subdivision.
   B.    Action Of Administrator: Upon receipt of the completed application,
the administrator shall affix the date of application acceptance thereon. The
administrator shall place the application on the agenda for consideration at
the next regular meeting of the commission which is held not less than fifteen
(15) days after said date of acceptance. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
10-7-2: ACTION:
   A.    Commission Recommendation: The commission shall review the request and
all agency responses and make a recommendation to the county commissioners for
either approval, conditional approval or denial.
   B.    County Commissioners' Action:
      1.    When considering an application for vacation procedures, the county
commissioners shall establish a date for a public hearing and give such public
notice as required by law. The county commissioners may approve, deny, or
modify the application. Whenever public rights of way or lands are vacated, the
county commissioners shall provide adjacent property owners with a quitclaim
deed for the vacated rights of way in such proportions as are prescribed by
law.
      2.    When considering an application for dedication procedures, the
county commissioners may approve, deny, or modify the application. When a
dedication is approved, the required street improvements shall be constructed
or a bond furnished assuring the construction prior to acceptance of the
dedication. To complete the acceptance of any dedication of land, the owner
shall furnish to the county commissioners a deed describing and conveying such
lands to be recorded with the county recorder. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
CHAPTER 8
VARIANCES
SECTION:
10-8-1: Purpose
10-8-2: Findings
10-8-1: PURPOSE:
The commission may recommend to the county commissioners, as a result of unique
circumstances such as topographic-physical limitations or a planned unit
development, a variance from the provisions of this title on a finding that
undue hardship results from the strict compliance with specific provisions or
requirements of this title or that application of such provision or requirement
is impracticable. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
10-8-2: FINDINGS:
No variance shall be favorably acted upon by the county commissioners unless
there is a finding upon recommendation by the commission, as a result of a
public hearing, that all of the following exist:
   A.    There are such special circumstances or conditions affecting the
property that the strict application of the provisions of this title would
clearly be impracticable or unreasonable; in such cases, the subdivider shall
first state his reasons, in writing, as to the specific provision or
requirement involved.
   B.    Strict compliance with the requirements of this title would result in
extraordinary hardship to the subdivider because of unusual topography, other
physical conditions, or other such conditions which are not self-inflicted, or
that these conditions would result in inhibiting the achievement of the
objectives of this title.
   C.    The granting of the specified variance will not be detrimental to the
public welfare or injurious to other property in the area in which the property
is situated.
   D.    Such variance will not violate the provisions of Idaho Code.
   E.    Such variance will not have the effect of nullifying the interest and
purpose of this title and the comprehensive development plan. (Ord. 09-09, 10-
6-2009)
CHAPTER 9
AMENDMENTS
SECTION:
10-9-1: Amendment Procedures
10-9-1: AMENDMENT PROCEDURES:
The county commissioners may, from time to time, amend, supplement, or replace
the regulations and provisions of this title in the manner prescribed by Idaho
Code. A proposed amendment, supplement or repeal may be originated by the
county commissioners, commission, or by petition. All proposals not originating
with the commission shall be referred to it for a report thereon before any
action is taken on the proposal by the county commissioners. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-
2009)
CHAPTER 10
ENFORCEMENT; PENALTIES
SECTION:
10-10-1: Detection Of Violation
10-10-2: Enforcement
10-10-3: Penalties
10-10-1: DETECTION OF VIOLATION:
The administrator shall periodically research the appropriate county records
and perform the necessary investigation to detect any violations of this title.
(Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
10-10-2: ENFORCEMENT:
No subdivision plat required by this title or the Idaho Code shall be admitted
to the public land records of the county or recorded by the county recorder
until such subdivision plat has received final approval by the county
commissioners. No public board, agency, commission, official or other authority
shall proceed with the construction of or authorize the construction of any of
the public improvements required by this title until the final plat has
received the approval by the county commissioners. The prosecuting attorney
shall, in addition to taking whatever criminal action is deemed necessary, take
steps to civilly enjoin any violation of this title. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
10-10-3: PENALTIES:
Penalties for failure to comply with the provisions of this title shall be as
follows:
   A.    Misdemeanor: Violation of any of the provisions of this title or
failure to comply with any of its requirements shall constitute a misdemeanor.
   B.    Separate Offense: Each day such violation continues shall be
considered a separate offense. The landowner, tenant, subdivider, builder,
public official or any other person who commits, participates in, assists in,
or maintains such violation may each be found guilty of a separate offense.
   C.    Additional Remedies: Nothing herein contained shall prevent the county
commissioners or any other public official or private citizen from taking such
lawful action as is necessary to retain or prevent any violation of this title
or of the Idaho Code. (Ord. 09-09, 10-6-2009)
