CITY CODE
of
PAUL, IDAHO
1989
Code current through:
Ord. 2025-2, passed May 13, 2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
         This code of the City of Paul, as supplemented, contains ordinances up
to and including ordinance 2025-2, passed May 13, 2025. Ordinances of the City
adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the
extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the City
office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has
been amended, superseded or repealed.
                     American Legal Publishing
                     Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they have not been incorporated into
the code and they may not show the original ordinances in their entirety.
Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions concerning
the ordinances listed.
 
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL MUNICIPAL CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon adoption by the city council, this code is hereby declared to be and shall
hereafter constitute the official code of the city of Paul. This code of
ordinances shall be known and cited as the PAUL CITY CODE, and it is hereby
published by authority of the council and shall be kept up to date as provided
in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause,
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this code by title in any legal documents. (1989 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in all administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of the city of general and permanent effect. (1989
Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this code shall set forth the title, chapter and section
number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall constitute
sufficient compliance with any statutory requirements pertaining to the
amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this code. Each such replacement page shall be
properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of this code.
(1989 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
city council. The city clerk shall see that the replacement pages are properly
inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of said clerk. Any
person having in his custody an official copy of this code shall make every
effort to maintain said code in an up to date and efficient manner. He shall
see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages when such are
delivered to him or made available to him through the office of the city clerk.
Said code books, while in actual possession of officials and other interested
persons, shall be and remain the property of the city and shall be returned to
the office of the city clerk when directed so to do by order of the city
council. (1989 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-2: Court Proceedings
1-2-3: Severability Clause
1-2-1: PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this code excepting as this code may
contain provisions for such matters, in which case this code shall be
considered as amending such ordinance or ordinances in respect to such
provisions only. (1989 Code)
1-2-2: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former ordinance
whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to any offense
committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any penalty,
forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising
under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such offense
or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so
incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance takes
effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform to the
ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding. So far as practicable, if
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment be mitigated by any provision of a new
ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party affected, applied to
any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes effect.
This section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed as abating any action now
pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of the city herein
repealed, and the provisions of all general ordinances contained in this code
shall be deemed to be continuing provisions and not a new enactment of the same
provision; nor shall this chapter be deemed as discontinuing, abating,
modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the
liability of any person, firm or corporation, or as waiving any right of the
city under any ordinance or provision thereof in force at the time of the
adoption of this code. (1989 Code)
1-2-3: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be unconstitutional
or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision
shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of the remaining portions of
this code, or any part thereof. The city council hereby declares that it would
have passed each section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause
or phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections,
subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases be
declared unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (1989 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
Whenever any word in any section of this code importing the plural number is
used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons, any single
matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although distributive
words may not have been used. When any subject matter, party or person is
referred to in this code by words importing the singular number only, or the
masculine gender, several matters, parties or persons and females as well as
males and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be included; provided, that these
rules of construction not be applied to any section of this code which contains
any express provision excluding such construction or where the subject matter
or context may be repugnant thereto.
The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the city has been changed
in the content of this code to "title", "chapter", "section" and/or
"subsection" or words of like import for organizational and clarification
purposes only. Such change to the city's ordinances is not meant to amend
passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (1989 Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another.
CITY: The city of Paul, county of Minidoka, state of Idaho.
CODE: The municipal code of Paul, Idaho, and amendments thereto.
COUNCIL: Unless otherwise indicated, the city council of the city of Paul,
Idaho.
COUNTY: The county of Minidoka, state of Idaho.
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this code to a city employee by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the city of
Paul".
FEE: A sum of money charged by the city for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
INFRACTION: A civil public offense, not constituting a crime, which is
punishable only by a penalty.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
MISDEMEANOR: A criminal public offense, punishable by a penalty and/or
imprisonment.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive or obnoxious to the health and welfare of the
inhabitants of the city; or any act or thing repugnant to, or creating a hazard
to, or having a detrimental effect on the property of another person or to the
community.
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this code.
OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made in this code to a city officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the city of
Paul".
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things in small quantities
direct to the consumer.
STATE: The state of Idaho.
STREET: Shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such buildings or land, whether alone or with others.
WHOLESALER: The terms "wholesale" and "wholesale dealer" as used in this code,
unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate to the
sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things in quantity to persons who
purchase for the purpose of resale.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond required by law, it shall be in
the proper handwriting of such person, or in case he is unable to write, by his
proper mark. (1989 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted. (1989 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Liability Of Officers
1-4-4: Dishonored Check Charge
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY:
Any person convicted of a violation of any section or provision of this code,
where no other penalty is set forth, shall be punished by a fine not to exceed
three hundred dollars ($300.00), or by imprisonment not to exceed six (6)
months, or by both such fine and imprisonment, for any offense 1 , or by a fine
not to exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00), and no imprisonment, when the
offense is designated as an infraction, by state law or by any section or
provision of this code 2 . (1989 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 50-302.
2 2. IC §§ 18-111, 18-113A.
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
The penalty provided in this chapter shall be applicable to every section of
this code the same as though it were a part of each and every separate section
unless otherwise indicated. Any person convicted of a violation of any section
of this code where a duty is prescribed or obligation imposed, or where any
action which is of a continuing nature is forbidden or is declared to be
unlawful, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be
deemed committed upon each day such duty or obligation remains unperformed or
such act continues, unless otherwise specifically provided in this code.
In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is created by
different clauses or sections of this code, the prosecuting officer may elect
under which to proceed, but not more than one recovery shall be had against the
same person for the same offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or
permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other
penalty being enforced.
Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act constitutes a
breach of any section or provision of this code and there shall be no fine or
penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of this chapter
shall apply. (1989 Code)
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the city council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or employee is
specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the duty. (1989
Code)
1-4-4: DISHONORED CHECK CHARGE:
Any person or entity who tenders a check to the City, which is subsequently
dishonored by non-acceptance or non-payment, including, but not limited to,
checks drawn on closed accounts, shall be subject to a charge established by
resolution. In the event the check is tendered in payment of utility charges,
the dishonored check charge shall be added to the customer’s utility bill.
(Ord. 2009- 6, 9-9-2009)
CHAPTER 5
CITY GOVERNMENT
SECTION:
1-5-1: City Officials; Compensation
1-5-2: Corporate Powers
1-5-1: CITY OFFICIALS; COMPENSATION:
The officials of the city shall consist of a mayor and four (4) council persons
whose compensation shall be fixed by ordinance published at least seventy five
(75) days before any general city election, which ordinance shall be effective
for all said officials commencing on January 1 following said election and
continuing until changed pursuant to this section. (Ord. 2007-9, 8-8-2007, eff.
1-1-2008)
1-5-2: CORPORATE POWERS:
The city shall be a body corporate and politic and shall have all powers
authorized by the statutes of the state of Idaho. (1975 Code § 1-101; amd. 1989
Code)
ARTICLE A. MAYOR
SECTION:
1-5A-1: Qualifications
1-5A-2: Term Of Office
1-5A-3: Vacancy In Office
1-5A-4: Powers And Duties
1-5A-5: Jurisdiction
1-5A-6: Compensation
1-5A-1: QUALIFICATIONS:
Any person shall be eligible to hold the office of mayor who is a qualified
elector of the city at the time of his election and remains a qualified elector
during his term of office. (1975 Code § 1-401)
1-5A-2: TERM OF OFFICE:
The term of office of mayor shall be for a period of four (4) years, except as
otherwise specifically provided. He shall take office at the time and in the
manner provided for installation of council persons. (1975 Code § 1-401)
1-5A-3: VACANCY IN OFFICE:
In case of a temporary vacancy in the office of mayor due to absence or
disability, the president of the city council shall exercise the office of
mayor during such disability or temporary absence, and until the mayor shall
return.
When a vacancy occurs in the office of mayor by reason of death, resignation or
permanent disability, the city council shall fill the vacancy from within or
without the city council as may be deemed in the best interests of the city,
which appointee shall serve until the next general city election, at which
election a mayor shall be elected for the full four (4) year term. (1975 Code §
1-408)
1-5A-4: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   General: The mayor shall have and exercise such powers, prerogatives
and authority as is conferred by the laws of the state of Idaho or as may be
conferred upon him by the city council, and shall have the power to administer
oaths, and shall sign all contracts and conveyances in the name of and on
behalf of the city. (1975 Code § 1-407)
The mayor shall be the chief administrative official of the city, preside over
the meetings of the city council and determine the order of business subject to
such rules as the city council may prescribe, have a vote only when the council
is equally divided, have the superintending control of all the officers and
affairs of the city, preserve order, and take care that the ordinances of the
city and provisions of this article are complied with and enforced. (1975 Code
§ 1-402)
   B.   Messages To Council: The mayor shall, from time to time, communicate to
the city council such information and recommend such measures as, in his
opinion, may tend to the improvement of the finances, the protection, the
health, the security, the ornament, the comfort and the general welfare and
prosperity of the city. (1975 Code § 1-403)
   C.   Accounts And Reports Of Officers: The mayor shall have the power, when
he deems it necessary, to require any officer of the city to exhibit his
accounts or other papers, and to make written reports pertaining to his office
to the city council. (1975 Code § 1-405)
   D.   Sign Or Veto Ordinances: The mayor shall have power to veto or sign any
ordinance passed by the city council; provided, that any ordinance vetoed by
the mayor may be passed over his veto by a vote of one-half (1/2) plus one of
the members of the full city council, notwithstanding the veto, and should the
mayor neglect or refuse to sign any ordinance and return the same with his
objections, in writing at the next regular meeting of the city council, the
same shall become law without his signature. (1975 Code § 1-411)
   E.   Request Aid: The mayor is hereby authorized to call on every male
inhabitant in the city over twenty one (21) years of age to aid in enforcing
the laws. (1975 Code § 1-409)
1-5A-5: JURISDICTION:
The Mayor shall have such jurisdiction as may be vested in him by ordinance
over all places within five (5) miles of the corporate limits of the City for
the enforcement of any health or quarantine ordinance and regulation thereof,
and shall have jurisdiction in all matters vested in him by ordinance, except
taxation, within one (1) mile of the corporate limits of the City and over such
properties as may be owned by the City without the corporate limits. (1975 Code
§ 1-406)
1-5A-6: COMPENSATION 1 :
The salary of the mayor shall be the annual sum of nine thousand six hundred
dollars ($9,600.00), to be paid in twelve (12) equal payments, of eight hundred
dollars ($800.00) each month, to be paid the same as other salaries are paid by
the city. (Ord. 2014-4, 9-10-2014, eff. 1-1-2016; amd. Ord. 2023-4, 8-9-2023,
eff. 1-1-2023)
 
Notes
1 1. See section 1-5-1 of this chapter.
ARTICLE B. CITY COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-5B-1: Elected Officials
1-5B-2: Meetings Of The Council
1-5B-3: Rules And Order Of Business
1-5B-4: Quorum
1-5B-5: Examination Of Accounts Of Fiscal Officers
1-5B-6: Compensation
1-5B-1: ELECTED OFFICIALS:
There shall be four (4) City Councilmen who shall be elected at the time and in
the manner as provided by the laws of the State of Idaho 1 . (1975 Code § 1-
301)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 50-401 et seq.
1-5B-2: MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL:
   A.   Regular Meetings: The regular meeting time of the Mayor and City
Council is hereby designated as the second Tuesday of each month at the hour of
seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. of said days at the Office of the City Clerk in Paul,
Idaho. (Ord. 2017-1, 3-8-2017)
   B.   Special Meetings Of Council: The Mayor or one-half (1/2) plus one (1)
of the members of the full Council shall have the power to call special
meetings of the City Council, the object of which shall be submitted to the
City Council in writing. The call and object, as well as the disposition
thereof, shall be entered upon the journal by the City Clerk. (1975 Code § 1-
404; amd. 1989 Code)
   C.   Meetings Open To Public: All meetings of the Council shall be open to
the public, except that executive sessions may be closed by the presiding
officer pursuant to Idaho Code section 67-2345. (1989 Code; amd. Ord. 2025-1,
1-8-2025)
1-5B-3: RULES AND ORDER OF BUSINESS:
The City Council shall establish such rules and order of business as it sees
fit for the conduct of its meetings and for the transaction of such business as
may properly come before it. Such rules and order of business may be amended at
any time by a majority vote of the City Council. (1975 Code § 1-303)
1-5B-4: QUORUM:
A majority of the members of the City Council shall constitute a quorum. (1975
Code § 1-302)
1-5B-5: EXAMINATION OF ACCOUNTS OF FISCAL OFFICERS:
At least once in each quarter of each year, the Council shall examine, either
in open session or by committee, the accounts and doings of all officers or
other persons having the care, management or disposition of monies, property or
business of the City. (1989 Code)
1-5B-6: COMPENSATION 1 :
The salary of each of the city council persons shall be the annual sum of four
thousand two hundred dollars ($4,200.00), to be paid in twelve (12) equal
payments of three hundred fifty dollars ($350.00) each month, to be paid the
same as other salaries are paid by the city. (Ord. 2014-4, 9-10-2014, eff. 1-1-
2016; amd. Ord. 2023-4, 8-9-2023, eff. 1-1-2024)
 
Notes
1 1. See section 1-5-1 of this chapter.
CHAPTER 6
CITY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-6-1: Appointment Of Officers; Vacancies
1-6-2: Bonds
1-6-3: Salaries
1-6-4: Removals From Office
1-6-1: APPOINTMENT OF OFFICERS; VACANCIES:
The mayor, with the consent of the city council, shall appoint a city clerk, a
city attorney, a deputy city clerk, a public works director and such other
officers as may be deemed necessary for the efficient operation of the city.
The city clerk shall serve as the city treasurer. (1989 Code)
1-6-2: BONDS:
Before entering upon the duties as city clerk-treasurer, the city clerk shall
file a good and sufficient surety bond in the amount of five thousand dollars
($5,000.00) for the faithful performance of the office of city clerk-treasurer.
All official bonds shall be approved by the city council and when so approved
shall be filed with the city clerk, except the bond of the city clerk, which
shall be filed with the mayor. (1975 Code § 1-701; amd. 1989 Code)
1-6-3: SALARIES:
The salaries of all employees of the city, other than elective officials, shall
be such amount as may be set by resolution from time to time by the city
council. (1975 Code § 1-720; amd. 1989 Code)
1-6-4: REMOVALS FROM OFFICE:
Any appointive officer may be removed by the mayor for any cause by him deemed
sufficient, but such removal shall be by and with the affirmative vote of one-
half (1/2) plus one of the members of the full council; provided, that the city
council, by the unanimous vote of all its members, may, upon their own
initiative, remove any appointive officer. (1975 Code § 1-703)
ARTICLE A. CITY CLERK
SECTION:
1-6A-1: Duties
1-6A-2: Deputy City Clerk
1-6A-1: DUTIES:
   A.   Attend City Council Meetings; Keep Records: It shall be the duty of the
city clerk to attend all meetings of the city council, keep minutes of all of
their proceedings and record the same in a book to be provided by the city
council and to be kept in his office. (1975 Code §§ 1-305, 1-704)
   B.   Payments Of Claims: Upon allowance of claims by the council, payment
may be ordered by warrant signed by the mayor and clerk or by check signed by
the mayor and treasurer. The order for their payment shall specify the
particular fund or appropriation out of which they are payable, as specified in
the annual appropriation bill. In the absence of sufficient funds, the council
may, by resolution, order payment of claims by money borrowed by either:
      1.   Registered warrants as provided in section 31-2125, Idaho Code, or
      2.   By issuing its tax anticipation notes as provided in section 63-
3102, Idaho Code, or
      3.   Short term borrowing not involved with the tax effort in
anticipation of approved federal or state grants. (1989 Code)
   C.   Financial Statements Of City: The city clerk-treasurer shall also, at
the close of each fiscal year and more often if required by the city council,
make out and lay before said city council a full and complete statement of
receipts and expenditures and all the fiscal affairs of the city during such
year, and cause the same to be published in some newspaper published in the
city, and if no paper is published within the city, then in some paper having
general circulation in the city 1 . (1975 Code § 1-704)
   D.   Records And Reports: The city clerk shall have the custody of all laws
and ordinances and shall keep a correct journal of the proceedings of the city
council. He shall also keep a record of all outstanding bonds against the city,
showing the number and amount of each, for and to whom the said bonds were
issued, and when any bonds are purchased or paid or cancelled, said record
shall show said fact. In his annual report, he shall particularly describe the
bonds issued and sold during the year and the terms of sale, with each and
every item of expense thereof. (1975 Code § 1-707)
   E.   Keeper Of Seal And City Documents: The city clerk shall be the keeper
of the seal of the city and shall affix it to all instruments and papers which
by law or ordinance are required to be attested by the seal of the city. He
shall have the custody of and safely keep all public records, documents,
ordinances and orders of the city council and such other papers and documents
in which the city is interested as may be delivered into his custody for
safekeeping. (1975 Code §§ 306, 1-705)
When ordinances are published, the city clerk shall record the same at length
together with the affidavit of publication in an ordinance book which shall be
designated as "Ordinance Book Number          of the City of Paul". The
original of all ordinances shall be filed and preserved by the city clerk in an
orderly file maintained for that purpose. (1975 Code § 1-306)
   F.   Additional Duties: The city clerk shall do and perform such other
duties as may from time to time be enjoined upon him by ordinances or
resolutions of the city council. (1975 Code §§ 1-704, 1-707)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  1-11-2 of this title.
1-6A-2: DEPUTY CITY CLERK:
The deputy city clerk shall have charge of such duties as may be assigned to
such office by the city clerk or the mayor with the approval of the city
council. (1975 Code § 1-715; amd. 1989 Code)
ARTICLE B. CITY TREASURER
SECTION:
1-6B-1: Duties
1-6B-1: DUTIES:
   A.   Generally: The city treasurer shall:
      1.   Be the custodian of all monies belonging to the city;
      2.   Keep a separate account of each fund or appropriation, and the
debits and credits belonging thereto;
      3.   Give a receipt to every person paying money into the treasury,
thereon specifying the date of payment and on what account paid, and shall also
file copies of such receipts with his monthly reports;
      4.   At the end of each and every month and as often as may be required,
render an account to the city council, under oath, showing the state of the
treasury at the date of such account and the balance of money in the treasury,
and shall also accompany such accounts with a statement of all receipts and
disbursements, together with all warrants redeemed and paid by him, which said
warrants, with any and all vouchers held by him, shall be filed with his said
account in the city clerk's office, and if the city treasurer neglects or fails
for the space of ten (10) days from the end of each and every month to render
his said account, his office shall be declared vacant and the city council
shall fill the vacancy by appointment. (1975 Code § 1-710)
   B.   Publication Of Financial Statements Of City: It shall be the duty of
the city treasurer to cause to be published, in the official newspaper of the
city 1 , a financial statement as required by the statutes of the state of
Idaho. (1975 Code § 1-711; amd. 1989 Code)
   C.   Deposit Of Municipal Funds: The city treasurer shall be required to
keep all money in his hands belonging to the corporation in such place or
places of deposit as may be provided by ordinance; provided, however, that the
treasurer may be directed and empowered by resolution to invest money in his
hands as authorized by the statutes of the state of Idaho. (1975 Code § 1-713;
amd. 1989 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  1-11-2 of this title.
ARTICLE C. CITY ATTORNEY
SECTION:
1-6C-1: Duties
1-6C-1: DUTIES:
The city attorney shall be the legal adviser of the city council. He shall
commence, prosecute and defend all suits and actions necessary to be commenced,
prosecuted or defended on behalf of the corporation, or that may be ordered by
the city council. When requested, he shall attend meetings of the city council
and give them his opinion upon any matters submitted to him, either orally or
in writing as may be required. (1975 Code § 1-714)
ARTICLE D. PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR
SECTION:
1-6D-1: Appointment; Term; Removal From Office
1-6D-2: Duties
1-6D-3: Salary
1-6D-1: APPOINTMENT; TERM; REMOVAL FROM OFFICE:
The city council shall appoint a competent person to the office of public works
director. Said public works director shall hold office during the pleasure of
the city council and may be removed by the mayor for any cause by him deemed
sufficient, but such removal shall be by and with the affirmative vote of one-
half (1/2) plus one of the members of the full city council; provided, that the
city council, by unanimous vote of all of its members, may upon their own
initiative remove said director. (1975 Code § 1-717; amd. 1989 Code)
1-6D-2: DUTIES:
The public works director shall be the manager of the sewer, water and garbage
departments of the city under the direction of the mayor and city council. He
shall perform such other duties as may be assigned to him by the mayor and city
council. (1975 Code § 1-716; amd. 1989 Code)
1-6D-3: SALARY:
The monthly salary to be paid by the city to the public works director shall be
set by the city council and included in the annual appropriation ordinance.
(1975 Code § 1-718; amd. 1989 Code)
CHAPTER 7
TERRITORIAL EXTENT
SECTION:
1-7-1: Annexations And Exclusions
1-7-2: Area Of City Impact
1-7-3: Area Of City Impact Administration
1-7-1: ANNEXATIONS AND EXCLUSIONS:
The annexations and exclusions of territory from the city heretofore brought
about by proper legal proceedings are hereby confirmed. (1975 Code § 1-202)
1-7-2: AREA OF CITY IMPACT:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of establishing an area of city impact is to
identify a logical urban fringe area adjoining the city. The urban fringe area
is realizing, or will realize, development pressure that must be planned for in
an orderly manner. Section 67-6526, Idaho Code, requires that cities and
counties negotiate an area of city impact.
   B.   Factors Considered: The following factors were considered by the
planning and zoning commission and the council in the establishment of an area
of city impact:
      1.   Trade area;
      2.   Geographic factors; and
      3.   Areas that can reasonably be expected to be annexed to the city in
the future.
   C.   Geographic Area Of City Impact: The officially adopted geographic area
of city impact is shown on the map attached to the ordinance codified herein
and entitled "Area Of City Impact For Paul, Idaho".
   D.   Application Of Provisions Of City To Impact Area:
      1.   Comprehensive Plan: The comprehensive plan and subsequent amendments
thereto as officially adopted by the city shall apply to the area of city
impact within the incorporated area of Minidoka County, Idaho.
      2.   Zoning And Subdivision Provisions: The zoning and subdivision
ordinances and subsequent amendments thereto as officially adopted by the city,
shall apply to the area of city impact within the unincorporated area of
Minidoka County, Idaho. (Ord. 297, 7-20-1976)
1-7-3: AREA OF CITY IMPACT ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   The county's comprehensive plan and any amendments thereto shall apply
in the area of impact.
   B.   The county's zoning ordinance shall be the zoning law of the area of
impact.
   C.   The county's subdivision ordinance shall be the subdivision law of the
area of impact.
   D.   The county's building code regulations shall be the law applicable to
building and related construction activities.
   E.   The parties agree that the fees for the issuance of building permits
within and for the city by the county shall be split with twenty five percent
(25%) going to the city and seventy five percent (75%) going to the county. The
county shall remit such to the city on a monthly basis. Fees for building
permits for buildings to be built within the Paul area of impact will go one
hundred percent (100%) to the county.
   F.   Enforcement of the provisions of aforementioned ordinances in the
city's area of impact vests solely in the county.
   G.   The county agrees to give the city notice of all proceedings affecting
real property in the city's area of impact, including, zoning changes, changes
in zoning districts, issuance of special use permits, issuance of variances.
Notice shall consist of mailing a copy of the same notice required by law to
affected or interested parties defined by Idaho Code section 67-6509(a) at the
same time said notice is sent to said parties. (Ord. 2012-3, 9-12-2012)
CHAPTER 8
MUNICIPAL FINANCES
SECTION:
1-8-1: Annual Tax Levy
1-8-2: Deposit Of City Funds
1-8-3: Fees For Copies Of Documents
1-8-4: Fee For Credit Card Payments And Other Payments
1-8-1: ANNUAL TAX LEVY:
The City Council shall annually, at its first regular meeting following the
receipt of certification of valuation by the County, make the annual levy of
taxes for general revenue purposes in accordance with the laws of the State of
Idaho. The City Council shall certify to the County Auditor of Minidoka County
the tax rate levied by the City Council for said year upon any property
situated in the City, as required by State law. (1989 Code)
1-8-2: DEPOSIT OF CITY FUNDS:
   A.   Depository Designated: The City hereby designates as the depository
bank for all the funds of the City, including all tax receipts, D.L. Evans
Bank; provided, however, the Clerk-Treasurer may be directed and empowered by
resolution to invest any money in the Clerk-Treasurer's hands as authorized by
the statutes of the State of Idaho.
   B.   Security Required: D.L. Evans Bank must, prior to the deposit of any
funds, execute and deliver such security as the City Council shall require of
said bank, and the City Council shall approve the security prior to the deposit
of City funds in the bank. (Ord. 2015-2, 4-8-2015)
1-8-3: FEES FOR COPIES OF DOCUMENTS:
Upon demand and payment of such fees therefor, as a County Recorder of the
State of Idaho might receive for similar services, the City Clerk shall furnish
to any person applying therefor a copy of any records, paper or document of any
kind in his possession, which copy shall be certified to under his hand and
seal of office. All such fees shall be duly accounted for and paid to the City
Treasurer in the same manner as other receipts of the City Clerk are paid in
and accounted for. (1975 Code § 1-709)
1-8-4: FEE FOR CREDIT CARD PAYMENTS AND OTHER PAYMENTS:
When any payment is made for any fee charged by the City by a medium other than
cash, check, or money order, which is delivered to the City in person or by the
United States Postal Service, the City shall charge a revenue neutral
convenience fee of two and one-half percent (2.5%) of the gross transaction.
This revenue neutral convenience fee shall be charged on, but not necessarily
limited to, credit card payments, debit card payments, and all other payments
upon which a charge is assessed by the entity handling the payment. The City
Clerk is authorized to enter into an agreement with a reputable agency that
handles revenue neutral convenience fee transactions for collection of the fee.
(Ord. 2015-5, 10-14-2015)
CHAPTER 9
MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS
SECTION:
1-9-1: Officers Of Elections
1-9-2: Polling Places; Election Supplies
1-9-3: Conduct Of Elections
1-9-4: Election Poll Hours
1-9-1: OFFICERS OF ELECTIONS:
The city council, at a regular meeting in the month preceding an election,
shall appoint an election judge and such clerks as may be necessary for each
voting precinct within the city. The election officials shall be qualified city
electors. The city clerk shall notify the election officials of their
appointment within five (5) days following appointment. If any election judge
or clerk fails to report for duty on the day of election, the city clerk shall
fill such vacancies from among the qualified electors presenting themselves to
vote. Compensation for the election judges and clerks shall be determined by
the city council at time of appointment and shall be not less than the minimum
wage as prescribed by the laws of the state of Idaho. (1989 Code)
The city clerk shall give such appointees notice of their appointment and shall
request each appointee to give notice of his acceptance or declination of his
appointment to the city clerk within ten (10) days thereafter. (1975 Code § 1-
603)
1-9-2: POLLING PLACES; ELECTION SUPPLIES:
   A.   Powers Of City Clerk: The city clerk, with consent of the council, may
employ such persons and procure such equipment, supplies, materials and
facilities of every kind he considers necessary to facilitate and assist in his
carrying out his functions in connection with administering the election laws.
   B.   Expenses: The necessary expenses incurred in administering the election
laws, including reasonable rental for polling places, shall be allowed by the
city council and paid out of the city treasury.
   C.   Oaths And Affirmations: The city clerk may administer oaths and
affirmations in connection with the performance of his functions in
administering the election laws.
   D.   Establishment Of Election Precincts: The city council shall establish a
convenient number of election precincts within the city. Said precincts shall
conform as nearly as possible and practicable to the county election precincts
within the city. (1989 Code)
1-9-3: CONDUCT OF ELECTIONS:
All municipal elections shall be conducted in accordance with and in conformity
with the election code of the state of Idaho 1  for the conduct of general or
special elections. (1989 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. IC title 34; § 50-401 et seq.
1-9-4: ELECTION POLL HOURS:
At all general and special city elections the polls shall be opened at twelve
o'clock (12:00) noon and remain open until all registered electors of that
precinct have voted or until eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. of the same day,
whichever comes first. (Ord. 391, 8-13-1997)
CHAPTER 10
ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS
SECTION:
1-10-1: Compliance With State Law
1-10-1: COMPLIANCE WITH STATE LAW:
All ordinances shall be passed, amended or repealed in accordance with and in
conformity with the statutes of the state of Idaho 1 . (1989 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 50-901 et seq.
CHAPTER 11
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
SECTION:
1-11-1: Corporate Seal
1-11-2: Official Newspaper
1-11-1: CORPORATE SEAL:
   A.   Design: The corporate seal of the city shall be circular in form with
inner and outer circles. It shall bear upon the space between the two (2)
circles the words, "City of Paul, Minidoka County, Idaho" and upon the space
within the inner circle the words, "Corporate Seal". (1975 Code § 1-105)
   B.   Adoption Of Seal: The seal described in subsection A of this section is
hereby adopted as the corporate seal of the city. (1975 Code § 1-106)
1-11-2: OFFICIAL NEWSPAPER:
The official newspaper of the city shall be and hereby is designated as The
Times News, the nearest Idaho newspaper of general circulation within the city,
and all notices required by law to be published shall be published in such
newspaper. (Ord. 2008-1, 8-13-2008)
TITLE 2
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
LIQUOR CONTROL
ARTICLE A. BEER
SECTION:
2-1A-1: Definitions
2-1A-2: License Required
2-1A-3: Application For License
2-1A-4: License Fees
2-1A-5: Investigation Of Applicant
2-1A-6: Issuance Of License; Qualifications Of License; Term
2-1A-7: Conditions Of License
2-1A-8: Restrictions On Premises And Sales
2-1A-9: Hours For Sale Of Beer
2-1A-10: Revocation Or Suspension Of License
2-1A-11: Violation; Penalties
2-1A-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings applied to them in this section:
BEER: Any beverage obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
decoction of barley, malt and/or other ingredients in drinkable water.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, copartnership, association, corporation or any
group or combination acting as a unit, and the plural as well as the singular
number unless the intent to give a more limited meaning is disclosed by the
context.
PREMISES: The building and contiguous property owned, or leased or used under
government permit by a license as part of the business establishment in the
business of sale of beer at retail, which property is improved to include
decks, docks, boardwalks, lawns, gardens, golf courses, ski resorts,
courtyards, patios, poolside areas or similar improved appurtenances in which
the sale of beer at retail is authorized under the provisions of law 1 .
RETAILER: Any person engaged in the sale or distribution of beer to the
consumer. (Ord. 340, 3-12-1986; amd. 1989 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 23-1001.
2-1A-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell at retail, in the city, for
consumption either on or off the premises where sold, any beer, as defined by
the laws of the state of Idaho 1 , without having first procured a retail beer
license as in this article provided. (1975 Code § 2-101)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 23-1001(a).
2-1A-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Every person desiring to obtain a license for the sale of beer shall first make
written application therefor in such form and containing such information as
said city may require and pay, when application is made, the fee required for
license for the balance of the calendar year. (1975 Code § 2-102)
2-1A-4: LICENSE FEES:
The fee for a license for the retail sale of beer shall be as follows:
   A.   Where the retailer sells draft beer and bottled or canned beer, or
draft beer only, and consumed on the premises, sixty five dollars ($65.00) per
annum.
   B.   Where the retailer sells only bottled or canned beer, none of which is
consumed on the premises where sold, sixteen dollars twenty five cents ($16.25)
per annum.
   C.   Where bottled or canned beer is sold and consumed on the premises,
forty eight dollars seventy five cents ($48.75) per annum.
All licenses shall expire on December 31 of each year. No new license will be
issued until the required fee has been paid in full. (1975 Code § 2-204; amd.
1989 Code)
A full year's license fee shall be collected after January 1. (Ord. 330, 12-29-
1983)
2-1A-5: INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT:
No license shall be granted hereunder until there has been an investigation by
the police department of all applicants hereunder. After investigation, the
applications will be forwarded to the city council with a recommendation from
the chief of police. If the chief of police recommends that an application be
denied, he shall state in writing:
   A.   The statutes or ordinances and standards used in evaluating the
application.
   B.   The reason for the denial.
   C.   The action, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain the
license, transfer or renewal thereof. (Ord. 330, 12-29-1983)
2-1A-6: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE; QUALIFICATIONS OF LICENSE; TERM:
All licenses shall be granted by the mayor and city council for a period of one
year, beginning January 1 and ending December 31, to any person who is a
citizen of the United States or who has resided in the state of Idaho for the
period of thirty (30) days immediately preceding the date of such application
and who is of good moral character and who has not been convicted of any crime
involving moral turpitude or of a violation of any law prohibiting or
regulating the sale or possession of alcoholic beverages or intoxicating
liquors. Said license shall authorize the licensee named therein to sell in the
room therein definitely fixed and not elsewhere, bottled or draft and bottled
beer at retail for consumption either on or off the premises.
The city council shall grant or deny the application within thirty (30) days of
the time it is filed with the city clerk. Whenever the mayor and city council
deny an application, they shall specify in writing:
   A.   The statutes, ordinances and standards used in evaluating the
application.
   B.   The reason for the denial.
   C.   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain the
license, transfer or renewal thereof.
In all cases where the city council is considering applications for licenses,
transfers or renewals thereof, a transcribable, verbatim record of the
proceeding shall be made. If the applicant for a license, transfer or renewal
is denied, a transcribable, verbatim record of the proceedings shall be kept
for a period of not less than six (6) months after a final decision on the
matter. Upon written request and within the time period provided for retention
of the record, any person may have the record transcribed at his expense. The
city council shall also provide for the keeping of the minutes of the
proceedings. Minutes shall be retained indefinitely or as otherwise provided by
law. (Ord. 330, 12-29-1983)
All licenses issued under the authority of this article shall name the person
or persons to whom issued and the location where the sale is authorized. (1975
Code § 2-104)
2-1A-7: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
   A.   License To Be Posted: The license shall be conspicuously posted in the
room or place designated therein. (1975 Code § 2-105)
   B.   Transfer Of License: No license issued under the provisions of this
article shall be transferred to another person or persons or location, except
by approval of the city council, and in the case of transfer to another person
or persons, before such transfer may be made, there shall be paid a fee for
such transfer of five dollars ($5.00). (1975 Code § 2-104)
2-1A-8: RESTRICTIONS ON PREMISES AND SALES:
   A.   View From Street: No beer shall be sold or served for immediate
consumption except in the interior of the room described in such license, which
shall be well lighted and the view of the interior thereof from the street
shall not be obstructed. The door leading to such room from the street shall
not be locked or barred while persons other than the licensee or employees
remain therein.
   B.   Beer Sales Only: No beverage, other than beer, containing alcohol in
any quantity shall be sold, served or its consumption permitted at any place
described in any such license.
   C.   Minors: No beer shall be served to any minor under the age of twenty
one (21) years, and no minor under that age shall be permitted to loiter in or
about any place where beer is sold and served for immediate consumption.
   D.   Orderly Conduct: Every place wherein beer is sold shall be conducted in
an orderly manner. (1975 Code § 2-105; amd. 1989 Code)
2-1A-9: HOURS FOR SALE OF BEER 1 :
   A.   Purpose: This section shall be deemed an exercise of police power of
the city, for the protection of public health, peace and morals, and all of its
provisions shall be liberally construed for the attainment of that purpose.
(1975 Code § 2-108)
   B.   Hours Designated:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person, entity or retailer to sell,
dispense or give away beer, or operate or maintain a beer parlor or sell,
dispense or give away beer therein or in any building or premises whether for
pleasure or profit within the limits of the city on any day between the hours
of one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person, entity or retailer to sell,
dispense or give away beer to be consumed upon the premises, whether for
pleasure or profit, within the limits of the city on Sunday from one o'clock
(1:00) A.M. to six o'clock (6:00) A.M. the following day; provided, however,
that on Super Bowl Sunday, it shall be lawful for a retailer having a permit to
allow consumption on the premises from two o'clock (2:00) P.M. to ten o'clock
(10:00) P.M. "Super Bowl Sunday" is defined to be that Sunday scheduled for the
National Football League championship game. To obtain a permit, prior to Super
Bowl Sunday each year, the retailer shall pay a twenty five dollar ($25.00)
annual fee to the city clerk and shall obtain a permit from the clerk. (Ord.
2005-1, 4-13-2005)
      3.   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, restaurants, as
defined in Section
2-1C-4(B)(1), duly licensed to sell beer, may sell, dispense, or give away beer
to customers between the hours of ten o’clock (10:00) A.M. and ten o’clock (10:
00) P.M. on Sundays, so long as beer is provided only in conjunction with
consumption of a meal on the premises. Restaurants shall not sell, dispense or
give away beer for take-out, delivery, or off-premises consumption on Sundays
under this section.
   C.   Penalties: Any person violating any of the provisions of this section
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Each and every violation hereof shall be
deemed to constitute a separate offense and punishable as such, and, upon
conviction, the license shall be revoked. (1975 Code § 2-110; amd. Ord. 2025-2,
5-13-2025)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection 2-1D-8A4 of this chapter.
2-1A-10: REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE:
If complaint be made that any licensee is conducting a place in such manner as
to violate the provisions of this article, the mayor and city council shall
cause notice to be served upon such licensee containing the substance of the
charge made against him and requiring him to appear before the city council at
a time and place named therein not less than two (2) days from the date of
service of such notice and show cause why the license should not be revoked. If
it appears to the city council that sufficient cause therefor exists, such
license may be immediately revoked and canceled. (1975 Code § 2-106)
Prior to any revocation or suspension, the licensee shall be afforded a hearing
according to section 23-1016, Idaho Code. (Ord. 330, 12-19-1983)
In the event that a license is revoked for any cause, no part of the license
fee shall be refunded. (1975 Code § 2-104)
2-1A-11: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this article, other than section
2-1A-9 of this article, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Each violation of any
of said provisions shall be deemed to constitute a separate offense and be
punishable as such. (1975 Code § 2-107)
ARTICLE B. RETAIL SALE OF WINE
SECTION:
2-1B-1: Definitions
2-1B-2: License Required
2-1B-3: Application For License
2-1B-4: Qualifications For Issuance Of License
2-1B-5: License Fees
2-1B-6: Issuance Of License; Contents
2-1B-7: Transfer Of License
2-1B-8: Restrictions On Sales And Consumption
2-1B-9: Minors
2-1B-10: Revocation Or Suspension Of License
2-1B-11: Violation
2-1B-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms as used in this article are hereby defined as follows:
DIRECTOR: Director of the department of law enforcement of the state of Idaho.
PERSON: An individual, firm, copartnership, association, corporation or any
group or combination acting as a unit, and includes the plural as well as the
singular unless the intent to give a more limited meaning is disclosed by the
context in which it is used.
RETAIL WINE LICENSE: A license by the director, authorizing a person to sell
wine at retail.
RETAILER: A person to whom a retail wine license has been issued.
WINE: Any alcoholic beverage containing not more than fourteen percent (14%)
alcohol by volume obtained by the fermentation of the natural sugar content of
fruits or other agricultural products containing sugar. (1975 Code § 2-201;
amd. 1989 Code)
2-1B-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be lawful for any person to sell wine at retail within the corporate
limits of the city after having first procured a license therefor. (1975 Code §
2-202)
2-1B-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Application for license shall be in writing, signed and sworn to by the
applicant upon application forms furnished by the city clerk and presented to
the mayor and city council at the next meeting of the city council for its
approval, rejection, or further consideration. (1975 Code § 2-203)
2-1B-4: QUALIFICATIONS FOR ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
The applicant for a license shall possess all of the qualifications necessary
to obtain a license from the director of the department of law enforcement of
the state, as prescribed by the laws of the state, and maintain such
qualifications throughout the period for which such license is issued. The
possession of licenses regularly issued by the department of law enforcement
and the county in addition to a city beer license shall be prima facie evidence
of the applicant's qualifications to receive a license hereunder. (1975 Code §
2-204; amd. 1989 Code)
2-1B-5: LICENSE FEES:
The license fee to sell wine as herein defined shall be the sum of twenty five
dollars ($25.00) per year. No license shall be issued for any shorter period
than the balance of the calendar year and all licenses shall expire on December
31 following issuance. No license shall be issued until the fee therefor shall
have been paid. Where application for license is made during the first quarter
of the year, the full annual license shall be paid; when made during the second
quarter, three-fourths (3/4) thereof shall be paid; when made during the third
quarter, one-half (1/2) thereof shall be paid; and when made during the fourth
quarter, one-fourth (1/4) thereof shall be paid. (1975 Code § 2-205)
2-1B-6: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE; CONTENTS:
Upon filing the application for a license and production of evidence as
required by section
2-1B-4 of this article as to the qualifications of the applicant and by the
payment of the required license fee, the city clerk shall, upon approval of the
city council, issue to the applicant a license to sell wine at retail within
the municipality for such calendar year or the remainder thereof. (1975 Code §
2-206)
All licenses issued under the authority of this article shall name the person
or persons to whom issued and the premises where sales shall be made. (1975
Code § 2-205)
2-1B-7: TRANSFER OF LICENSE:
The assignment or transfer of a wine license shall be the same as provided by
this code for the assignment or transfer of a beer license. (1975 Code § 2-207)
2-1B-8: RESTRICTIONS ON SALES AND CONSUMPTION:
   A.   Retailers who do not possess a valid license for the retail sale of
liquor by the drink shall not permit consumption of wine on the licensed
premises and may sell the wine only in its original unbroken, sealed container.
   B.   Wine sold for consumption on the retailer's premises may be sold only
during hours that liquor by the drink may be sold pursuant to the laws of this
state.
   C.   Wine sold by the retailer for consumption off the premises of the
retailer may be sold only during the hours that beer may be sold pursuant to
the ordinances of the city. (1975 Code § 2-208)
2-1B-9: MINORS:
   A.   No person under the age of twenty one (21) years may purchase, consume
or possess wine.
   B.   No person shall give, sell or deliver wine to any person under the age
of twenty one (21).
   C.   No person under the age of twenty one (21) years shall, by any means,
represent to any retailer or distributor or to any agent or employee of such
retailer or distributor that he or she is twenty one (21) years or more of age
for the purpose of inducing such retailer or distributor, or his agent or
employee, to sell, serve or dispense wine to such person.
   D.   No person shall, by any means, represent to any retailer or
distributor, or the agent or employee of such retailer or distributor, that any
other person is twenty one (21) years for the purpose of inducing such retailer
or distributor, or the agent or employee of such retailer or distributor, to
sell, serve or dispense wine to such other person. (1975 Code § 2-210; amd.
1989 Code)
2-1B-10: REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE:
The right shall be and remain at all times vested in the mayor and city
council, and the mayor and city council may, as hereinafter provided, revoke or
cancel any license for fraud or misrepresentation in its procurement, or for a
violation of any of the provisions of this article, or for any conduct or act
of the licensee or his employees or any conduct or act permitted by him or them
on the premises where such business is conducted or in connection therewith or
adjacent thereto, tending to render such business or such premises where the
same is conducted as a public nuisance or menace to the health, peace, safety
or general welfare of the city; provided, that revocation or suspension of the
state license by the director of the department of law enforcement shall be
deemed prima facie evidence for revocation or suspension of the license issued
herein. Procedures for the suspension, revocation or refusal to grant or renew
licenses shall be in accordance with the provisions of chapter 52, title 67,
Idaho Code. (1975 Code § 2-211; amd. 1989 Code)
2-1B-11: VIOLATION:
Any person who violates any of the provisions of this article or fails to
comply with any of the terms or conditions of this article shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor. (1975 Code § 2-212)
ARTICLE C. WINE BY THE DRINK
SECTION:
2-1C-1: Definitions
2-1C-2: License To Sell Wine By The Drink
2-1C-3: Application For License
2-1C-4: Eligibility For License
2-1C-5: License Fees; Term
2-1C-6: Investigation Of Applicant; Granting Or Denial Of License
2-1C-7: Contents Of License; Separate License Required; Number Restricted
2-1C-8: Conditions Of License
2-1C-9: Transfer Of License
2-1C-10: Location Restrictions
2-1C-11: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
2-1C-12: Revocation Or Suspension Of License
2-1C-13: Violations
2-1C-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms as used in this article are defined as provided in this
section. All other words and phrases used in this article, the definition of
which is not herein given, shall be given the ordinary and commonly understood
and accepted meaning.
INTERDICTED PERSON: A person to whom the sale of wine is prohibited under the
laws of the state of Idaho.
LICENSE: A license issued by the city council to a qualified person under which
it shall be lawful for the licensee to sell and dispense wine by the drink at
retail, as provided in this article.
LICENSEE: The person to whom a license is issued under the provisions of this
article.
PERSON: Includes an individual, firm, copartnership, association, corporation,
or any group or combination acting as a unit, and includes the plural as well
as the singular unless the intent to give a more limited meaning is disclosed
by the context in which it is used.
PREMISES: The building in which the sale of wine by the drink at retail is
authorized under the provisions of this article.
WINE: Any alcoholic beverage containing not more than fourteen percent (14%)
alcohol by volume obtained by the fermentation of the natural sugar content of
fruits or other agricultural products containing sugar whether or not other
ingredients are added. (1975 Code § 2-401; amd. 1989 Code)
2-1C-2: LICENSE TO SELL WINE BY THE DRINK:
Every license issued under this article shall be issued by the city council,
signed by the mayor, countersigned by the city clerk, and bear the seal of the
city, and shall be issued to qualified applicants as herein provided, whereby
the licensee shall be authorized and permitted to sell wine by the drink at
retail and, upon the issuance of such license, the licensee therein named shall
be authorized to sell wine at retail by the drink, but only in accordance with
the provisions of this article. It shall be unlawful to sell wine by the drink
without having first obtained such license. (1975 Code § 2-402)
2-1C-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Prior to the issuance of a license as herein provided, the applicant shall file
with the city clerk an application in writing, subscribed and sworn to by the
applicant before a person authorized to administer oaths. The application shall
be accompanied by the license fee herein required. The application shall
contain such information and statements relative to the applicant and the
premises where the wine is to be sold as may be required by the city council
and, in addition, the application must show the qualifications of the applicant
required by this article, and the following:
   A.   A detailed description of the premises for which a license is sought,
and its location within the city, and the name and detailed address of the
owner of the premises.
   B.   The names and detailed addresses of all persons who will have any
financial interest in any business to be carried on, in and upon the licensed
premises, whether such interest results from open loans, mortgages, conditional
sales contracts, silent partnerships, trusts or any other basis than open trade
accounts incurred in the ordinary course of business, and the amounts of such
interests.
   C.   If the premises to be licensed are not owned by the applicant, then an
executed or certified copy of the lease by which he will occupy the premises,
showing that the owner consents to the sale of wine by the drink on such
premises or a written consent by the owner consenting to the same must
accompany the application.
   D.   The name and address of the applicant which shall include all members
of a partnership or association, and the officers, members of the governing
board and ten (10) principal stockholders of a corporation; and if the
applicant is a married person, then the name and detailed address of the
spouse.
   E.   If during the period of any license issued hereunder, any change shall
occur in any of the requirements of subsections A to D, inclusive, of this
section, the licensee shall immediately make a report of such change to the
city council, signed and sworn to by the applicant before a person authorized
to administer oaths. (1975 Code § 2-404)
2-1C-4: ELIGIBILITY FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Qualifications For License: In order to qualify for a license, the
applicant must comply with all provisions of Idaho Code, section 23-1307. (1989
Code)
   B.   Classifications For License Eligibility: Every license issued under
this article shall be issued only to qualified applicants, as herein provided,
who come within the following classifications as the same are herein defined:
      1.   Cafe Or Restaurant: A cafe or restaurant is an establishment
provided with special space and accommodations wherein, in consideration of
payment, prepared food is habitually furnished to the public, but does not
include drugstores, soda fountains, lunch counters or confectioneries, and such
cafe or restaurant being provided, in the judgment of the city council, with
adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining equipment and capacity for preparing,
cooking and serving suitable food to and for its patrons; provided, however,
that the preparation, cooking and serving of suitable food is hereby construed
to mean the preparation, cooking and serving of complete meals customarily
denominated breakfast, lunch, dinner and supper; and provided further, however,
that the habitual furnishing of prepared food is hereby construed to mean the
habitual furnishing of: a) such breakfast, lunch, dinner and supper, or b) such
breakfast, lunch and dinner, or c) such lunch, dinner or supper, or d) such
dinner and supper; and provided further, that the service of only fry orders,
sandwiches, hamburgers, hot dogs, salads or snacks shall not be deemed a
compliance with this classification.
      2.   Unclassified: Any establishment holding a valid license for the sale
of beer for consumption on the premises. (1975 Code § 2-408)
2-1C-5: LICENSE FEES; TERM:
Each licensee licensed under the provisions of this article shall pay an annual
license fee to the city in the amount of one hundred dollars ($100.00) per
annum; provided, however, that the license fee for the year 1974 shall be
three-fourths (3/4) the fee specified herein; and provided further, that any
licensee who operates for only a portion of a year may have his license fee
prorated from the date he commences operation to the end of the calendar year,
but in no event for less than six (6) months.
Licenses issued hereunder shall expire at one o'clock (1:00) A.M. on January 2
the following calendar year for which issued. (1975 Code § 2-403)
2-1C-6: INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT; GRANTING OR DENIAL OF LICENSE:
Upon receipt of an application for a license under this article, accompanied by
the necessary license fee, the city council may make or cause to be made such
investigation of all matters pertaining thereto as it deems proper. If the city
council shall determine that the contents of the application are true, that
such applicant is qualified to receive a license, that the premises to be
licensed are suitable for the carrying on of the business, and that the
requirements of this article are met and complied with, license shall issue;
otherwise, the application shall be denied and the license fee, less the costs
and expenses of investigation, shall be returned to the applicant. (1975 Code §
2-405)
2-1C-7: CONTENTS OF LICENSE; SEPARATE LICENSE REQUIRED; NUMBER RESTRICTED:
Every license issued under this article shall be signed by the mayor,
countersigned by the city clerk and shall bear the seal of the city, and shall
set forth the name of the person to whom issued, the location by street and
number or other definite designation of the premises and such other information
as the city council shall deem necessary; if issued to a partnership, the names
of the persons constituting such partnership, as silent or active partners,
shall be set forth; if issued to a corporation or association, the names of the
principal officers and the governing board shall be set forth. Such license
shall be signed by the licensee. Every license issued under the provisions of
this chapter is separate and distinct and no person except the licensee, except
as hereinafter provided, therein named, shall exercise any of the privileges
granted thereunder. No person shall be granted more than one license for any
one year; and no partnership, association or corporation holding a license
under this article shall have as a member, officer or stockholder any person
who has any financial interest of any kind in, or is a member of, another
partnership or association or an officer of another corporation holding a
license in the city for the same year; provided, however, that this section
shall not prevent any person who owns two (2) or more buildings on connected
property in the city from making application for and receiving licenses
permitting the sale of wine by the drink in such building. (1975 Code § 2-406)
2-1C-8: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
   A.   Hours Of Sale: No wine shall be sold, offered for sale or given away
upon any licensed premises during the following hours:
      1.   Sunday, Memorial Day, Thanksgiving and Christmas, from one o'clock
(1:00) A.M. to ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. the following day;
      2.   On any other day between one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and ten o'clock
(10:00) A.M.;
      3.   On any day of a general or primary election until after the time
when the polls are closed;
      4.   Where beer is sold on the same premises as wine by the drink, the
hours for the sale and consumption of wine shall be the same as those for the
sale and consumption of beer by the drink 1 . (1975 Code §§ 2-406, 2-410)
      5.   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, restaurants, as
defined in Section
2-1C-4(B)(1), duly licensed to sell wine, may sell, offer, or give away wine to
customers between the hours of ten o’clock (10:00) A.M. and ten o’clock (10:00)
P.M. on Sundays, so long as wine is provided only in conjunction with
consumption of a meal on the premises. Restaurants shall not sell, offer, or
give away wine for take-out, delivery, or off-premises consumption on Sundays
under this section.
   B.   Posting Of License: Every licensee shall at all times keep posted in a
conspicuous place on the licensed premises the license issued by the city.
(1975 Code § 2-406; amd. Ord. 2025-2, 5-13-2025)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  2-1A-9 of this chapter.
2-1C-9: TRANSFER OF LICENSE:
Application to transfer any license issued pursuant to this article shall be
made to the city clerk. Upon receipt of such an application, the same
procedures shall be had as in the case of an original application for license
except for the payment of license fee; and if it is determined that all of the
conditions of this chapter are met and complied with by the proposed
transferee, then the license shall be endorsed over to the proposed transferee
by said licensee for the remainder of the period for which such license has
been issued, and the city clerk shall note the approval thereof by the city
council upon such license. (1975 Code § 2-406)
2-1C-10: LOCATION RESTRICTIONS:
Licensed premises must be in compliance with the restrictions contained in
Idaho Code, section 23-1307A. (1989 Code)
2-1C-11: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Prohibited Sales: No licensee or his or its employed agents, servants
or bartenders shall sell, deliver or give away, or cause or permit to be sold,
delivered or given away, any wine to:
      1.   Any person under the age of twenty one (21) years;
      2.   Any person actually, apparently or obviously intoxicated;
      3.   A habitual drunkard;
      4.   An interdicted person. (1975 Code § 2-411; amd. 1989 Code)
   B.   Gaming: It shall be unlawful for any licensee to permit, conduct, play,
carry on, open or cause to be opened any gaming in or upon the licensed
premises or in or upon any premises directly connected by a door, hallway or
other means of access from the licensed premises. (1975 Code § 2-412)
2-1C-12: REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE:
If it is made to appear to the city council, and it so finds, that any of the
provisions of this article have been violated, including the making of any
false statements in the application for license, with respect to any licensed
premises hereunder, it may revoke the license, and if such license is revoked,
no part of the license fees therefor shall be refundable. Proceedings for
revocation shall be initiated by filing with the city council a verified and
concise statement of the facts; thereupon, the city council may issue its order
to the licensee ordering him or it to appear before the city council not less
than five (5) days from the date of service of the order and a copy of the
verified statement upon the licensee to show cause, if any there be, why said
license should not be revoked and cancelled. In lieu of revocation, the city
council may suspend the said license for such period as it deems proper.
Procedures for the suspension, revocation or refusal to grant or renew licenses
shall be in accordance with the provisions of chapter 52, title 67, Idaho Code.
(1975 Code § 2-414; amd. 1989 Code)
2-1C-13: VIOLATIONS:
A violation of any of the provisions of this article, including the making of
any false statements in the application for license, shall constitute a
misdemeanor. (1975 Code § 2-413)
ARTICLE D. LIQUOR BY THE DRINK
SECTION:
2-1D-1: Definitions
2-1D-2: License To Sell Liquor By The Drink
2-1D-3: Application For License
2-1D-4: Eligibility For License
2-1D-5: License Fees; Term
2-1D-6: Investigation Of Applicant; Granting Or Denial Of License
2-1D-7: Contents Of License; Separate Licenses Required; Number Restricted
2-1D-8: Conditions Of License
2-1D-9: Transfer Of License
2-1D-10: Location Restrictions
2-1D-11: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
2-1D-12: Revocation Or Suspension Of License
2-1D-13: Violations
2-1D-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases used in this article shall be given the
interpretations as in this section provided. All other words and phrases used
in this article, the definition of which is not herein given, shall be given
the ordinary and commonly understood and accepted meaning.
CLUB: Includes any of the following organizations where the sale of spirituous
liquor for consumption on the premises is made to members and to bona fide
guests of members only:
   A.   A post, chapter, camp or other local unit composed solely of veterans
and their duly recognized auxiliary, and which is a post, chapter, camp or
other local unit composed solely of veterans which has been chartered by the
congress of the United States for patriotic, fraternal or benevolent purposes,
and which has, as the owner, lessee or occupant, operated an establishment for
that purpose in this state; or
   B.   A chapter, aerie, parlor, lodge or other local unit of an American
national fraternal organization, which has as the owner, lessee or occupant,
operated an establishment for fraternal purposes in this state and actively
operates in not less than thirty six (36) states or has been in continuous
existence for not less than twenty (20) years; and which has not less than
fifty (50) bona fide members in each unit, and which owns, maintains or
operates club quarters, and is authorized and incorporated to operate as a
nonprofit club under the laws of this state, and which has recognized tax
exempt status under section 501(c)(8) or 501(c)(10) of the internal revenue
code, and has been continuously incorporated and operating for a period of not
less than one year. The club shall have had during that period of one year, a
bona fide membership with regular meetings conducted at least once each month,
and the membership shall be and shall have been actively engaged in carrying
out the objects of the club. The club membership shall consist of bona fide
dues paying members, recorded by the secretary of the club, paying at least six
dollars ($6.00) per year in dues, payable monthly, quarterly or annually; and
the members, at the time of application for a club license, shall be in good
standing, having paid dues for at least one full year.
GAMING: Any and all gambling or games of chance defined in chapters 38 and 49
of title 18 of the Idaho Code, or any section or sections thereof, as amended,
whether said games are licensed or unlicensed.
INTERDICTED PERSON: A person to whom the sale of liquor is prohibited under the
laws of the state of Idaho.
LICENSE: A license issued by the city council to a qualified person, under
which it shall be lawful for the licensee to sell and dispense liquor by the
drink at retail, as provided in this article.
LICENSEE: The person to whom a license is issued under the provisions of this
article.
LIQUOR: All kinds of liquor sold by and in a state liquor store of the state of
Idaho.
PERSON: Every individual, partnership, corporation, organization or association
holding a retail liquor license, whether conducting the business singularly or
collectively.
PREMISES: The building and contiguous property owned, or leased or used under a
government permit by a licensee as part of the business establishment in the
business of sale of liquor by the drink at retail, which property is improved
to include docks, boardwalks, lawns, gardens, golf courses, ski resorts,
courtyards, patios, poolside areas or similar improved appurtenances in which
the sale of liquor by the drink at retail is authorized under the provisions of
law. (1975 Code § 2-302; amd. 1989 Code)
2-1D-2: LICENSE TO SELL LIQUOR BY THE DRINK:
Every license issued under this article shall be issued by the city council,
signed by the mayor, countersigned by the city clerk, and bear the seal of the
city, and shall be issued to qualified applicants, as herein provided, whereby
the licensee shall be authorized and permitted to sell liquor by the drink at
retail and, upon the issuance of such license, the licensee therein named shall
be authorized to sell liquor at retail by the drink, but only in accordance
with the provisions of this article. It shall be unlawful to sell liquor by the
drink without having first obtained such license. (1975 Code § 2-303)
2-1D-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Prior to the issuance of a license, as herein provided, the applicant shall
file with the city clerk an application in writing, subscribed and sworn to by
the applicant before a person authorized to administer oaths. The application
shall be accompanied by the license fee herein required. The application shall
contain such information and statements relative to the applicant and the
premises where the liquor is to be sold as may be required by the city council
and, in addition, the application must show the qualifications of the applicant
required by this article, and the following:
   A.   A detailed description of the premises for which a license is sought,
and its location within the city, and the name and detailed address of the
owner of the premises.
   B.   The names and detailed addresses of all persons who will have any
financial interest in any business to be carried on, in and upon the licensed
premises, whether such interest results from open loans, mortgages, conditional
sales contracts, silent partnerships, trusts or any other basis than open trade
accounts incurred in the ordinary course of business, and the amounts of such
interests.
   C.   If the premises to be licensed are not owned by the applicant, then a
certified copy of the lease by which he will occupy the premises, showing that
the owner consents to the sale of liquor by the drink on such premises, must
accompany the application.
   D.   The name and address of the applicant, which shall include all members
of a partnership or association, and the officers, members of the governing
board and ten (10) principal stockholders of a corporation; and if the
applicant is a married person, then the name and detailed address of the
spouse.
   E.   A copy of the articles of incorporation and bylaws of any corporation,
the articles of association and the bylaws of any association, or the articles
of partnership of any partnership, shall accompany the application.
   F.   If, during the period of any license issued hereunder, any change shall
occur in any of the requirements of subsections A through E inclusive of this
section, the licensee shall immediately make a report of such change to the
city council, signed and sworn to by the applicant before a person authorized
to administer oaths. (1975 Code § 2-305)
2-1D-4: ELIGIBILITY FOR LICENSE:
In order to be eligible for a license, the applicant must comply with all
requirements of section 23-910, Idaho Code. (1989 Code)
2-1D-5: LICENSE FEES; TERM:
Each licensee licensed under the provisions of this article shall pay an annual
license fee to the city in the amount set forth in section 23-916, Idaho Code.
Licenses issued shall expire at one o'clock (1:00) A.M. on January 1 following
the calendar year for which issued. (1989 Code)
2-1D-6: INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT; GRANTING OR DENIAL OF LICENSE:
Upon receipt of an application for a license under this article, accompanied by
the necessary license fee, the city council may make or cause to be made such
investigation of all matters pertaining thereto as it deems proper. If the city
council shall determine that the contents of the application are true, that
such applicant is qualified to receive a license, that the premises to be
licensed are suitable for the carrying on of the business, and that the
requirements of this article are met and complied with, license shall issue;
otherwise, the application shall be denied and the license fee, less the costs
and expenses of investigation, shall be returned to the applicant. (1975 Code §
2-306)
2-1D-7: CONTENTS OF LICENSE; SEPARATE LICENSES REQUIRED; NUMBER RESTRICTED:
Every license issued under this article shall be signed by the mayor,
countersigned by the city clerk, and shall bear the seal of the city; and shall
set forth the name of the person to whom issued, the location by street and
number or other definite designation of the premises and such other information
as the city council shall deem necessary; if issued to a partnership, the names
of the persons constituting such partnership, as silent or active partners,
shall be set forth; if issued to a corporation or association, the names of the
principal officers and the governing board shall be set forth. Such license
shall be signed by the licensee. Every license issued under the provisions of
this article is separate and distinct and no person except the licensee, except
as hereinafter provided, therein named, shall exercise any of the privileges
granted thereunder. No person shall be granted more than one license for any
one year; and no partnership, association or corporation holding a license
under this article shall have as a member, officer or stockholder any person
who has any financial interest of any kind in, or is a member of, another
partnership or association or an officer of another corporation holding a
license in the city for the same year. (1975 Code § 2-307; amd. 1989 Code)
2-1D-8: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
   A.   Hours Of Sale: No liquor shall be sold, offered for sale, or given away
upon any licensed premises during the following hours:
      1.   Sunday, Memorial Day, Thanksgiving and Christmas, from one o'clock
(1:00) A.M. to ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. the following day;
      2.   On any other day, between one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and ten o'clock
(10:00) A.M.;
      3.   On any day of a general or primary election, until after the time
when the polls are closed; (1975 Code §§ 2-307, 2-311)
      4.   Where beer is sold on the same premises as liquor by the drink, the
hours for the sale and consumption of beer shall be the same as those for the
sale and consumption of liquor by the drink; provided, however, consumption of
beer on the premises is allowed on Super Bowl Sunday as set forth in subsection
2-1A-9B2 of this chapter. (Ord. 401, 12-13-2000)
   B.   Posting Of License: Every licensee shall at all times keep posted in a
conspicuous place on the licensed premises the license issued by the city.
(1975 Code § 2-307)
2-1D-9: TRANSFER OF LICENSE:
Application to transfer any license issued pursuant to this article shall be
made to the city clerk. Upon receipt of such an application, the same
procedures shall be had as in the case of an original application for license
except for the payment of license fee; and if it is determined that all of the
conditions of this article are met and complied with by the proposed
transferee, then the license shall be endorsed over to the proposed transferee
by said licensee for the remainder of the period for which such license has
been issued, and the city clerk shall note the approval thereof by the city
council upon such license. (1975 Code § 2-307)
2-1D-10: LOCATION RESTRICTIONS:
No license shall be issued for any premises in any neighborhood which is
predominantly or zoned residential, or within three hundred feet (300') of any
public school, church or any other place of worship, measured in a straight
line to the nearest entrance to the licensed premises, except with the approval
of the city council; provided, however, that this limitation shall not apply to
any licensed premises that at the time of licensing did not come within the
restricted area, but subsequent to licensing has come within the restricted
area. (1975 Code § 2-309)
2-1D-11: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Prohibited Sales: No licensee or his or its employed agents, servants
or bartenders shall sell, deliver or give away, or cause or permit to be sold,
delivered or given away, any liquor to:
      1.   Any person under the age of twenty one (21) years;
      2.   Any person actually, apparently or obviously intoxicated;
      3.   A habitual drunkard;
      4.   An interdicted person;
      5.   Be taken from or consumed off or away from the licensed premises;
nor shall any licensee, or his or its employed agents, servants or bartenders
sell, give away, dispense, vend or deliver any liquor in any fashion or by
means or device, except upon the licensed premises. (1975 Code § 2-312; amd.
1989 Code)
   B.   Gaming: It shall be unlawful for any licensee to permit, conduct, play,
carry on, open or cause to be opened any gaming in or upon the licensed
premises or in or upon any premises directly connected by a door, hallway or
other means of access from the licensed premises. (1975 Code § 2-313)
2-1D-12: REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE:
If it is made to appear to the city council, and it so finds, that any of the
provisions of this article have been violated, including the making of any
false statements in the application for license, with respect to any licensed
premises hereunder, it may revoke the license, and if such license is revoked,
no part of the license fees therefor shall be refundable. Proceedings for
revocation shall be initiated by filing with the city council a verified and
concise statement of the facts; thereupon, the city council may issue its order
to the licensee, ordering him or it to appear before the city council, not less
than five (5) days from the date of service of the order and copy of the
verified statement upon the licensee to show cause, if any there be, why said
license should not be revoked and canceled. In lieu of revocation, the city
council may suspend the said license for such period as it deems proper.
Procedures for the suspension, revocation or refusal to grant or renew licenses
shall be in accordance with the provisions of chapter 52, title 67, Idaho Code.
(1975 Code § 2-315; amd. 1989 Code)
2-1D-13: VIOLATIONS:
A violation of any of the provisions of this article, including the making of
any false statements in the application for license, shall constitute a
misdemeanor hereunder. (1975 Code § 2-314)
CHAPTER 2
ADULT ENTERTAINMENTS 1
(Rep. by Ord. 2007-3, 4-11-2007)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 8, chapter 19 of this code.
CHAPTER 3
JUNK DEALERS
SECTION:
2-3-1: Definition
2-3-2: License Required; Fee And Term
2-3-3: Restrictions On Issuance Of License
2-3-4: Register Of Purchases
2-3-5: Purchases From Minors
2-3-6: Change Or Abandonment Of Occupation
2-3-7: Junkyards
2-3-8: Violations; Nuisance Declared
2-3-1: DEFINITION:
Every person is a junk dealer within the meaning of this chapter, who shall be
occasionally, regularly, principally or incidentally engaged either in buying,
collecting or selling old lead, old metals, bottles, broken glass, old paper,
rope, rags, rubber and other odds and ends of every nature and description,
including discarded, demolished, wrecked or damaged automobiles or parts
thereto. (1975 Code § 2-1101)
2-3-2: LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE AND TERM:
No person shall engage in the occupation of a junk dealer as hereinbefore
defined, and it shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of a
junk dealer, without first obtaining a license from the city clerk and paying
the annual license fee of fifty dollars ($50.00). No license shall be issued
under the provisions of this section for a lesser or longer period than one
year. (1975 Code §§ 2-1102, 2-1103; amd. 1989 Code)
2-3-3: RESTRICTIONS ON ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
No license shall be issued to any person who is not of good moral character and
who shall not have a fixed place of business for carrying on such business of a
junk dealer. The words "fixed place of business" as used herein shall be
understood as meaning a place of business situated upon land either owned by
the licensee or for the use of which said licensee holds a lease from the owner
thereof. (1975 Code § 2-1103)
2-3-4: REGISTER OF PURCHASES:
Every junk dealer shall keep a substantial and well bound register in which he
shall enter at the time of making every purchase made at his place of business
the following:
   A.   The date, hour and place of purchase.
   B.   A true and accurate description of every article purchased.
   C.   The amount paid for every such article.
   D.   The name, age, residence and occupation of the vendor.
All entries shall be made in the English language, in a legible manner and with
ink. Said register shall be open to inspection by any official of the
municipality at any and all times. (1975 Code § 2-1106)
2-3-5: PURCHASES FROM MINORS:
It shall be unlawful for any junk dealer, by himself or his employees or
agents, to purchase or receive any junk or secondhand or used property from any
person under the age of eighteen (18) years. (1975 Code § 2-1105; amd. 1989
Code)
2-3-6: CHANGE OR ABANDONMENT OF OCCUPATION:
Whenever any junk dealer abandons his occupation as such, he shall deliver in
good condition to the city clerk a register of transactions that he has kept
during the term he was licensed as a junk dealer. (1975 Code § 2-1107)
2-3-7: JUNKYARDS 1 :
No existing junk or automobile wrecking yard shall be operated or maintained
for more than one year from the date hereof, nor shall a license be issued for
a new junk or automobile wrecking yard except in that area of the city within
five hundred feet (500') east of U.S. Highway 27, and then only upon petition
of all of the adjacent property owners within one thousand feet (1,000') of the
land proposed to be so used, and upon the condition that the same shall be
enclosed in a masonry building, or when the city council deems it impractical
to roof over a large area containing junk materials or automobile wrecking
yard, the city council may permit the construction around said area of a six
foot (6') high masonry wall and may then permit, for a specified time, the
continued use of such property for such purposes. (1975 Code § 2-1104)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 8-6-7P of this code.
2-3-8: VIOLATIONS; NUISANCE DECLARED:
Any person who conducts any business or occupation as described herein without
first securing a permit therefor, or any such person already conducting such
business or occupation who shall fail to comply with any requirement of the
city council within the time specified therefor, or who violates, disobeys or
refuses to comply with or resists or opposes the execution of the terms of this
chapter, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor; and any premises on which
such business or occupation is conducted, or any structure or improvement
thereon, may, by resolution of the city council, be declared a nuisance and
removed or torn down at the expense of the owner thereof. (1975 Code § 2-1108)
CHAPTER 4
PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
SECTION:
2-4-1: Definitions
2-4-2: Licensing Of Peddling And Commercial Solicitors
2-4-3: Application For License
2-4-4: Issuance Or Denial Of Licenses
2-4-5: License Fees
2-4-6: Policy On Soliciting And Peddling
2-4-7: Restrictions Applicable To All Soliciting And Peddling
2-4-8: Place Of Conducting Business
2-4-9: Revocation Of Licenses
2-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   Regarding Peddlers:
   PEDDLER: A person who engages in peddling.
   PEDDLING: The sale or offering for sale of property, for immediate delivery
from other than a fixed place of business on private property, including the
sale of charitable or religious books or pamphlets. Peddling shall not include
the sale of goods by charitable organizations for charitable purposes on not to
exceed one day in any calendar year.
   B.   Soliciting Or Solicitation:
   COMMERCIAL SOLICITING: The selling or offering for sale of property or
services of any kind, character or description whatever, for any kind of
consideration, for future delivery from other than a fixed place of business on
private property, except fund soliciting.
   FUND SOLICITING: Soliciting of funds not involving the sale of property,
including solicitation where pamphlets are given to a donor of funds but not
including the sale of books or pamphlets.
   OTHER SOLICITING: Shall include soliciting support for political,
charitable, or other causes, not involving the solicitation of funds.
   RESIDENCE: Residence shall mean and include every separate living unit
occupied for residential purposes by one or more persons, contained within any
type of building or structure and the yard or grounds upon which such structure
is located. (1989 Code)
2-4-2: LICENSING OF PEDDLING AND COMMERCIAL SOLICITORS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of peddling or
soliciting in the city without first having a license as herein provided. (1989
Code)
2-4-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   The application for a license shall be made under oath upon a form
provided by the city clerk. Each original application shall be completed by the
applicant in full and shall set forth:
      1.   The applicant's name, address and zip code, social security number,
date of birth, sex, and a physical description of the applicant;
      2.   The name, address and telephone number of the person, firm,
corporation, association or organization whom the applicant is employed by or
represents, and the length of time of such employment or representation;
      3.   A description sufficient for identification of the subject matter of
the soliciting in which solicitor applicants will engage or the wares peddlers
will sell or take orders for;
      4.   The period of time for which the license is applied for;
      5.   The date, or approximate date, of the latest previous application
for license under this chapter;
      6.   Whether a license issued to the applicant under this chapter, or its
predecessor, has ever been revoked;
      7.   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of a violation of any
of the provisions of this chapter, its predecessor, or the ordinance of any
other Idaho municipality, or any Idaho statute, regulating soliciting;
      8.   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of the commission of a
felony under the laws of the state of Idaho or any other state or federal laws
of the United States;
      9.   Evidence that the applicant is authorized to solicit for the
organization represented;
      10.   The number and description of vehicles used.
   B.   The applicant shall also submit any other information or such
documentation as the city clerk may deem necessary to determine the identity of
the applicant, or to process the application.
   C.   The city clerk shall cause to be kept in his or her office an accurate
record of every application received and acted upon together with all other
information and data pertaining thereto and all licenses issued under the
provisions of this chapter, and of the denial of applications. Applications for
licenses shall be numbered in consecutive order, as filed, and every license
issued shall be identified with the duplicate number of the application upon
which it was issued.
   D.   No license shall be issued to any person who has been convicted of the
commission of a felony under the laws of the state of Idaho or any other state
or federal laws of the United States, within five (5) years of the date of the
application; or has been convicted of a violation of any of the provisions of
this chapter; or whose license issued hereunder has previously been revoked, as
herein provided. (1989 Code)
2-4-4: ISSUANCE OR DENIAL OF LICENSES:
The city clerk, upon receipt of a properly completed application, but in no
event later than five (5) working days after the receipt of the application,
shall either issue a license, or notify the applicant in writing that the
application has been denied because of the applicant's failure to comply with
the requirements of this chapter. (1989 Code)
2-4-5: LICENSE FEES:
The license fee for peddlers and commercial solicitors shall be twenty five
dollars ($25.00) per license per year, each license to be valid for no more
than one year from the date of issuance. (1989 Code)
2-4-6: POLICY ON SOLICITING AND PEDDLING:
It is hereby declared to be the policy of the city that the occupant or
occupants of the residences in the city shall make the determination of whether
solicitors and/or peddlers shall be, or shall not be, invited to their
respective residences. If no determination is made, as is provided in section
2-4-7 of this chapter, then, in that event, the solicitation and/or peddling is
permitted. (1989 Code)
2-4-7: RESTRICTIONS APPLICABLE TO ALL SOLICITING AND PEDDLING:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person:
      1.   To continue to engage in solicitation or peddling upon any premises
or in any dwelling house, apartment or other residence located thereon after
having been requested by the owner or occupant thereof to leave such premises
or residence.
      2.   To engage in peddling or solicitation upon any premises or residence
located thereon if such premises or residence is posted against solicitation or
peddling by means of a notice, prominently displayed upon which is printed the
legend:
         ONLY SOLICITORS OR PEDDLERS REGISTERED IN PAUL INVITED
         or
         NO SOLICITORS OR PEDDLERS
For purposes of the preceding sentence, a dwelling house, apartment or other
place of residence shall be deemed to be posted against solicitation or
peddling if there is exhibited, on or near the main entrance to the premises or
on or near the main door to any residence located thereon, a sign at least
three inches by four inches (3" x 4") in size and with letters at least three-
eighths inch (3/8") in height, which bears the above legend.
      3.   Who engages in solicitation or peddling to use any plan, scheme or
ruse to make any statement which indicates or implies that the purpose of such
person's solicitation is other than to obtain orders for or to make sales of
goods or services.
      4.   Who engages in peddling or soliciting to misrepresent the right of a
buyer to rescind or cancel a sale under the provisions of applicable law.
      5.   Who engages in peddling or soliciting to cheat, deceive or
fraudulently misrepresent, whether through himself or through an employee,
while acting as a peddler or solicitor in the village, or to barter, sell or
peddle any goods, merchandise or wares other than those specified in his
application for a license.
      6.   To interfere with vehicular, bicycle or pedestrian traffic on any
public right of way, nor display any goods, merchandise or wares within one
hundred feet (100') of the intersection of any public right of way or driveway.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person, whether registered under this
chapter or not, to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any
door of a residence located thereon or rap or knock upon the door or create any
sound in any other manner calculated to attract the attention of the occupant
of such residence for the purpose of securing an audience with the occupant
thereof and engage in soliciting or peddling, as herein defined, prior to nine
o'clock (9:00) A.M. or after five o'clock (5:00) P.M. Monday through Saturday
or at any time on a Sunday or a state or national holiday, except in the case
of a solicitation by a charitable or nonprofit organization which may not
engage in soliciting prior to nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. or after nine o'clock
(9:00) P.M. Monday through Friday and after six o'clock (6:00) P.M. on Saturday
or at any time on a Sunday or a state or national holiday.
   C.   Every person wishing to engage in soliciting or peddling must so notify
the city clerk at least three (3) working days prior to engaging in soliciting
or peddling.
   D.   The license shall be displayed conspicuously on the outer garment of a
registered peddler or solicitor at all times when the person is engaged in
soliciting or peddling in the city. (1989 Code)
2-4-8: PLACE OF CONDUCTING BUSINESS:
No peddler or solicitor may peddle or solicit on public property in one place
for longer than one-half (1/2) hour; he must move to a different location which
is at least six hundred sixty feet (660') away. (1989 Code)
2-4-9: REVOCATION OF LICENSES:
Any license or registration under this chapter may be revoked by the city clerk
and the cash deposit revoked because of any violation of any provisions of this
chapter or of any other ordinance of the city, or of any state or federal law,
but not before the licensee or registrant has been given at least ten (10)
days' notice of hearing on the violations and revocation of the license. At
said hearing, the licensee and his attorney may present and submit evidence and
witnesses in licensee's defense. (1989 Code)
TITLE 3
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
NUISANCES
SECTION:
3-1-1: Nuisance Defined
3-1-2: Nuisances Enumerated
3-1-3: Maintaining A Nuisance
3-1-4: Abatement Of Nuisances
3-1-1: NUISANCE DEFINED:
Anything which is injurious to health, or is indecent, or offensive to the
senses, or an obstruction to the free use of property, so as to interfere with
the comfortable enjoyment of life or property by an entire community or
neighborhood, or by any considerable number of persons, or unlawfully obstructs
the free passage or use, in the customary manner, of any navigable lake, or
river, stream, canal or basin, or any public park, square, street or highway,
is a public nuisance. (1989 Code)
3-1-2: NUISANCES ENUMERATED:
Nuisances shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
   A.   Animals At Large 1 : Any cattle, horses, chickens, ducks, geese,
turkeys, hogs or sheep running at large in or upon the public commons, alleys,
streets, sidewalks or upon any private premises other than that belonging to
the owner of such animals.
   B.   Hogs: The keeping of any hogs within the limits of the original
townsite of the city as platted.
   C.   Animal Carcasses; Decaying Matter: All putrid or decayed carcasses,
fish or vegetables.
   D.   Unwholesome, Offensive Substances: All deposits of manure, entrails,
offal or other unwholesome substances, or filthy or offensive water or slops,
when thrown or conducted upon any street, alley or sidewalk or enclosure so as
to be unwholesome.
   E.   Slaughterhouses And Privies In An Offensive Condition: All
slaughterhouses or privies that become offensive from use.
   F.   Businesses And Buildings In An Offensive Condition: All markets,
stores, cellars or other buildings or places which are not kept clean and free
from all putrid or unwholesome substances.
   G.   Disease Carrying Substances; Obstructing Public Ways: All substances or
deposits which are offensive or liable to cause any disease, or any article or
substance placed upon any street, sidewalk, alley or public ground so as to
obstruct the same or annoy passers thereon.
   H.   Certain Businesses And Animal Homes Near Water Supply: All tanneries,
corrals, privies, pigsties, slaughterhouses or stables located upon any
waterway or stream of running water used for domestic purposes. (1975 Code § 4-
308)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  4-2-1 of this code.
3-1-3: MAINTAINING A NUISANCE:
Every person who shall commit or maintain a nuisance in any form, or who shall
wilfully omit to perform any legal duty relating to the removal of a nuisance,
is guilty of a misdemeanor. (1975 Code § 4-309)
3-1-4: ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES:
In all cases of conviction under section
3-1-2 of this chapter, whenever it shall appear to the court that such nuisance
exists at the time of conviction, the court shall adjudge the removal,
abatement or destruction thereof and issue its warrant to the city ordering the
removal or destruction of the said nuisance. (1975 Code § 4-310; amd. 1989
Code)
CHAPTER 2
GARBAGE AND RUBBISH
SECTION:
3-2-1: Definitions
3-2-2: Prohibited Accumulations, Discharges, Deposits
3-2-3: Garbage And Rubbish Storage Regulations
3-2-4: Collection And Disposal Service; Fees
3-2-5: Burning Garbage And Rubbish
3-2-6: Use Of Collection And Disposal Service Without Payment Of Fee
3-2-7: Violation And Penalty
3-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section:
BUSINESS: Any commercial enterprise, and includes, but it is not limited to,
any group enterprise, whether commercial or noncommercial, not included in the
term residence and any combination residence and business.
GARBAGE: All putrescible wastes except sewage, including, but not limited to,
table refuse, swill, offal, waste products of the preparation, consumption and
storage of foodstuffs.
PERSON: An individual, partnership, corporation or association.
RESIDENCE: A dwelling whether a single unit or a unit in a multiple dwelling
construction.
RUBBISH: All nonputrescible wastes, including, but not limited to, discarded,
worthless and valueless personal wreckage, vegetation cuttings, sod and stumps.
(1975 Code § 4-201)
3-2-2: PROHIBITED ACCUMULATIONS, DISCHARGES, DEPOSITS:
It shall be unlawful to deposit, collect or accumulate or to permit the
deposit, collection or accumulation of any garbage or rubbish upon land, lots,
premises, alleys or streets within the city except in the manner herein
provided. No person shall place in a container, dumpster or bundle for disposal
by the city, any of the following substances:
   A.   Asbestos.
   B.   Hazardous waste.
   C.   Flammable or explosive liquids, solids or gases.
   D.   Radioactive materials.
   E.   Vehicle chassis or frames.
   F.   Any other substance or material which, in the opinion of the public
works director, is unsuitable for discharge or deposit at the landfill utilized
by the city because of actual or potential threat to the health or safety of
the landfill operator or other persons using or associated with the landfill.
(Ord. 369, 3-11-1992)
3-2-3: GARBAGE AND RUBBISH STORAGE REGULATIONS:
   A.   Garbage And Rubbish; Placement For Pick Up: Garbage and rubbish shall
be placed in containers; provided, however, that rubbish incapable of being
placed in a container shall be reduced to a suitable size to be bundled and
shall be bundled in bundles not to exceed four feet (4') in length and seventy
five (75) pounds in weight. Containers, when full, shall not weigh more than
seventy five (75) pounds. Rubbish incapable of being placed in containers or
bundled, as hereinbefore provided, shall be disposed of within forty eight (48)
hours by the person accumulating the same by agreement for special truck
service with the city or a private contractor. Garbage and rubbish shall be
placed outside of buildings in places easily accessible for collection in
dumpster containers provided by the city. (1975 Code § 4-203; amd. 1989 Code)
   B.   Container Specifications: The containers mentioned in subsection A of
this section in which garbage shall be placed shall be of strong and
rodentproof construction of capacity not to exceed thirty (30) gallons and
shall have tightfitting covers which shall be in place at all times, and shall
have two (2) handles; provided, however, that containers of ten (10) gallons'
or less capacity may have bails. The containers mentioned in subsection A of
this section, in which rubbish shall be placed, shall be of a capacity and bulk
which can be readily picked up, lifted and emptied on trucks and otherwise
handled by the collectors for the city. Containers shall be provided by the
person or persons to be served thereby on or before the effective date hereof;
in the event of a failure so to provide, the city shall provide the same and
the cost thereof to the city shall be added to the fees for the service
hereinafter provided, and shall be collected in the same manner as said fees.
(1975 Code § 4-204)
3-2-4: COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL SERVICE; FEES:
The city shall provide for all businesses and residences in the city a service
for the collection and disposal of all garbage and rubbish accumulated and
deposited in containers and bundles, as herein provided, within the city and
shall provide special truck service as provided in subsection 3-2-3A of this
chapter, and shall be paid for said service according to a schedule of fees
adopted by the mayor and city council and filed with the city clerk in the city
office for purpose of inspection by anyone concerned. Said fee schedule may be
amended by the mayor and city council, from time to time, so that the same
shall produce the amount of funds necessary for the collection and disposal of
garbage and rubbish pursuant to the provisions of this chapter. (1975 Code § 4-
205)
Said fees shall be mandatory, billed to the persons concerned on their sewer
and water bills and shall be due and payable at the same time as sewer and
water bills are due and payable at the office of the city clerk. In the event
said fees are not paid when due and payable as aforesaid, the city may
discontinue its collection and disposal service and may discontinue to furnish
sewer service and water until said fees are paid, and after such
discontinuance, it shall be unlawful for any person to deposit, collect or
accumulate, or to permit the deposit, collection or accumulation of any garbage
or rubbish upon any land, lot, premises, street or alley within the city. Upon
the payment of said overdue fees, the city shall resume the service. Nothing
contained in this section shall limit the right of the city to recover
delinquent fees by an action at law for debt, or to recover fines for
violations of this chapter as hereinafter provided. (1975 Code § 4-205; amd.
1989 Code)
Nothing in this chapter prohibits the city from contracting privately for the
collection and disposal of such garbage and rubbish. (1975 Code § 4-205)
3-2-5: BURNING GARBAGE AND RUBBISH:
It shall be unlawful to burn garbage or rubbish within the city. (1975 Code §
4-206; amd. 1989 Code)
3-2-6: USE OF COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL SERVICE WITHOUT PAYMENT OF FEE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to place in any container or bundle for
collection and disposal by the city, any garbage or rubbish without payment of
the collection fees described in section
3-2-4 of this chapter. (Ord. 369, 3-11-1992)
3-2-7: VIOLATION AND PENALTY:
A violation of this chapter is a misdemeanor. In addition to all criminal
penalties for violation of this chapter, civil damages in an amount of three
(3) times the actual damages shall be imposed on any person committing any
violation. Such civil action may be brought in Minidoka County for the benefit
of the city for violations occurring within the city and all damages collected
shall be used for the maintenance and operation of the city's collection and
disposal services. (Ord. 369, 3-11-1992)
ARTICLE A. JUNK ON PUBLIC PROPERTY
SECTION:
3-2A-1: Definitions
3-2A-2: Vehicles, Equipment Prohibited On Property
3-2A-3: Impounding Vehicles
3-2A-4: Sale Of Vehicles
3-2A-5: Impounding And Sale Of Other Property
3-2A-6: Violation A Misdemeanor
3-2A-1: DEFINITIONS:
The words contained in this article are defined as follows:
HOUSEHOLD GOODS AND EQUIPMENT: All articles usually referred to as household
goods and articles used in housekeeping including, but not limited to, chairs,
tables, davenports, beds, refrigerators, stoves, washers, driers, furnaces,
appliances, grease, oil, paint and their containers.
MACHINERY: All articles of industrial, farm or domestic machinery or equipment,
any and all metal or wooden machinery, motors, equipment, tools or property.
MISCELLANEOUS PROPERTY: All other property including, but not limited to, old
rope, iron, brass, copper, tin, lead, rubber, rags, baggage, bottles, scrap,
toys, bicycles or boats.
MOTOR VEHICLES: Any vehicle propelled or drawn by power other than muscular
power designed to travel on the ground by wheels, treads, runners or slides and
to transport persons or property or pull machinery including, but not limited
to, automobiles, trucks, trailers, motorcycles, tractors, buggies or wagons.
PERSON: Any individual, corporation, partnership or other entity. (Ord. 2005-2,
5-11-2005)
3-2A-2: VEHICLES, EQUIPMENT PROHIBITED ON PROPERTY:
   A.   No person shall place, allow, discard, maintain, park or store any
dismantled, abandoned, nonoperating, junked, damaged or destroyed "household
goods and equipment", "motor vehicles", "machinery" or "miscellaneous property"
as herein defined upon any public street, alley, sidewalk or other public
property within the city.
   B.   No person, whether the owner, tenant, occupant, lessee or otherwise of
any private property or premises shall place, allow, discard, maintain, park,
store or permit to be placed, allowed, discarded, maintained, parked or stored
upon said property or premises for a period of time exceeding forty eight (48)
hours any dismantled, abandoned, nonoperating, junked, damaged or destroyed
"household goods and equipment", "motor vehicles", "machinery" or
"miscellaneous property" as herein defined; provided, however, that the
provisions of this subsection shall not apply to any property or premises where
said household goods and equipment, motor vehicles, machinery or miscellaneous
property is housed within an enclosed building thereon or to any property or
premises lawfully operated as a business where the same is a part of said
business enterprise and necessary to the operation of said business on said
property or premises, if kept within an area completely enclosed by a screening
fence so that the property enclosed is not visible to the public and to
neighboring property owners. (Ord. 2005-2, 5-11-2005)
3-2A-3: IMPOUNDING VEHICLES:
Any law enforcement officer shall have the authority to take into custody, and
to impound, any stolen, abandoned, unidentified, wrecked, nonoperating or
illegally or hazardously parked vehicle at and upon public property, streets,
roads, alleys and rights of way of this city. Upon removal of a vehicle from
public property, streets, road, alleys or rights of way of this city to the
nearest available garage or other place of safety, the clerk or law enforcement
officer shall send a notice by certified mail to every owner and lien holder
listed on the certificate of title on file with the department of law
enforcement of the state of Idaho. If there is no certificate of title on file
in the said department of law enforcement, then the notice shall be sent to the
apparent owner as determined by the registration certificate or other
identification found in the vehicle; but if no identification of the owner can
be found in the vehicle, no notice need be given. The notice shall include:
   A.   The make, year, model, and license plate number of the vehicle;
   B.   The approximate place where the vehicle was found;
   C.   The place to which the vehicle was removed; and
   D.   A statement that the vehicle can be sold for removal and storage
charges if not claimed within thirty (30) days from the date of mailing of the
notice. (Ord. 2005-2, 5-11-2005)
3-2A-4: SALE OF VEHICLES:
Any person, partnership, firm, company, corporation or association who shall
remove, store or keep any such vehicle at the request of the city or a law
enforcement officer shall have a lien on such vehicle for the reasonable value
of such services. Such lien shall be superior and prior to any mortgage or
title retaining contract on such vehicle, and if such charges are not paid
within thirty (30) days after mailing of the notice required by this article,
or after thirty (30) days from the date of removal if no notice is required
under this article, the person, partnership, company, firm, corporation or
association performing said services may proceed to sell said vehicle at public
auction by giving ten (10) days' public notice of the sale by advertising in
the official newspaper of the city, which notice shall contain a description of
the property to be sold, the time and place of sale and the terms and
conditions of the sale. The proceeds of the sale must be applied to the
discharge of the lien and costs, and the remainder, if any, must be paid over
to the owner of the vehicle. (Ord. 2005-2, 5-11-2005)
3-2A-5: IMPOUNDING AND SALE OF OTHER PROPERTY:
Any property or goods upon public or private property within the city in
violation hereof, other than a motor vehicle, may be impounded and removed by
the city or a law enforcement officer, and, if appraised by the public works
director to have a market value of less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) may
be disposed of in the same manner as other garbage within the city. If
appraised by the public works director to have a market value of one hundred
dollars ($100.00) or more, the property shall be sold at public or private
auction as required by the Idaho Code for the disposal of abandoned property.
The cost of removal of said property shall be included in any fine imposed for
violation of the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2005-2, 5-11-2005)
3-2A-6: VIOLATION A MISDEMEANOR:
Any person violating any provision of this article is guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2005-2, 5-11-2005)
CHAPTER 3
WEEDS
SECTION:
3-3-1: Weeds To Be Destroyed
3-3-2: Time Period For Mandatory Weed Removal
3-3-3: Weed Removal By City; Costs
3-3-4: Violations And Penalties
3-3-1: WEEDS TO BE DESTROYED:
Every person residing or doing business within the corporate limits of the
city, who shall reside or conduct any business in, or upon any lot, lots, lands
or premises within the corporate limits of the city, either as owner, tenant,
lessee or merely as occupant of any such lots, lands or premises as well, and
all persons, whether resident or nonresident owner, or owners of any lot, lands
or premises within such corporate limits of the city shall at all times and
continuously, after being given ten (10) days' notice, during the time and
dates hereinafter stated, destroy, cut down, weed out and obliterate all such
weeds, noxious weeds, grasses and growths starting to grow on any such lot,
lands or premises, and such person shall, as well during the time hereinafter
stated, keep continuously cut down, weeded out, destroyed and obliterated, all
such weeds, noxious weeds, grasses and growths from and off all that part or
portion of said lots, lands and premises which lie and are situated between the
property line of such respective lots, lands or premises so owned, used or
occupied by such person and the street curb line of any street or alley running
or lying immediately adjacent or contiguous to such lots, lands or premises,
that portion of land or premises herein last referred to, being the sidewalk
ground, as well as the parking ground fronting, adjacent or contiguous to any
such lots, lands or premises. (1975 Code § 5-701)
3-3-2: TIME PERIOD FOR MANDATORY WEED REMOVAL:
All such weeds, noxious weeds, grasses and growths which are deleterious,
unsightly and injurious to the public or to the residents or owners of adjacent
property within the city, shall, at all times, continuously be kept weeded out,
cut down, obliterated and destroyed. (1975 Code § 5-702; amd. 1989 Code)
3-3-3: WEED REMOVAL BY CITY; COSTS:
Every person owning or occupying any lots, lands or premises situated within
said corporate limits of the city shall, within the time fixed by section
3-3-2 of this chapter and after the notice as provided in section
3-3-1 of this chapter, keep continuously destroyed, weeded out, cut down and
obliterated all such deleterious, unsightly and injurious weeds, noxious weeds,
grasses, and growths in or on any and all such lots, lands or premises so owned
or occupied by such person, in the manner prescribed by and in accordance with
the provisions of section
3-3-1 of this chapter, and in the event that grasses and growths are not so
continuously destroyed, weeded out, cut down and obliterated, the mayor and
city council shall cause such deleterious, unsightly and injurious weeds,
noxious weeds, grasses and growths to be cut down, weeded out and destroyed,
and the costs, and expenses of such destruction in cutting down, weeding out
and obliterating the same shall be assessed against such property, as general
taxes and collectible as other general state, county and municipal taxes. (1975
Code § 5-703)
The mayor and city council are hereby given the power and authority to employ
such labor as is necessary to carry out the provisions of this chapter and
allow the bills therefor. (1975 Code § 5-706)
3-3-4: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
Any person owning or occupying any lots, lands or premises within the corporate
limits of the city who shall fail, refuse or neglect to continuously keep
weeded out, cut down, obliterated or destroyed all such deleterious, unsightly
and injurious weeds, noxious weeds, grasses and growths above named in the
manner prescribed, and according to the provisions of section
3-3-1 of this chapter during the time provided for in section
3-3-2 of this chapter, after ten (10) days' notice as provided in section
3-3-1 of this chapter, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. (1975 Code § 5-
704)
Each and every ten (10) days any such person mentioned and described in section
3-3-1 of this chapter, after ten (10) days' notice as provided in said section
3-3-1, shall fail, refuse or neglect to comply with the provisions of sections
3-3-1 and
3-3-2 of this chapter, shall constitute a separate and distinct offense against
the provisions of this chapter, and each of such separate offenses shall be
punishable as provided by the provisions of this section. (1975 Code § 5-705)
CHAPTER 4
OPEN BURNING
SECTION:
3-4-1: Purpose
3-4-2: Interpretation Of Provisions
3-4-3: Definition
3-4-4: General Restrictions
3-4-5: Permitted Burning
3-4-6: Requirements For Burning
3-4-7: Visible Emissions
3-4-8: Violations
3-4-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose and intent of this chapter is to eliminate all forms of open
burning except those for which there is no means of producing a similar public
benefit, or such as may be permitted herein. (1975 Code § 5-1001)
3-4-2: INTERPRETATION OF PROVISIONS:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as repealing or amending in any way
safety provisions of the fire prevention code heretofore adopted by the city.
All of the safety requirements therein prescribed for outdoor burning, bonfires
or rubbish fires shall be required of all persons holding permits under the
provisions of this chapter. (1975 Code § 5-1008)
3-4-3: DEFINITION:
"Open burning" means the outdoor burning of materials where the products of
combustion are not directed through a duct, passage, smokestack or chimney.
(1975 Code § 5-1002)
3-4-4: GENERAL RESTRICTIONS:
Except as herein otherwise provided, no person shall allow, suffer, cause or
permit the open burning of materials which emit toxic contaminants, large
volumes of smoke, particulates or odors. (1975 Code § 5-1003)
3-4-5: PERMITTED BURNING:
   A.   Fires used for the preparation of food, campfires and fires for
recreational purposes, under control of a responsible person.
   B.   Fires used for control or alleviation of fire hazard or for weed
control when no alternate control method exists.
   C.   Fires used in the training of organized firefighting personnel.
   D.   Properly operated industrial flares for combustion of flammable gases.
   E.   Burning of plant life grown on the premises in the course of
agricultural, forestry or land clearing operations.
   F.   During the months of April and October, the city council, after
consultation with the Idaho air pollution control section of the state
department of health, may establish cleanup weeks during which property owners
will be allowed without special permit to burn leaves, shrubbery, trimmings,
grass and such other materials at such times and in such manner as may be
designated in the public proclamation. (1975 Code § 5-1004; amd. 1989 Code)
3-4-6: REQUIREMENTS FOR BURNING:
   A.   Attendance Of Open Fires: All open burning shall be constantly attended
by a competent person until such fire is extinguished. That person shall have a
garden hose connected to the water supply or other fire extinguishing equipment
readily available for use.
   B.   Authority To Prohibit Burning: The public works director may prohibit
any or all open burning when atmospheric conditions, as published by the
weather bureau or the environmental services, would be jeopardized by burning
or when local circumstances make such fires hazardous. (1975 Code § 5-1005;
amd. 1989 Code)
3-4-7: VISIBLE EMISSIONS:
No person shall allow the emission of any air contaminant for a period or
periods aggregating more than three (3) minutes in any one hour which is:
   A.   Darker in shade than that designated no. 2 (40% density) on the
Ringelmann chart as published by the United States bureau of mines; or
   B.   Of such opacity as to obscure an observer's view to the same degree as
an emission described in subsection A of this section.
Testing shall be done in accordance with the procedures manual for sampling and
analysis of air pollutants, published by the state air pollution control
commission.
The visible emissions regulation applicable to equipment installed after the
effective date hereof shall be as above, except that the criteria for
determining compliance shall be Ringelmann no. 1 or equivalent opacity.
The density or opacity of an air contaminant shall be measured at the point of
its emission if observable, and if not shall be measured at an observable point
on the plume nearest the point of emission. (1975 Code § 5-1006)
3-4-8: VIOLATIONS:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter or wilfully refusing
to comply with any proper requirements of the designated officer shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. Each day a violation of the provisions of this
chapter continues shall constitute a separate offense. (1975 Code § 5-1007)
CHAPTER 5
NOISE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
3-5-1: Purpose
3-5-2: Definitions
3-5-3: Noise Prohibitions
3-5-4: Enforcement
3-5-5: Chapter Additional To Other Law
3-5-6: Exemptions
3-5-7: Penalty
3-5-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is the protection of the health, safety, and
welfare of the citizens of the city. It is determined that sound can and does
constitute a hazard to the health, safety, welfare, and quality of life of
residents of the city. The mayor and council, by way of Idaho Code section 50-
308, are empowered to impose reasonable limitations and regulations upon the
production of sound to reduce the harmful effects thereof. Now, therefore, it
is hereafter the policy of this city to prevent and regulate sound generated by
loud amplification devices wherever it is deemed to be harmful to the health,
safety, welfare, or quality of life of the citizens of the city, and this
chapter shall be liberally construed to effectuate that purpose. (Ord. 2004-2,
5-12-2004)
3-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
CITY: The city of Paul, Idaho, or the area within the city limits of the city
of Paul, Idaho.
COMMON AREA(S): The area(s) of a facility, complex, apartment unit, hotel,
motel or the like that are open either to the general public or persons with
the permission of the owner or agent of the owner of the area. This definition
would include, but not be limited to, the following: swimming pools,
restaurants, patios, hot tubs, saunas, laundry rooms, meeting rooms, lobbies,
lounges, bars and other areas within the facility that are either constructed
or designed for use in this manner.
EMERGENCY: Any occurrence or set of circumstances involving actual or imminent
physical trauma or property damage demanding immediate attention.
EMERGENCY VEHICLE: Authorized emergency vehicles as defined by Idaho Code
section 49-123.
LOUD AMPLIFICATION DEVICE: Any equipment designed or used for sound production,
reproduction, or amplification, including, but not limited to, any radio,
television, phonograph, musical instrument, stereo, tape player, compact disc
player, loudspeaker, public address (PA) system, sound amplifier, or comparable
sound broadcasting device.
PERSON: Any individual, association, organization, or entity having a legally
recognized existence, whether public or private.
PLACE OF RESIDENCE: Any building or portion thereof adapted or used and
intended for the overnight accommodation of persons. In the event the building
is used for multiple individual units (i.e., apartment, condominium, hotel,
motel, duplex, triplex, etc.) each individual unit shall be considered a
separate residence for the purposes of this chapter.
PLAINLY AUDIBLE: Sound for which the information content is clearly
communicated to the listener, including, but not limited to, understandable
spoken speech, comprehension of whether a voice is raised or normal,
comprehensible musical rhythms, melody, or instrumentation, and the source of
which is identifiable to the listener. (Ord. 2004-2, 5-12-2004)
3-5-3: NOISE PROHIBITIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or permit the operation of any
loud amplification device in such a manner that the sound therefrom:
   A.   Is plainly audible within any place of residence not the source of the
sound, or
   B.   Is plainly audible upon a public right of way or street at a distance
of one hundred feet (100') or more from the source of such sound. (Ord. 2004-2,
5-12-2004)
3-5-4: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Peace Officer Citation: Any city peace officer or person empowered to
enforce this code is authorized to issue a uniform citation upon his own
observation of a violation without the necessity of a citizen complainant's
signature on said citation. By signing the citation, the officer or person is
certifying that he has reasonable grounds to believe that the person cited
committed the offense contrary to law.
   B.   Citizen Citation: A uniform citation may also be signed by any citizen
or person in whose presence an alleged violation of this chapter occurred and
be witnessed by a city peace officer or person empowered to enforce the
provisions of this code whose name shall be endorsed on the citation. (Ord.
2004-2, 5-12-2004)
3-5-5: CHAPTER ADDITIONAL TO OTHER LAW:
The provisions of this chapter shall be cumulative and nonexclusive and shall
not affect any other claim, cause of action, or remedy; nor, unless
specifically provided, shall it be deemed to repeal, amend, or modify any law,
ordinance, or regulation relating to noise or sound, but shall be deemed
additional to existing legislation and common law on such subject. (Ord. 2004-
2, 5-12-2004)
3-5-6: EXEMPTIONS:
The following sounds are exempted from the provisions of this chapter:
   A.   Sounds caused by any emergency vehicle or personnel when responding to
an emergency call or acting in time of emergency.
   B.   Sounds caused by activities upon any outdoor municipal, school,
religious, or publicly owned property or facility; provided, that such
activities have been authorized by the owner of such property or facility or
its agent.
   C.   Sounds caused by parades, fireworks displays, or any other event
approved by the city council.
   D.   Sounds caused by locomotives or other railroad equipment.
   E.   Sounds caused by burglar alarms that are not in violation of this code.
   F.   Sounds caused by safety warning devices required by law.
   G.   Sounds caused by devices approved for use within the confines of the
particular zoning designation where the device is located or pursuant to a
conditional use permit (i.e., drive-through window speakers, car lot PA
systems).
   H.   Sounds emanating from devices used within the common areas of a multi-
unit facility whose use has been approved by the owners or management of the
facility. Said use must be in compliance with any regulations imposed by the
owners or management of the facility to be exempt under this chapter. This
exemption only applies in relation to other units within the same facility.
(Ord. 2004-2, 5-12-2004)
3-5-7: PENALTY:
Any person who shall violate any of the terms or provisions of this chapter
shall be guilty of an infraction, punishable by a fine of one hundred dollars
($100.00) excluding court costs and fees. There is no right to a trial by jury
of a citation or complaint for an infraction and such trials shall be held
before the court without a jury. (Ord. 2004-2, 5-12-2004)
TITLE 4
POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
4-1-1: Department Established
4-1-2: Appointment Of Police Officers
4-1-3: Powers And Duties
4-1-4: Reports Of Chief Of Police
4-1-5: Contract For Police Protection
4-1-1: DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established a police department of the city. Said department
shall consist of a chief of police and such patrolmen as shall be authorized by
the mayor and city council. (1975 Code § 1-1301)
4-1-2: APPOINTMENT OF POLICE OFFICERS:
The mayor, with the consent of the city council, shall appoint a chief of
police and such number of regular patrolmen as may be necessary, and may also
appoint special police officers, from time to time, as exigencies arise. The
chief of police shall hold office during the pleasure of the mayor. (1975 Code
§ 1-1302)
4-1-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
All persons appointed as patrolmen or as special police officers under the
provisions of this chapter shall be under the direction and supervision of the
chief of police. They shall be subject to the orders of the chief of police,
except in cases otherwise provided by ordinance. It shall be their duty to
cause the public peace to be preserved and to see that all laws and ordinances
are enforced within the city limits. When violations of any law or ordinance
shall be reported to them or come to their knowledge, they shall cause the
required complaint to be made and see that all possible evidence is procured
for the successful prosecution of the offenders. (1975 Code § 1-1304)
The officers and members of the police department shall have power to arrest
all offenders against the laws of the state or of the city by day or by night,
in the same manner as other police officers of the state, and keep them in the
city jail or other place to prevent their escape until trial can be had before
the proper officer. They shall likewise be vested with power to serve any other
process issued under authority of the ordinances of the city. (1975 Code § 1-
1303)
4-1-4: REPORTS OF CHIEF OF POLICE:
The chief of police shall make a written report at such times as the mayor and
city council shall require, giving a true account of arrests made, persons
arrested and nature of offense charged, such reports to be made at any time
when requested by the mayor and city council. (1975 Code § 1-1305)
4-1-5: CONTRACT FOR POLICE PROTECTION:
In lieu of the requirements of sections
4-1-1 and
4-1-2 of this chapter, the city, acting through the mayor and council, may
contract for police services within Minidoka County. Should such a contract be
in existence, any reference in this code to "police department", "chief of
police" or other reference to police force shall refer to the Minidoka County
sheriff's office and to the Minidoka County sheriff, as applicable. (1989 Code)
CHAPTER 2
ANIMALS AND ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
4-2-1: Livestock At Large Prohibited
4-2-2: Keeping Certain Animals; Frontage Consents Required 1  (Rep. by Ord.
2007-1, 1-10-2007)
4-2-3: Animals In City Park 2  (Rep. by Ord. 2013-1, 9-11-2013)
4-2-4: Impoundment, Redemption And Disposition Procedures
4-2-5: Violation
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection 8-6-7R of this Code.
2 2. See section
  6-6-3 of this Code.
4-2-1: LIVESTOCK AT LARGE PROHIBITED 3 :
It shall be and is hereby declared to be unlawful for any person to permit any
hog, goat, sheep, cow, calf, bull, heifer, steer or horse owned by him or in
his possession to run at large within or be herded, grazed or staked or
otherwise permitted to feed upon any street or alley in the City. (1975 Code §
4-306)
 
Notes
3 3. See subsection 3-1-2A of this Code.
4-2-2: KEEPING CERTAIN ANIMALS; FRONTAGE CONSENTS REQUIRED 4 :
(Rep. by Ord. 2007-1, 1-10-2007)
 
Notes
4 4. See subsection 8-6-7R of this Code.
4-2-3: ANIMALS IN CITY PARK 5 :
(Rep. by Ord. 2013-1, 9-11-2013)
 
Notes
5 5. See section 6-6-3 of this Code.
4-2-4: IMPOUNDMENT, REDEMPTION AND DISPOSITION PROCEDURES:
   A.   Impoundment Authority: It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to
seize and impound all cattle, horses, mules, sheep, goats and swine running at
large, or herded, picketed or staked out upon any street, sidewalk or any other
public place within the corporate limits of the City; provided however, that
cattle, horses, mules, sheep, goats or swine may be driven along the following
streets while passing through the corporate limits of the City, or driven to
the corral now built or constructed on the north side of the railroad track
passing through the City: along Fifth Street from its intersection with the
north boundary line of the City to its intersection with the south boundary
line on Garfield Drive from the east boundary line to the west boundary. (1975
Code § 5-301)
   B.   Notice Of Impoundment: When any head of livestock hereinabove
enumerated shall have been impounded by the Chief of Police as hereinabove
provided, he shall forthwith give notice by posting said notice in at least
four (4) public places in the City, which notices shall contain a description
of said animal or animals so seized by him, and giving marks and brands, if
any, the date when the same was seized and the time and place when they will be
sold to satisfy the penalty and charges thereon. Said notices must be posted
not less than four (4) days before such sale, and no sale shall be made before
the expiration of five (5) days from the date of the seizure of the animal or
animals to be sold. When the name of the owner of such animal or animals is
known to the Chief of Police, he shall give personal notice to the owner either
by serving the notice personally or by placing a written notice in the Post
Office, properly addressed to such person, at the same time as or before. (1975
Code § 5-302)
   C.   Redemption Of Impounded Animals: At any time before the sale of any
animal impounded as above provided, the owner of such animal shall be entitled
to the possession thereof upon the payment to the Chief of Police of the
penalty above provided together with the expenses incident to the taking up and
caring for such animal; and for all payments made as above provided, the Chief
of Police shall issue to the party paying a receipt signed by him stating the
amount paid and briefly giving a description of the stock for the redemption of
which the payment was made and the date when the animal redeemed was seized.
(1975 Code § 5-304)
   D.   Sale Of Impounded Animals: If any animal taken up and impounded as
above provided shall remain unclaimed until the time fixed for the sale, or if
claimed and the penalty, charges and expenses have not been paid thereon, the
Chief of Police shall, at the time specified in the notice mentioned in
subsection B of this section, sell such animal at public auction to the highest
bidder at the place specified in such notice. Upon the sale of such animal, the
Chief of Police shall issue a certificate to the purchaser showing the date of
sale, briefly describing the animal sold and the amount for which sold, and the
date when the animal so sold was seized. (1975 Code § 5-305)
   E.   Disposition Of Funds; Records: All monies received by the Chief of
Police for the sale or redemption of stock must be paid to the City Treasurer
on or before the first day of the month next following the receipt of such
money by said Chief of Police, and at the same time, the Chief of Police shall
file with such Treasurer a detailed statement showing the number of head of
stock impounded, the number redeemed and the number sold and the amounts
received for redemption and sale separately. In the statement showing the
return of sales, each animal sold shall be separately described in such a
manner as to exhibit the name of the owner if known, amount of penalty, charges
and expenses chargeable against the animal; and should it appear that the
amount received is greater than such gross sum of penalty, expenses and
charges, the City Treasurer shall hold the excess as a special deposit to be
paid to the owner of such animal upon demand and proof of ownership, or right
of possession of such animal, at any time prior to the expiration of three (3)
months from the date of sale. If claim be not made for any such special deposit
within three (3) months, the City Treasurer shall place the money in the
treasury for the use of the City. (1975 Code § 5-306)
The statement or statements rendered by the Chief of Police and filed with the
City Treasurer shall be retained by the said Treasurer and by him kept on file
as a record of the matter, as other records of City transactions are kept.
(1975 Code § 5-308)
4-2-5: VIOLATION:
Any person or persons violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor. (1975 Code § 5-317)
ARTICLE A. DOGS
SECTION:
SECTION:
4-2A-1:   License Required; Fees
4-2A-2:   Tag And Collar; Taking Up Dogs; Dogs At Large
4-2A-3:   Dog Kennels
4-2A-4:   Control Of Dogs
4-2A-5:   Reclaiming Impounded Dogs; Adoption; Euthanization
4-2A-6:   Responsibility Of Head Of Household
4-2A-7:   Interference With Person Seizing Dog
4-2A-8:   Entering Private Property
4-2A-9:   Penalty
4-2A-10:   Fees Established By Resolution
4-2A-1: LICENSE REQUIRED; FEES:
All fees adopted pursuant to this Chapter shall be established by resolution.
The owner or any person who is keeping or harboring a dog in the City shall pay
to the Minidoka Joint Animal Control Facility for its special revenue account
an annual license fee for each dog so kept or harbored in the amount
established by resolution of the Council. The license fee shall be paid to any
City Clerk in the City or at the Minidoka Joint Animal Control Facility, who
shall issue in return a receipt designating the name and address of the owner
or custodian paying the license fee, the number of the license tag assigned,
the sex of the dog, a brief description of the dog, and the amount paid for
such license.
A numbered license tag corresponding to the number listed on the receipt shall
be delivered to the license applicant with the receipt.
The collecting agency shall deliver the fees collected to the Minidoka Joint
Animal Control Facility monthly. The implant of a chip at the Minidoka Joint
Animal Control Facility, with payment of related fee at that facility, shall
waive any licensing fee of five (5) years.
The license shall be effective only to the end of the calendar year in which
the same is issued.
(Ord. 2004-5, 8-11-2004, eff. 9-1-2004; amd. Ord. 2020-1, 3-11-2020; Ord. 2021-
2, 10-13-2021)
4-2A-2: TAG AND COLLAR; TAKING UP DOGS; DOGS AT LARGE:
All dogs are required to have a tag and collar within the City.
Any City peace officer, animal control officer, or other designated person, may
seize and impound any dog:
   A.   Without tag and collar;
   B.   At large, off the owner's property, without an attendant or master, not
securely confined or leashed whether by tether or trained voice command so that
it does not stray;
   C.   That threatens, aggressively intimidates or harasses, or bites any
person, livestock, poultry, or domestic animal; or
   D.   That defecates on the property of any other person, other than the
owner, that is not immediately cleaned. (Ord. 380, 2-14-1996; amd. Ord. 2021-2,
10-13-2021; 2023-2, 5-10-2023; Ord. 2023-6, 12-13-2023)
4-2A-3: DOG KENNELS 1 :
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this article, the following words and
phrases shall have the meanings ascribed to them unless the context indicates
otherwise:
 
              Off the premises of the owner and not under the control of the owner or a
AT LARGE:     member of his immediate family or employee either by leash, cord, chain or
              otherwise.
COMMERCIAL    Any lot or premises on which four (4) or more domesticated animals more than
KENNEL:       four (4) months of age are housed, groomed, bred, boarded, trained or sold,
              and which offers provisions for minor medical treatment.
DOGS:         Both male and female.
NONCOMMERCIAL Any person who keeps, maintains, harbors or possesses upon the premises of any
KENNEL:       one (1) household more than two (2) dogs, but less than five (5) dogs owned by
              said person.
OWNERS:       Any person owning, keeping or harboring a dog. (1975 Code § 2-1201; amd. 1989
              Code)
 
   B.   Licensing Provisions:
      1.   License Required: It shall be unlawful to keep, maintain, harbor or
possess upon the premises of any one (1) household more than two (2) dogs
unless the owner or person in charge thereof shall obtain a noncommercial
kennel license or a commercial kennel license. Licenses for noncommercial or
commercial kennels will not be issued in zoning districts where such uses are
not permitted as per title 8 of this Code. (Ord. 2016-1, 7-13-2016)
      2.   Applications For License; Fees; Conditions:
         a.   Noncommercial Kennel License: An application for a noncommercial
kennel license shall be made to the City Clerk and must be accompanied by the
written consent of at least seventy five percent (75%) of all persons in
possession of premises within three hundred feet (300') of the premises upon
which the noncommercial kennel is to be maintained and accompanied by a deposit
license fee established by resolution of the Council, which deposit shall be
returned to the applicant if the license is not issued. The application shall
state the name and address of the owner, where the noncommercial kennel is to
be established, and the number of dogs. Noncommercial kennel licenses shall be
nontransferable and shall expire on December 31 of each year in which issued.
When additions are made to the number of dogs for which a noncommercial kennel
license is issued, the licensee shall report, within three (3) days, to the
City Clerk the increase; however, whenever puppies are born, such puppies shall
not be counted as additions until six (6) weeks old.
         b.   Commercial Kennel License: Applications for commercial kennel
licenses shall be made to the City Clerk and must be accompanied by a written
consent of one hundred percent (100%) of all persons in possession of premises
within three hundred feet (300') of the premises upon which the commercial
kennel is to be maintained and accompanied by a deposit of a license fee
established by resolution of the Council for the first two (2) dogs and an
additional amount established by resolution of the Council for each dog over
two (2), which deposit shall be returned to the applicant if the license is not
finally issued. The applicant shall state the name and address of the owner of
the kennel, where the kennel is to be established, the number of dogs to be
kept, and attached to the application shall be a detailed plan for the kennel
meeting minimum State health requirements showing a dog type enclosure with
runs for each dog, indicating how the kennels will be cleaned, where the water
and food sources for the dogs shall be established, together with rules and
regulations governing the care of the animals; provided, however, that the
owner may adopt the rules and regulations of the American Kennel Club or
similar organizations in lieu of providing written rules and regulations for
the facility. In addition thereto, the owner shall agree that said kennels
shall be cleaned not less than daily. Whenever additions are made to the number
of dogs for which the kennel license has been issued, the licensee shall,
within three (3) days, report to the City Clerk and pay the required license
fee; provided, however, that whenever puppies are born, such puppies shall not
be counted as additions until six (6) weeks old. For every commercial kennel
maintained for dogs registered under the rules and regulations of the American
Kennel Club, it shall not be necessary to license the individual dogs, but the
owner of such kennel shall pay the annual fee; provided, however, that all dogs
covered by any such kennel license shall be maintained and kept within the
kennel or under leash at all times. (Ord. 2004-5, 8-11-2004, eff. 9-1-2004)
   C.   Interpretation Of Provisions: The issuance of a noncommercial kennel
license shall not alleviate the necessity of obtaining an individual dog
license, nor shall any of the provisions of this section be deemed to vary or
alter any zoning regulations1 of the City. (1975 Code § 2-1202)
   D.   Violation: Any person violating this section shall be deemed guilty of
a misdemeanor. (1975 Code § 2-1205)
 
Notes
1 See also subsection
  8-6-7B of this Code.
4-2A-4: CONTROL OF DOGS:
   A.   Dogs Which Disturb Neighborhood: No person shall own, keep or harbor
any dog which by loud, continued or frequent barking, howling or yelping shall
annoy or disturb any neighborhood or persons. A dog shall not be permitted to
urinate or defecate upon the property of any person other than the dog's owner,
unless it is immediately cleaned. Violation of this section is an infraction
punishable as provided in Paul City Code §
4-2A-9.
   B.   Dogs at Large: Any person who permits any dog owned or possessed or
harbored by him to be, or run at large without a competent and responsible
attendant or master, or wilfully or negligently fails, neglects, or refuses to
keep any such dog securely confined within the limits of his own premises when
not under the immediate care and control of a competent and responsible
attendant or master, shall be guilty of an infraction punishable as provided in
Paul City Code §
4-2A-9.
   C.   Vicious Dogs:
      1.   Definitions:
 
                  Any animal which, when not physically provoked, physically
VICIOUS DOG:      attacks, wounds, bites, aggressively chases, harasses, or
                  otherwise injures any person, livestock, or any domestic
                  animal who is not trespassing.
                  One from which the vicious dog cannot escape and for which
SECURE ENCLOSURE: exit and entry is controlled by the owner or tenant of the
                  premises or owner of the vicious dog.
 
      2.   It shall be unlawful for the owner of a vicious dog, or for the
owner or tenant of premises on which a vicious dog is present, to harbor a
vicious dog outside a secure enclosure.
      3.   It shall be unlawful for the owner of a vicious dog, or for the
owner or tenant of premises on which a vicious dog is present, to fail to
maintain the enclosure so that the vicious dog cannot escape the enclosure.
      4.   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove a vicious dog from a
secure enclosure unless the dog is restrained in a manner sufficient to control
the dog.
      5.   Penalty and Sentencing: Persons guilty of a violation of any of the
provisions of Paul City Code §
4-2A-4(C), shall be guilty of a misdemeanor subject to penalties of up to one
hundred eighty (180) days in jail, a one thousand dollar ($1,000.00) fine, and
up to two (2) years of probation. Further, at sentencing on a violation of this
subsection, the court may in its discretion, in the interest of public safety,
order the owner to have the vicious dog destroyed or may direct the appropriate
authorities to destroy the dog. Both the prosecution and the owner of the dog
may present evidence relevant to the propriety of the destruction of the
vicious dog.
      6.   A vicious dog may be seized and impounded during the pendency of
court proceedings pursuant to Paul City Code §
4-2A-4(C).
      7.   Nothing in this chapter shall preclude any civil liability as
otherwise provided by law for damages or loss caused by a vicious dog to
livestock, poultry, or other domestic animals.
   D.   Dog Bites: Any dog which has bitten any person, livestock, poultry, or
domestic animal shall be surrendered to and/or confiscated by a peace officer
or animal control officer. If the dog is not claimed by an owner and/or person
responsible for the animal within the observation period, it shall be
destroyed.
      No dog which has bitten a person, livestock, poultry, or domestic animal
shall be adopted out or surrendered to any third party if the owner or other
person responsible for the animal is not located.
      Any dog which appears to be suffering from rabies may be destroyed by a
peace officer or animal control officer if such dog cannot be captured without
exposing such officer or other persons to unreasonable risk of injury. (Ord.
380, 2-14-1996; amd. Ord. 2005-3, 8-10-2005; Ord. 2020-1, 3-11-2020; Ord. 2021-
2, 10-13-2021; Ord. 2023-2, 5-10-2023; Ord. 2023-6, 12-13-2023; Ord. 2024-1, 2-
14-2024)
4-2A-5: RECLAIMING IMPOUNDED DOGS; ADOPTION; EUTHANIZATION:
All dogs taken up by a peace or animal control officer shall be delivered to
the Minidoka Joint Animal Control Facility. The Facility shall not refuse any
dog. Dogs shall not be held at any other location, except those delivered to a
veterinarian as directed by the Facility. No fostering of dogs outside the
Facility is permitted. Any dog not reclaimed, adopted, or otherwise committed
to an entity engaged in the legal rescue, adoption or otherwise providing homes
for dogs, within twenty-one (21) days shall be euthanized.
Any dog may be reclaimed at the Minidoka Joint Animal Control Facility by the
owner or other person entitled upon payment of a fee to be established by the
city council by resolution. Fees shall be paid to the Minidoka Joint Animal
Control Facility and a receipt shall be issued. Fees may include bail out,
vaccination, quarantine, boarding, and other related fees as established by
resolution.
An unlicensed dog which will be kept or harbored within the city upon release
shall not be released until the person reclaiming such dog has purchased a
current license.
Minidoka Joint Animal Control Facility may waive impoundment, adoption, and
other fees for an entity engaged in the legal rescue of, adoption of, or
otherwise providing homes for dogs.
Adoption to a third person is available by Minidoka Joint Animal Control
Facility as provided in this section. Adoption fees shall be established by
city council by resolution. This spay and neuter requirement may be waived for
a third person or entity regularly engaged in the legal rescue, adoption, or
otherwise providing homes for dogs. (Ord. 2005-3, 8-10-2005; amd. Ord. 2020-1,
3-11-2020; Ord. 2021-2, 10-13-2021)
4-2A-6: RESPONSIBILITY OF HEAD OF HOUSEHOLD:
The responsibility for compliance with all provisions of this article shall
rest upon the head of the household at which a dog is being kept or harbored
whether the ownership of such dog is claimed by a person residing in said
household. The parents or guardians of minor children with whom said minor
children are residing shall be deemed to be the owners of the dog of a minor
child residing with them for purposes of this section. A husband and wife or
two (2) or more adults living together may be jointly charged as heads of the
household where a dog is kept or harbored if they fail to comply with their
obligations under this article. (Ord. 380, 2-14-1996)
4-2A-7: INTERFERENCE WITH PERSON SEIZING DOG:
It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder or molest any police officer or
animal control officer who is attempting to perform any act authorized under
this chapter. (Ord. 380, 2-14-1996)
4-2A-8: ENTERING PRIVATE PROPERTY:
In the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter, any peace officer or
animal control officer is authorized to enter upon private property to capture
a dog running at large or to destroy a rabid or vicious dog, but the authority
granted by this section does not authorize entry into any building on private
property without the consent of the person entitled to control of said
building. It shall be the responsibility of the city to repair any damage to
property or clean up any mess created by the actions of a peace officer or
animal control officer in the pursuit or destruction of a dog on private
property. (Ord. 380, 2-14-1996)
4-2A-9: PENALTY:
Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
guilty of an infraction unless otherwise provided, and upon conviction thereof
shall be punished as follows:
   A.   An admission of guilt or entry of judgment to any violation shall
result in a penalty of not more than one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) for
the first such violation.
   B.   Upon a subsequent admission of guilt or entry of judgment for violation
of the above provisions of this chapter, a penalty of not more than one hundred
dollars ($100.00) shall be assessed.
   C.   Upon a third admission of guilt or entry of judgment for violation of
the provisions of this chapter, a penalty of not more than three hundred
dollars ($300.00) shall be assessed for each subsequent violation. Failure to
pay shall constitute a misdemeanor.
   D.   Violations of Paul City Code §
4-2A-4(C), Vicious Dogs, is a misdemeanor punishable as outlined in Paul City
Code §
4-2A-4(C)(5).
   E.   Violations of
4-2A-4B, or any other misdemeanor under this chapter, in addition to civil
liability, may be subject to maximum penalties of one hundred eighty (180) days
in jail and/or one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) fine, or both.
   F.   At sentencing on a violation of this chapter, the court may in its
discretion, in the interest of public safety, order the owner, or appropriate
authorities, to destroy the animal. Similar to Idaho Code 25-2810, both the
prosecution and the owner of the animal may present evidence relevant to the
propriety of the destruction of the dog.
   G.   A City or Board Attorney may file a motion or suit for a determination
under Idaho Code 25-2810 requesting destruction of the animal, terms for
release of the dog back to its owners, and/or recovery of actual fees or costs.
(Ord. 380, 2-14-1996; amd. Ord. 2009-1, 2-11-2009, eff. 3-1-2009; Ord. 2021-2,
10-13-2021; Ord. 2023-2, 5-10-2023; Ord. 2023-6, 12-13-2023)
4-2A-10: FEES ESTABLISHED BY RESOLUTION:
All fees required by this chapter and otherwise required for the licensing,
kenneling, euthanasia of, care of, reclamation of, and quarantine of dogs shall
be established by resolution adopted by the council. (Ord. 2004-5, 8-11-2004,
eff. 9-1-2004)
CHAPTER 3
MISDEMEANOR OFFENSES
SECTION:
4-3-1: Discharge Of Weapons
4-3-2: Open Containers Prohibited
4-3-1: DISCHARGE OF WEAPONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge any firearm or air rifle
within the city, not in necessary self-defense. Any person who violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor. (1975 Code §§ 5-801, 5-802)
4-3-2: OPEN CONTAINERS PROHIBITED:
   A.   Definitions: The following terms as used in this section shall mean:
   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR: Alcoholic liquor shall include the terms alcohol, spirits,
wine and any other liquid or solid as defined in Idaho Code section 23-105, as
amended.
   BEER: Any beverage obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
decoction of barley, malt and/or other ingredients in drinkable water.
   PUBLIC AREA: All areas in the zones designated in the zoning title (title 8
of this code) as now in effect or as may be amended, from time to time, used as
parking areas and lots, sidewalks, traffic areas, loading and unloading areas,
alleys, public easements, roadways along canals and ditches, rights of way for
public utilities and railroads, school grounds, parking along and adjacent to
public streets and similar such areas of public use.
   B.   Consumption And Transportation Of Beer And Alcoholic Liquor Prohibited:
It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      1.   Consume beer or alcoholic liquor upon the public streets or public
areas in the city.
      2.   Break open, allow to be broken or opened, or transport when open any
container of beer or alcoholic liquor while the same is in an automobile or
other vehicle upon the public streets or public areas of the city. (Ord. 361,
10-11-1989)
TITLE 5
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL TRAFFIC PROVISIONS
SECTION:
5-1-1: State Traffic Laws Adopted
5-1-2: Turning Movements
5-1-3: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
5-1-4: Truck Routes
5-1-5: Traffic Laws Apply To Bicycles
5-1-6: Speed Limits
5-1-1: STATE TRAFFIC LAWS ADOPTED:
The statutes of the state of Idaho relating to the operation of motor vehicles,
equipment of motor vehicles, traffic control devices and motor vehicle laws are
hereby adopted for the purpose of regulating and controlling vehicular traffic
in the city. One copy of all such laws shall be filed in the office of the city
clerk. (1989 Code)
5-1-2: TURNING MOVEMENTS:
   A.   Limitations On Turning Around And U-Turns: Except at intersections, the
driver of any vehicle in the city shall not turn such vehicle so as to proceed
in the opposite direction upon any street.
   B.   No Turns; Signs Posted: The public works director is hereby authorized
to determine those locations in the city at which drivers of vehicles shall not
make right, left or other turns, and shall place proper signs at such
locations.
Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or left or other
turn is permitted, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of any
such sign.
   C.   Notice Of Provisions: The public works director is hereby authorized to
give notice of this section upon or at entrance to the city as may be most
appropriate, as required by Idaho Code section 49-208.
   D.   Violations: It is an infraction for any person to do any act forbidden
or fail to perform any act required under the provisions of this section. (Ord.
352, 2-10-1988; amd. 1989 Code)
5-1-3: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Driving On Sidewalks: Any person who shall drive or cause to be driven
any horses, cattle, mules, wagons, automobiles, or vehicles of any kind across
any of the sidewalks within the city, other than at the regular street or alley
crossings shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. (1975 Code § 8-117)
   B.   Clinging To Vehicles: No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster,
roller skates, sled or toy vehicle shall attach the same or himself to any
vehicle upon a roadway. (1975 Code § 5-903)
Any person violating the provisions of this subsection shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor. (1975 Code § 5-913; amd. 1989 Code)
   C.   Braking System Regulations:
      1.   Brake Noise: Except in an emergency situation, no person shall,
while operating a motor vehicle within the city of Paul, apply or otherwise use
"jake brakes", engine compression brakes, any similar braking system that uses
compressed air from a motor vehicle's engine to slow the vehicle, or other
braking system that produces a clearly audible noise when measured at a
distance of fifty feet (50') directly from the source.
      2.   Emergency Situation: The term "emergency situation", for the purpose
of this subsection, shall mean one in which there is an imminent danger of
collision with property, a person or animals.
      3.   Exclusions: The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to
"authorized emergency vehicles" as defined by Idaho Code section 49-123.
      4.   Infraction: Any person who violates this subsection shall be guilty
of an infraction. (Ord. 2003-4, 12-10-2003)
5-1-4: TRUCK ROUTES:
   A.   Definitions: For the purposes of this section, the following terms,
phrases, words and their derivations shall have the meanings given herein. When
not inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the
future, words in the plural number include the singular number, and words in
the singular number include the plural number. The word "shall" is always
mandatory and not merely directory.
   CITY: The city of Paul.
   DEVIATING TRUCK: A truck which leaves and departs from a truck route while
traveling inside the city.
   PERSON: Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
   TRUCK: Any vehicle designed or operated for the transportation of property
and whose body weight or whose combined body and load weight exceed ten
thousand (10,000) pounds.
   TRUCK ROUTE: A way over certain streets, as designated herein, over and
along which trucks coming into and going out of the city must operate.
   B.   Application Of Provisions: All trucks within the city shall be operated
only over and along the truck routes herein established and on the other
designated streets over which truck travel is permitted.
   C.   Truck Routes Established:
      1.   There are hereby established within the city the following truck
routes:
All trucks entering the city for destination points outside the city shall
operate only over the following designated routes:
         a.   Westbound: When entering the city from the east on Ellis Street
and traveling in a westbound direction through the city, then west on Ellis
Street to the city limits.
         b.   Eastbound: When entering the city from the west on Ellis Street
and traveling in an eastbound direction through the city, then east on Ellis
Street to the city limits.
         c.   Northbound: When entering the city from the south on Main Street
and traveling in a northbound direction through the city, then north on Main
Street to the city limits.
         d.   Southbound: When entering the city from the north on Main Street
traveling in a southbound direction through the city, then south on Main Street
to the city limits.
      2.   In addition to those streets in the city constituting a part of a
truck route as established herein, the following streets, and no others, shall
be used for truck traffic:
East Idaho and 5th East
         a.   Outside Origin:
            (1)   One Inside Destination Point: All trucks entering the city
for a destination point in the city shall proceed only over an established
truck route and shall deviate only at the intersection with the street upon
which such traffic is permitted nearest to the destination point. A deviating
truck shall return to the truck route by the shortest possible route.
            (2)   Multiple Inside Destination Points: All trucks entering the
city for multiple destination points shall proceed only over established truck
routes and shall deviate only at the intersection with the street upon which
such traffic is permitted nearest to the first destination point. Upon leaving
the first destination point, a deviating truck shall proceed to other
destination points by the shortest direction and only over streets upon which
such traffic is permitted. Upon leaving the last destination point, a deviating
truck shall return to the truck route by the shortest permissible route.
         b.   Inside Origin:
            (1)   Outside Destination Points: All trucks on a trip originating
in the city and traveling in the city for a destination point outside the city
shall proceed by the shortest direction over streets on which such traffic is
permitted to a truck route as herein established.
            (2)   Inside Destination Points: All trucks on a trip originating
in the city and traveling in the city for destination points in the city shall
proceed only over streets upon which traffic is permitted.
   D.   Maps Of Truck Routes: The city clerk shall keep and maintain accurate
maps setting out truck routes and streets upon which truck traffic is
permitted; the maps shall be kept on file in the office of the city clerk and
shall be available to the public.
   E.   Signs Posted: The chief of police shall cause all truck routes and
those streets upon which truck traffic is prohibited to be clearly sign posted
to give notice that this section is in effect. No person shall be charged with
violating the provisions of this section by reason of operating a truck upon a
street wherein truck travel is prohibited unless appropriate signs are posted
on such street.
   F.   Weigh In: The chief of police shall have the authority to require any
person driving or in control of any commercial vehicle not proceeding over a
truck route or street over which truck traffic is permitted to proceed to any
public or private scale available for the purpose of weighing and determining
whether this section has been complied with.
   G.   Exceptions To Provisions: This section shall not prohibit:
      1.   The operation of trucks upon any street where necessary to the
conduct of business at a destination point, provided streets upon which such
traffic is permitted are used until reaching the intersection nearest the
destination point.
      2.   The operation of emergency vehicles upon any street in the city.
      3.   The operation of trucks owned or operated by the city, public
utilities, any contractor or materialman, while engaged in the repair,
maintenance or construction of streets, street improvements or street utilities
within the city.
      4.   The operation of trucks upon any officially established detour in
any case where such truck could lawfully be operated upon the street for which
such detour is established. (Ord. 314, 12-12-1979)
   H.   Violation And Penalties: Any person violating any of the provisions of
this section shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. Each day such violation
is committed or permitted to continue, shall constitute a separate offense and
shall be punishable as such hereunder. (Ord. 314, 12-12-1979; amd. 1989 Code)
5-1-5: TRAFFIC LAWS APPLY TO BICYCLES:
Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all of the rights
and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle
by this code, except as to special regulations in this chapter and except as to
those provisions of this code which by their nature can have no application.
(1975 Code § 5-901)
5-1-6: SPEED LIMITS:
   A.   Highway 25:
      1.   Council Finding: It will promote motorist and pedestrian safety to
establish a uniform speed limit for Idaho State Highway 25 located within the
Paul city limits. The maximum speed limit established by this section is lower
than the maximum speed limit established by the Idaho department of
transportation for Highway 25 located within the Paul city limits.
      2.   Speed Limit Established: The maximum speed limit for Highway 25
located within the Paul city limits is thirty five (35) miles per hour. (Ord.
2007-6, 5-9-2007)
CHAPTER 2
PARKING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
5-2-1: Parking And Loading Zones Established And Designated
5-2-2: Manner Of Parking
5-2-3: General Parking Restrictions
5-2-4: Operating Time; Parking Regulated
5-2-5: Truck And Trailer Parking
5-2-6: Notice Of Violation
5-2-7: Responsibility Of Owner
5-2-8: Impoundment And Storage Of Vehicles
5-2-9: Violation
5-2-1: PARKING AND LOADING ZONES ESTABLISHED AND DESIGNATED:
   A.   Zones Established: The city council shall hereafter establish, from
time to time, as it deems proper and necessary for the control of traffic,
parking zones and loading zones on the streets of the city. Establishment of
and all changes in such zones shall be only as duly ordered by the city council
and entered in the official minutes of the council meetings.
   B.   Designation Of Parking And Loading Zones:
      1.   The chief of police is authorized and directed to designate all
parking and loading zones by causing appropriate parking signs to be installed
upon the streets so as to clearly inform the public of the location of the
parking and loading zones and of the parking time allowed therein.
      2.   The chief of police is authorized and directed to cause lines or
markings to be painted or placed upon street surfaces or upon curbs for the
purpose of designating the spaces to be used for parking of vehicles.
      3.   In addition or in lieu of the above, the chief of police may
designate "no parking" zones by posted sign or painting the adjacent curb red
in color and loading zones by painting the adjacent curb yellow in color. Such
designations shall be ratified by the city council and duly noted in the
official minutes. (Ord. 331, 9-5-1984)
5-2-2: MANNER OF PARKING:
Any vehicle within a parking or loading zone space shall be parked entirely
within the markings designating one parking space and shall be parked parallel
or diagonal to the curb in accordance with the markings of the space. In the
case of diagonal parking, the vehicle shall be parked so that the front of the
vehicle is nearest the curb. Absent signs and/or street or curb markings to the
contrary, all vehicular parking shall be along the side of streets safely away
from the flow of traffic with the vehicle pointed in the same direction as the
adjacent flow of traffic. No unattended vehicle shall be parked in an alley. No
vehicle, whether attended or unattended, parked in an alley or street shall
block vehicular access to or from an alley, street, or from private or public
property. (Ord. 2007-7, 8-8-2007)
5-2-3: GENERAL PARKING RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Parking In Parking Lots: The chief of police is authorized and directed
to cause lines or markings to be painted or placed upon parking lots owned or
under the jurisdiction of the city and to designate the type of parking
permitted such as passenger vehicles, trucks and trailers, boats or other type
of motor vehicles. Vehicles shall park within the markings designating the
space in accordance with the markings of the parking space and designation
thereof. The chief of police shall cause appropriate parking signs to be
installed upon such lots clearly informing the public of the type of parking
permitted.
   B.   Parking In Loading Zones: A loading zone or space may be occupied by a
vehicle while actually engaged in loading and unloading persons or supplies,
for such period of time only as is set forth on the loading zone sign. Parking
in a loading zone or space during "operating time" for any other purpose is
unlawful.
   C.   Unlawful Parking: It shall be unlawful for any person to park a vehicle
or, having parked the same, to suffer it to remain parked in violation of the
regulations on any duly installed parking sign or any provision of this
chapter. When the parking sign merely states the duration of time allowed for
parking, such as "two hour parking", then the regulation shall be in force only
during "operating time" and when the sign forbids parking at all times or at
designated times, the regulation is in force at all times or as stated. (Ord.
331, 9-5-1984)
   D.   Continuously Parking On Streets: No motor vehicle, trailer, mobile
home, tractor, motorcycle, bus or vehicle of any other type shall remain
continuously parked or left on any street of the city for more than twenty four
(24) hours at any time, and in the event said motor vehicle, trailer, mobile
home, tractor, motorcycle, bus or other type vehicle remains continuously
parked or left for more than forty eight (48) hours, the Paul police department
will have the authority to impound said motor vehicle, trailer, mobile home,
tractor, motorcycle, bus or other type vehicle and remove the same; provided,
however, that the police department shall give written notice of its intention
to do so to the purported owner at least twenty four (24) hours prior to the
time the motor vehicle is so removed. Any person violating any provision of
this subsection shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. (1975 Code § 8-124; amd. 1989
Code)
5-2-4: OPERATING TIME; PARKING REGULATED:
"Operating time" is defined as that time when parking within the parking zones
and loading zones is regulated and is the time between nine o'clock (9:00) A.M.
and five o'clock (5:00) P.M. of every day except the following:
   Sundays
   January 1 (New Year's Day)
   Third Monday in February (Washington's Birthday)
   Last Monday in May (Decoration Day)
   July 4 (Independence Day)
   First Monday in September (Labor Day)
   Second Monday in October (Columbus Day)
   November 11 (Veterans Day)
   Fourth Thursday in November (Thanksgiving Day)
   December 25 (Christmas)
and every day appointed by the president of the United States or by the
governor of the state of Idaho for a public fast, thanksgiving or holiday.
(Ord. 331, 9-5-1984)
5-2-5: TRUCK AND TRAILER PARKING:
   A.   Definitions: The meanings of the words "truck", "truck tractor" or
"semitrailer" are as defined in Idaho Code section 49-121(6) and (9).
   B.   Parking Restrictions: It shall be unlawful to park any of the following
trucks, truck tractors, semitrailers or combination thereof on any street or
alley in the city other than on the streets designated by ordinance as the
truck route:
      Two-axle, single unit trucks
      Three-axle, single unit trucks
      Two-axle truck tractors with one or two-axle semitrailers
      Three-axle truck tractors with two-axle semitrailers
   C.   Responsibility Of Vehicle Owner: The registered owner of the truck,
truck tractor or semitrailer shall be presumed to be the owner at the time the
offense is committed and subject to the penalty, except when the use thereof
was secured without the consent of the owner.
   D.   Signs Posted: The chief of police is authorized to designate, as he
deems necessary for the control of parking, any part of the truck route where
truck, truck tractor or semitrailer parking is prohibited, and the chief of
police is authorized and directed to erect and place such signs indicating
truck parking is prohibited.
   E.   Exceptions To Provisions: The provisions of this section shall not
apply to trucks, truck tractors and semitrailers engaged in the expeditious and
actual loading or unloading of passengers, materials, goods or merchandise, in
no event to exceed fifteen (15) minutes, or to vehicles operated by members of
the police or fire departments or ambulances when operated in response to an
emergency call or proceeding to the scene of a fire or when parked pursuant to
such a call or at the scene of a fire.
   F.   Violation; Vehicle Impoundment: Violation of this section is a
misdemeanor. The police department shall have the authority to impound any
truck, truck tractor or semitrailer and remove the same that is in violation of
this section, and the owner of the truck, truck tractor or semitrailer shall
pay all costs of towing and storage of the removed vehicle. (Ord. 348, 2-11-
1987)
5-2-6: NOTICE OF VIOLATION:
It shall be the duty of each police officer observing the violation of the
provisions of this chapter to leave at or upon the vehicle in violation notice
of leaving the same at or upon such vehicle and shall state the nature of the
parking violation observed. When the violation is "overtime parking", a
separate notice for each hour or fraction thereof that the vehicle remains in
violation shall be issued. The notice shall instruct the owner or operator of
such vehicle to report to the police department or to the court having
jurisdiction in regard to such violation within the time period set by law or
custom or practice of the court. Any owner or operator receiving a notice or
citation for overtime parking may pay to the city office the amount of penalty
provided in section
5-2-9 of this chapter, in full satisfaction of the violation. (Ord. 331, 9-5-
1984)
5-2-7: RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNER:
Every owner of a motor vehicle is liable and responsible for the operation of
such motor vehicle by any person using or operating the same with the
permission, express or implied, of such owner, and the violation of this
chapter by such person shall be imputed to the owner for the purpose of
penalties of unlawful parking. (Ord. 331, 9-5-1984)
5-2-8: IMPOUNDMENT AND STORAGE OF VEHICLES:
   A.   Impoundment: The chief of police is authorized to impound and tow away
vehicles under the following circumstances:
      1.   Any vehicle parked so as to obstruct the flow of traffic, constitute
a safety hazard or remain without authority upon any portion of any traveled
city street, highway or alley or other public property.
      2.   Any otherwise lawfully parked vehicle on any public or city property
which is or appears to be an abandoned vehicle having been not moved for a
period of at least forty eight (48) hours.
   B.   Towing And Storage; Liens: The city council may, by resolution,
authorize the chief of police to enter into an agreement with an auto storage
company for the towing and storage of impounded vehicles taken into custody by
the police department. Towing and storage liens on impounded motor vehicles,
costs and expenses of taking and keeping, including towing and storage of any
motor vehicle which is impounded or taken into custody and control by the
police department under the authority of any law in the state of Idaho or
ordinance of the city, shall be assessed by the police department against such
motor vehicle and shall constitute a lien in favor of the city or its agent and
against such vehicle; provided, however, that the amount for storage shall be
five dollars ($5.00) for the first day and one dollar ($1.00) for each day
thereafter or the actual cost to the city, whichever is greater.
Any person claiming possession of such motor vehicle shall pay to the city or
its duly authorized depository all costs, including storage, assessed against
the vehicle prior to the time of receiving possession of the same. (Ord. 331,
9-5-1984)
5-2-9: VIOLATION:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of an infraction. (1989 Code)
TITLE 6
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREET NAMES AND HOUSE NUMBERS
SECTION:
6-1-1: Street Naming System
6-1-2: House Numbers
6-1-1: STREET NAMING SYSTEM:
All streets extending through the city and those that shall hereafter extend
through the city shall be and the same are hereby named and renamed as follows:
   A.   The north and south street on the section line between sections 28 and
29 and sections 32 and 33, township nine (9) south, range 23 East Boise
meridian shall be known as Main Street (also known as State Highway 27).
   B.   The east and west street along the section line between sections 28 and
33 and between sections 29 and 32 in township nine (9) south, range 23 East
Boise meridian (presently State Highway 25) shall be known as Ellis Street.
   C.   All streets running north and south and being east of Main Street and
north of Ellis Street shall, commencing with the first street east of Main
Street, be known as North 1st East, North 2nd East and so on consecutively
throughout.
   D.   All streets running north and south and being west of Main Street and
north of Ellis Street shall, commencing with the first street west of Main
Street, be known as North 1st West, North 2nd West and so on consecutively
throughout.
   E.   All streets running north and south and being west of Main Street and
south of Ellis Street shall, commencing with the first street west of Main
Street, be known as South 1st West, South 2nd West and so on consecutively
throughout.
   F.   All streets running north and south and being east of Main Street and
south of Ellis Street shall, commencing with the first street east of Main
Street, be known as South 1st East, South 2nd East and so on consecutively
throughout.
   G.   Main Street shall be known as South Main Street as it exists south of
Ellis Street and shall be known as North Main Street as it exists north of
Ellis Street.
   H.   All streets running east and west through the city are hereby named
commencing with the first street north of Ellis Street and so on north as
Lincoln Street, Clark Street, Idaho Street and such streets shall be designated
in their direction from Main Street, i.e., East Lincoln Street, West Clark
Street and etc.; the first street south of Ellis Street and west of Main Street
running in an east-west direction is hereby named Wayne Street; and subsequent
streets opened and dedicated within the city running in an east and west
direction through the city shall be named from time to time by the city
council. (1975 Code § 9-101)
6-1-2: HOUSE NUMBERS:
   A.   Numbering System:
      1.   All structures in the city located on the north side of the street
and west from Main Street shall be even numbers and those on the south side of
the street west from Main Street shall be odd numbers;
      2.   All numbers on the north side of the street east from Main Street
shall be odd numbers and those on the south side of the street east from Main
Street shall be even numbers;
      3.   All numbers on the west side of the street north from Ellis Street
shall be odd numbers and all those on the east side of the street north from
Ellis Street shall be even numbers;
      4.   All numbers on the west side of the street south from Ellis Street
shall be even and all those on the east side of the street south from Ellis
Street shall be odd numbers.
   B.   Assignment Of Numbers: There shall be one number assigned for each
twelve and one-half feet (121/2') of frontage upon a street and numbers shall
be assigned as to result in uniformity of numbering throughout the city.
   C.   Plat Of City Streets And Numbers: The city clerk shall prepare a plat
of the city upon which numbers shall be assigned from time to time and the
numbers shall commence on streets running in the city and shall show thereon
the numbers assigned by the city clerk according to the plan specified in this
chapter and to each lot shown upon said plat. The numbers shall run from 0 to
99 in the first block east and the first block west of Main Street and from 100
to 199 in the second block east and the second block west, and so on east and
west within the city the numbers shall run from 0 to 99 in the first block
north and the first block south of Ellis Street and from 100 to 199 in the
second block north and the second block south and so on north and south within
the city. (1975 Code § 9-102)
CHAPTER 2
SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR
SECTION:
6-2-1: Purpose
6-2-2: Responsibilities Of Property Owners
6-2-3: Sidewalk Construction Regulations
6-2-3-1: Widths Of Sidewalks, Curbs And Parkings
6-2-3-2: Standard Specifications For Construction
6-2-4: Sidewalk And Curb Repair
6-2-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to secure uniform construction and location of
sidewalks, curbs and parkings within the city and to provide for the
maintenance and repair of the same. (1975 Code § 6-101)
6-2-2: RESPONSIBILITIES OF PROPERTY OWNERS:
   A.   Generally: The property owners of the city who desire to have
sidewalks, curbs and parkings abutting and adjoining their property shall be
responsible for the construction, repair and maintenance of all sidewalks,
curbs and parkings between sidewalk and curb and sidewalk and property line
abutting and adjoining their respective properties, and on corner lots, such
responsibility is included in the sidewalks, curbs and parkings to the
intersection of extended or projected curb lines. (1975 Code § 6-102)
   B.   Removal Of Snow, Ice, Rubbish And Weeds: The property owners of the
city who shall have constructed sidewalks, curbs and parkings abutting and
adjoining the property, shall be responsible for the removal of all snow and
ice from the sidewalks upon which the property abuts or adjoins and all rubbish
and weeds from the parkings adjoining the same, as a part of the responsibility
for the maintenance specified in subsection A of this section. (1975 Code § 6-
111)
6-2-3: SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION REGULATIONS:
All sidewalks, curbs and parkings constructed by property owners shall be
constructed under terms of this chapter and under the direction of the city.
Property owners desiring to construct sidewalks and curbs hereunder shall
construct the same with concrete forms furnished by the property owner. (1975
Code § 6-104; amd. 1989 Code)
6-2-3-1: WIDTHS OF SIDEWALKS, CURBS AND PARKINGS:
Sidewalks, curbs and parkings constructed by any property owner in the city
shall be located as follows:
   A.   Main Street: There shall be a space of two feet (2') between the
property line and the nearest edge of the sidewalk. The sidewalk shall be four
feet (4') wide to the nearest edge of the curb. The curb shall be six inches
(6") wide.
   B.   Idaho Street Between North First Street West And North Second Street
East: The sidewalk shall be seven feet (7') wide from the property line to the
curb. The curb shall be six inches (6") wide.
   C.   North Third Street West: The sidewalk shall be four feet (4') wide from
the property line to the farthest edge of said sidewalk (inside curb line). The
curb shall be six inches (6") wide and the outside curb line shall be four feet
six inches (4'6") from the property line.
   D.   All Other Streets Except Railroad Street: The sidewalk shall be four
feet (4') wide starting six feet (6') from the property line. The curb shall be
six inches (6") and the outside curb line shall be ten feet six inches (10'6")
from the property line.
   E.   Adjustments: In the event of irregularities in property lines or
surveys, adjustments shall be made by the property owners under the direction
of the city in the widths of sidewalks and parkings or other specifications
designated above to the extent that uniformity in curbing and sidewalks may be
obtained along the particular street. (1975 Code § 6-103; amd. 1989 Code)
6-2-3-2: STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS FOR CONSTRUCTION:
The standard specifications governing the construction of sidewalks and curbs
in the city are as follows:
   A.   Concrete Sidewalks And Curbs: All sidewalks and curbs constructed in
the city shall be constructed of concrete. (1975 Code § 6-105)
   B.   Concrete: All concrete used in the construction of concrete sidewalks
and curbs shall comply with the standard specifications of the state of Idaho
transportation department, division of highways and shall be class 30 concrete
as established by the state of Idaho transportation department, division of
highways.
   C.   Sand, Gravel Or Crushed Rock: All sand, gravel or crushed rock used in
the construction of concrete sidewalks and curbs shall comply with state
specifications 703.01, 703.02 and 703.03 as established by the state of Idaho
transportation department, division of highways. (1989 Code)
   D.   Foundation: The space over which the sidewalk or curb is to be built
shall be excavated to the proper subgrade and thoroughly compacted by rolling,
ramming or tamping. To assure a subgrade of uniform bearing power all soft and
spongy places must be dug out and the holes filled with solid material,
thoroughly tamped, and exceptionally hard compacted spots must be loosened and
tamped. Fills must be packed solidly. Material for fills shall be placed and
tamped in six inch (6") layers. Muck, soft clay or spongy or perishable
material shall not be used for fills. The tops of all fills shall be extended
out level at least one foot (1') beyond the edges of the sidewalks or curb and
then sloped. Subgrades shall be drained by tile where necessary. The finished
subgrade shall have a uniform surface. (1975 Code § 6-105)
   E.   Joints:
      1.   Sidewalks: Joints must be one-fourth (1/4) of the thickness of the
sidewalk and placed at intervals equal to the width of the sidewalk.
      2.   Curbs: Curbs shall be scored at ten foot (10') intervals.
   F.   Placing And Finishing: All placing and finishing of sidewalks and curbs
shall be as set forth in state specifications 502.12 through 502.15 adopted by
the state of Idaho department of transportation, division of highways.
   G.   Curing: All curing shall be as set forth in state specification 502.16
as adopted by the state of Idaho department of transportation, division of
highways. (1989 Code)
   H.   Dimensions:
      1.   Sidewalks: All sidewalks shall be of the widths designated by this
chapter and four inches (4") in depth.
      2.   Curbs: The curb shall be six inches (6") in width at the top, eleven
inches (11") in width at the bottom and fifteen inches (15") in depth and the
edge of the curb next to the street shall be rounded to a radius of one inch
(1"). The dimensions herein prescribed shall be altered only by the dimensions
of the forms furnished by the city. (1975 Code § 6-105)
6-2-4: SIDEWALK AND CURB REPAIR:
   A.   Authority To Order Repairs: The city council may from time to time, by
order or resolution entered upon its minutes, order and direct the repair of
any sidewalk or curb or the filling and grading of parking between sidewalks
and curbs or sidewalks and property lines. (1975 Code § 6-106)
   B.   Notice Of Repair Order: The city clerk shall, upon the passage of any
such order or resolution, cause a written notice to be given to the owner or
owners of the property abutting or adjoining the sidewalk, curb or parking to
be repaired, notifying such owner or owners to make said repairs within fifteen
(15) days from the date of the giving of such notice. The notice herein
provided for must be given by delivering a copy thereof to the owner or owners,
or to his or their agent or agents; in case such owner is a nonresident of the
city, the notice may be given by registered mail; in case the place of
residence of such owner is unknown, then said notice shall be given by
publication in the official newspaper of the city at least once a week for
three (3) successive weeks.
The fifteen (15) day period above mentioned shall be computed from the date of
delivery of a copy of said notice, the date of depositing the registered mail
in the U.S. post office in the city, or from the date of the last publication
of said notice, as the case may be. (1975 Code § 6-107)
   C.   Repairs By City; Costs: After the expiration of the above mentioned
fifteen (15) days, if the said repairs shall not have been made, then the city
may proceed as soon as practicable to make said repairs. (1975 Code § 6-108)
The city clerk shall assess the costs of said repairs against the property
abutting or adjoining the sidewalk, curb or parking which may have been
repaired and shall file such assessment roll in his office. Upon the making and
filing of said assessment roll, the city clerk shall give notice to the owner
or owners of the property so assessed, by publication once a week for two (2)
successive weeks in the official newspaper of the city notifying such owner or
owners to appear before the city council at the next regular meeting after the
last publication of said notice, giving the time and place of such meeting, to
show cause if any he has why said assessment should not be made. In case such
owner or owners shall fail to appear and make objections or shall fail to have
his objections to such assessments sustained by the city council, or shall fail
to pay such assessments within ten (10) days after such hearing, then such
assessment shall be certified by the city to the proper officer of the county
of Minidoka, state of Idaho, in the same manner as other city taxes are
certified for collection. All such assessments shall be known as special
assessments for sidewalks, curbs and parkings, and shall be levied and
collected as a separate tax in addition to the taxes for general revenue
purposes. (1975 Code § 6-109)
   D.   Repairs To Conform To Specifications: All repairs to sidewalks and
curbs shall conform to the specifications herein provided. (1975 Code § 6-110)
CHAPTER 3
WATER AND SEWER USE AND SERVICE
ARTICLE A. WATER USE AND SERVICE
SECTION:
6-3A-1: Water Taps
6-3A-2: Application For Water Service; Deposit
6-3A-3: Water Meters Required
6-3A-4: Maintenance And Repair
6-3A-5: Temporary Discontinuance Of Service
6-3A-6: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
6-3A-7: Rates And Charges
6-3A-7-1: Rates And Charges Established
6-3A-7-2: Payment Of Charges; Delinquencies
6-3A-8: Nonliability Of City
6-3A-9: Inspections; Entry Powers
6-3A-10: Authority Of City Council
6-3A-11: Violation And Penalty
6-3A-1: WATER TAPS:
All tapping of mains must be done by the public works director or under his
direct supervision. Any person violating the provisions of this section shall
be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. (1975 Code § 1-810; amd. 1989 Code)
6-3A-2: APPLICATION FOR WATER SERVICE; DEPOSIT:
Application for use of water must be made at the office of the city clerk on
such forms as shall be subscribed by the city clerk. Said application must be
made by the tenant or owner of the property to be benefited, and shall give
information indicating the lot and block on which it is to be used, and he must
agree to conform with the rules and regulations established from time to time
as a condition for the use of water. In the case of applications by tenant of
property to be benefited, the application must be accompanied by a deposit in
the sum of one and one-half (11/2) times the monthly water fee, lawful money of
the United States, to be held by the city so long as the tenant resides on said
property and to be returned to the tenant when he ceases to reside on said
property and has paid any water charges due on said property in full to the
city. (1975 Code § 1-804; amd. 1989 Code)
6-3A-3: WATER METERS REQUIRED:
Commencing April 1, 1998, all water delivered through the city culinary water
system will be measured by means of a meter, the meter to be placed at a point
to be designated by the public works director between the mains and the house
bibs or other openings. All meters must be installed in a frost proof box or
building. Meters shall be and remain under the supervision and control of the
city. (Ord. 392, 10-8-1997, eff. 11-1-1997)
6-3A-4: MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR:
   A.   The service pipes within the premises not owned by the city must be
kept in repair and protected from freezing at the expense of the owner thereof,
who will be responsible for all damages resulting from all leaks or breaks,
resulting from the negligence of the consumer. (1975 Code § 1-812)
   B.   Water will not be furnished where there are defective or leaky faucets,
closets or other fixtures, and when such may be discovered the supply will be
withdrawn until the proper repairs are made by the property owner. (1975 Code §
1-809)
6-3A-5: TEMPORARY DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE:
Should it be desired to discontinue the use of water supplying the premises for
a period of not less than one month, notice in writing must be given the city
clerk and payment in full made at his office. The water shall be turned off on
application without charge, and turned on again, on application, but no
reduction of charges shall be made until after said notice is given. (Ord. 392,
10-8-1997, eff. 11-1-1997)
6-3A-6: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Unlawful Turnon: Should the owner or occupant of the premises turn on
the water, or suffer or cause it to be turned on, after it has been shut off at
the property line, it will be turned off at the main, and a charge of two
hundred dollars ($200.00) must be paid before the same shall be turned on
again. (1975 Code § 1-814; amd. 1989 Code)
   B.   Interference With System: Any person who shall interfere with,
obstruct, molest or injure the waterworks system of the city or any part
thereof, including water meters, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and
shall be subject to a charge, established by the city council, for the cost of
labor and materials required to correct and repair the interference,
obstruction, molestation, or injury. (Ord. 2004-3, 5-12-2004)
   C.   Climbing Water Tower: Any person climbing the tower of the city
waterworks tank, when not employed by the city in work thereon, for any purpose
whatever, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. (1975 Code § 8-118)
   D.   Noncompliance With Provisions: Any person failing to comply with any of
the provisions of this chapter, relating to the waterworks of the water system
of the city, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. (1975 Code § 1-821)
6-3A-7: RATES AND CHARGES 1 :
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 4 of this title.
6-3A-7-1: RATES AND CHARGES ESTABLISHED:
Charges for city culinary water, connecting to the city water system,
interfering with, obstructing, molesting, or injuring the waterworks system of
the city or any part thereof, including water meters, and irrigation charges,
shall be established by resolution adopted by the city council. (Ord. 2004-3,
5-12-2004)
6-3A-7-2: PAYMENT OF CHARGES; DELINQUENCIES:
   A.   When Payment Is Required; Delinquencies: All charges will be due and
payable at the office of the city clerk to the collector of water and licenses
on the first day of each month. Rates and charges not paid within ten (10) days
are delinquent.
   Should any account become delinquent, or in the event it appears that the
collection of the water charges are questionable and the city council feels
that it is insecure for the collection of the same, the director of public
works shall order the services to the property in question terminated upon five
(5) days' notice to the tenant or owner, and said water supply will be
disconnected from the water supply of the city at the end of said five (5) day
period. Notice shall be in writing and shall be effective upon delivery to the
physical location of water delivery, at which time the customer shall be
charged a fee for delivery of the notice as established by resolution. Water
service shall not be reconnected until said water charges have been paid in
full, together with dishonored check charges, if any, the notice delivery fee
and a reconnection charge as established by resolution during regular business
hours and as established by resolution during nonbusiness hours.
   B.   Delinquent Irrigation Charges: In the event any holder or holders of a
lot or lots or tracts of land within the corporate limits of the city shall be
delinquent in the payment of water charges for the delivery of irrigation water
to said lot, or lots or tracts of land within the corporate limits of the city,
by failing to pay irrigation water charges by April 15, following billing, then
it is hereby provided that no water for irrigation purposes shall be delivered
to said delinquent owner until said water charges shall have been first fully
paid, and the delivery of water for irrigation purposes shall be withheld from
said lot or lots or tracts of land until said payment shall have been made.
(Ord. 392, 10-8-1997, eff. 11-1-1997; amd. Ord. 2009-6, 9-9-2009)
6-3A-8: NONLIABILITY OF CITY:
The water may at any time be shut off from the mains without notice, for the
purpose of making repairs, extensions or other necessary purposes, and persons
having boilers supplied by direct pressure from the mains are cautioned against
danger of explosion or collapse and the city shall not be responsible for the
safety of boilers on the premises of any water consumers. (1975 Code § 1-808)
6-3A-9: INSPECTIONS; ENTRY POWERS:
Officers and employees of the city water department shall have free access at
proper hours of the day to all parts of buildings on which water may be
delivered from the city mains for the purpose of inspecting the conditions of
the pipes and fixtures and the manner in which the water is used. (1975 Code §
1-813)
6-3A-10: AUTHORITY OF CITY COUNCIL:
In all cases wherein by this article any discretion is invested in the public
works director or the city clerk, such discretion shall be subject to the
control of the city council. (1975 Code § 1-815; amd. 1989 Code)
6-3A-11: VIOLATION AND PENALTY:
It shall be unlawful for any person to take water from pipes, hydrants or any
other water delivery system of the city without paying the rate and fees
required by the city or without express written permission of the public works
director. Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor. Each day in which such violation shall continue shall be deemed
a separate offense. In addition to criminal penalties, any person violating any
provision of this chapter shall become liable to the city for all expenses,
losses or damages resulting to the city by reason of such violation. (Ord. 369,
3-11-1992)
ARTICLE B. SEWER USE AND SERVICE
SECTION:
6-3B-1: Definitions
6-3B-2: ISPWC Controls
6-3B-3: Use Of Public Sewers Required
6-3B-4: Private Sewage Disposal
6-3B-4-1: Privies, Vaults And Cesspools
6-3B-5: Building Sewers And Connections
6-3B-6: Use Restrictions
6-3B-6-1: Discharge Of Effluent
6-3B-6-2: Prohibited Substances
6-3B-6-3: Materials Under Special Review
6-3B-6-4: Interceptors
6-3B-6-5: Preliminary Treatment
6-3B-6-6: Industrial Wastes; Control Manholes
6-3B-6-7: Measurements, Tests And Analyses
6-3B-6-8: Special Agreements
6-3B-7: Rates And Charges
6-3B-7-1: Application To Connect To Sewer And/Or Water System
6-3B-7-2: Connection Of Property Outside City Limits
6-3B-7-3: Collection Of Assessments
6-3B-7-4: Connection Charges
6-3B-7-5: Sewer Rates And Charges
6-3B-8: Sewer Line Extensions
6-3B-9: Protection From Damage
6-3B-10: Powers And Authority Of Inspectors
6-3B-11: Violations And Penalties
6-3B-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meanings of terms used
in this article shall be as follows:
BUILDING DRAIN: The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage system
which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes inside
the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning five
feet (5') outside the inner face of the building wall.
BUILDING SEWER: The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
CESSPOOL: Any underground recess or receptacle, except septic tanks, into which
body wastes, industrial or residential household wastes are deposited by means
of lines from residence or business property connected to water closets,
drains, tubs or sinks therein, which recess or receptacle retains said wastes
because not connected by outlet line to any main sewer line.
CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (COD): A measure of the oxygen consuming capacity of
inorganic and organic matter present in water or wastewater. It is expressed as
the amount of oxygen consumed from a chemical oxidant in a specific test. It
does not differentiate between stable and unstable organic matter and thus does
not necessarily correlate with biochemical oxygen demand.
COMBINED SEWER: A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
DIRECTOR: The director of public works of the city, or his authorized agent or
representative.
GARBAGE: Solid wastes from the preparation, cooking, and dispensing of food,
and from the handling, storage, and sale of produce.
ISPWC: The "Idaho Standards For Public Works Construction", 1984 edition, as
amended. Whenever the word "owner" is used in the ISPWC, it shall be held to
mean the city of Paul.
INDUSTRIAL WASTES: The liquid wastes from industrial processes as distinct from
sanitary sewage.
NATURAL OUTLET: Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body
of surface or ground water.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
pH: The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams per
liter of solution.
PRIVY: Any building or structure separate and apart from any residence or
business building constructed and intended for use as a place in which to
dispose of human body wastes, offensive wastes from industrial or residential
use and of whatsoever nature, which building or structure has been or is being
used for such purpose and is not connected to water and sewer lines.
PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE: The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1/2") in any dimension.
PUBLIC SEWER: A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights, and is controlled by public authority.
SANITARY SEWER: A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface and
ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
SEWAGE: A combination of the water carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions and industrial establishments, together with such
ground and storm waters as may be present.
SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT: Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
SEWAGE WORKS: All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing of
sewage.
SEWER: A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
SHALL/MAY: Shall is mandatory; may is permissive.
STORM SEWER OR STORM DRAIN: A sewer which carries storm and surface waters and
drainage, but excludes sewage and polluted industrial waste.
SUSPENDED SOLIDS: Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage or other liquids; and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
VAULT: The underground recess over which a privy is constructed and into which
the wastes from the human body, industrial or residential use and operations
are deposited, or any other opening in the ground covered or uncovered but into
which any offensive matter is deposited and not periodically removed, but shall
not include cesspools or septic tanks.
WATERCOURSE: A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously or
intermittently. (1975 Code §§ 4-313, 4-401; amd. 1989 Code; Ord. 2006-3, 4-12-
2006)
6-3B-2: ISPWC CONTROLS:
All construction of sewers in the city shall be in accordance with the ISPWC.
Should any requirement of this code contradict the ISPWC, the ISPWC shall
control. (1989 Code)
6-3B-3: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in an insanitary manner upon public or private property within the
city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said city, any human or animal
excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
   B.   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said city, any sanitary sewage,
industrial wastes or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has
been provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of this article.
   C.   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage. (1975 Code § 4-402; amd. 1989
Code)
6-3B-4: PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL:
   A.   Private Systems Authorized: Where a public sanitary or combined sewer
is not available, the building sewer shall be connected to a private disposal
system complying with the provisions of this section.
   B.   Permit Requirements: Before commencement of construction of a private
sewage disposal system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by
the director. The application for such permit shall be made on a form furnished
by the city, which the applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications
and other information as are deemed necessary by the director. A permit and
inspection fee of two hundred dollars ($200.00) shall be paid to the city clerk
at the time the application is filed.
   C.   Inspection: A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not
become effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
director. He shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of construction
and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the director when
the work is ready for final inspection and before any underground portions are
covered. The inspection shall be made within forty eight (48) hours of the
receipt of notice by the director.
   D.   Construction Specifications: The type, capacities, location and layout
of a private sewage disposal system shall comply with all recommendations of
the department of public health of the state of Idaho and the ISPWC. No permit
shall be issued for any private sewage disposal system employing subsurface
soil absorption facilities where the area of the lot is less than ten thousand
(10,000) square feet. No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to
discharge to any public sewer or natural outlet.
   E.   Connection To Public Sewer: At such time as a public sewer becomes
available to a property served sewage disposal system, a direct connection
shall be made to the public sewer in compliance with this article and any
septic tanks, cesspools and similar private sewage disposal facilities shall be
abandoned and filled with suitable material.
   F.   Responsibility Of Owner: The owner shall operate and maintain the
private sewage disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times at no
expense to the city.
   G.   Provisions Nonlimiting: No statement contained in this section shall be
construed to interfere with any additional requirements that may be imposed by
the city of Paul, Minidoka County, state of Idaho and the United States. (1975
Code § 4-403; amd. 1989 Code)
6-3B-4-1: PRIVIES, VAULTS AND CESSPOOLS:
   A.   Connections To Sewers Required: Every owner, agent or occupant of
premises in the city shall, within thirty (30) days after notice in writing to
that effect, served upon such owner, agent or occupant by the city council,
connect his house, houses or premises with a sewer to be designated by the city
council in said notice. (1975 Code § 4-316; amd. 1989 Code)
In the interest of sanitation, public health and general welfare, any privy,
vault or cesspool located within the corporate limits of the city upon any
property adjacent to a street or alley in which a sewer has been constructed is
hereby declared to be a nuisance. (1975 Code § 4-314)
   B.   Privies, Vaults And Cesspools To Be Removed And Cleaned: Any person
owning, occupying or having control of any premises or property upon which is
situated any nuisance, as defined and declared in this section, shall tear down
and remove same if it be a privy and if it be a vault or cesspool shall clean
same by removing the contents thereof and shall thereupon fill the vault or
cesspool with earth or other suitable material. Cleaning of any vault or
cesspool shall be under the supervision of the director. (1975 Code § 4-315;
amd. 1989 Code)
   C.   Violations: Any person owning, occupying or having control of any
premises or property who shall create, continue or suffer any such nuisance to
exist as defined and declared in this section, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, and each day such nuisance is continued or suffered to exist shall
constitute a separate offense. (1975 Code § 4-317; amd. 1989 Code)
6-3B-5: BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Permit Requirements:
      1.   Permit Required: No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any
connections with or opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or
appurtenance thereof without first obtaining a written permit from the
director.
      2.   Classification Of Permits: There shall be two (2) classes of
building sewer permits:
         a.   For residential and commercial service, and
         b.   For service to establishments producing industrial wastes.
In either case, the owner or his agent shall make application on a special form
furnished by the city. The permit application shall be supplemented by any
plans, specifications, or other information considered pertinent in the
judgment of the director. A permit and inspection fee of twenty five dollars
($25.00) for a residential or commercial building sewer permit and fifty
dollars ($50.00) for an industrial building sewer permit shall be paid to the
city clerk at the time the application is filed.
   B.   Separate Sewer Required: A separate and independent building sewer
shall be provided for every building; except where one building stands at the
rear of another on an interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be
constructed to the rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or
driveway, the building sewer from the front building may be extended to the
rear building and the whole considered as one building sewer.
   C.   Use Of Old Building Sewers: Old building sewers may be used in
connection with new buildings only when they are found, on examination and test
by the director, to meet all requirements of this article.
   D.   Construction Specifications:
      1.   The building sewer shall be in compliance with the ISPWC.
      2.   The size and slope of the building sewer shall be subject to the
approval of the director, but in no event shall the diameter be less than four
inches (4"). The slope of such four inch (4") pipe shall be not less than one-
fourth inch (1/4") per foot. The slope of six inch (6") pipe shall be not less
than one-eighth inch (1/8") per foot.
      3.   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the
building at an elevation below the basement floor. No building sewer shall be
laid parallel to or within three feet (3') of any bearing wall, which might
thereby be weakened. The depth shall be sufficient to afford protection from
frost. The building sewer shall be laid at uniform grade and in straight
alignment insofar as possible. Changes in direction shall be made only with
properly curved pipe and fittings.
      4.   In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit
gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such drain shall
be lifted by approved artificial means and discharged to the building sewer.
      5.   All excavation required for the installation of a building sewer
shall be open trench work unless otherwise approved by the director. Pipe
laying and backfill shall be performed in accordance with the ISPWC except that
no backfill shall be placed until the work has been inspected.
All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
      6.   All joints and connections shall be made gastight and watertight.
All joints in pipe shall be of a type approved by the director.
   E.   Connections To Public Sewers:
      1.   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the
director when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the
public sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the
director or his representative.
      2.   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall be
made at the "Y" branch, if such branch is available at a suitable location. If
no properly located "Y" branch is available, a neat hole may be cut into the
public sewer to receive the building sewer, with entry in the downstream
direction at an angle of about forty five degrees (45°). A forty five degree
(45°) ell may be used to make such connection, with the spigot end cut so as
not to extend past the inner surface of the public sewer. The invert of the
building sewer at the point of connection shall be at the same or at a higher
elevation than the invert of the public sewer. A smooth, neat joint shall be
made, and the connection made secure and watertight by encasement in concrete.
Special fittings may be used for the connection only when approved by the
director.
   F.   Liability Of Owner: All costs and expense incident to the installation
and connection of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner
shall indemnify the city from any loss or damage that may directly or
indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the building sewer. (1975 Code
§ 4-404; amd. 1989 Code)
6-3B-6: USE RESTRICTIONS:
6-3B-6-1: DISCHARGE OF EFFLUENT:
   A.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water,
surface water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, foundation
drainage, cooling water or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary
sewer.
   B.   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers,
or to a natural outlet approved by the director. Industrial cooling water or
unpolluted process waters may be discharged, upon approval of the director, to
a storm sewer, combined sewer or natural outlet.
6-3B-6-2: PROHIBITED SUBSTANCES:
Except as hereinafter provided, no person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged any of the following described waters or wastes to any public sewer:
   A.   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than one hundred fifty
degrees Fahrenheit (150°F).
   B.   Any water or waste which may contain more than one hundred (100) parts
per million, by weight, of fat, oil or grease.
   C.   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas.
   D.   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded.
   E.   Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, paunch manure or any other solid or viscous
substance capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other
interference with the proper operation of the sewer works.
   F.   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or higher than 9.0, or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment and personnel of the sewer works.
   G.   Any waters or wastes containing a toxic or poisonous substance in
sufficient quantity to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process,
constitute a hazard to humans or animals, or create any hazard in the receiving
waters of the sewage treatment plant.
   H.   All waters or wastes containing suspended solids of such character and
quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to handle such materials
at the sewage treatment plant.
   I.   Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance capable of creating a public
nuisance. (1975 Code § 4-405)
6-3B-6-3: MATERIALS UNDER SPECIAL REVIEW:
The admission into the public sewers of any waters or wastes having: a) a COD
greater than two hundred twenty (220) parts per million by weight, or b)
containing more than two hundred twenty (220) parts per million by weight of
suspended solids, or c) containing any quantity of substances having the
characteristics described in section
6-3B-6-2 of this article, or d) having an average daily flow greater than two
percent (2%) of the average daily sewage flow of the city, shall be subject to
the review and approval of the director. Where necessary in the opinion of the
director, the owner shall provide, at his expense, such preliminary treatment
as may be necessary to: a) reduce the COD to two hundred twenty (220) parts per
million and the suspended solids to two hundred twenty (220) parts per million
by weight, or b) reduce objectionable characteristics or constituents to within
the maximum limits provided for in section
6-3B-6-2 of this article, or c) control the quantities and rates of discharge
of such waters or wastes. Plans, specifications and any other pertinent
information relating to proposed preliminary treatment facilities shall be
submitted for the approval of the director and of the state board of health,
and no construction of such facilities shall be commenced until said approvals
are obtained in writing. (Ord. 2006-3, 4-12-2006)
6-3B-6-4: INTERCEPTORS:
   A.   Required: Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in
the opinion of the director, they are necessary for the proper handling of
liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes,
sand and other harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be
required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall
be of a type and capacity approved by the director, and shall be located as to
be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
   B.   Construction Specifications: Grease and oil interceptors shall be
constructed of impervious materials capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme
changes in temperature. They shall be of substantial construction, watertight
and equipped with easily removable covers which when bolted in place shall be
gastight and watertight.
   C.   Maintenance: Where installed, all grease, oil and sand interceptors
shall be maintained by the owner, at his expense, in continuously efficient
operation at all times. (1975 Code § 4-405)
6-3B-6-5: PRELIMINARY TREATMENT:
Where preliminary treatment facilities are provided for any waters or wastes,
they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation
by the owner at his expense. (1975 Code § 4-405)
6-3B-6-6: INDUSTRIAL WASTES; CONTROL MANHOLES:
When required by the director, the owner of any property served by a building
sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control manhole in
the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of the
wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located,
and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the director. The
manhole shall be installed by the owner at his expense, and shall be maintained
by him so as to be safe and accessible at all times. (1975 Code § 4-405)
6-3B-6-7: MEASUREMENTS, TESTS AND ANALYSES:
All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters and
wastes referred to in sections
6-3B-6-2 and
6-3B-6-3 of this article shall be determined in accordance with "Standard
Methods For The Examination Of Water And Sewage", and shall be determined at
the control manhole provided for in section
6-3B-6-6 of this article, or upon suitable samples taken at said control
manhole. In the event that no special manhole has been required, the control
manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in the public
sewer to the point at which the building sewer is connected. (1975 Code § 4-
405)
6-3B-6-8: SPECIAL AGREEMENTS:
No statement contained in this section
6-3B-6 shall be construed as preventing any special agreement or arrangement
between the city and any industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of
unusual strength or character may be accepted by the city for treatment,
subject to payment therefor by the industrial concern. (1975 Code § 4-405)
6-3B-7: RATES AND CHARGES 1 :
 
Notes
1 1. See also chapter 4 of this title.
6-3B-7-1: APPLICATION TO CONNECT TO SEWER AND/OR WATER SYSTEM:
Application for connection to the city water or sewer service must be made at
the office of the city clerk in such form as the city council may prescribe.
The application must be made by the owner or tenant of the property to be
benefited and must state the street address of the property to be serviced, or
in the event that the property is adjacent to the city and subject to
annexation, the legal description of the land must be furnished to the city
clerk. All applicants must agree to conform to the rules and regulations
established from time to time as a condition for water and sewer service
connection. All applications for new water connections where wetlands exist
shall be scrutinized to verify that the potential users have obtained proper
section 404 permits from the United States army corps of engineers. (Ord. 388,
7-9-1997)
6-3B-7-2: CONNECTION OF PROPERTY OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS:
   A.   Application To Connect To Sewer And/Or Water System; Fees: Application
for connection to the city water or sewer service must be made at the office of
the city clerk in such form as the city council may prescribe. The application
must be made by the owner or tenant of the property to be benefited and must
state the legal description of the land on which it is to be used and that said
property is adjacent to the city and subject to annexation. Said applicant must
agree to conform to the rules and regulations established from time to time as
a condition for water and sewer service connection. (1975 Code § 4-504)
Any dwelling or business desiring connection to the city sewer or water system
may, upon making application as set forth above, be permitted to connect to the
city water and/or sewer system; provided, however, that said application shall
be submitted to the city council for its approval prior to any connection being
permitted and that in the event of such approval and upon payment to the city
clerk of a minimum connection fee of three hundred dollars ($300.00) for each
sewer connection, and one and one-half (11/2) times the fee charged for water
connections within the city for each water connection. The applicant shall bear
the costs and expenses of installing all necessary sewer and water lines
required to connect to the city's lines. The city shall have the right to
reject any applicant from outside of the city for lack of feasibility,
unavailable capacity of the city system or for any other good cause. (Ord. 299,
9-6-1976, eff. retroactive to 9-1-1976; amd. 1989 Code)
   B.   Connection To The City Lines: The dwelling or business outside of the
city desiring connection to the line from the dwelling or business to the
present existing city water or sewer lines shall be subject to the following
conditions: The specifications for all sewer and water lines including diameter
and type of pipe together with any life stations necessary shall be set forth
by the public works director and shall be of the same or greater quality than
the existing system to which such lines will be connected. Upon extension of
the line to the served property, said property shall be assessed a hookup
charge as set forth in subsection A of this section and that the entire costs
of extending the line including any life stations shall be paid by the
properties to be served in addition to said hookup charge as set forth in
subsection A of this section. Said costs of construction shall be paid in full
prior to the connection of any service on the lines so connected. (1975 Code §
4-405; amd. 1989 Code)
   C.   Monthly Service Charges: The property connecting shall pay to the city
a monthly charge for water services of one and one-half (11/2) times the
standard charge made within the city limits, and shall pay to the city a
monthly charge for sewer services of one and one-half (11/2) times the standard
charge made within the city limits. (Ord. 2007-11, 10-10-2007, eff. 11-1-2007)
   D.   Ownership Of Extended Water And Sewer Lines: All right, title and
interest of the applicant to the water or sewer lines installed and paid for by
the applicant from the city limits to the applicant's property shall vest
automatically in the city upon connection to the city water or sewer system.
   E.   Disposition Of Fees: All fees collected for sewer connection out of the
city shall be paid by the city clerk to the city treasurer and all charges
shall be paid in full in advance to connect to the water or sewer lines. The
funds deposited with the city treasurer, when received from connections to the
sewer and water line constructed under the joint effort of the city and
Minidoka County School District, will be used to discharge the debt
attributable thereto. All other funds shall be used for either extension of
sewer line facilities and maintenance of the existing lines or in connection
with the retirement of any revenue bonds of the city outstanding for sewer
purposes. (1975 Code § 4-504; amd. 1989 Code)
   F.   Prohibition; Prime Farm Land: Water service shall not be provided to
any new structure constructed on prime farm land as identified by the United
States department of agriculture, NRCS, if such structure would result in the
land losing its prime farm land designation. This restriction shall not apply
to land within the city's limits or land adjacent to existing developed land
which is developed in accordance with the city's approved comprehensive plan.
(Ord. 388, 7-9-1997)
6-3B-7-3: COLLECTION OF ASSESSMENTS:
The collection of the assessments to hook up to the sewer line of the city, as
set forth in this chapter, shall be made by the city treasurer and all said
charges shall be paid in full to the city treasurer in advance to connect to
the sewer line. (1975 Code § 4-505)
6-3B-7-4: CONNECTION CHARGES:
The minimum charge for connection to any sewer line within the city limits
shall be the sum of three hundred dollars ($300.00). The owner of the property
to be serviced shall bear the costs and expenses of installing all necessary
sewer lines required to connect to the city's lines. (Ord. 300, 9-16-1976; amd.
1989 Code)
The collection of the assessments to hook up to the sewer line of the city, as
set forth in section
6-3B-7-1 of this article, shall be made by the city treasurer and all said
charges shall be paid in full to the city treasurer in advance to connect to
the sewer line. (1975 Code § 4-505)
6-3B-7-5: SEWER RATES AND CHARGES:
   A.   General: A user charge shall be levied on all users of the treatment
works to cover the cost of operation and maintenance of such works. The user
charge rate shall be set to generate sufficient revenue to offset the actual
cost of all treatment works operation and maintenance, including replacement.
The said rate shall be reviewed annually and shall be revised periodically as
warranted to reflect the actual operation and maintenance cost involved. (1975
Code § 4-608)
   B.   User Charge System: The user charge system to cover the cost of
operation and maintenance of the treatment works shall be based on the
approximate proportion of the user's contribution to the total loading of the
treatment works. The approximate proportional usage shall be determined on the
basis of a comparative quantity of flow, expressed in "residential units" or
"residential unit equivalents"; provided, that where a user is contributing
nondomestic sewage having a COD loading and/or suspended solids loading in
excess of the allowable limits hereinafter designated, a surcharge based upon
the ratios of the actual loading to the allowable loadings shall be levied.
(Ord. 2006-3, 4-12-2006)
   C.   Residential Unit: A "residential unit" shall be defined herein as being
the amount of domestic sewage contributed from a representative single
residential dwelling designed for occupancy by one family only, and which is
not occupied by more than one family. For purposes of comparative flows, a
residential unit shall be considered to average four hundred (400) gallons per
day.
The following other residential establishments shall be deemed to have the
residential units indicated:
      1.   Duplex, triplex, apartment house or other multiresidential
establishments designed for occupancy for living purposes by more than one
family, which is divided into separate housekeeping units each of which is
designed for occupancy by one family; each housekeeping unit shall be deemed to
be a separate residential unit.
      2.   Auto court, trailer court, trailer park and other like
establishment, divided into separate living units, auto spaces or trailer
spaces, with or without housekeeping facilities; each room or suite of rooms,
or each auto space or trailer space which is designed to be occupied for living
purposes by persons living separately from others shall be deemed to be a
separate residential unit.
      3.   Lodging house, rooming house, dormitory, rest home or other like
establishment not hereinabove specified, which is occupied, designed, intended
or arranged for occupancy for residential purposes by one or more persons to
whom rooms are rented or otherwise made available for sleeping purposes without
separate housekeeping facilities for each room or suite of rooms; each six (6)
beds, or part of six (6) beds, shall be deemed to be a separate residential
unit. If separate housekeeping facilities are accorded any room or suite of
rooms, each such room or suite of rooms shall be deemed a separate residential
unit.
   D.   Residential Unit Equivalents: A residential unit equivalency shall be
assigned to any nonresidential establishment, or class of establishment, which
is designed, intended or used for commercial, public or industrial purposes
(including motels and hotels), and which is a recipient of waste treatment
services. The number of residential unit equivalents so assigned to such an
establishment, or class of establishment, shall reflect the approximate flow
contribution of the user, or class of user, compared with a single residential
unit as hereinabove defined. (1975 Code § 4-608)
The residential unit equivalents for the different users, or various classes of
users involved, shall be determined and assigned by the city council by
resolution, and such assignments shall be set forth in a schedule of sewer user
equivalencies. Should any user disagree with the council's determination of the
residential unit equivalent for the user, the user shall have the right to
install a measuring device approved by the public works director, at the user's
costs. Following six (6) months of measured flow, the user's flow shall be
averaged per month, and the user's residential unit equivalent shall be
adjusted to the six (6) month average. (1975 Code § 4-608; amd. 1989 Code)
   E.   Basic User Charge Method: The basic user charge method shall be
applicable to all users having wastewater with characteristics similar to
normal domestic sewage. The basic user's monthly charge shall be computed by
dividing the user's applicable number of residential units and/or residential
unit equivalents by the total average annual number of residential units and
residential unit equivalents, and multiplying this quotient by one-twelfth (1/
12) of the total annual operation and maintenance costs. This procedure can be
expressed by the following user charge equation:
         UMC = (q x R) x OM x 1/12
         Where:
         "UMC" represents the user's monthly charge,
         "q" represents the quantity of sewage contributed by the users,
expressed in residential units and/or residential unit equivalents,
         "OM" represents the total annual cost relative to the operation,
maintenance, and replacement of the treatment works, including, but not limited
to, costs for the following: labor, maintenance equipment, replacement parts
and equipment, supplies, and electric power. (1975 Code § 4-608)
   F.   User Surcharge: When an industry, or any other user, contributes
wastewater having an average COD loading and/or suspended solids loading in
excess of the designated allowable limits hereinafter provided, a surcharge
shall be levied against such user. The said surcharge shall be based on the
average degree of excess loading.
The COD and suspended solids loadings shall be determined by conventional
standard tests made periodically by qualified city representatives. The
frequency of such tests shall be as deemed appropriate by the city to obtain
valid and representative results. The user's monthly surcharge shall be
computed by use of the following equation:
         US = (c ÷ C) x UMC + (s S) x UMC
         Where:
         "US" represents the user's monthly surcharge to be added to the basic
user's monthly charge (UMC) computed as provided for above,
         "c" represents the average COD loading of the user's wastewater
contribution, expressed in parts per million,
         "C" represents the allowable limit of COD loading above which a user's
surcharge shall be levied hereby designated as being 220 parts per million,
         "s" represents the average suspended solids loading of the user's
wastewater contribution, expressed in parts per million, and
         "S" represents the allowable limit of suspended solids loading above
which a user's surcharge shall be levied, hereby designated as being 220 parts
per million.
The surcharge described herein shall be established by resolution. (Ord. 2006-
3, 4-12-2006)
   G.   Relief From Unjust Rates: The owner or occupant of any premises who by
reason of special circumstances finds that the charges, in his opinion, are
unjust or inequitable as applied to his premises within the spirit and intent
of the foregoing provisions, may make written application to the city council,
stating the circumstances and requesting a different basis of charges for sewer
services to his premises. If such application be approved, the city council may
by resolution fix and establish fair and equitable rates for such premises to
be effective as of the date of such application and continuing during the
period of such special circumstances. The city council may on its own motion
find that by reason of special circumstances said charges are unjust and
inequitable as applied to particular premises and may by resolution fix and
establish fair and equitable sewer service charges for such premises during the
period of such special circumstances, or any part thereof. (1975 Code § 4-608)
   H.   Rates Established: Owners or occupants of all premises now served by
sanitary sewer of the city and all premises to be furnished sewer service by
sewage collection system shall be billed for sewer service upon the rates and
effective dates established by resolution adopted by the city council. (Ord.
404, 7-11-2001)
6-3B-8: SEWER LINE EXTENSIONS:
The specifications for all sewer line extensions shall be established by the
public works director and shall be of the same or greater quality as the
existing system. (1975 Code § 4-503; amd. 1989 Code)
6-3B-9: PROTECTION FROM DAMAGE:
No unauthorized person shall maliciously, wilfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is a part of the municipal sewage works. Any person violating
this provision shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. (1975 Code § 4-406; amd. 1989
Code)
6-3B-10: POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS:
The director and other duly authorized employees of the city bearing proper
credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter upon all properties
for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing
in accordance with the provisions of this article. (1975 Code § 4-407)
6-3B-11: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Notice Of Violation: Any person found to be violating any provision of
this article except section
6-3B-9 of this article, shall be served by the city with written notice stating
the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the
satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time
stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations.
   B.   Violation And Penalty: Any person who shall continue any violation
beyond the time limit provided for in subsection A of this section shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor. Each day in which any such violation shall continue
shall be deemed a separate offense.
   C.   Liable To City: Any person violating any of the provisions of this
article shall become liable to the city for any expense, loss, or damage
occasioned the city by reason of such violation. (1975 Code § 4-408; amd. 1989
Code)
ARTICLE C. POTABLE WATER SYSTEM
SECTION:
6-3C-1: Purpose
6-3C-2: Responsibility
6-3C-3: Definitions
6-3C-4: Requirements
6-3C-5: Fees And Charges
6-3C-6: Penalties And Enforcement
6-3C-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article is:
   A.   To protect the public potable water supply of the City of Paul from the
possibility of contamination or pollution by isolating within its customers'
internal distribution system(s) or its customers' private water system(s) such
contaminants or pollutants which could backflow or back siphon into the public
water supply system; and
   B.   To promote the elimination or control of existing cross connections,
actual or potential, between its customers' in plant potable water system(s)
and nonpotable water systems, plumbing fixtures and industrial piping systems;
and
   C.   To provide for the maintenance of a continuing program of cross
connection control which will systematically and effectively prevent the
contamination or pollution of all potable water systems. (Ord. 2013-3, 2-12-
2014)
6-3C-2: RESPONSIBILITY:
The Public Works Director shall be responsible for protection of the public
potable water distribution system from contamination or pollution due to the
backflow or back siphonage of contaminants or pollutants through the water
service connection. If, in the judgment of said water Public Works Director, an
approved backflow prevention device is required, for the safety of the water
system, the writing to said customer to install such an approved backflow at an
appropriate place on or at the premises of the customer which shall provide the
needed protection. The customer shall immediately install such approved device
or devices at customer's own expense; and failure, refusal or inability on the
part of the customer to install said device or devices immediately shall
constitute a ground for discontinuing water service to the premises until such
device or devices have been properly installed. The backflow prevention device
installed shall, at a minimum, meet the requirements of the Idaho Department of
Environmental Quality and be in compliance with the most recent standards of
the AWWA, USCEC, AASE, IAPMO and UPC. That is, first the device must be on the
department's approved list of devices and second the device selected must also
be in agreement with the devices referenced in Idaho Administrative Code
(IDAPA) section 58.01.08.543.04. (Ord. 2013-3, 2-12-2014)
6-3C-3: DEFINITIONS:
AIR GAP: The unobstructed vertical distance through the free atmosphere between
the lowest opening from any pipe or faucet supplying water to a tank, plumbing
fixture, or other device and the flood level rim of said vessel. An approved
air gap shall be at least double the diameter of the supply pipe, measured
vertically, above the top of the rim of the vessel; and, in no case less than
one inch (1"). When an air gap is used at the service connection to prevent the
contamination or pollution of the public potable water system, an emergency
bypass shall be installed around the air gap system and an approved reduced
pressure principle device shall be installed in the bypass system.
APPROVED: Accepted by the Public Works Director and/or the Idaho Department of
Environmental Quality as meeting an applicable specification stated or cited in
this chapter, or as suitable for the proposed use.
ATMOSPHERIC VACUUM BREAKER: A device, which allows air to enter the water line
when the line pressure is reduced to a gauge pressure of zero (0) or below. The
atmospheric vacuum breaker is designed to prevent back siphonage only. It is
not effective against backflow due to back pressure and shall not be installed
where it will be under continuous operating pressure for more than twelve (12)
hours in any twenty four (24) hour period.
Poppets of all atmospheric vacuum breakers should be precision fitted to ensure
positive closure.
AUXILIARY WATER SUPPLY: Any water supply on or available to the premises other
than the purveyor's approved public potable water supply. These auxiliary
waters may include water from another purveyor's public potable water supply or
any natural source(s) such as a well, spring, river, stream, etc., or "used
waters" or "industrial fluids". These waters may be polluted or contaminated or
they may be objectionable and constitute an unacceptable water source over
which the water purveyor does not have sanitary control.
BACK PRESSURE BACKFLOW: Backflow due to an increased pressure above the supply
pressure, which may be due to pumps, boilers, gravity or other sources of
pressure.
BACK SIPHONAGE: The flowing back of used, contaminated, or polluted water from
a plumbing fixture or vessel into a water supply due to a negative pressure in
such a pipe.
BACKFLOW: The flow of contaminated water or other nonpotable liquids, mixtures
or substances under pressure into the distributing pipes of a potable water
supply system from any source or sources other than its intended source.
BACKFLOW PREVENTER: A device or means designed to prevent backflow or back
siphonage.
CONTAMINATION: An impairment of the quality of the potable water by sewage,
industrial fluids or waste liquids, compounds or other materials to a degree,
which creates an actual hazard to the public health through poisoning or
through the spread of disease.
CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL BY CONTAINMENT: The installation of an approved
backflow prevention device at the water service connection to any customer's
premises where it is physically and economically infeasible to find and
permanently eliminate or control all actual or potential cross connections
within the customer's water system; or, it shall mean the installation of an
approved backflow prevention device on the service line leading to and
supplying a portion of a customer's water system where there are actual or
potential cross connections which cannot be effectively eliminated or
controlled at the point of cross connection.
CROSS CONNECTIONS, CONTROLLED: A connection between a potable water system and
a nonpotable water system with an approved backflow prevention device properly
installed that will continuously afford the protection commensurate with the
degree of hazard.
CROSS CONTAMINATION: Any physical connection or arrangement of piping or
fixtures between two (2) otherwise separate piping systems one (1) of which
contains potable water and the other nonpotable water or industrial fluids of
questionable safety, through which, or because of which, backflow or back
siphonage may occur into the potable water system. A water service connection
between a public potable water system and a customer's water distribution
system which is cross connected to a contaminated fixture, industrial fluid
system or with a potentially contaminated supply or auxiliary water system,
constitutes one (1) type of cross connection. Other types of cross connections
include connectors such as swing connections, removable sections, four-way plug
valves, spools, dummy sections of pipe, swivel or changeover devices, sliding
multiport tube, solid connections, etc.
DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY: An assembly of two (2) independently operating
approved check valves with tightly closing shutoff valves on each side of the
check valves, plus properly located test cocks for the testing of each check
valve. The entire assembly shall meet the design and performance specifications
and approval of a recognized and City approved testing agency for backflow
prevention devices. To be approved these devices must be readily accessible for
in-line maintenance and testing.
HAZARD, DEGREE OF: The term if derived from an evaluation of the potential risk
to public health and the adverse effect of the hazard upon the potable water
system.
HAZARD, HEALTH: Any condition, device, or practice in the water supply system
and its operation which could create, or in the judgment of the Public Works
Director may create a danger to the health and well being of the water
consumer. An example of a health hazard is a structural defect, including cross
connections, in a water supply system.
HAZARD, PLUMBING: A plumbing type cross connection in a consumer's potable
water system that has not been properly protected by a vacuum breaker, air gap
separation or backflow prevention device. Unprotected plumbing type cross
connections are considered to be a health hazard.
HAZARD, POLLUTIONAL: An actual or potential threat to the physical properties
of the water system or to the potability of the public or the consumer's
potable water system but which would constitute a nuisance or be aesthetically
objectionable or could cause damage to the system or its appurtenances, but
would not be dangerous to health.
HAZARD, SYSTEM: An actual or potential threat of severe damage to the physical
properties of the public potable water system or the consumer's potable water
system or of a pollution or contamination which would have a protracted effect
on the quality of the potable water in the system.
INDUSTRIAL FLUIDS SYSTEM: Any system containing a fluid or solution which may
be chemically, biologically or otherwise contaminated or polluted in a form or
concentration such as would constitute a health, system, pollutional or
plumbing hazard if introduced into an approved water supply. This may include,
but not be limited to: polluted or contaminated water; all types of process
waters and "used water" originating from the public potable water system which
may have deteriorated in sanitary quality; chemicals in fluid form; plating
acids and alkalies, circulated cooling waters connected to an open cooling
tower and/or cooling towers that are chemically or biologically treated or
stabilized with toxic substances; contaminated natural waters such as from
wells, springs, streams, rivers, bays, harbors, seas, irrigation canals, or
systems, etc.; oils, gases, glycerin, paraffin, caustic and acid solutions and
other liquid and gaseous fluids used in industrial or other purposes or for
firefighting purposes.
POLLUTION: The presence of any foreign substance (organic, inorganic, or
biological) in water which tends to degrade its quality so as to constitute a
hazard or impair the usefulness or quality of the water to a degree which does
not create an actual hazard to the public health but which does adversely and
unreasonable affect such waters for domestic use.
PRESSURE VACUUM BREAKER WITH INTERNAL CHECK VALVE: Pressure vacuum breaker
assemblies consist of a check valve (sometimes 2), vacuum relief, inlet and
discharge shutoffs and properly installed test cocks. The pressure vacuum
breaker has a vacuum relief valve which is internally loaded, normally by means
of a spring. This spring loading allows the device to be installed on the
pressure side of a shutoff valve.
PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR: The person in charge of the Water Department of the City
of Paul that is invested with the authority and responsibility for the
implementation of an effective Cross Connection Control Program and for the
enforcement of the provisions of this article.
REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE DEVICE: An assembly of two (2) independently
operating approved check valves with an automatically operating differential
relief valve between the two (2) check valves, tightly closing shutoff valves
on either side of the check valves, plus properly located test cocks for the
testing of the check and relief valves. The entire assembly shall meet the
design and performance specifications and approval of a recognized and City
approved testing agency for backflow prevention assemblies. The device shall
operate to maintain the pressure in the zone between the two (2) check valves
at a level less than the pressure on the public water supply side of the
device. At cessation of normal flow the pressure between the two (2) check
valves shall be less than the pressure on the public water supply side of the
device. In case of leakage of either of the check valves the differential
relief valve shall operate to maintain the reduced pressure in the zone between
the check valves by discharging to the atmosphere. When the inlet pressure is
two (2) pounds per square inch or less, the relief valve shall open to the
atmosphere. To be approved these devices must be readily accessible for in-line
maintenance and testing and be installed in a location where no part of the
device will be submerged.
WATER, NONPOTABLE: Water which is not safe for human consumption or which is of
questionable potability.
WATER, POTABLE: Any water which, according to recognized standards is safe for
human consumption.
WATER PURVEYOR: The City of Paul or its authorized agent.
WATER, SERVICE CONNECTIONS: The terminal end of a service connection from the
public potable water system; i.e., where the water purveyor loses jurisdiction
and sanitary control over the water at its point of delivery to the customer's
water system. If a meter is installed at the end of the service connection,
then the service connection shall mean the downstream end of the meter. There
should be no unprotected takeoffs from the service line ahead of any meter or
backflow prevention device located at the point of delivery to the customer's
water system. Service connection shall also include water service connection
from a fire hydrant and all other temporary or emergency water service
connections from the public potable water system.
WATER, USED: Any water supplied by a water purveyor from a public potable water
system to a consumer's water system after it has passed through the point of
delivery and no longer under the sanitary control of the water purveyor. (Ord.
2013-3, 2-12-2014)
6-3C-4: REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Water System: The water system shall be considered as made up of two
(2) parts: the utility system and the customer system.
      1.   Utility system shall consist of the source facilities and the
distribution system; and shall include all those facilities of the water system
under the complete control of the utility, up to the point where the customer's
system begins.
         a.   The source shall include all components of the facilities
utilized in the production, treatment, storage, and delivery of water to the
distribution system.
         b.   The distribution system shall include the network of conduits
used for the delivery of water from the source to the customer's system.
      2.   The customer's system shall include those parts of the facilities
beyond the termination of the utility distribution system which are utilized in
conveying utility delivered domestic water to points of use.
   B.   Facilities:
      1.   No water service connection to any premises shall be installed or
maintained by the water purveyor unless the water supply is protected as
required by State laws and regulation and this article. Service of water to any
premises shall be discontinued by the water purveyor if a backflow prevention
device required by this article is not installed, tested and maintained, or if
it is found that a backflow prevention device has been removed, bypassed, or if
an unprotected cross connection exists on the premises. Service will not be
restored until such conditions or defects are corrected.
      2.   The customer's system should be open for inspection at all
reasonable times to authorized representatives of the City of Paul to determine
whether cross connections or other structural or sanitary hazards, including
violations of these regulations, exist. When such a condition becomes known,
the Public Works Director shall deny or immediately discontinue service to the
premises by providing for a physical break in the service line until the
customer has corrected the condition(s) in conformance with State and City
ordinances relating to plumbing and water supplies and the regulations adopted
pursuant thereto.
      3.   An approved backflow prevention device shall also be installed on
each service line to a customer's water system at or near the property line or
immediately inside the building being served; but, in all cases, before the
first branch line leading off the service line wherever the following
conditions exist:
         a.   In the case of premises having an auxiliary water supply which
can supply water to the City through a cross connection and which is not or may
not be of safe bacteriological or chemical quality and which is not acceptable
as an additional source by the Public Works Director and the Idaho Department
of Environmental Quality. The public water system shall be protected against
backflow from the premises by installing a backflow prevention device in the
service line appropriate to the degree of hazard.
         b.   In the case of premises on which any industrial fluids or any
other objectionable substance is handled in such a fashion as to create an
actual or potential hazard to the public water system shall be protected
against backflow from the premises by installing a backflow prevention device
in the service line appropriate to the degree of hazard. This shall include the
handling of process waters and waters originating from the utility system which
have been subject to deterioration in quality.
         c.   In the case of premises having: 1) internal cross connections
that cannot be permanently corrected and controlled, or 2) intricate plumbing
and piping arrangements or where entry to all portions of the premises is not
readily accessible for inspection purposes, making it impractical or impossible
to ascertain whether or not public water system shall be protected against
backflow from the premises by installing a backflow prevention device in the
service line.
         d.   In the case of a wet fire system connections.
      4.   The type of protective device required under subsections B3a, B3b,
B3c and B3d of this section shall depend upon the degree of hazard which exists
as follows:
         a.   In the case of any premises where there is an auxiliary water
supply as stated in subsection B3a of this section and it is not subject to any
of the following rules, the public water system shall be protected by an
approved air gap separation or an approved reduced pressure principle backflow
prevention device.
         b.   In the case of any premises where there is water or substance
that would be objectionable but not hazardous to health, if introduced into the
public water system, the public water system shall be protected by an approved
double check valve assembly.
         c.   In the case of any premises where there is any material dangerous
to health which is handled in such a fashion as to create an actual or
potential hazard to the public water system, the public water system shall be
protected by an approved air gap separation or an approved reduced pressure
principle backflow prevention device. Examples of premises where these
conditions may exist include sewage treatment plants, sewage pumping stations,
chemical manufacturing plants, hospitals, mortuaries and plating plants.
         d.   In the case of any premises where there are "uncontrolled" cross
connections either actual or potential, the public water system shall be
protected by an approved air gap separation or an approved prevention device at
the service connection.
         e.   In the case of any premises where, because of security
requirements or other prohibitions or restrictions it is impossible or
impractical to make a complete in plant cross connection survey, the public
water system shall be protected against backflow or back siphonage from the
premises by the installation of a backflow prevention device in the service
line. In this case maximum protection will be required that is, an approved air
gap separation or an approved reduced pressure principle backflow prevention
device shall be installed in each service to the premises.
         f.   In the case of a wet fire systems connection where there is an
actual or potential danger to pollution or contamination of such system, the
public water system shall be protected by a double check valve assembly.
      5.   Any backflow prevention device required herein shall be of a model
and size approved by the water Public Works Director and Idaho Department of
Environmental Quality. The term "approved backflow prevention device" shall
mean a device that has been manufactured in full conformance with the standards
established by the applicable American Water Works Association standards and,
have met completely the laboratory and field performance specifications of the
Foundation for Cross Connection Control and Hydraulic Research of the
University of Southern California established by "Specifications of Backflow
Prevention Devices" - #69-2 dated March 1969 or the most current issue.
Said AWWA and FCCC&HR standards and specifications have been adopted by the
Public Works Director. Final approval shall be evidenced by "certificate of
approval" issued by an approved testing laboratory certifying full compliance
with said AWWA standards and FCCC&HR specifications.
The following testing laboratory has been qualified by the Public Works
Director to test and certify backflow preventers:
   Foundation for Cross Connection Control and Hydraulic Research
   University of Southern California
   University Park
   Los Angeles, CA 90007
Testing laboratories other than the laboratory listed above will be added to an
approved list as they are qualified by the Public Works Director. Backflow
preventers, which may be subjected, to back pressure or back siphonage that
have been fully tested and have been granted a certificate of approval by said
qualified laboratory and are listed on the laboratory's current list of
"approved devices" may be used without further test or qualification.
      6.   It shall be the duty of the customer/user at any premises where
backflow prevention devices are installed to have the devices pass certified
inspection and operational tests made at the time of installation and at least
once per year thereafter. In those instances where the Public Works Director
deems the hazard to be great enough he may require certified inspections at
more frequent intervals. These inspections and tests shall be performed by an
American Water Works Association (AWWA) certified tester approved by the Public
Works Director and Idaho Department of Environmental Quality. It shall be the
duty of the Public Works Director to see that these timely tests are made. The
customer/user shall notify the Public Works Director in advance when the tests
are to be undertaken so that he or his representatives may witness the tests if
it is so desired. These devices shall be repaired, overhauled or replaced at
the expense of the customer/user whenever said devices are found to be
defective. Records of such tests, repairs, and overhaul shall be kept and made
available to the Public Works Director.
      7.   All presently installed backflow prevention devices which do not
meet the requirements of this section but were approved devices for the
purposes described herein at the time of installation and which have been
properly maintained, shall, except for the inspection and maintenance
requirements of these under subsection B6 of this section, be excluded from the
requirements of these rules so long as the Public Works Director is assured
that they will satisfactorily protect the utility system. Whenever the existing
device is moved from the present location or requires more than minimum
maintenance or when the Public Works Director finds that the maintenance
constitutes a hazard to health, the unit shall be replaced by a backflow
prevention device meeting the requirements of this section.
      8.   On new installations, the owners and/or installers shall comply with
all State and Federal laws concerning on site evaluation and/or inspection of
plans in order to determine the type of backflow preventer, if any, that will
be required, shall obtain all permits if required, and shall allow all
necessary inspection and testing. Owners and/or installers of water services
shall allow City personnel to inspect water system connections and service line
installations prior to backfilling operations in order to ensure that
installations are in compliance with local and State regulations. (Ord. 2013-3,
2-12-2014)
6-3C-5: FEES AND CHARGES:
The City reserves the right to assess or impose fees or charges, by resolution,
for the following services or permits:
   A.   Testing fees;
   B.   Retesting fees;
   C.   Fee for reinspection;
   D.   Charges for after hours inspections and/or tests;
   E.   Cross connection permits.
The City of Paul is hereby authorized to review rates and change rates
accordingly if deemed appropriate to ensure continued proper operation of the
system. The City is hereby directed and authorized to provide for annual
notification of water system fees and costs to users. User connections fee
rates are subject to review and the City is hereby authorized to change such
rates if deemed appropriate to ensure continued operation of the system. (Ord.
2013-3, 2-12-2014)
6-3C-6: PENALTIES AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   In addition to any penalties imposed by Federal or State law, any
person who violates, omits, disobeys, neglects, refuses to comply with any of
the provisions of this article or any other rules and regulations with regard
to cross connection adopted by the City of Paul, shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor. Each day in which the violation occurs shall continue to be deemed
a separate offense.
   B.   Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall also
be liable to the City of Paul for any expense, loss, or damage, occasioned by
the City by reason of such violation.
   C.   Any person violating the provisions of this article will be denied
delivery of water until the violation is corrected. (Ord. 2013-3, 2-12-2014)
CHAPTER 4
UTILITY ACCOUNTS
SECTION:
6-4-1: Utility Accounts Established
6-4-2: Bills For Service
6-4-3: Payments On Accounts; Delinquencies
6-4-1: UTILITY ACCOUNTS ESTABLISHED:
The city clerk shall establish an account for all premises consisting of each
individual lot, piece or parcel of property, dwelling, flat, rooming house,
eating place, shop, place of business, manufacturing or business establishment
in the city. (1975 Code § 4-601)
6-4-2: BILLS FOR SERVICE:
All water, sewer and garbage and similar monthly charges shall be billed to the
individual account for the premises to which such service is rendered. (1975
Code § 4-602)
The total monthly billing to each account shall be considered as one bill, and
the city clerk shall have authority to refuse payment for any one service, but
any payment shall be credited to the entire account. (1975 Code § 4-603)
6-4-3: PAYMENTS ON ACCOUNTS; DELINQUENCIES:
   A.   All fees shall be paid by the person responsible for the same at the
office of the city clerk on or before the tenth day of the month of the receipt
of a statement, and if not paid, the same shall become delinquent, and after
the tenth of the said month, an additional charge of ten percent (10%) of said
account shall be added to the account.
   B.   Fees shall be carried on water bills when the water department is
authorized and directed to discontinue services to any premises where the
entire water and sewer service is not paid, in the same manner that service is
discontinued for nonpayment of water. (1975 Code § 4-609; amd. 1989 Code)
Delinquency in the account shall be considered as delinquency in payment for
each of the services rendered, and all services shall be discontinued as
directed by ordinance. (1975 Code § 4-604)
   C.   The city clerk shall have authority to accept partial payments to apply
on the balance due in the entire account and shall have authority to accept
prepayments to apply against all future billings to the account. (1975 Code §
4-604)
CHAPTER 5
TREES ON PUBLIC PROPERTY
SECTION:
6-5-1: Policy Statement
6-5-2: Definitions
6-5-3: Public Works Director
6-5-4: Tree Committee
6-5-5: Authority And Control Over Trees
6-5-6: Permit Required For Action To Trees; Application
6-5-7: Trimming And Pruning Of Trees
6-5-8: Unlawful To Abuse Trees
6-5-9: Hedges And Shrubbery
6-5-10: Penalty
6-5-1: POLICY STATEMENT:
The city hereby declares that it shall be the policy of the city to protect
trees planted and growing within the public rights of way, city parks, and
other real property owned by the city, or over which it has the right to
control trees. (Ord. 2006-7, 12-13-2006, eff. 1-1-2007)
6-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter whenever the following words are used, the
intent and meanings shall be interpreted as follows:
CITY PROPERTY: Real property dedicated, deeded or leased to the city or
otherwise under the physical control of the city, including, but not limited
to, public rights of way and city parks.
HEDGES AND SHRUBBERY: Any plant of more than two feet (2') but less than eight
feet (8') in height.
OWNER: The legal owner or owners of the real property adjacent to a public
street in the city.
PARKWAY: That portion of a street between a roadway and a sidewalk.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, partnership, limited liability company,
association, corporation, group or combination acting as a unit.
ROADWAY: That portion of a street improved, designed or ordinarily used by the
public for vehicular travel.
SIDEWALK: That portion of a street improved, designed or ordinarily used by the
public for pedestrian travel.
STREET: The entire width between the boundary lines of a public right of way
dedicated or deeded to the city for use of the public for purposes of vehicular
travel, whether or not maintained by the city and whether or not open for
vehicular traffic.
TREES: Any plant which at maturity would exceed a height of more than eight
feet (8'). (Ord. 2006-7, 12-13-2006, eff. 1-1-2007)
6-5-3: PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR:
The public works director shall administer the provisions of this chapter and
shall have all administrative powers in connection therewith which are not
specifically assigned to some other person or body. Administrator shall have
the following authority and duties:
   A.   Supervise planting, pruning, spraying, preserving and removing of trees
and other work authorized by this chapter;
   B.   Prepare and distribute rules and regulations containing guidelines for
the pruning of trees;
   C.   Prepare a tree list consisting of acceptable varieties, size of trees,
proper planting and spacing instructions for trees. (Ord. 2006-7, 12-13-2006,
eff. 1-1-2007)
6-5-4: TREE COMMITTEE:
There is hereby created a tree committee to consist of three (3) members to be
appointed by the mayor and confirmed by the city council. The members of the
committee shall be eligible and registered voters of the city. The terms of
office for the first members shall be one, two (2) and three (3) years, to be
determined by lot, and thereafter the term for each member shall be three (3)
years. Members may be reappointed to subsequent three (3) year terms. Vacancies
occurring otherwise than through expiration of terms shall be filled by the
mayor and confirmed by the city council. Members may be removed after a hearing
before the city council by a majority vote of the city council. Members may
serve more than one term. Members shall be selected without respect to
political affiliation and shall serve without compensation.
   A.   Organization And Meetings: Meetings of the committee shall be held when
duly called by the chairman upon reasonable prior written or oral notice. A
majority of the members of the committee shall be necessary to constitute a
quorum at any meeting. All meetings shall be open to the public. Written rules
consistent with this chapter and the laws of the state for the transaction of
business of the committee shall be adopted and a written record of meetings
kept.
   B.   Duties Of Committee: The duties of the tree committee shall include,
but are not limited to, the following:
      1.   Provide advice to the mayor and city council as to appropriate
practices for the preservation, protection and management of trees subject to
this chapter.
      2.   Assist the public works director in taking an inventory of all
existing trees on all city properties.
      3.   Assist the public works director in providing information to the
public through educational campaigns, published material and other
opportunities.
      4.   Assist the public works director in implementing Arbor Day
celebrations and activities.
      5.   Encourage and solicit donation and other funding for city tree
projects.
      6.   Identify and implement suitable landscaping projects for city
property.
      7.   Assist the public works director to plan and review applicable
budgets and to make recommendations to the mayor and city council. (Ord. 2006-
7, 12-13-2006, eff. 1-1-2007)
6-5-5: AUTHORITY AND CONTROL OVER TREES:
The mayor and the city council have complete authority over all trees on or
within real property owned or controlled by the city. (Ord. 2006-7, 12-13-2006,
eff. 1-1-2007)
6-5-6: PERMIT REQUIRED FOR ACTION TO TREES; APPLICATION:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to plant, remove, trim, cut or in
any way damage any tree or plant within real property owned or controlled by
the city without first procuring a permit to do so from the public works
director; provided, that no permit shall first be required in situations where
public inconvenience would result from the delay entailed in obtaining a permit
or where such delay would place life, limb or property in jeopardy.
   B.   Any person desiring a permit to plant, remove, cut or in any way damage
a tree on or within the city properties shall file with the city clerk an
application to do so on forms to be furnished by the city clerk setting forth
therein in detail the work that is contemplated and the location and address of
the same. Upon the filing of such application, the public works director shall
investigate the contemplated work and if in his judgment it is desirable and
within the parameters of this chapter, shall issue a written permit therefor;
provided, that the work authorized in such permit shall be done under the
supervision of the public works director or his designee. (Ord. 2006-7, 12-13-
2006, eff. 1-1-2007)
6-5-7: TRIMMING AND PRUNING OF TREES:
   A.   Trees on or within the city property shall at all times be so trimmed
and pruned that there shall be at least seven and one- half feet (71/2') of
clear space between the surface of the sidewalk or parkway, as the case may be,
and the overhanging branches and leaves, and so that there is at least thirteen
feet (13') of clear space between the surface of the roadway and the
overhanging branches and leaves.
   B.   The branches or leaves of any tree, which overhang any sidewalk,
parkway or roadway present in such manner as to create a hazard to, or
impediment to, the progress or vision of any person traveling on any street,
sidewalk or roadway, or which covers, endangers or impairs the view of any
traffic control device by a person operating a motor vehicle on a roadway,
including any branches or leaves within the restricted areas mentioned in
subsection A of this section, are hereby declared to be a public nuisance,
whether or not within the restricted areas mentioned in subsection A of this
section.
   C.   Each owner of property abutting on a street shall at all times keep
pruned and trimmed all trees on his property which abut city property so as at
all times to prevent such branches and leaves from protruding within the
restricted area mentioned in subsection A of this section and from constituting
a public nuisance under subsection B of this section. Each owner of property
shall also treat or remove any tree or plant so diseased or insect ridden as to
constitute a hazard to trees or plants in public places.
   D.   Any tree which shall endanger or damage the usefulness of any street,
roadway, sidewalk, parkway or public sewer or water line, whether growing on
private property or on a parkway, is hereby declared to be a public nuisance,
and each owner of property abutting on a street shall at all times keep trimmed
and pruned all trees, including the pruning and trimming of branches, leaves
and roots, growing on his property which abut this property so as to prevent
such trees from damaging or endangering the usefulness of any street, sidewalk,
roadway, parkway, or public sewer or water line. (Ord. 2006-7, 12-13-2006, eff.
1-1-2007)
6-5-8: UNLAWFUL TO ABUSE TREES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to abuse, damage or mutilate any tree, in
any parkway, or in any public place, or to attach or place any rope or wire,
other than one used to support a young or broken tree, or any sign, poster,
handbill, advertisement or other thing to or on any tree growing on any parkway
or public place, or to cause or permit any wire charged with electricity to
come in contact with any such tree, or to cause or permit any gaseous, liquid
or solid substance which may be harmful to any such tree to come in contact
with the tree. (Ord. 2006-7, 12-13-2006, eff. 1-1-2007)
6-5-9: HEDGES AND SHRUBBERY:
Any owner, agent, tenant or occupant of any real property shall trim all hedges
and shrubbery adjacent to public sidewalks so that no part of said hedges and/
or shrubbery shall extend over any part of a public sidewalk in the city. (Ord.
2006-7, 12-13-2006, eff. 1-1-2007)
6-5-10: PENALTY:
Any violation of any provision of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine
not to exceed three hundred dollars ($300.00) per occurrence. (Ord. 2006-7, 12-
13-2006, eff. 1-1-2007)
CHAPTER 6
PARKS AND RECREATIONAL AREAS
SECTION:
6-6-1: Supervision
6-6-2: Hours Of Parks
6-6-3: Rules And Regulations
6-6-4: Permits
6-6-5: Violations And Penalties
6-6-1: SUPERVISION:
All parks and recreational areas under the jurisdiction of the City shall be
under the supervision of the Mayor and Council or their duly designated agents.
The Mayor and Council shall, from time to time, by resolution or ordinance,
promulgate rules and regulations for the operation and maintenance of such
areas and shall have the authority to establish schedules of fees to be charged
for the use of the same. (Ord. 2013-1, 9-11-2013)
6-6-2: HOURS OF PARKS:
Unless otherwise provided, all parks and recreational areas under the
jurisdiction of the City are closed between the hours of sundown and sunrise
local time of each and every day and night, and any and all persons are
prohibited from entering in, upon, or loitering in a park or recreational area
between said designated hours. The term "loitering about" means remaining
around and about the parks or recreational areas on a sidewalk or public road
adjacent to parking areas or other similar areas of said parks or recreational
areas after being directed by a police officer to leave. (Ord. 2013-1, 9-11-
2013)
6-6-3: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The following rules and regulations for the use and conduct in parks and
recreational areas of the City shall apply to all parks and recreational areas
under the jurisdiction of the City. It shall be unlawful for any person in a
public park or recreational area to:
   A.   Mark, deface, disfigure, injure, tamper with or displace or remove any
buildings, tables, benches, fireplaces, signs, notices, stakes, posts, markers,
or other structures or equipment, facilities, or park property or appurtenances
whatsoever either real or personal.
   B.   Damage, cut, carve, mark, transplant, or remove any tree, plant, shrub,
or in any other way injure the natural beauty or usefulness of any park or
recreational area.
   C.   Dig or remove any soil, rock, stone, trees, shrubs, or make any
excavation by tool, equipment, or any other means.
   D.   Bring any glass container into any park or recreational area.
   E.   Cause or permit to run loose any animal.
   F.   Walk a domestic animal without a leash, said leash to be no longer than
six feet (6'). The owner or person having custody of such domestic animal shall
be responsible for removal of any animal solid waste.
   G.   To ride or drive any horse or domestic animal, or pasture any domestic
animal, within the boundaries of a public park or recreational area except as
provided in subsection F of this section.
   H.   Bring into a park or recreational area any pistol, revolver, rifle, BB
gun, air gun, slingshot, bow and arrow or any other weapon in which the
propelling force is gunpowder, a spring, air, or other similar force, except in
designated areas.
   I.   Have in his or her possession or set off any fireworks except by a
permit issued by the City Council for conducting properly supervised firework
displays in designated park areas.
   J.   Kindle, build, maintain or use a fire except on propane or white gas
stoves or grills; charcoal fires are authorized only by permit and all charcoal
coals, ashes, and other remnants of charcoal fire shall be removed from the
park by the permittee. Any fire shall be continuously under the care and
direction of a competent person from the time it is started until it is
completely extinguished.
   K.   Camp or sleep overnight in any park or recreational areas unless a
permit is issued by the City Council allowing camping or sleeping overnight.
   L.   Use picnic shelters, baseball fields, softball fields, soccer fields,
or other areas designated for special use without first obtaining a permit;
provided, however, that if such facilities are not otherwise in use, a person
or persons may utilize the same subject to the privileges of a prior permit
holder or holders.
   M.   Expose or offer for sale any article in any park or recreational area
without a permit from the City.
   N.   Post, paint, fix, distribute, deliver, place, cast, or leave about any
bill, billboard, placard, handbill, circular or advertisement in any park or
recreational area.
   O.   Park or drive a motorcycle, motor vehicle, truck, or any other
motorized apparatus except on designated roads and in designated parking areas
and except vehicles owned, operated, or authorized by the City and vehicles
reserving the large shelter authorized by permit. When authorized by permit,
the permitee shall pay to the City a Fifty Dollar ($50.00) key deposit and
shall be allowed to drive one (1) vehicle in to the large shelter, drop off the
contents of the vehicle, pick up the contents, and otherwise shall drive back
out and park in the parking lot. Once the key is returned, the permitee shall
receive a return of the deposit. If the key is not returned within one (1)
business day of the rental, the deposit shall be retained by the City.
   P.   Leave a bicycle lying on the ground or paving or set against a tree or
in any other place or position where persons may trip over or be injured by the
bicycle. All bicycles shall be parked in the bicycle racks located in the park.
No bicycles shall be ridden or placed on any part of the splash park.
   Q.   Engage in threatening, abusive, insulting, or indecent language or
engage in any disorderly conduct or behavior tending to breach the public peace
and the use by others of the park and recreational areas.
   R.   Disturb or interfere unreasonably with any person or party occupying
any area or participating in any activity in the parks or recreational areas.
   S.   Conduct any activity for profit or allow any venders except under a
permit issued under the authority of the City Council.
   T.   Throw, place, or cause to be placed any rubbish, refuse, garbage, or
other material in any park or recreational area except in receptacles provided.
If there are no receptacles then such rubbish or waste shall be carried away by
the person responsible for its presence and disposed of elsewhere.
   U.   Use any park area for playing or practicing golf or engaging in the
activities related to archery or the installation and use of a water slide,
except when used for a City sponsored event, unless the park is designated
specifically for that purpose or the use is specifically permitted.
   V.   Be in possession of or drinking any beer, wine, or alcoholic beverage.
   W.   Inhale, exhale, burn, be in possession of or carry any lighted cigar,
cigarette, pipe, or other lighted tobacco or other product in any manner or
form within one hundred feet (100') of the splash fountain and playgrounds
operated by the City. (Ord. 2013-1, 9-11-2013; amd. Ord. 2023-3, 8-9-2023)
6-6-4: PERMITS:
Permits for special events in parks and recreational areas shall be obtained by
application to the City Council or its designee in accordance with the
following procedure:
   A.   A person seeking issuance of a permit shall file an application
stating:
      1.   The name and address of the applicant.
      2.   The name and address of the person, persons, corporations or
associations sponsoring the activity.
      3.   The day and hours for which the permit is desired.
      4.   The park or portion thereof for which the permit is desired.
      5.   The specific designated uses that are requested requiring a permit.
      6.   They agree to pay, in advance, the fee established by resolution of
the Council.
      7.   Any other information reasonably necessary for a determination as to
whether a permit should be issued hereunder.
   B.   Standards for issuance of a permit should include the following
findings:
      1.   The proposed activity or use of the park or recreational area will
not unreasonably interfere with or detract from the general enjoyment of the
park by the public.
      2.   The proposed activity and use will not unreasonably interfere with
or detract from the promotion of public health, welfare, safety and recreation
and the other uses of the park.
      3.   The proposed activity or uses that are reasonably anticipated will
not include violence, crime, or disorderly conduct.
      4.   The proposed activity will not entail extraordinary or burdensome
expense or police operation by the City.
      5.   The proposed activity that is specifically permitted.
      6.   The facilities desired have not been reserved for their use on the
date and hour requested in the application.
      7.   Whenever a requested use of the park includes large numbers of
participants or excessive use of areas within the park as determined by the
Public Works Director or Clerk, the request for permit shall be submitted to
the City Council for approval on a case by case basis. The City Council may
establish such other standards for issuance of a permit as the City Council
deems reasonable considering the requests contained in the permit and the use
of the park and its facilities.
   C.   An applicant for permit may be required to submit evidence of liability
insurance covering injuries to the general public arising out of the permitted
activities in such amounts as may be from time to time determined prior to the
commencement of an activity or the issuance of any permit. (Ord. 2013-1, 9-11-
2013; amd. Ord. 2023-3, 8-9-2023)
6-6-5: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
Violations of this chapter are an infraction punishable by a fine not to exceed
one hundred dollars ($100.00) plus all court costs and any other costs ordered
by court. (Ord. 2013-1, 9-11-2013)
TITLE 7
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODES
SECTION:
7-1-1: Building Codes Adopted
7-1-2: Electrical Code
7-1-3: Plumbing Code
7-1-4: Mobile Home Building Permit Fees
7-1-1: BUILDING CODES ADOPTED:
The following codes and provisions are hereby adopted:
   A.   The International Building Code (IBC), 2012 edition, and appendices C,
E, G, H, I, and J, published by the International Code Council, as herein
amended.
Amending sections as follows:
Amend IBC section 101.1 inserting "City of Paul" in place of [name of
jurisdiction].
Delete IBC sections 104.4.3 and 2901.1 for referenced standard for plumbing
installation provisions, and any reference to codes and standards dealing with
plumbing installations which shall be governed by the codes and standards as
established by Idaho Code § 54-2601.
Amend IBC section 1612.3 inserting "City of Paul" in place of [name of
jurisdiction] and "September 6, 1977" in place of [date of issuance].
Amend IBC section 3412.2 inserting "January 1, 1968" in place of [date to be
inserted by the jurisdiction].
   B.   The International Residential Code (IRC), 2009 edition, and appendices
G, H and J, excepting parts VII and VIII, published by the International Code
Council, as herein amended. (Ord. 2014-1, 1-8-2014)
Amending sections as follows:
Amend IRC section R101.1 inserting city of Paul in place of [name of
jurisdiction].
Delete IRC section R109.1.3 and replace with the following: R109.1.2 Floodplain
Inspections. For construction in areas prone to flooding as established by
table R301.2(1), upon placement of the lowest floor, including basement, the
building official is authorized to require submission of documentation of the
elevation of the lowest floor, including basement, required in section R322.
Amend IRC table R301.2(1) Climatic And Geographic Design Criteria as follows:
 
Ground         Wind Speed Seismic
Snow Load      (mph)      Design Category
25 lb./sq. ft. 90 mph     C
 
 
Subject To Damage From
Weathering Frost Line Depth Termite            Decay
Severe     18 inches        Slight to moderate None to slight
 
 
Winter     Ice Shield   Flood             Air      Mean
Design     Underlayment Hazard            Freezing Annual
Temp       Required                       Index    Temp
+2 degrees No           FIRM map #H-01-58 1,200    47.5
 
Amend IRC table R302.1 Exterior Walls. Delete the figures contained in the last
column of the table under the heading minimum fire separation distance, and
replace with the following:
 
   Minimum Fire Separation Distance
Walls (fire-resistance rated):           < Three (3) feet
Walls (not fire-resistance rated):       Three (3) feet
Projections (fire-resistance rated):     < Three (3) feet
Projections (not fire-resistance rated): Three (3) feet
 
Amend IRC section R302.2 by deleting the exception contained under IRC section
R302.2 -- Townhouses, and replace with the following: Exception: A common one-
hour or two-hour fire resistance rated wall assembly tested in accordance with
ASTM E 119 or UL 263 is permitted for townhouses if such walls do not contain
plumbing or mechanical equipment, ducts or vents in the cavity of the common
wall. The wall shall be rated for fire exposure from both sides and shall
extend to and be tight against the exterior walls and the underside of the roof
sheathing. Penetrations of electrical outlet boxes shall be in accordance with
section R302.4.
Amend IRC section R313.1 by deleting the exception contained under IRC section
R313.1 -- Townhouse automatic fire sprinkler systems, and replace with the
following: Exception: Automatic residential fire sprinkler systems shall not be
required in townhouses where a two-hour fire-resistance rated wall is installed
between dwelling units or when additions or alterations are made to existing
townhouses that do not have an automatic residential fire sprinkler system
installed.
Delete IRC section R313.2 for requirement of automatic residential fire
sprinkler systems if one- and two-family dwellings.
(Ord. 2010-4, 12-8-2010)
Amend IRC section R315.2; Where work requiring a permit occurs in existing
dwellings that have attached garages or in existing dwellings within which
fuel-fired appliances exist, carbon monoxide alarms shall be provided in
accordance with Section R315.1.
Exceptions:
      3.   Work involving the exterior surfaces of dwellings, such as, but not
limited to, replacement of roofing or siding, or the addition or replacement of
windows or doors, or the addition of a porch or deck, or electrical permits,
are exempt from the requirements of this section.
      4.   Installation, alteration or repairs of noncombustion plumbing or
mechanical systems are exempt from the requirements of this section.
(Ord. 2014-1, 1-8-2014)
Delete IRC section R322.1.10 for requirement of as-built elevation
documentation prepared by a registered design professional.
Amend IRC section R322.2.2 by deleting IRC section R322.2.2 paragraph 2.2, and
replace with the following: The total net area of all openings shall be at
least one (1) square inch (645 mm2) for each square foot (0.093 m2) of enclosed
area, or the opening shall be designed and the construction documents shall
include a statement that the design and installation of the openings will
provide for equalization of hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by
allowing the automatic entry and exit of floodwaters.
(Ord. 2010-4, 12-8-2010)
Amend IRC section N1102.4.3 New wood burning fire places shall have
gasketed tight fitting doors and outdoor combustion air. For the purpose of
enforcement and administration of this code the Minidoka County Department of
Community Development is designated as the department of building safety for
the City of Paul, with the director thereof being designated as the building
official.
(Ord. 2014-1, 1-8-2014)
C. The International Mechanical Code (IMC), 2009, published by the
International Code Council, as herein amended.
Amending sections as follows:
Amend IMC section 101.1 inserting city of Paul in place of [name of
jurisdiction].
Amend IMC section 103.2 to read as follows: The code official shall be
appointed by the chief appointing authority of the jurisdiction.
Amend IMC section 106.5.2 to read as follows: The fees for mechanical work
shall be established by resolution of the city of Paul.
Amend IMC section 106.5.3 inserting 75 (seventy-five) percent in place of
[specify percentage] in both subsections 2 and 3.
Amend IMC section 108.4 to read as follows: Any person who violates a provision
of this code or fails to comply with any of the requirements thereof or who
erects, installs, alters or repairs mechanical work in violation of the
approved construction documents or directive of the code official or of a
permit or certificate issued under the provisions of this code, shall be
subject to penalties as prescribed by law. Each day that the violation
continues after due notice has been served shall be deemed a separate offense.
Amend last sentence of IMC section 108.5 to read as follows: Any person who
shall continue any work on the system after having been served with a stop work
order, except such work as that person is directed to perform to remove a
violation or unsafe condition, shall be subject to penalties as prescribed by
law.
D. The International Fuel Gas Code (IFGC), 2009 edition, published by the
International Code Council, as herein amended.
Amending sections as follows:
Amend IFGC section 101.1 inserting city of Paul in place of [name of
jurisdiction].
Amend IFGC section 103.2 to read as follows: The code official shall be
appointed by the chief appointing authority of the jurisdiction.
Amend IFGC section 106.5.2 to read as follows: The fees for mechanical work
shall be established by resolution of the city of Paul.
Amend IFGC section 106.5.3 inserting 75 (seventy-five) percent in place of
[specify percentage] in both subsections 2 and 3.
Amend IFGC section 108.4 to read as follows: Any person who violates a
provision of this code or fails to comply with any of the requirements thereof
or who erects, installs, alters or repairs mechanical work in violation of the
approved construction documents or directive of the code official or of a
permit or certificate issued under the provisions of this code, shall be
subject to penalties as prescribed by law. Each day that the violation
continues after due notice has been served shall be deemed a separate offense.
Amend last sentence of IFGC section 108.5 to read as follows: Any person who
shall continue any work on the system after having been served with a stop work
order, except such work as that person is directed to perform to remove a
violation or unsafe condition, shall be subject to penalties as prescribed by
law.
E. The International Energy Conservation Code (IECC), 2009 edition, published
by the International Code Council, as herein amended.
Amending sections as follows:
Amend IECC section 101.1 inserting city of Paul in place of [name of
jurisdiction].
F. The International Fire Code (IFC), 2009 edition, published by the
International Code Council, and appendices B, C, D, E, and F, as amended
herein.
Amending sections as follows:
Amend IFC section 101.1 inserting city of Paul in place of [name of
jurisdiction].
Amend IFC section 103.2 to read as follows: The code official shall be
appointed by the chief appointing authority of the jurisdiction.
Further amend IFC as amended and adopted by the Idaho state fire marshal of the
Idaho department of insurance as set forth IDAPA 18 title 01 chapter 50
subsections 010 - 052.
For the purpose of enforcement and administration of this Code West End Fire
Protection District will hereby be designated as the Department of Fire
Prevention for the City of Paul, with the Fire Chief being designated as the
code official.
G. The International Existing Building Code (IEBC), 2009 edition, published by
the International Code Council, as herein amended.
Amending sections as follows:
Amend IEBC section 101.1 inserting city of Paul in place of [name of
jurisdiction].
Amend IEBC section 1301.2 insert January 1, 1968 in place of [date to be
inserted by the jurisdiction].
   (Ord. 2010-4, 12-8-2010)
H. For the purpose of enforcement and administration of the codes described in
subsections A through E and G of this section, the Minidoka County Department
of Community Development is designated as the Department of Building Safety for
the City of Paul, with the Director being designated as the building official.
(Ord. 2014-1, 1-8-2014)
I. The codes described in subsections A through G of this section are adopted
by reference pursuant to section 50-901 of the Idaho Code. The City Clerk is
directed to maintain at the City offices at least one (1) copy of each Code as
required by law.
J. Any violation of the foregoing subsections shall constitute a misdemeanor,
and any person, upon conviction of such violation, shall be punished
accordingly.
K. Upon passage and approval, this section shall be in force and effect from
and after January 1, 2011. (Ord. 2010-4, 12-8-2010)
7-1-2: ELECTRICAL CODE:
A. Electrical Code Adopted: All installations in the City of wires and
equipment to convey electrical current and installations of apparatus to be
operated by such current shall be made substantially in accordance with the
National Electrical Code of 1959, as approved by the American Standards
Association, relating to such work as far as the same shall cover both fire and
personal injury hazards and as the National Electrical Code shall be amended,
revised, compiled and published, from time to time, and as such amendments were
revised or adopted by the Director of the Department of Law Enforcement of the
State of Idaho. (1975 Code § 3-301)
One (1) copy of the above Code shall be on file in the Office of the City Clerk
and properly certified as the officially adopted and certified Electrical Code
of the City. (1975 Code § 3-302; amd. 1989 Code)
B. Inspection Of Installations: Before any installations as aforesaid are used
within the corporate limits of the City, an inspection shall be made by a
person designated by the Mayor and approved by the City Council. (1975 Code §
3-303; amd. 1989 Code)
7-1-3: PLUMBING CODE:
A. Plumbing Code Adopted: All installations of plumbing made in the City shall
meet the specifications for materials, apparatus and installations as set forth
in and in conformity with the provisions of part II of the "Plumbing Code
recommended by the subcommittee on plumbing of the Department of Commerce
Building Code Committee" as the same appears in that certain publication of the
United States Department of Commerce, Bureau of Standards, as Pamphlet BHI3,
which recommended Plumbing Code is hereby adopted as the Plumbing Code of the
City, one (1) copy of the above adopted Code being on file in the Office of the
City Clerk and properly certified as being the officially adopted and certified
Plumbing Code of the City.
B. Inspection Of Installations: Before being enclosed, all plumbing
installations shall be inspected by a person designated by the Mayor and
approved by the City Council. (1975 Code § 3-401; amd. 1989 Code)
7-1-4: MOBILE HOME BUILDING PERMIT FEES:
Unless otherwise provided in the building code, the building permit fees for
mobile homes shall be based on the total cost of the mobile home and its
foundation and related side work and shall be assessed and determined in the
same manner as all other buildings and structures within the City. (1989 Code)
TITLE 8
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
TITLE, INTERPRETATION AND ENACTMENT
SECTION:
8-1-1: Title
8-1-2: Authority
8-1-3: Provisions Of This Title Declared To Be Minimum Requirements
8-1-4: Combining Of Permits
8-1-5: Separability Clause
8-1-6: Repeal Of Conflicting Ordinances
8-1-1: TITLE:
This title shall be known and may be cited and referred to either as the
MINIDOKA COUNTY/CITIES ZONING ORDINANCE or as the PAUL ZONING CODE. (Ord. 411,
8-14-2002)
8-1-2: AUTHORITY:
This zoning ordinance is adopted pursuant to authority granted by title 67,
chapter 65 of the Idaho Code and article 12, section 2 of the Idaho
constitution, as amended or subsequently codified. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-1-3: PROVISIONS OF THIS TITLE DECLARED TO BE MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS:
In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this title shall be
held to minimum requirements, adopted for the promotion of the public health,
safety and the general welfare. Whenever the requirements of this title
conflict with the requirements of any other lawfully adopted rules,
regulations, ordinances or resolutions, the most restrictive or that imposing
the highest standards shall govern. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-1-4: COMBINING OF PERMITS:
The commission is hereby required to coordinate with other departments and
agencies concerning all permits, which may be required in this title and
previously or subsequently adopted city ordinances. A one-stop permit
application and processing procedure may be developed with the respective
departments and agencies for the purpose of reducing errors, misunderstanding,
confusion and unnecessary delay for everyone involved. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-1-5: SEPARABILITY CLAUSE:
Should any section or provision of this title be declared by the courts to be
unconstitutional or invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity of the
title as a whole or any part thereof other than the part so declared to be
unconstitutional or invalid. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-1-6: REPEAL OF CONFLICTING ORDINANCES:
All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict with this zoning ordinance or
inconsistent with the provisions of this title are hereby repealed to the
extent necessary to give this title full force and effect. (Ord. 411, 8-14-
2002)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS OF TERMS
SECTION:
8-2-1: General Terms
8-2-2: Definitions
8-2-1: GENERAL TERMS:
For the purpose of this title, certain terms, phrases, or words used herein
shall be defined and interpreted as set out in this chapter. Where terms,
phrases, or words are not defined, they shall have their ordinary accepted
meanings within the context with which they are used. "Webster's Third New
International Dictionary Of The English Language" shall be considered as
providing ordinary accepted meanings.
For the purpose of this title, certain terms, phrases, or words used herein
shall be defined as follows:
   A.   The word "person" includes a firm, association, organization,
partnership, trust, company or corporation, as well as an individual;
   B.   The present tense includes the future tense, the singular numbers
include the plural and the plural numbers include the singular;
   C.   The words "shall" and "must" are always mandatory requirements, the
word "may" is a permissive requirement and the word "should" is a preferred
requirement;
   D.   The words "used" or "occupied" include the words "intended, designed or
arranged to be used or occupied";
   E.   The word "lot" includes the words "plot", "parcel" and "tract";
   F.   The term "erected" means "constructed", "altered", "moved", or
"repaired";
   G.   The terms "administrator" or "administration" are synonymous with the
term "planning and zoning administrator";
   H.   The term "planning and zoning commission" is synonymous with the term
"zoning commission". (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
   I.   The masculine shall include the feminine. (Ord. 2003-2, 3-12-2003)
8-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply to words and terms used in this title:
ACCESS EASEMENT: A limited use easement across one or more adjacent properties
to allow occasional vehicular access to otherwise inaccessible areas by either
property owner at any time.
ACCESSORY USE: The use of land, secondary building or part thereof, on a
portion of the main building such as being accessory to or incidental to the
principal use of the premises wherein accessory uses are authorized uses, which
do not require a permit.
ACCESSORY USE OR STRUCTURE: A use, building or structure that is customarily
incidental and subordinate to the principal or approved conditional use or
building, and is conducted or located upon the same lot.
ADMINISTRATOR: An official having knowledge in the principles and practices of
zoning who is appointed by the city to administer this title. The building
official may be the administrator if duly appointed.
AFFECTED PERSON 1 : One having an interest in real property, which may be
adversely affected by the issuance or denial of a permit.
AGRICULTURAL LAND, PRIME: Land which is particularly well suited to
agricultural proposes due to characteristics which shall include soil type and
depth, the absence of surface ground water or marshy areas, access to an
existing irrigation system and with slope less than five percent (5%).
AGRICULTURAL SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT: An establishment primarily engaged in
performing animal husbandry or horticultural services, including agricultural
milling and processing, harvesting, agricultural land preparation, irrigation
and farm equipment sales and service, veterinary services, boarding and
training of horses, and agricultural produce stands.
AGRICULTURE: The use of land for farming, horticulture, floriculture, forestry,
fisheries, viticulture, raising crops, livestock, dairying and animal and
poultry husbandry including all uses customarily accessory and incidental
thereto; but excluding slaughterhouses, fertilizer works, boneyards and
commercial feedlots. Incidental retailing of goods and products raised on the
premises shall also be considered as being within the definition of
agriculture.
AIRPORT: Any runway, land area or other facility designed or used whether
publicly or privately by any person for the landing and taking off of aircraft,
including all necessary taxiways, aircraft storage and tie down areas, hangars
and other necessary buildings.
ALLEY: Any public space or thoroughfare, which has been dedicated or deeded to
the public use and which provides a secondary public means of access to
abutting properties.
ALTERNATIVE SUPPORT STRUCTURE: Clock towers, steeples, silos, light poles,
water towers, buildings or similar structures that may support
telecommunication facilities.
ANIMAL CLINIC, ANIMAL HOSPITAL OR VETERINARY OFFICE: Any building or portion
thereof designed or used for the care or treatment of cats, dogs, sheep,
cattle, and horses or other animals in which veterinary services are performed
including clipping, bathing, boarding, and other services rendered to such
animals and pets.
ANIMAL UNIT EQUIVALENTS: All livestock shall have the following animal unit
equivalents:
Type    Animal Units
Type                                                     Animal Units
Dairy cattle:                                          
 Holsteins                 Milking and dry cows          1.4
 Jerseys                   Milking and dry cows          1.0
 Others                    1,000 lbs. of live body       1.0
                             weight
 Heifers                   100 to 300 lbs.               0.2
                          300 to 500 lbs.               0.4
                          500 to 700 lbs.               0.6
                          700 to 900 lbs.               0.8
                          900 to 1,000 lbs.             1.0
Beef cattle - slaughter/feeder:                          
                          100 to 300 lbs.               0.2
                          300 to 500 lbs.               0.4
                          500 to 700 lbs.               0.6
                          700 to 900 lbs.               0.8
                          900 to 1,000 lbs.             1.0
Swine:                                                 
 Boars                     1,000 lbs. of live body       1.0
                             weight
 Sows                      1,000 lbs. of live body       1.0
                             weight
 Pigs                      55 lbs. to market             0.5
                          Up to 55 lbs.                 0.25
Sheep/lambs                 Each                          0.1
                                                     
Horse                                                    1.25
                                                     
Furbearing animals:          Less than 10 lbs. in body     0.01
                             weight
                             Other - based on body
                          weight as herein            
                             specified
                                                     
Chickens:                                              
 Layers                    Each                          0.033
 Broilers                  Each                          0.033
Turkeys                     Each                          0.18
Ducks                       Each                          0.02
                                                     
For species not specifically 1,000 lbs. of live body       1.0
identified                   weight
 
ANTENNA: Any system of wires, poles, rods, reflecting discs, or similar devices
used for the transmission or reception of electromagnetic waves when such
system is either external to or attached to the exterior of a structure.
Antennas shall include devices having active elements extending in any
direction, and directional beam type arrays having elements carried by and
disposed from a generally horizontal boom that may be mounted upon and rotated
through a vertical mast or tower interconnecting the boom and antenna support,
all of which elements are deemed to be a part of the antenna.
ANTENNA, BUILDING MOUNTED: Any antenna, other than an antenna with its supports
resting on the ground, directly attached or affixed to a building.
ANTENNA, GROUND MOUNTED: Any antenna with its base placed directly on the
ground.
ANTENNA, UTILITY POLE MOUNTED: An antenna attached, without regard to mounting,
to or upon an existing or replacement electric transmission or distribution
pole, streetlight, traffic signal, athletic field light, utility support
structure or other similar structure approved by the city.
APARTMENT: A room or suite of rooms in a multiple-family structure or multiple
purpose structure which is arranged, designed or used as a single housekeeping
unit and has complete kitchen facilities permanently installed.
APARTMENT HOUSE OR MULTI-FAMILY USE: Any building or portion thereof which is
designed, built, rented, leased, let or hired out to be occupied, or which is
occupied, as a home or residence of three (3) or more families living
independently of each other and doing their own cooking in the said building,
and shall include flats and apartments.
APPLICANT: A person or legal entity seeking approvals or permits pursuant to
this title which has an ownership or other vested interest in real property of
a nature sufficient to control the use to which is proposed in the applications
for said real property.
AREA OF CITY IMPACT: The unincorporated land surrounding the city limits of the
city of Paul as established by ordinance and any amendments thereto, as
mutually agreed upon with Minidoka County in conformance with the laws of the
state of Idaho.
AREA, PRIVATE PARKING: An open, graded or paved area, other than a street or
public way, designed, arranged and made available for the storage of private
passenger automobiles or motor vehicles of occupants of the buildings for which
the parking area is developed.
AREA, PUBLIC PARKING: An open area, other than a street or alley, used for the
temporary parking of automobiles or other transportation and available for
public use, whether free, for compensation, or as an accommodation for clients
or customers.
ASSISTED OR RESIDENTIAL LIVING FACILITY: A facility however named, operated on
either a profit or nonprofit basis for the purpose of providing necessary
supervision, personal assistance, meals and lodging to three (3) or more
elderly, developmentally disabled, physically disabled and/or mentally ill
adults not related to the owner.
AUTOMOBILE AND TRAILER SALES AREA: An open area used for the display, sale or
rental of new or used motor vehicles or new or used trailers and where no
repair work is done and on which all motor vehicles are capable of operation
with their own power at all times.
AUTOMOBILE, MOTOR VEHICLE OR EQUIPMENT REPAIR: The repair, rebuilding or
reconditioning of motor vehicles or equipment or parts thereof, including
collision, service, painting and steam cleaning of vehicles.
AUTOMOBILE SALVAGE YARD: Any area, lot, land, or parcel, excluding farm
equipment in agricultural zones or when located within a completely enclosed
building, whereon more than two (2) motor vehicles without current
registration, or where more than two (2) motor vehicles inoperable or
dismantled motor vehicles, or any combination of more than two (2)
unregistered, inoperable or dismantled motor vehicles, not in operating
condition are standing more than thirty (30) days, or on which such used motor
vehicles or parts thereof, are dismantled or stored. For purposes of this
definition, the term "inoperable" means the motor vehicle cannot move under its
own power or does not meet minimum legal requirements necessary for the motor
vehicle to be operated in a safe and lawful manner upon the roads and highways
in the state of Idaho as set forth in the Idaho motor vehicle laws of the state
of Idaho.
BASEMENT: The portion of a structure all or partly underground but having at
least one-half (1/2) of its height below the average level of the adjoining
ground.
BED AND BREAKFAST: See definition of Boarding House.
BICYCLE PATH: A public way or land designed for use of nonmotorized vehicles or
pedestrians and so designated.
BILLBOARD: Any sign exceeding thirty two (32) square feet in size upon which
advertising matter is posted and/or pasted thereon.
BLOCK: A group of lots, tracts, or parcels within well defined boundaries,
usually streets.
BOARD: The board of county commissioners of Minidoka County, Idaho.
BOARDING HOUSE (Including Bed And Breakfast And Lodging Or Rooming Houses): Any
building or portion thereof, other than a hotel or motel, where lodging and
meals are provided for compensation for two (2) or more persons, but not more
than twelve (12) persons, who are not members of the householder's family and
do not require care or supervision. Congregate residences and assisted or
residential living facilities are not included in this definition.
BUILDABLE AREA: The space remaining on a zoning plat after the minimum open
space and setback requirements of this title have been complied with.
BUILDING: Any structure designed or intended for the support, enclosure,
shelter or protection of persons, animals, chattels, or property of any kind,
but not including fences or advertising signs.
BUILDING, AGRICULTURAL: A structure located on agricultural property and
designed and constructed to house farm implements, hay, grain, poultry,
livestock or other horticultural products and includes sheds, barns, corrals or
fences. This definition does not include a place for human habitation or a
place of regular employment where agricultural products are extracted,
processed, treated or packaged, or a place used by the public.
BUILDING, ASSEMBLY: A building or portion thereof used for the gathering
together of fifty (50) or more persons for such purposes as deliberation,
worship, entertainment, amusement, or for awaiting transportation.
BUILDING, EXISTING: A building erected prior to the effective date of this
title or one for which a legal building permit has been issued prior to the
effective date.
BUILDING HEIGHT: The vertical distance from grade to the highest point of the
coping of a flat roof, or to the deck of a mansard roof or to the average
height of the highest gable of a pitched or hip roof.
BUILDING LINE: A line established by law or agreement and usually parallel to
property line beyond which a building or structure may not extend.
BUILDING, MAIN OR PRINCIPAL: A building other than an accessory building, in
which is conducted the main or principal use of the lot on which said building
is situated.
BUILDING OFFICIAL: The officer or other designated authority charged with the
administration and enforcement of the building code as adopted by the city of
Paul.
BUILDING PERMIT: An official document or certificate issued by the building
official authorizing performance of a specified activity. The issuance of a
building permit shall not be construed as granting permission or approval to
any activity that would violate the requirements of this title or other laws
adopted by the jurisdiction or the state of Idaho.
BUILDING SITE: An area proposed or provided and improved by grading, filling,
excavation or other means for erecting pads for buildings.
BUSINESS: The purchase, sale, exchange or other transaction involving the
handling or disposition of any article, service, substance or commodity for
profit or livelihood, or the ownership or management of office buildings,
offices, recreation or amusement enterprises or the maintenance and use of
offices or professions and trades rendering services.
CAFO: See definition of Confined Animal Feeding Operations.
CANNERY: A place where the business of preserving food such as meat, fruit and
vegetables in sealed containers is carried on for profit or as a community
cooperative service.
CARPORT: A roofed structure surrounded by open space on two (2) or more sides.
CEMETERY: Land used or intended to be used for the burial of humans or dead
animals and dedicated for cemetery purposes, including crematories, mausoleums
and mortuaries operated in connection with and within the boundaries of such
cemetery for which perpetual care and maintenance is provided.
CENTER, DAYCARE: See definition of Daycare Center.
CENTER, MEDICAL HEALTH: See definition of Clinic.
CLINIC: A building used for the care, diagnosis, and treatment of sick, ailing,
infirm or injured persons and those who are in need of medical and surgical
attention; but which building does not provide board, room or regular hospital
care and services.
CLUB OR LODGE: The facilities of an association of persons for the promotion of
some nonprofit common interest, such as politics, service, literature, science,
fellowship, etc., and which holds meetings periodically which are limited to
members and guests.
COMMERCIAL CONFINED ANIMAL FEEDING OPERATION: A contiguous parcel of land upon
which there is one or more livestock confinement areas, and upon which there
are confined more than two hundred (200) but less than one thousand (1,000)
livestock animal equivalent units of large livestock or more than one thousand
five hundred (1,500) but less than fifteen thousand (15,000) head of fowl and
furbearers.
COMMERCIAL ENTERTAINMENT FACILITIES: Facilities for any profit making activity
which is generally related to the entertainment field, such as motion picture
theaters, carnivals, nightclubs, cocktail lounges and similar entertainment
activities.
COMMERCIAL FEEDLOT - STOCKYARD: See definition of Commercial Confined Animal
Feeding Operation or Industrial Confined Animal Feeding Operation.
COMMERCIAL SLAUGHTERHOUSE AND MEATPACKING FACILITIES: Includes the
slaughtering, meat canning, curing, smoking, salting, packing, rendering,
freezing or other similar establishments in which meat products are so
processed commercially for sale to the public or as a service for hire.
COMMISSION: The planning and zoning commission of the city of Paul.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: A plan, or any portion thereof, adopted by the city of Paul
including such things as the general location and extent of present and
proposed physical facilities including housing, industrial and commercial uses,
major transportation, parks, schools, and other community facilities.
CONCESSION STANDS: A building, structure, vehicle or tent, having less than
three hundred (300) square feet of area that is used for the sale of food,
beverages, and/or souvenirs on a temporary basis. A permanent concession stand
which will occupy the same site for more than fourteen (14) consecutive days
shall require a zoning permit.
CONDITIONAL USE: The use permitted only upon issuance of a special use permit.
CONDOMINIUM: An estate consisting of: a) an undivided interest in common in
real property, in an interest or interests in real property, or in any
combination thereof, together with b) a separate interest in real property, in
an interest or interests in real property, or in any combination thereof.
CONDOMINIUM PLAT: The drawing of a division of real property into individual
interests in common together with a separate interest in the real property for
the purpose of establishing condominium ownership together with the declaration
that is filed according to law with the county recorder.
CONFINED ANIMAL FEEDING OPERATION, EXISTING: The use of any premises as a
confined animal feeding operation which does not conform to the regulations of
this title, but which was in existence at the effective date hereof.
CONFINED ANIMAL FEEDING OPERATION, LARGE: For the purpose of this title all
commercial and industrial CAFOs shall be deemed as large confined animal
feeding operations.
CONFINED ANIMAL FEEDING OPERATIONS: The use of real property for the keeping,
stabling, feeding, confinement and maintenance of livestock, except where such
livestock are fed exclusively on growing range or pasturage when one or more of
the following conditions will exist:
   A.   Livestock operations or facilities that confine, stable, feed or
maintain one hundred (100) or more total animal units or operations located on
twenty (20) acres or less with more than five (5) animal units per acre.
   B.   Livestock operations that consist of one hundred (100) to one thousand
(1,000) animal units that stable or confine and feed or maintain for a total of
one hundred twenty (120) days or more in any twelve (12) month period and
crops, vegetation forage growth, or postharvest residues are not sustained in
the normal growing season over any portion of the lot or facility.
   C.   Livestock operations that consist of one thousand (1,000) animal units
or more that stable or confine and feed or maintain for a total of forty five
(45) days or more in any twelve (12) month period and crops, vegetation forage
growth, or postharvest residues are not sustained in the normal growing season
over any portion of the lot or facility.
Confined animal feeding operation shall include barns, sheds, feed storage
facilities as well as corrals, lagoons, and parking, feed and waste storage
areas. Operations located on properties that are not contiguous shall be
treated as separate operations. Also known as livestock confinement operation
or LCO, but for the purpose of this title shall be referred to as confined
animal feeding operation or CAFO. The three (3) classifications of confined
animal feeding operations are domestic, commercial and industrial and are
separately defined in this section.
CONGREGATE RESIDENCE: A building or portion thereof that contains facilities
for living, sleeping, and sanitation, and may include facilities for eating and
cooking, for occupancy other than a family. A congregate residence may be a
convent, monastery, dormitory, fraternity or sorority house, but does not
include jails, hospitals, assisted living facilities, hotels, boarding, or
lodging houses.
CONTRACTOR'S YARD: Any parcel of land used for storage, maintenance or
processing incidental to a construction or building business, hauling,
excavation, demolition or similar activity and including any parcel of land
used for the incidental repair of machinery used for any of the above listed
activities.
CONVENIENCE STORE: A retail establishment selling or distributing fast moving
items such as food and dairy products, sundries and petroleum products.
COUNCIL: The city council of the city of Paul.
COUNTY: Minidoka County, Idaho and its governing board.
COVENANT: A written promise or pledge.
DAIRY: See definition of Industrial Confined Animal Feeding Operation,
Commercial Confined Animal Feeding Operation or Domestic Confined Animal
Feeding Operation.
DANCE HALL: A facility or place of assembly or portion thereof, wherein is
provided an area that may be used for dancing with occupant load of more than
fifty (50) as established by the current building code. This definition does
not apply to facilities or areas within schools or churches that are accessory
to the primary uses.
DAYCARE CENTER: An establishment where five (5) or more individuals, children
or adults, regularly receive care and supervision for periods of time less than
fifteen (15) hours unaccompanied by the individual's guardian.
DEDICATION: The setting apart of land or interests in land for use by the
public. Land becomes dedicated when accepted by the county as a public
dedication, either by ordinance, resolution, or entry in the official minutes,
or by the recording of a plat showing such dedication.
DENSITY: A unit of measure; the number of dwelling units per acre of land.
   Gross Density: The number of dwelling units per acre of total land to be
developed, including public right of way.
   Net Density: The number of dwelling units per acre of land when the acreage
involved includes only the land devoted to residential uses, excluding public
right of way.
DEVELOPER: Authorized agent(s) of a subdivider or the subdivider himself.
DOMESTIC CONFINED ANIMAL FEEDING OPERATION: A contiguous parcel of land upon
which there is one or more livestock confinement areas, and upon which there
are confined at least twenty five (25) but no more than two hundred (200)
livestock animal equivalent units of large livestock and/or at least five
hundred (500) but no more than one thousand five hundred (1,500) units of fowl
and/or furbearers.
DRIVE-IN ESTABLISHMENT: An establishment, other than a service station or truck
stop, which is designed to accommodate the motor vehicles or patrons in such
manner as to permit the occupants of such vehicles, while remaining therein, to
make a purchase or receive services.
DUPLEX: See definition of Dwelling, Two-Family.
DWELLING: A building or portion thereof, containing one or more dwelling units,
and which complies with the structural requirements of the adopted building
code. The term "dwelling" does not include any temporary mobile home, "motel",
"hotel", "guesthouse" or "boarding house" as defined herein.
DWELLING, HIGH RISE MULTIPLE-FAMILY: A multiple-family building, or portion
thereof, containing five (5) or more stories.
DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY: A building, or portion thereof, containing three (3)
or more dwelling units.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A building consisting of a single dwelling unit
designed for use and occupancy by no more than one family, and separated from
other units by open spaces.
DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY: A building designated for use and occupied exclusively by
two (2) families living independently of each other, known also as a duplex.
DWELLING UNIT: A suite of two (2) or more habitable rooms providing complete
living facilities for one family including permanent provisions for living,
sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation.
DWELLING UNIT (PREFAB): A building or other structure proposed or built for
occupancy by people that is designed for initial transportation on streets and
highways which arrives at a site where it is installed on a permanent
foundation.
EASEMENT: Authorization by a property owner for the use by another, and for a
specified purpose, of any designated part of another person's property.
ELECTRICAL DISTRIBUTION LINES: Electrical power lines used by the electrical
utility to distribute electrical power from the generation source or substation
to the utility's customers or end users.
ELECTRICAL TRANSMISSION LINES: Electrical power lines used for transmission of
electrical power from the generation source to a substation for further
distribution by an electrical utility.
EQUESTRIANWAY: A public way designed to be used for horseback riding and so
designated.
FAMILY: An individual, or two (2) or more persons related by blood or marriage
or a group of not more than five (5) persons (excluding servants) who need not
be related by blood or marriage living together in a dwelling unit.
FAMILY FOOD PRODUCTION: The keeping of domestic animals and fowl for the
production of food for the use of the family occupying the premises.
FARM, RANCH AND GARDEN BUILDING: See definition of Building, Agricultural.
FEEDLOT: See definition of Industrial Confined Animal Feeding Operation,
Commercial Confined Animal Feeding Operation or Domestic Confined Animal
Feeding Operation.
FOWL: Chickens, ducks, geese, pheasants, partridge, guinea hens, peacocks, or
other similar domesticated birds excluding ostriches and emus.
FURBEARERS: Mink, fox, beaver, otter, or other similar domesticated animals.
GARAGE, PRIVATE: A building or a portion thereof in which motor vehicles used
by the tenants of the main building on the premises are stored or kept.
GOVERNING AUTHORITY: The city council of Paul, Idaho.
GRADE, OR OFFICIAL GRADE: Grade (ground level) is the average of the finished
ground level at the centers of all walls of a building. If the building is
within twenty five feet (25') of a sidewalk or curb, said ground level shall be
measured at the sidewalk or curb.
GUEST: Any person, other than a member of a family, hiring or occupying a room
for living or sleeping purposes.
GUESTHOUSE: A detached or attached structure, being an accessory to a one-
family dwelling, with not more than two (2) bedrooms used or designed for use
primarily by guests or servants for sleeping quarters.
HEALTH AUTHORITY: The officer or other designated authority charged with the
administration and enforcement of the rules and regulations of the health
department or its successor.
HEALTH DEPARTMENT: The South Central health district, the Idaho department of
health and welfare, the United States environmental protection agency and/or
any agency as may succeed to any of their powers.
HEIGHT, TELECOMMUNICATIONS TOWER: The distance measured from the original grade
at the base of the tower to the highest point of the tower. This measurement
excludes any attached antennas, protection devices (e.g., lightning rods) and
lighting.
HIGH WATER MARK: The water level corresponding to the "natural or ordinary high
water mark" or the line which the water impresses on the soil by covering it
for sufficient periods of time to deprive the soil of terrestrial vegetation
and destroy its value for commonly accepted agricultural purposes.
HOME, MOBILE: See various definitions of Manufactured Home (Mobile Home).
HOME, MOBILE; TEMPORARY: A trailer, tent trailer, camper or mobile home which
is eight feet (8') or less in width and thirty two feet (32') or less in length
and may or may not contain cooking or bathroom facilities, but is not designed
or used for long term occupancy. An unoccupied temporary mobile home is one
which is being stored or is to be occupied for fewer than thirty (30) days in a
calendar year.
HOME OCCUPATION: Any gainful operation, profession or craft, which is
customarily incidental to or carried on in a dwelling or accessory buildings,
and wherein the use is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the
dwelling for dwelling purposes. (See the required performance standards.)
HORSES FOR PRIVATE USE: Horses kept and maintained as an accessory use to a
dwelling for the pleasure and use of the occupants thereof, and not used for
commercial purposes.
HORTICULTURAL SERVICES: Commercial greenhouses, landscaping services and
agricultural consulting services which grow plants on the premises in
conjunction with the consulting services they render.
HOSPITAL: Any building used for the accommodation and medical care of sick,
injured, or infirm persons and including sanitariums, but does not include
nursing homes.
HOTEL: A building containing six (6) or more guestrooms intended or designed to
be used, or that are used, rented or hired out to be occupied, or that are
occupied for sleeping purposes by guests.
HOUSE, BOARDING: See definition of Boarding House.
HOUSE, ROOMING: See definition of Rooming House.
HOUSEHOLD PET: Animals or fowl customarily permitted in the house and kept for
company or pleasure, including dogs, cats, canaries, and similar pets.
IMPROVEMENT: Any alteration to the land or other physical constructions
associated with subdivision and building site developments.
INDUSTRIAL: Refers to the manufacture, processing and testing of goods and
materials, including the production of power. It does not refer to the growing
of agricultural crops, or the raising of livestock, or the extraction or
severance of raw materials from the land being classified.
INDUSTRIAL CONFINED ANIMAL FEEDING OPERATION: A contiguous parcel of land upon
which there is one or more confinement areas, and upon which there are confined
one thousand (1,000) or more livestock animal equivalent units of large
livestock or fifteen thousand (15,000) or more units of fowl and furbearers.
JUNKYARD: See definitions of Salvage Yard and Automobile Salvage Yard.
KENNEL, COMMERCIAL: Any lot or premises or portion thereof on which five (5) or
more dogs are maintained, harbored, possessed, trained, bred, boarded, or caged
in return for compensation, but not including an animal clinic, animal
hospital, or veterinary office where boarding is limited to short term care
incidental to treatment.
KENNEL, NONCOMMERCIAL: Any lot or premises of one household, on which more than
two (2) dogs, but less than five (5), are kept, housed, or maintained, which
are owned by individuals of the household.
KINDERGARTEN: A place, home, building or location providing care, with
organized play and instruction, for more than five (5) children of preschool
age not residing on the same premises.
LCO: See definition of Livestock Confinement Operation.
LAGOON, SETTLING: Pond or other similar facilities designed and used for
industrial or commercial processes for separating solid waste or materials from
liquid waste or materials.
LAGOON, STORAGE: Pond or other similar facilities designed and used for the
storage of water or treated process water, whether for irrigation or
firefighting purposes.
LAGOONS, SEWAGE: Ponds or other similar facilities designed and used for the
storage, treatment or evaporation of liquid or semiliquid human, commercial or
industrial waste.
LAGOONS, WASTE: Ponds or other facilities designed and used for the storage of,
or as a waste treatment system for liquid or semiliquid waste, waste products
or wastewater for confined animal feeding operations. For the purpose of this
title waste lagoons do not include facilities such as berms, banks, trenches,
ponds or other storm runoff containment systems designed strictly for the
occasional or seasonal rain or snowmelt runoff of livestock confinement areas.
LIQUID WASTE: A liquid substance containing any wastewater, waste or waste
products, separately or in combination.
LIVESTOCK: Fowl, furbearers, cattle, dairy animals, swine, sheep, goats,
horses, mules, llamas, ostriches, emus, and other similar domesticated animals
including their offspring.
LIVESTOCK CONFINEMENT AREA: A structure or area of land within which livestock
are confined for a period of more than forty eight (48) hours during any seven
(7) consecutive days.
LIVESTOCK CONFINEMENT OPERATION: See definition of Confined Animal Feeding
Operation. Also known as LCO, but for the purpose of this title shall be
referred to as confined animal feeding operations or CAFO.
LIVESTOCK, LARGE: Cattle, dairy animals, swine, sheep, goats, horses, llamas,
mules, donkeys, ostriches, emus and other similar domesticated animals,
including their offspring.
LOT: A parcel of land of sufficient size to meet minimum zoning requirements
for use, coverage and area, and to provide such yards and other open spaces as
herein required. Such lot shall have frontage on an improved public street or
approved private street or access to said lot will be provided by means of an
approved irrevocable dedicated easement.
LOT AREA: The computed horizontal area contained with the lot lines.
LOT, CONTIGUOUS: Lots may be considered contiguous if they adjoin each other at
a common boundary that permits use of the lots as one unit and if they are not
separated by a public right of way, a railroad right of way, or by property
held in fee simple ownership by another.
LOT, CORNER: A lot abutting upon two (2) or more streets at their intersection
or upon two (2) parts of the same street, such streets or parts of the same
street forming an interior angle of less than one hundred thirty five degrees
(135°). The point of intersection of the street lines is the "corner".
LOT COVERAGE: The area of a zoning lot occupied by the principal building or
buildings and accessory buildings.
LOT DEPTH: The mean horizontal distance between the front and the rear lot
lines. Where the lot is irregular and the lot lines converge, the rear lot line
shall be deemed to be a line at a point the side lot lines are not less than
ten feet (10') apart.
LOT, INTERIOR: A lot bounded by a street on one side only.
LOT LINE: A line bounding the lot described in the title to the property.
LOT LINE, FRONT: The line separating the lot from the principal street on which
it fronts.
LOT LINE, REAR: The line opposite and most distant from the front lot line.
LOT LINE, SIDE: Any lot line other than a front or rear lot lines. A side lot
line separating a lot from a street is also called a side street or flanking
street lot line. A side lot line separating a lot from another lot or lots is
also called an interior side lot line.
LOT LINE, STREET OR ALLEY: A lot line separating the lot from a street or
alley.
LOT, MINIMUM AREA: The area of a lot is computed exclusive of any portion of
the right of way of any public or private street.
LOT, NONCONFORMING: A parcel of land, which was created prior to or in
compliance with the provisions of the applicable zoning and subdivision
ordinances that were in effect at the time such parcel was created.
LOT, THROUGH: A lot having frontage on two (2) streets, which are parallel or
nearly so.
LOT WIDTH: The mean width of the lot measured at right angles to its depth,
provided however, that the minimum lot width required in each district shall be
measured at a distance from the front line equal to the required least depth of
the front yard.
MANUFACTURED BUILDING OR HOUSE: A building or house built to the uniform
building code standards in a factory or other facility and then delivered to
the construction site. This definition includes buildings used for other than
residential use.
MANUFACTURED HOME (MOBILE HOME) CLASS A: A dwelling unit manufactured and
installed with all the following characteristics:
   A.   Mass produced in a factory;
   B.   Built on a frame, designed and constructed for transportation to a site
for installation and use when connected to required utilities;
   C.   Properly connected to sewer, water and electrical services;
   D.   Designed for long term residential use by a family, containing kitchen,
bath and sleeping facilities;
   E.   Multisectional and at least twenty feet (20') wide at the narrowest
point, with a minimum of four hundred (400) square feet per section (minimum
total square footage equal to 800 square feet);
   F.   Constructed after June 15, 1976, and certified as meeting the mobile
home construction and safety standards of the U.S. department of housing and
urban development;
   G.   Has a painted metallic, wood, shake, asphalt shingle or similar type
roof with a minimum pitch of two to twelve (2:12) (pitch to run);
   H.   Has eaves of a minimum of six inches (6"), or an eaves and gutter
combination with a minimum of six inches (6"), attached to the entire perimeter
of the roof;
   I.   Has horizontal metal lap siding, simulated wood siding, or wood siding
similar to permanent residential structures;
   J.   Has a foundation that is similar in appearance and durability to
concrete or masonry foundations of site built dwellings and which surrounds the
entire perimeter of the structure, completely enclosing the space between the
siding and the finished grade; and
   K.   Is permanently affixed, with the running gear and towing hitch removed,
and set upon a foundation base having an anchoring system that is totally
concealed under the structure.
MANUFACTURED HOME (MOBILE HOME) CLASS B: A dwelling unit manufactured and
installed with all the following characteristics:
   A.   Mass produced in a factory;
   B.   Built on a frame, designed and constructed for transportation to a site
for installation and use when connected to required utilities;
   C.   Properly connected to sewer, water and electrical services;
   D.   Designed for long term residential use by a family, containing kitchen,
bath and sleeping facilities;
   E.   Constructed after June 15, 1976, and certified as meeting the mobile
home construction and safety standards of the U.S. department of housing and
urban development. If constructed before the above mentioned date, the home
shall conform with the mobile home rehabilitation act, Idaho state code title
44, chapter 25;
   F.   New, new condition or rehabilitated so that all roofing, siding, and
exterior trim is intact, good condition and paint that is not blistered,
peeling, or dull in color;
   G.   Units at least fourteen feet (14') wide at the narrowest point, with a
minimum of six hundred (600) square feet;
   H.   Has a factory constructed painted metallic, wood, shake or shingle,
asphalt or fiberglass shingle or similar residential type roof with a minimum
pitch of two to twelve (2:12) (pitch to run);
   I.   Has eaves of a minimum of six inches (6"), or an eaves and gutter
combination with a minimum of six inches (6"), attached to the entire perimeter
of the roof;
   J.   Has horizontal metal lap siding, simulated wood siding, or wood siding
similar to permanent residential structures;
   K.   Has a foundation that is similar in appearance and durability to
concrete or masonry foundations or approved skirting material, which matches
the exterior siding. The foundation or skirting surrounds the entire perimeter
of the structure, completely enclosing the space between the siding and the
finished grade; and
   L.   Is permanently affixed, with the running gear and towing hitch removed,
and set upon a foundation base having an anchoring system that is totally
concealed under the structure.
MANUFACTURED HOME (MOBILE HOME) CLASS C: A dwelling unit manufactured and
installed with all the following characteristics:
   A.   Mass produced in a factory;
   B.   Built on a frame, designed and constructed for transportation to a site
for installation and use when connected to required utilities;
   C.   Properly connected to sewer, water and electrical services;
   D.   Designed for long term residential use by a family, containing kitchen,
bath and sleeping facilities;
   E.   Constructed after June 15, 1976, and certified as meeting the mobile
home construction and safety standards of the U.S. department of housing and
urban development. If constructed before the above mentioned date shall conform
with the mobile home rehabilitation act, Idaho state code title 44 chapter 25;
and
   F.   Does not meet all definitional characteristics in items E through K of
"manufactured home class A" and in items E through L of "manufactured home
class B" as defined in this section.
MANUFACTURED HOME (MOBILE HOME) NONCONFORMING: A dwelling unit manufactured and
installed with all the following characteristics:
   A.   Mass produced in a factory;
   B.   Built on a frame, designed and constructed for transportation to a site
for installation and use when connected to required utilities;
   C.   Properly connected to sewer, water and electrical services;
   D.   Designed for long term residential use by a family, containing kitchen,
bath and sleeping facilities;
   E.   Does not meet all definitional characteristics in items E through K of
"manufactured home class A", in items E through L of "manufactured home class
B" and item E of "manufactured home class C" as defined in this section.
MANUFACTURING, EXTRACTIVE: Any mining, quarrying, excavating, processing,
storing, separating, cleaning or marketing of any mineral natural resource.
MANUFACTURING, HEAVY: Manufacturing, processing, assembling, storing, testing
and similar industrial uses which are generally major operations and extensive
in character requiring large sites, open storage and service area, extensive
services and facilities, ready access to regional transportation and normally
generate some nuisances such as smoke, noise, vibration, dust, glare, and air
and water pollution beyond the district boundary.
MANUFACTURING, LIGHT: Manufacturing or other industrial uses which are usually
controlled operations; relatively clean, quiet and free from objectionable or
hazardous elements such as smoke, noise, odor, dust or other pollution;
operating and storing within enclosed structures and generating little
industrial traffic or nuisances.
MAP, ZONING: See definition of Zoning Map.
MONOPOLE: A telecommunication tower of a single pole design.
MOTEL: See definition of Hotel.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Any vehicle propelled or drawn by power other than muscular
power designed to travel on the ground by wheels, treads, runners or slides, to
transport persons or property or pull machinery and including, but not limited
to, automobiles, trucks, trailers, motorcycles and tractors.
NAVIGABLE STREAM OR LAKE: As designated on the United States geological survey
(USGS) map and/or the maps formally adopted by the city of Paul or Minidoka
County.
NONCONFORMING BUILDING OR STRUCTURE: A building, structure, or portion thereof,
which does not conform to the regulations of this title applicable to the zone
or district in which such building is situated, but which existed prior to the
effective date hereof, or one for which a building permit was issued prior to
the effective date.
NONCONFORMING USE: A use of premises which does not conform to the regulations
of this title, but which was in existence at the effective date hereof.
NURSERY, PLANT MATERIALS: Land, building, structure or combination thereof for
the storage, cultivation, transplanting of live trees, shrubs or plants for
sale on or off the premises including products used for gardening or
landscaping.
NURSING HOME: See definition of Assisted Or Residential Living Facility.
OCCUPANCY, CHANGE OF: Any change in the character or use of a building or
premises, not including change of tenants, proprietors or occupants.
OCCUPIED RESIDENTIAL USE: A "residential use" as defined in this chapter, which
has actual residential habitation by one or more persons during the preceding
three (3) years.
ODOR: The presence in the outdoor atmosphere of any contaminant or combination
thereof in such quantity, nature and duration and under such conditions as
would be injurious to human health or welfare, to animal or plant life, or to
property, or to interfere unreasonably with the enjoyment of life or property.
ODOR ABATEMENT: The reduction or elimination of odors present in the ambient
air.
ODOR ABATEMENT PLAN: A written plan prepared by the owner/applicant stating
methods and practices to be used to minimize or eliminate odors.
OFF STREET PARKING SPACE: An area adjoining a building providing for the
parking of automobiles which does not include a public street but has
convenient access to it and shall consist of area adequate for parking an
automobile with room for opening doors, together with properly related access
to a public street or alley and maneuvering room.
OPEN SPACE: An area substantially open to the sky, which may be on the same lot
with a building. The area may include, along with the natural environmental
features, water areas, swimming pools, tennis courts and other recreational
facilities that the commission deems permissive. Streets, parking areas,
structures for habitation and the like shall not be included.
OPERATION (TELECOMMUNICATIONS): Means other than nominal use; when a facility
is used regularly as an integral part of an active system of telecommunications
it shall be deemed in operation.
ORIGINAL PARCEL OF LAND: A lot, tract or individual parcel as recorded on any
plat or recorded on file in the office of the Minidoka County recorder, any
unplatted contiguous parcel of land held in one ownership, or any platted
contiguous parcel of land comprised of or including government lots, and being
any such parcel of record as of the effective date of the original subdivision
ordinance.
OTHER USES: Implies such usage that may be permitted in the zone or district.
In no way does the term, when used, imply a permit or approval for a usage.
"Other uses" requires a review by the commission, which will deny or approve
(generally under conditions), the requested usage.
OWNER: Any individual, person, firm, association, syndicate, partnership,
corporation, or other entity having proprietary interest in real property
subject to this title. A leasehold interest is excluded from such proprietary
interest.
PARK, MANUFACTURED (MOBILE) HOME: Any area, tract, plot or site of land
developed as a planned unit development located and maintained for dwelling
purposes on a permanent or semipermanent basis for two (2) or more manufactured
(mobile) homes or travel trailers.
PARK, TRAVEL TRAILER (RV PARK): Any area, tract, plot or site of land with
domestic water and sanitary facilities whereupon two (2) or more travel
trailers are placed, located and maintained for dwelling purposes on a
temporary basis.
PARKING AREA OR LOT, PUBLIC: An open area, other than a street or public way,
to be used for the storage, for limited periods of time, of operable
automobiles and commercial vehicles, and available to the public, whether for
compensation, free, or as an accommodation to clients or customers.
PARKING AREA, PRIVATE: An open area, other than a street or public way,
designed, arranged and made available for the storage of private passenger
automobiles, of occupants of the building or buildings for which the parking
area is developed and is necessary and accessory.
PARKING SPACE: A usable space of not less than one hundred eighty (180) square
feet, either within a structure or in the open, exclusive of driveways or
access drives, for the parking of motor vehicles.
PERFORMANCE BOND: An amount of money or other negotiable security paid by the
subdivider or his surety to the county/city clerk which guarantees that the
subdivider will perform all actions required by an approved plat, and provides
that if the subdivider defaults and fails to comply with provisions of an
approved plat, the subdivider or his surety will pay damages up to the limit of
the bond, or the surety will itself complete the requirements of the approved
plat. The board shall set the amount of the bond at its sole discretion with
regard to the recommendation of the commission.
PERSONAL SERVICES: Any enterprise conducted for gain, which primarily offers
services to the general public such as shoe repair, watch repair, barbershops,
beauty parlors, and similar activities.
PEST ABATEMENT: The reduction or elimination of pests such as, but not limited
to, flies, insects, rodents, etc.
PEST ABATEMENT PLAN: A written plan prepared by the owner/applicant stating
methods and practices to be used to minimize or eliminate pests.
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT: An area of land in which a variety of residential,
commercial and industrial uses developed under single ownership or control are
accommodated in a preplanned environment with more flexible standards, such as
lot sizes and setbacks, than those restrictions that would normally apply under
these regulations.
PLATFORM (ANTENNAS): A support system that may be used to connect antennas and
antenna arrays to telecommunication towers or alternative support structures.
PLOT: A parcel of land consisting of one or more lots or portions thereof,
which is described by reference to a recorded plat or by metes and bounds.
PRINCIPAL DESIGNATED USE: The main use of land or building as distinguished
from subordinate, accessory uses or other uses.
PROFESSIONAL ACTIVITIES: The use of offices and related spaces for such
professional services as are provided by medical practitioners, lawyers,
architects, engineers and similar professions.
PROPERTY: A lot or plot including all buildings and improvements thereon.
PROPERTY LINE: A recorded boundary of a plot.
PUBLIC USES: Public parks, schools, administrative and cultural buildings, and
structures, not including public land or buildings devoted solely to storage
and maintenance of equipment and materials and public service facilities.
PUBLIC UTILITIES: Structures or facilities essential to furnishing the public
with electricity, power, gas, water supply, water treatment and public
services, including power plants and service stations, water treatment plants
or public stations, fire stations or police stations.
PUBLIC WAY, PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY: A public way, right of way, easement, or strip
of land dedicated, acquired or platted across real property and intended for
the special or general use of the public which normally includes streets,
sidewalks or other public utilities or service areas.
QUASI-PUBLIC USE: Churches, Sunday schools, parochial schools, colleges,
hospitals and other facilities of an educational, religious, charitable,
philanthropic or nonprofit nature.
REAL PROPERTY: Real estate consisting of:
   A.   Lands, possessive rights to land, ditch and water rights and mining
claims; both lode and placer;
   B.   That which is affixed to land; or
   C.   That which is appurtenant to land.
REPAIR: The reconstruction or renewal of any part of an existing building for
the purpose of its maintenance. The word "repair" or "repairs" shall not apply
to any change in a structure such as would be required by additions to, or
remodeling of such structure.
RESEARCH ACTIVITIES: Research, development, and testing related to such fields
as chemical, pharmaceutical, medical, electrical, transportation, electronics,
and engineering.
RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITY: See definition of Assisted Or Residential Living
Facility.
RESIDENTIAL USE: A building or portion thereof designed exclusively for
residential occupancy, including one-family, two- family and multiple-family
dwellings, but not including hotels, motels, boarding and lodging houses,
trailers, recreational vehicles, or trailer houses.
RESTAURANT: Any land, building or part thereof, other than a boarding house
where meals are provided for compensation, including, among others, such uses
as cafe, cafeteria, coffee shop, lunchroom, tearoom and dining room.
RIGHT OF WAY: A strip of land taken or dedicated for use as a public way. In
addition to the roadway, it normally incorporates the curbs, lawn strips,
sidewalks, lighting and drainage facilities, and may include special features
(required by the topography or treatment) such as grade separation, landscaped
area, viaducts, and bridges.
ROADSIDE STAND: A temporary structure designed or used for the display or sale
of agricultural and related products, the majority of which have been grown on
adjacent land.
RODEO: An area used as an entertainment site for an exhibition and/or
competition of the skills of cowboys/cowgirls and horsemanship.
ROOMING HOUSE: A building other than a hotel where lodging is provided for
compensation to three (3) or more persons who are not members of the
householder's family and wherein no meals are served or provided.
SALVAGE YARD: A place where scrap, waste, discarded or salvage materials are
bought, sold, exchanged, baled, packed, dismantled, handled or stored,
including auto wrecking yards, house wrecking yards, used lumber yards, and
places or yards for storage of salvaged house wrecking and structural materials
and equipment; but not including such places where such uses are conducted
entirely within a completely enclosed building, and not including pawnshops and
establishments for the sale, purchase or storage of used furniture and
household equipment within a building, used cars in operable condition, or
salvaged materials incidental to manufacturing operations conducted on the
premises.
SANITARIUM, SANITORIUM: A hospital, whether or not such facility is operated
for profit.
SATELLITE DISH: A device incorporating a reflective surface that is solid, open
mesh, or bar configured that is shell dish, cone, horn, or cornucopia shaped
and is used to transmit and/or receive electromagnetic signals. This definition
is meant to include, but is not limited to, what are commonly referred to as
satellite earth stations, TVROs (satellite television receive only) and
satellite microwave antennas.
SCHOOL: An institution conducting regular academic instruction at elementary,
secondary and college levels.
SCHOOL, TRADE OR INDUSTRIAL: An institution or facility conducting instruction
in the technical, commercial or trade skills such as business, beauticians,
barbers, electricians, automotive and so forth.
SERVICE STATION: Buildings on premises where gasoline, oil, grease, batteries,
tires and motor vehicle accessories may be supplied and dispensed at retail and
wherein in addition, the following services may be rendered and sales made:
   A.   Sales and service of spark plugs, batteries and distributor parts;
   B.   Tire servicing and repair, but not recapping or regrooving;
   C.   Replacement of mufflers and tailpipes, water hoses, fan belts, brake
fluid, light bulbs, fuses, floor mats, seat covers, windshield wipers and
blades, grease retainers, wheel bearings, mirrors and the like;
   D.   Radiator cleaning and flushing;
   E.   Washing, polishing and sale of washing and polishing materials;
   F.   Greasing and lubrication;
   G.   Providing and repairing fuel pumps, oil pumps and lines;
   H.   Minor servicing and repair of carburetors;
   I.   Adjusting and repairing brakes;
   J.   Minor motor adjustment not involving removal of the head or crankcase
or raising the motor;
   K.   Sales of cold drinks, packaged food, tobacco and similar convenience
goods for service station customers, as accessory and incidental to principal
operations;
   L.   Provisions of road maps and other informational material to customers,
provision of restroom facilities; and
   M.   Warranty maintenance and safety inspections.
Uses permissible at a service station do not include major mechanical and body
work, straightening of body parts, painting, welding, storage of automobiles
not in operating condition or other characteristics to an extent greater than
normally found in service stations. A service station is neither a repair
garage nor a body shop.
SETBACK: The shortest distance between the property or lot line and the
structure or portion thereof, excluding street or road right of way.
SETBACK AREA: The space on a lot required to be left open and unoccupied by
buildings or structures, either by the front, side or rear setback requirements
of this title, or by delineation on a recorded subdivision or planned unit
development map.
SETBACK LINE: A line established by these zoning regulations, generally
parallel with and measured from the lot line, defining the limits of a yard in
which no building or structure may be located aboveground except as may be
provided in this title.
SEWAGE LAGOONS: Ponds or other similar facilities designed and used for the
storage, treatment or evaporation of liquid or semiliquid human, commercial or
industrial waste.
SHELTER HOME: A residential facility for temporary occupancy by individuals
that for financial or physical or mental health reasons, do not have a place of
residence or cannot live at their normal residences. This would include, but
not be limited to, facilities for the homeless, battered and abused, halfway
houses, and children's homes.
SHOOTING RANGE: A facility which allows for the safe practice of shooting
firearms, including shotguns, pistols, and rifles, which may include any
accessory uses and structures normally associated with this activity.
SIGN: Any display or device consisting of painted letters, symbols or designs,
and including any moving parts, lighting, sound equipment, framework,
background material or structural support, which display or device is intended
to communicate business identification, an advertisement, announcement,
directions or other message or attract, distract, hold, direct or focus public
attention.
   Commercial Sign: Any sign erected which directs attention to a use, name,
business, commodity, service or entertainment conducted, sold or offered at a
commercial establishment, whether located on the same premises of the sign or
not.
   Directional/Informational Sign: Any sign erected with the purpose of giving
directions which contains words such as "entrance", "enter", "exit", "in",
"out", or other similar words, or a sign containing arrows or characters
indicating traffic directions or provides information and/or messages of
interest to the public.
   Home Sign: An accessory sign or nameplate announcing the names of the
occupants or owners of the premises or the name of the home occupation
conducted thereon.
   Property Sign: An on premises sign erected for the purpose of advertising
the availability of the property for sale, lease or rent; or may include
project identification, a private or public announcement or the announcement of
danger or warning in connection with said premises.
   Public Sign: An accessory sign erected for the purpose of identification of
the buildings, or involved facilities, and may include the dissemination of
information in connection with the program, policy or operation of public or
semipublic institutions owning or occupying subject premises, such as schools,
churches hospitals, quasi-public bodies, clubs, lodges, clinics, professional
and executive office, or information in connection with the property of general
interest to the public.
   Temporary Sign: Any sign that is used only temporarily, not exceeding sixty
(60) days and is not permanently mounted or installed.
SITING ADVISORY TEAM ("TEAM"): A team comprised of representatives from the
Idaho state department of agriculture (ISDA), Idaho division of environmental
quality (IDEQ), Idaho department of water resources (IDWR), and an official
designee of the city of Paul. The siting advisory team may invite
representatives of the state universities of Idaho and the following federal
agencies: U.S. environmental protection agency (EPA), U.S. natural resources
conservation service (NRCS), U.S. geological survey (USGS), and the United
States department of agriculture, agricultural research services (USDA), to
participate as advisors and/or consultants to the team.
SLAUGHTERHOUSE: See definition of Commercial Slaughterhouse And Meatpacking
Facilities.
SPECIAL USE: A special use permitted within a district, other than a
principally permitted use, requiring a permit and approval of the commission.
Special uses permitted in each zone are listed in the schedule of zoning
regulations.
STABLE, PRIVATE: A detached accessory building or structure for the keeping of
one or more horses or cows owned and used by the occupant of the premises and
not for remuneration, hire or sale.
STABLE, RIDING: A building or structure used or designed for the boarding or
care of riding horses for remuneration, hire or sale.
STORM RUNOFF CONTAINMENT: The storage facility that intercepts precipitation
runoff of a corral(s) based on the requirement for a 25-year, 24-hour storm
event only. This does not include wastewater.
STORY: That portion of a building included between the surface of a floor and
the ceiling next above it.
STREET: A public right of way officially accepted by the agency or entity
having jurisdiction, fifty feet (50') or more in width, which provides a public
means of access to abutting property, or any such right of way more than twenty
feet (20') and less than fifty feet (50') in width provided it existed prior to
the enactment of this title and has received official approvals. The term
"street" shall include "avenue", "drive", "circle", "road", "parkway",
"thoroughfare", or any other similar term.
STRUCTURAL ALTERATION: Any change in the supporting members of the building
such as the bearing walls, columns, beams, girders or roof.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires location
on the ground or attachment to something having a fixed location on the ground.
Among other things, structures include buildings, mobile homes, walls, fences
and billboards.
SUBDIVIDER: A subdivider shall be deemed to be the individual, firm,
corporation, partnership, association, syndicate, trust or other legal entity
that executes the application and initiates proceedings for the subdivision
ordinance of the city of Paul. The subdivider need not be the owner but must
have written authorization from the owner to propose the subdivision of the
owner's lands.
SUBDIVISION: See title 9 of this code for definition.
SUBDIVISION, MOBILE HOME: A subdivision designed for manufactured or mobile
home residential use.
SURVEYOR: A land surveyor or professional engineer registered in the state of
Idaho.
TAVERN OR LOUNGE: A building where alcoholic beverages are sold for consumption
on the premises, not including restaurants when the principal business is
serving food.
TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITY: A facility, site, or location that contains one or
more antennas, telecommunication towers, alternative support structures,
satellite dish antennas, other similar communication devices, and support
equipment which is used for transmitting, receiving, or relaying
telecommunications signals.
TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITY (COLLOCATED): A telecommunication facility comprised
of a single telecommunication tower or building supporting multiple antennas,
dishes, or similar devices owned or used by more than one public or private
entity.
TELECOMMUNICATION SUPPORT FACILITY: The telecommunication equipment buildings
and equipment cabinets.
TOWER, CAMOUFLAGED: Any telecommunication tower that due to design or
appearance entirely hides, obscures, or conceals the presence of the tower and
antennas.
TOWER FARM: A parcel of ground on which multiple telecommunication towers or
antennas are located and clustered together on a single parcel for economic,
aesthetic, or other reasons.
TOWER, GUYED: A telecommunications tower that is supported in whole or in part
by guy wires and ground anchors or other means of support besides the
superstructure of the tower itself.
TOWER, LATTICE: A telecommunication tower that consists of vertical and
horizontal supports and crossed metal braces.
TOWER, TELECOMMUNICATION: Any structure that is designed and constructed
primarily for the purpose of supporting one or more antennas, including
camouflaged towers, lattice towers, guy towers, or monopole towers. This
includes radio and television transmission towers, microwave towers, and common
carrier towers.
TRACT, ORIGINAL TRACT OF LAND OR ORIGINAL PARCEL OF LAND: A lot or tract as
recorded on any plat or record on file in the office of the county recorder, or
any unplatted contiguous parcel of land held in one ownership of record at the
effective date of this title.
UNDUE HARDSHIP: Special conditions depriving the applicant of rights commonly
enjoyed by other property owners in the same district under the terms of this
title, but not merely a matter of convenience and profit. A hardship caused by
the applicant for the purpose of evading the restrictions of this title shall
not be considered an undue hardship.
USE: The specific purposes for which land or a building is designated,
arranged, intended or for which it is or may be occupied or maintained.
USE, EXISTING: Any use legally existing at the time of adoption of this title.
UTILITIES: Installation for conducting water, sewage, gas, electricity,
television, communications, stormwater, ancillary facilities providing service
to and used by the public.
VARIANCE: A modification of the requirements of this title as to lot size, lot
coverage, width, depth, use of property, setbacks, required parking spaces,
height of buildings or other ordinance provisions affecting the size, location
or shape of a structure or the size of lots. A variance shall not be considered
a right or special privilege, but may be granted to an applicant only upon a
showing of undue hardship because of characteristics of the site and that the
variance is not in conflict with the public interest.
WASTE: Waste normally associated with animal feeding operations, which may
include waste products, wastewater and feed residues.
WASTE PRODUCTS: Organic waste matter such as urine and/or feces.
WASTE TREATMENT SYSTEM: The process, area, or mechanism employed for the
retention, storage and treatment of liquid or solid wastes.
WASTEWATER: Water that has been used, for washing, flushing, or in a
manufacturing process, which also contains waste products.
YARD: An open space on the same zoning lot with a principal building or group
of buildings, which is unoccupied and unobstructed from its lowest level
upward, except as otherwise permitted in this title, and which extends to a
depth or width specified in the yard or setback regulations for the district in
which the lot is located.
YARD, FRONT: The yard across the full width of the lot or plot facing the
street and extending from the front building line of the building to the front
property or street line.
YARD, REAR: The yard across the full width of the lot or plot opposite the
front yard, extending from the rear building line of the building to the rear
property line.
YARD, SIDE: The yard between the side building line of the building and the
adjacent side property line and extending from the front yard to the rear yard.
ZONE OR ZONING DISTRICT: The incorporated territory of the city of Paul as
defined by this title and designated on the zoning map, to which the provisions
of this zoning ordinance apply.
ZONING MAP: The zoning map of the city of Paul, incorporated into this title
designating zoning districts together with all amendments subsequently adopted.
ZONING OFFICIAL: The zoning administrator or his authorized representative.
ZONING REVIEW AND CERTIFICATES:
   Certificate Of Occupancy: A document issued by the building official
authorizing the occupancy and use of completed buildings, structures or
premises and the proposed use thereof for the purpose of ensuring compliance
with the provisions of this title and other adopted codes and regulations.
   Certificate Of Zoning Compliance: A building permit once issued as herein
provided may serve as a zoning permit, if needed.
   Notice Of Noncompliance: A document issued by the zoning administrator
indicating that a use or structure is nonconforming to the district regulations
or is not in conformity with other conditions or requirements of this title.
   Zoning Review: The review process described in sections
8-13-1 and
8-13-3 of this title. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002; amd. Ord. 2003-2, 3-12-2003; Ord.
2005-5, 10-12-2005; Ord. 2007-4, 4-11-2007; Ord. 2009-4, 5-13-2009; Ord. 2012-
4, 12-12-2012)
 
Notes
1 1. IC § 67-6521.
CHAPTER 3
ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONES
SECTION:
8-3-1: Designation Of Zones
8-3-2: Zoning Map
8-3-3: Regulations
8-3-4: Boundaries Of Zones
8-3-5: Conformity And General Intent
8-3-1: DESIGNATION OF ZONES:
In order to accomplish more fully the objectives and purposes of this title,
the city of Paul is hereby divided into zones which shall be known by symbols
and/or names as follows:
Short Title Zones
Short Title Zones
   AL       Agricultural low
   AM       Agricultural medium
   AH       Agricultural heavy
   RL       Residential low density
   RM       Residential medium density
   RH       Residential high density
   CL       Commercial local
   CG       Commercial general
   IL       Industrial light
   IH       Industrial heavy
   O        Outlying
 
(Ord. 411, 8-14-2002; amd. Ord. 2003-2, 3-12-2003)
8-3-2: ZONING MAP:
The location and boundaries of each of the zoning districts and special overlay
districts are hereby established as are shown on the zoning map of the city of
Paul. All boundaries, notations and other data shown thereon are as much a part
of this title as if fully described herein. Said zoning map, properly attested,
shall be placed and remain on file in the office of the city clerk.
The zoning map shall be identified by the signature of the mayor, attested by
the city clerk, and shall bear the following words:
I hereby certify that this is the official City of Paul, Idaho Zoning Map which
was adopted by the City Council on the          day of            ,          .
(Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-3-3: REGULATIONS:
Within each of the zones, the height, number of stories, and the size of
buildings and structures, and percentage of lot that may be occupied, the size
of yards, courts and other open spaces, the density or population and the
location and use of buildings, structures and land for trade, industry,
residence or other purposes are hereby regulated and restricted as set forth in
this title or as may be amended. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-3-4: BOUNDARIES OF ZONES:
Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of zones, the following
rules shall apply:
   A.   When indicated boundaries of the zone map are adjacent to street or
land survey lines, said street or land survey lines shall be construed to be
the zone boundaries.
   B.   Where the indicated boundaries are adjacent to canals, natural streams
or watercourses, or other clearly defined, natural features, the centerline of
said canal, natural stream, watercourse or natural feature shall be construed
to be the zone boundary.
   C.   In the absence of any street, land survey, canal, natural stream,
watercourse or other natural feature or measurement as forming the boundaries
of any zone, the scale or measurement shown on the map shall be used to
determine the zone boundary lines.
   D.   Whenever a street is vacated and that street has not been given a zone
classification, the land of the vacated street shall have the same zone
classification as the land adjacent or abutting land owned or on the same side
of the centerline of the former street to whom such land reverts or in whom
said land becomes vested by operations of law or otherwise.
   E.   In every case where small parcels of territory have not been
specifically included within a district through errors in legal description, or
where territory becomes a part of the city by incorporation or by inclusion in
area of impact of the city, such territory shall automatically retain its
existing use classification, until otherwise classified.
   F.   In case of conflict between the text and the maps of this title, the
maps shall prevail. In case of a conflict between the provisions of the various
sections of the text of this title, the most stringent provisions shall
prevail.
   G.   Where other uncertainty exists, the zoning administrator shall
interpret the map. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-3-5: CONFORMITY AND GENERAL INTENT:
Except as otherwise provided herein, land, buildings and premises in any
district shall hereafter be used only in accordance with the regulations herein
established for the district and the following general provisions:
   A.   No building shall hereafter be erected, constructed, relocated or
structurally altered to have a greater height, proportion of coverage or
smaller yards or open spaces about it than permissible under the limitations
set forth herein for the district in which such buildings are located.
   B.   No yards, open spaces or off street parking space or loading space
existing or provided hereafter about any building shall be reduced below the
minimum requirements hereinafter set forth for such open space, parking space
or loading space, or further reduced if already less than said minimum
requirements.
   C.   No open space, yard or off street parking space or loading space
existing or hereafter provided for a building or use and necessary to meet or
partially meet the requirements of this title shall be considered as all or
part of the yard, open space, off street parking space or loading space
required for any other building or upon any other lot.
   D.   No lot held under one ownership at the effective date hereof shall be
reduced in dimension or area in relation to any building thereon so as to be
smaller than that required by this title, and if already less, the dimension or
area of such lot shall not be further reduced except by subdivision properly
approved by the city.
   E.   If any development, building or structure shall be over any recorded or
known easement, a letter of approval from the grantee of said easement must be
submitted with the plan specifying that said development, building or structure
does not infringe upon said easement.
   F.   No facilities or use can be permitted in residential areas unless it is
clearly demonstrated that the proposed use will not result in smoke, dirt,
litter, smog, air or water pollution, excessive noise or offensive odors beyond
the boundaries of the property on which the facility is located. (Ord. 411, 8-
14-2002)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PURPOSES OF ZONES
SECTION:
8-4-1: Agricultural Low Zone (AL)
8-4-2: Agricultural Medium Zone (AM)
8-4-3: Agricultural Heavy Zone (AH)
8-4-4: Residential Low Density Zone (RL)
8-4-5: Residential Medium Density Zone (RM)
8-4-6: Residential High Density Zone (RH)
8-4-7: Commercial Local Zone (CL)
8-4-8: Commercial General Zone (CG)
8-4-9: Industrial Light Zone (IL)
8-4-10: Industrial Heavy Zone (IH)
8-4-11: Outlying Zone (O)
8-4-1: AGRICULTURAL LOW ZONE (AL):
The purpose of this agricultural zone is intended to provide areas for low
density or residential development that maintain a rural environment with
continuation of limited or light agricultural uses where compatible with each
other. It is appropriate to be applied to areas which have, by nature of uses
and land division activity, already begun a conversion from rural to urban use,
primarily in the outer portions of the rural-urban fringe areas where public
facilities and services will be necessary before intensive urbanization should
occur, and in rural land with marginal suitability for agricultural production.
(Ord. 2003-2, 3-12-2003)
8-4-2: AGRICULTURAL MEDIUM ZONE (AM):
The purpose of this zone or district is to retain the economic base of Minidoka
County by preserving the good productive lands for agricultural purposes and
activities, which are of a less objectionable nature, by identifying the
farmlands lying in those portions of the county that are in areas of higher
residential density, located closer to urban areas, and are more likely to
undergo urban development. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-4-3: AGRICULTURAL HEAVY ZONE (AH):
The purpose of this zone or district is to retain and support the economic base
of Minidoka County by preserving the good productive lands for all agricultural
purposes and by identifying and protecting the farmlands lying in those
portions of the county not likely to undergo urban development. This zone or
district is characterized by farms and ranches devoted to the production of
food, fiber, and animal products, and by large tracts of open rangeland devoted
to raising of livestock. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-4-4: RESIDENTIAL LOW DENSITY ZONE (RL):
The purpose of this zone or district is to permit the establishment of low
density single-family housing areas designated to contain a range from one to
eight (8) units per acre. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-4-5: RESIDENTIAL MEDIUM DENSITY ZONE (RM):
The purpose of this zone or district is to permit the establishment of medium
density multiple-family dwellings not exceeding fourplex type apartments. This
zone or district is also designed to permit the conversion of large older
houses and will allow the establishment of neighborhoods into apartments. (Ord.
411, 8-14-2002)
8-4-6: RESIDENTIAL HIGH DENSITY ZONE (RH):
The purpose of this zone or district is to permit the establishment of high
density housing areas. This zone or district may act as a buffer between
various nonresidential uses and less dense residential uses, thus serving as a
transitional use. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-4-7: COMMERCIAL LOCAL ZONE (CL):
The purpose of this zone or district is to provide for areas suitable to
fulfill the need for travel related services, retail sales and professional
offices as well as neighborhood or local commercial services throughout the
city and its area of impact. This zone or district is established to encourage
the development of convenience business uses, which tend to meet the daily
needs of the residents of the immediate neighborhood and for pedestrian
patrons. The zone is also designed to act as a buffer between other more
intense nonresidential uses and residential uses. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-4-8: COMMERCIAL GENERAL ZONE (CG):
The purpose of this zone or district to provide for and encourage the grouping
together of business, retail, public, quasi-public, and other related uses with
minimal light industrial uses capable of being operated under such standards as
to location and appearance of buildings and treatment of land around them that
they will be unobtrusive and not detrimental to surrounding commercial or
residential uses. The light industrial uses permitted in this zone are
manufacturing and wholesale business establishments which are clean, quiet and
free of hazardous or objectionable elements such as noise, odor, dust, smoke or
glare operated entirely within enclosed structures which generate little
industrial traffic. This zone or district is further designed to accent a
transitional use between industrial uses and other less intense business and
residential uses. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-4-9: INDUSTRIAL LIGHT ZONE (IL):
The purpose of this zone is to provide for the location of manufacturing or
other industrial uses which are duly controlled operations that do not generate
smoke, noise, vibration, dust, odor, glare, gas, light, air pollution or water
pollution beyond the district boundary. This zone is characterized by
warehouses, wholesale storage areas, packaging and assembling plants. The
district is further designed to accent a transitional use between heavy
industrial uses and less intense general commercial uses. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-4-10: INDUSTRIAL HEAVY ZONE (IH):
The purpose of this zone is to provide for the location of manufacturing and
other industrial uses which usually contain heavy manufacturing, processing,
assembling, storing, testing and similar industrial uses which are generally
major operations and extensive in character requiring large sites where the
byproducts of such use include emittance of nuisances such as smoke, noise,
vibration, dust, odor, glare, gas, light, air pollution or water pollution
beyond the district boundaries which may have a detrimental effect on
neighboring property. These uses require extensive community facilities and
isolation from residential and commercial uses and also require reasonable
access to arterial thoroughfares. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-4-11: OUTLYING ZONE (O):
The purpose of the outlying zone is to classify land which is considered to be
of such remote location, constitutes unproductive land, or is otherwise
situated or categorized so as to require no regulations at this time except
that industrial uses will not be permitted in said zone without first obtaining
a special use or conditional use permit. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
CHAPTER 5
REGULATIONS WITHIN ZONES
SECTION:
8-5-1: Compliance With Regulations
8-5-2: Schedule Of Zoning Regulations Adopted
8-5-3: Schedule Of Height And Area Regulations Adopted
8-5-1: COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS:
The regulations of each zone set forth by this title shall be minimum
regulations and shall apply uniformly to each class or kind of structure or
land, except as hereinafter provided.
   A.   No building, structure or land shall be used or occupied and no
building or structure or a part thereof shall be erected, constructed,
reconstructed, moved or structurally altered except in conformity with all the
regulations herein specified for the zone in which it is located;
   B.   No building or other structure shall be erected or altered:
      1.   To provide for greater height or bulk;
      2.   To accommodate or house a greater number of families;
      3.   To occupy a greater percentage of lot area; or
      4.   To have narrower or smaller rear yards, front yards, or other open
spaces than herein allowed or required, as the case may be, or any other manner
contrary to the provisions of this title; and
   C.   No yard or lot existing at the time of passage of this title shall be
reduced in dimension of area below the minimum requirements set forth herein.
Yards or lots created after the effective date hereof shall be at least the
minimum requirements set forth herein. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-5-2: SCHEDULE OF ZONING REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
Zoning regulations shall be as set forth in the official schedule of zoning
regulations and in chapter 6, "Performance Standards", of this title. To
determine in which zone a specific use is allowed, it is necessary to find the
use and read across the schedule until either the letter "P", "N" or the letter
"S" appears in one of the columns. If the letter "P" appears, the use is an
allowed use, if the letter "S" appears, the use is only allowed upon the
issuance of a special or conditional use permit and if the letter "N" appears,
the use is not permitted in that zone or district. The administrator shall
interpret the appropriate zone for land uses not specifically mentioned by
determining a zone in which similar uses are permitted. When several combined
land uses exist, or are proposed, the most intensive land use shall be
considered as the primary activity. All uses listed in the schedule will be
considered public and/or commercial unless specifically designated as private,
public or commercial. (Ord. 2009-4, 5-13-2009)
OFFICIAL SCHEDULE OF ZONING REGULATIONS
Key To Symbols
Zones Zoning Regulations
Zones                         Zoning Regulations
AL Agricultural Low           P = Permitted use
AM Agricultural Medium        S = Special use
AH Agricultural Heavy         N = Not permitted
RL Residential Low Density        
RM Residential Medium Density     
RH Residential High Density       
CL Commercial Local               
CG Commercial General             
IL Industrial Light               
IH Industrial Heavy               
O  Outlying Zone                  
 
                Zoning Districts
   Land UsAL AM AH RL RM RH CL CG IL IH O
                                               Zoning Districts
   Land Uses                            AL  AM  AH  RL  RM  RH CL  CG  IL  IH  O
Agricultural Activities                           
   Agronomy and crop consulting servicesN   S   S   N   N   N  P5  P   P   P   S
   Alcohol production plants            N   S   S   N   N   N  N   S   S   P   S
   Animal hospital                      N   S   S   N   N   N  S1  P1  P   P   N
   Dairy product processing             N   N   S   N   N   N  N   N   P1  P   N
   Grain and seed processing, commercialN   S   S   N   N   N  N   N   P1  P   P
   Grain and seed processing, domestic  N   P   P   N   N   N  N   N   P1  P   P
   Greenhouses                          S   P   P   N   N   N  S   P   P   P   N
   Kennels, commercial                  N   S6  S6  N   N   N  N   P6  P   P   N
   Kennels, noncommercial               N   P   P   N   N   N  P6  P6  P   P   N
   Livestock feed processing, commercialN   S   S   N   N   N  N   N   P   P   S
   Livestock feed processing, domestic  N   P   P   N   N   N  N   N   P   P   S
   Livestock sales                      N   S   S   N   N   N  N   N   S   S   N
   Meat product processing              N   N   S   N   N   N  N   N   S1  P   N
   Plant and flower nurseries           S   P   P   N   N   N  S   P   P   P   N
   Vegetable and produce processing     N   N   S   N   N   N  N   N   P   P   N
   Veterinarian                         N   S   S   N   N   N  S1  P1  P   P   N
Agriculture                                       
   Confined animal feeding operations:                                
      Commercial                     N   N   S   N   N   N  N   N   N   S   S
      Domestic                       S   P11 P11 N   N   N  N   N   N   S   P
      Industrial                     N   N   S   N   N   N  N   N   N   N   P
   Family food production (family gardenP   P   P   P   P   P  P   P   P   P   P
   Farms, animals, confined6            P   P   P   N   N   N  N   N   N   N   P
   Farms, animals on pasture            P6  P   P   P6  N   N  N   N   P6  P6  P
   Farms, plants and trees              P   P   P   N   N   N  N   N   P   P   P
   Farms, produce and other farm productP   P   P   N   N   N  N   N   P   P   P
Communications And Utilities                      
   Electrical distribution lines        P   P   P   P   P   P  P   P   P   P   P
   Electrical generation                N   S   S   N   N   N  N   N   S   S   S
   Electrical transmission lines        S   S   S   N   N   N  N   S   S   S   P
   Media transfer/booster stations12    S1  S1  S1  S1  S1  S1 P1  P   P   P   S
   Radio and television stations        N   N   N   N   N   P1 P1  P   P   P   N
   Telecommunication towers:                                          
      Camouflaged towers             P6  P6  P6  N   N   S6 S6  S6  P6  P6  S6
      Tower/antenna farms            N   S6  S6  N   N   N  N   S6  S6  P6  S6
      Towers less than 90 feet in heiS6t P6  P6  N   N   N  N   S6  P6  P6  S6
      Towers over 90 feet in height  S6  S6  S6  N   N   N  N   N   S6  S6  S6
   Telegraph centers and stations       N   N   N   N   N   P1 P1  P   P   P   N
   Telephone exchange stations          S1  S1  S1  S1  S1  S1 P1  P   P   P   S
   Transmission lines, aboveground      P   P   P   P   P   P  P   P   P   P   P
   Transmission lines, underground      P   P   P   P   P   P  P   P   P   P   P
   Utility buildings and structures     S2  S2  S2  S2  S2  S2 S2  P   P   P   S2
Cultural Facilities                               
   Aquariums                            N   N   N   N   N   S  P1  P   P   P   S
   Botanical gardens, arboretums        S   S   S   S   S   S  P   P   P   P   S
   Historical sites, monuments          S   P   P   S   S   S  S   P   P   P   P
   Libraries, museums, galleries        N   N   N   N   N   P1 P   P   P   P   N
   Planetariums                         N   N   N   N   N   S  P1  P   P   P   S
   Zoos                                 N   S   S   N   N   N  S   S   P   P   S
Manufacturing                                     
   Apparel and related products         N   N   N   N   N   N  S1  P1  P   P   N
   Asphalt plant                        N   N   N   N   N   N  N   N   S   P   N
   Asphalt plant, temporary             N   S   S   N   N   N  N   N   P   P   N
   Beverage bottling plant              N   N   N   N   N   N  N   P1  P   P   N
   Building materials                   N   N   N   N   N   N  N   P1  P   P   N
   Chemicals and chemical products      N   N   N   N   N   N  N   N   S1  P   N
   Computer products and semiconductors N   N   N   N   N   N  N   N   P   P   N
   Concrete products                    N   N   N   N   N   N  N   N   P1  P   N
   Farm equipment                       N   N   N   N   N   N  N   S1  P   P   N
   Food products                        N   S   S   N   N   N  N   S1  P1  P   N
   Furniture and fixtures               N   N   N   N   N   N  N   P1  P   P   N
   Gravel pits                          N   S   S   N   N   N  N   N   S   S   S
   Ice manufacturing                    N   N   N   N   N   N  P1  P   P   P   N
   Metal products                       N   N   N   N   N   N  N   N   S1  P   N
   Mineral products                     N   N   S   N   N   N  N   N   S1  P   N
   Miscellaneous products               N   N   N   N   N   N  N   N   S1  P   N
   Paper products                       N   N   N   N   N   N  S1  P1  P   P   N
   Petroleum products                   N   N   N   N   N   N  N   N   S1  P   N
   Pharmaceutical products              N   N   N   N   N   N  N   S1  P   P   N
   Printing and publishing              N   N   N   N   N   N  P1  P1  P   P   N
   Professional and scientific products N   N   N   N   N   N  P1  P1  P   P   N
   Textile products                     N   N   N   N   N   N  S1  P1  P   P   N
   Trailers and truck beds              N   N   N   N   N   N  N   S1  P   P   N
Parks                                             
   Open spaces                          P   P   P   P   P   P  P   P   P   P   P
   Public parks and playgrounds         P   S   S   P   P   P  P   P   P   P   S
Public Assembly                                   
   Amusement parks                      N   N   N   N   N   N  S   S   S   S   N
   Auditoriums                          N   N   N   N   N   N  P   P   P   P   N
   Churches                             S   S   S   S   S   P  P   P   P   S   S
   Concessions                          N   N   N   N   N   N  S   P   P   P   N
   Convention centers                   N   N   N   N   N   N  P1  P   P   P   N
   Dance halls (occupancy of 51 to 300) N   N   N   N   N   N  N   P6  P6  P6  N
   Dance halls (occupancy over 300)     N   N   N   N   N   N  N   S6  P6  P6  N
   Drive-in theaters                    N   S   S   N   N   N  S   S   S   S   N
   Exhibition halls                     N   N   N   N   N   N  P1  P   P   P   N
   Fairgrounds                          N   S   S   N   N   N  N   N   P   P   S
   Riding arenas, private               P16 P16 P16 N   N   N  N   S1  S   S   S
   Riding arenas, public                S1  S   S   N   N   N  N   S1  P   P   N
   Sports arenas                        N   S   S   N   N   N  S1  P   P   P   N
   Theaters                             N   N   N   N   N   P  P   P   P   P   N
Residential                                       
   Home occupation                      P6  P6  P6  P6  P6  P6 P6  P6  P6  P6  S
   Manufactured home, class A           P   P   P   P7  P7  P7 P7  P7  P7  S   P
   Manufactured home, class B           P7  P   P   N   N   N  N   N   N   S7  P
   Manufactured home, class C8          N   N   N   N   N   N  N   N   N   N   N
   Manufactured home, nonconforming9    N   N   N   N   N   N  N   N   N   N   N
   Manufactured (mobile) home parks     N   S10 S10 N   S   S  S   S   S   S   N
   Multi-family dwellings               S3  S4  S4  S3  P4  P  P   P   P   S   N
   One-family dwelling                  P   P   P   P   P   P  P   P   P   S   P
   Rooming house                        N   N   N   N   S   P  P   P   P   S   N
   Subdivision, industrial              N   N   N   N   N   N  N   N   P   P   N
   Subdivision, manufactured home       S   N   N   S   S   S  S   S   S   S   N
   Subdivision, residential             P   S15 S15 P   P   P  S   N   N   N   N
   Temporary mobile home                N   N   N   N   N   N  N   N   N   N   N
   Two-family dwelling                  S   S   S   S   P   P  P   P   P   S   N
Residential - Additional Units                    
   Assisted living facilities           N   N   N   N   S   P  P   P   P   P   N
   Bed and breakfast                    N   N   N   S   S   P  P   P   P   P   N
   Boarding houses                      N   S   S   N   S   P  P   P   P   P   N
   Condominiums                         N   N   N   N   P4  P  P   P   P   S   N
   Congregate residences                N   N   N   N   S   P  P   P   P   P   N
   Hotels                               N   N   N   N   N   P  P   P   P   P   N
   Motels                               N   N   N   N   N   P  P   P   P   P   N
   RV (recreational vehicle) park       N   N   N   N   N   S  S   S   P   P   N
   Retirement homes or senior housing   N   N   N   N   P4  P  P   P   S   S   N
   Shelter homes                        N   N   N   N   S6  S6 S6  S6  P6  P6  N
Services                                          
   Advertising                          N   N   N   N   N   S5 P5  P   P   P   N
      Billboards6                    N   N   N   N   N   N  S   P   P   P   N
      Signs6:                                                      
         Commercial               N   N   N   N   N   N  P   P   P   P   N
         Directional/informationalP   P   P   P   P   P  P   P   P   P   P
         Home                     P   P   P   P   P   P  P   P   P   P   P
         Property                 P   P   P   P   P   P  P   P   P   P   P
         Public                   P   P   P   P   P   P  P   P   P   P   P
         Temporary                P   P   P   P   P   P  P   P   P   P   P
   Apparel repair and alteration        N   N   N   N   N   S  P1  P   P   P   N
   Automobile rental                    N   N   N   N   N   S  P   P   P   P   N
   Automobile repair                    N   S1  S1  N   N   N  S1  P1  P   P   N
   Automobile wrecking yard             N   N   N   N   N   N  N   N   S   P   S
   Beauty and barber shops              N   N   N   N   N   P  P   P   P   P   N
   Building care contracting            N   N   N   N   N   P1 P1  P   P   P   N
   Business associations                N   N   N   N   N   S5 P1  P   P   P   N
   Car wash                             N   N   N   N   N   S  P   P   P   P   N
   Cemetery                             S   S   S   N   N   N  S   S   S   S   N
   Civic, social and fraternal          N   N   N   N   S5  P1 P   P   P   P   N
organizations
   Construction trades                  N   N   N   N   N   N  P5  P1  P   P   N
   Consumer, credit, collection         N   N   N   N   N   S5 P5  P   P   P   N
   Copy center, duplication, stenographiN   N   N   N   N   S5 P   P   P   P   N
   Dance, music, voice studio           S1  S   N   N   S1  P1 P1  P   P   P   N
   Daycare facilities                   S   S   S   S   S   P  P   P   S   S   S
   Employment                           N   N   N   N   N   S5 P5  P   P   P   N
   Equipment rental                     N   N   N   N   N   N  P1  P   P   P   N
   Finance and investment               N   N   N   N   N   S  P   P   P   P   N
   Frozen food lockers                  N   N   N   N   N   P  P   P   P   P   N
   Funeral parlor/crematorium           N   N   N   N   N   S  P   P   P   P   N
   Governmental facilities              N   S   S   N   N   S5 P5  P   P   P   S
   Health club                          N   N   N   N   N   S  P   P   P   P   N
   Hospitals, clinics and related servicNs  N   N   N   S   S  P   P   P   P   N
   Hotel                                N   N   N   N   N   P  P   P   P   P   N
   Industrial waste or produce water ponNs  S   S   N   N   N  N   N   S   P   S
   Insurance and related                N   N   N   N   N   S  P   P   P   P   N
   Labor union and organizations        N   N   N   N   N   S5 P1  P   P   P   N
   Landscaping                          S   P   P   N   N   N  S   P   P   P   N
   Laundering and dry cleaning          N   N   N   N   N   S  P   P   P   P   N
   Laundromats                          N   N   N   N   N   P  P   P   P   P   N
   Motel                                N   N   N   N   N   P  P   P   P   P   N
   News syndicate                       N   N   N   N   N   N  P5  P   P   P   N
   Nursing and rest homes               S   N   N   N   S   S  P   P   P   P   N
   Photo labs                           N   N   N   N   N   S  P   P   P   P   N
   Photography studios                  N   N   N   N   S   S  P   P   P   P   N
   Professional                         N   N   N   N   N   S5 P5  P   P   P   N
   Professional organizations           N   N   N   N   N   S5 P1  P   P   P   N
   Real estate and related              N   N   N   N   N   P5 P5  P   P   P   N
   Religious facilities                 S   S   S   S   S   P  P   P   P   S   S
   Rendering plant                      N   N   N   N   N   N  N   N   S   P   N
   Salvage or automobile wrecking yard  N   N   N   N   N   N  N   N   S   S   S
   Sanitary landfills                   N   S   S   N   N   N  N   N   N   S   S
   Schools, academic and vocational,    S   N   N   S   S   P  P   P   P   S   S
public
   Schools, commercial/private          S   N   N   S   S   P  P   P   P   P   S
   Schools, public                      S   N   N   S   S   P  P   P   P   S   S
   Sewage lagoons                       N   S   S   N   N   N  N   N   N   S   S
   Small appliance repair               N   S1  S1  N   N   N  P1  P   P   P   N
   Small engine repair                  N   S1  S1  N   N   N  P1  P1  P   P   N
   Storage rentals                      S1  S   N   S14 S14 S1 P1  P   P   P   N
   Telemarketing                        N   N   N   N   N   N  P   P   P   P   S
   Tire shop                            N   N   N   N   N   N  S1  P1  P   P   N
   Truck and tractor repair (agriculturaN)  S1  S1  N   N   N  S1  P1  P   P   N
   Truck and tractor repair (commercial)N   N   N   N   N   N  N   P1  P   P   N
   Upholstery repair                    N   N   N   N   N   S1 P1  P   P   P   N
   Welfare and charitable               N   N   N   N   N   S5 P1  P   P   P   N
Sports Facilities                                 
   Athletic areas                       S   S   N   S   S   S  P   P   P   P   S
   Bicycleway                           S   S   S   S   S   S  S   S   S   S   S
   Car racing track                     N   S   S   N   N   N  N   N   S   S   S
   Equestrianway                        S   S   S   N   N   N  N   N   S   S   S
   Go-cart tracks                       N   N   N   N   N   N  S   P   P   P   N
   Golf courses and country clubs       S   S   N   S   S   S  P   P   P   P   S
   Golf driving ranges                  S   S   N   S   S   S  P   P   P   P   S
   Horseracing track                    N   S   S   N   N   N  N   N   S   S   N
   Ice or roller skating                N   N   N   N   N   S  P   P   P   P   N
   Indoor recreational facility         S   S   N   S   S   S  P   P   P   P   S
   Miniature golf                       S   N   N   N   N   S  S   P   P   P   S
   Motorcycle racing track              N   S   S   N   N   N  N   N   S   S   S
   Paintball park or facility           N   N   N   N   N   S1 P1  P   P   P   N
   Private hunting club or reserve      N   S   S   N   N   N  N   N   N   S   S
   Riding stable and schools            S   S   S   N   N   S  S   P   P   P   N
   Rifle and pistol range               N   S   S   N   N   N  N   N   S   S   S
   Skateboarding                        N   N   N   N   N   S  P   P   P   P   N
   Swimming pools, commercial and publicS   N   N   N   N   S  P   P   P   P   N
   Tennis courts, commercial            S   N   N   S   S   S  P   P   P   P   N
   Tennis courts, private               P   P   P   P   P   P  P   P   P   P   P
   Tennis courts, public                S   S   S   S   P   P  P   P   P   P   P
Trade - Retail                                    
   Alcoholic beverages, served          N   N   N   N   N   S  P   P   P   P   N
   Alcoholic beverages, sold only       N   N   N   N   N   N  P   P   P   P   N
   Apparel and accessories              N   N   N   N   N   S  P   P   P   P   N
   Automobiles and trucks               N   N   N   N   N   N  S   P   P   P   N
   Building material, hardware          N   N   N   N   N   N  P1  P   P   P   N
   Bulk fertilizer and farm chemicals   N   N   S   N   N   N  N   S   P   P   N
   Convenience store                    N   N   N   N   N   S  P   P   P   P   N
   Drive-in establishments              N   N   N   N   N   S  S   P   P   P   N
   Eating places                        N   N   N   N   N   S  P   P   P   P   N
   Farm and garden supplies             N   N   N   N   N   S1 P1  P   P   P   N
   Food, drugs, liquor, etc.            N   N   N   N   N   N  P1  P   P   P   N
   Gasoline service stations            N   N   N   N   N   S1 S1  P   P   P   N
   General merchandise                  N   N   N   N   N   N  P1  P   P   P   N
   Home furnishings, appliances         N   N   N   N   N   N  P   P   P   P   N
   Irrigation sales                     N   N   N   N   N   N  S1  P1  P   P   N
   Large implements and heavy equipment N   N   N   N   N   N  S1  P   P   P   N
   Manufactured home sales              N   N   N   N   N   N  P5  P   P   P   N
   Petroleum                            N   N   N   N   N   N  N   P1  P   P   N
   Sporting goods                       N   N   N   N   N   N  P   P   P   P   N
Trade - Wholesale                                 
   Bulk fertilizer and farm chemicals   N   N   S   N   N   N  N   S   S   S   N
   Bulk storage - flammable liquids and N   N   N   N   N   N  N   S1  S   S   N
gases
   Wholesale distribution and warehousinN   N   N   N   N   N  N   P1  P   P   N
Transportation                                    
   Airfields (private)                  N   S   S   N   N   N  N   N   S   S   S
   Airfields (public)                   N   S   S   N   N   N  N   N   S   S   S
   Automobile open parking lot          N   N   N   N   N   S  P   P   P   P   N
   Bus facilities, excluding pick up    N   N   N   N   N   N  S1  P1  P   P   N
shelters
   Bus pick up shelters                 S   S   S   S   S   S  P   P   P   P   S
   Freight transfer                     N   N   N   N   N   N  N   P1  P   P   N
   Helicopter landing pad               S   S   S   N   N   N  S13 S13 S13 S13 S
   Railroad buildings and equipment     N   N   N   N   N   N  S5  S   P   P   N
   Tickets and arrangements             N   N   N   N   N   S5 P5  P   P   P   N
   Truck and bus open parking lot       N   N   N   N   N   N  N   P   P   P   N
   Trucking facilities                  N   N   N   N   N   N  P5  P5  P   P   N
 
Notes:
   1.    Providing all materials and equipment are kept inside of an enclosed
building and providing all work is performed inside an enclosed building.
   2.    Utility buildings and structures less than 50 square feet in area and
less than 3 feet above the natural grade or utility buildings adjacent to and
connected to an existing approved transmission tower are permitted uses.
   3.    Maximum of 2 dwelling units per building.
   4.    Maximum of 4 dwelling units per building.
   5.    Offices only.
   6.    Must comply with separate and/or additional requirements of this title
and other applicable ordinances.
   7.    The applicable classes of manufactured homes are permitted, but may be
subject to other ordinances adopted by Governing Body dealing with buildings or
structures built outside of the jurisdiction.
   8.    Class C manufactured homes as defined in this title are permitted only
in mobile home parks.
   9.    Nonconforming manufactured homes as defined in this title are
permitted only in mobile home parks.
   10.    Manufactured (mobile) home parks are permitted with approval of
special use permit when such park is used exclusively for the housing of
agricultural laborers and their immediate family members, and is owned by an
individual farmer, farming entity, group of farmers or farming entities.
   11.    Application approval may be granted by administrative approval
without a public hearing.
   12.    To facilitate for location of telecommunication equipment on existing
towers or structures, media transfer or booster stations will be permitted uses
when located immediately adjacent to such existing towers or structures.
   13.    Helicopter landing pads will be permitted in the zoning districts
where special use permits are required when associated with hospitals or other
emergency related service provider.
   14.    Storage rental facilities developed in conjunction with the platting
and approval of new subdivisions or planned unit developments may be permitted
for the number of units not exceeding the number of developable lots, with the
approval of a special use permit.
   15.    Small subdivisions of 10 lots or less.
   16.    Private riding arenas are for the personal use of the owners, owners'
family and friends where no commercial gain is realized.
(Ord. 411, 8-14-2002; amd. Ord. 2003-2, 3-12-2003; Ord. 2005-5, 10-12-2005;
Ord. 2007-4, 4-11-2007; Ord. 2009-4, 5-13-2009; Ord. 2015-1, 3-11-2015; Ord.
2016-1, 7-13-2016)
8-5-3:SCHEDULE OF HEIGHT AND AREA REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
Zoning height, area, and setback regulations shall be set forth in the official
schedule of height and area regulations. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
OFFICIAL SCHEDULE OF HEIGHT AND AREA REGULATIONS
The following setbacks and minimum yard requirements shall apply in the
respective zones:
   Setbacks shall be measured from property lines unless a property line is in
the center of the road or street. In such case setback shall be measured from
the road or street right of way.
   Setbacks shall be measured to the wall of a structure with projections of
twenty four inches (24") or less. For walls with projections of greater than
twenty four inches (24") setbacks shall be measured to the projections.
Projections over public way will be governed by provisions of this title and
the international building code. (Ord. 2009-4, 5-13-2009)
         Maximum Front    Rear     Interior Side Street Maximum Lot Minimum Lot
Zoning   Height1 Setback5 Setback2 Side     Setback6    Coverage    Area3
District (Feet)  (Feet)   (Feet)   Setback7 (Feet)      (Percent)   (Square
                                   (Feet)                           Feet)
         Maximum Front    Rear     Interior Side Street Maximum Lot Minimum Lot
Zoning   Height1 Setback5 Setback2 Side     Setback6    Coverage    Area3
District (Feet)  (Feet)   (Feet)   Setback7 (Feet)      (Percent)   (Square
                                   (Feet)                           Feet)
AL       35         30 5        5           30    30          1 acre4
AM       45         30 5        5           30    10          1 acre
AH       45         30 5        5           30    10          1 acre
RL       35         20 5        5           20    30          6,100
RM       35         20 5        5           20    40          3,000
RH       45         20 5        5           20    50          1,500
CL       35         20 5        5           20    NR          2,500
CG       45         0  0        0           0     NR          2,500
IL       60         0  0        0           0     NR          2,500
IH       60         0  0        0           0     NR          2,500
 
Notes:
   1.   Except for silos, granaries, windmills and elevator legs.
   2.   Any building on residential lots that has garage doors opening toward
the alley to the rear of the property shall be set back 20 feet from the rear
property line unless permanently posted for no parking on doors opening to the
alley. The no parking signs shall be of letters no less than 4 inches in height
and of a permanent material and nature.
   3.   When more than 1 dwelling unit is placed on the same lot, parcel or
tract, the minimum lot area will be required per unit.
   4.   If central water or sewer is provided then the minimum lot size may be
reduced to 1/2 acre.
   5.   Front and side street setbacks from streets located within an approved
rural subdivision may be reduced to 20 feet from the applicable street right of
way.
   6.   Side street setback may be reduced to 10 feet from the applicable
street right of way within city limits or platted subdivisions when said side
street is not a front street for more than 50 percent of the lots in the block
in which the lot is located.
   7.   Interior side setbacks may be reduced to 1 foot for noncombustible
detached carports which contain the roof storm runoff to the property on which
it is located.
(Ord. 411, 8-14-2002; amd. Ord. 2003-2, 3-12-2003; Ord. 2005-5, 10-12-2005;
Ord. 2007-4, 4-11-2007)
CHAPTER 6
PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
SECTION:
8-6-1: General
8-6-2: Supplemental Yard And Height Regulations
8-6-3: Supplemental General Provisions
8-6-4: Provisions For Commercial And Industrial Uses
8-6-5: Provisions For Gravel Pits, Rock Quarries, Sand And Clay Pits, Or Other
Similar Mining Activities For Natural Resources Of Commercial Value
8-6-6: Provisions For Governing Billboards And Signs
8-6-7: Provisions For Unique Land Uses
8-6-1: GENERAL:
The purpose of performance standards is to set specific conditions for various
uses and classifications of uses of areas where problems are frequently
encountered. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-6-2: SUPPLEMENTAL YARD AND HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
In addition to all yard regulations specified in the schedule of zoning
regulations and in other sections of this title, the following provisions shall
be adhered to:
   A.   Visibility At Intersections: On a corner lot in all districts where
front and side setbacks are required, nothing shall be erected, placed, planted
or allowed to grow in such a manner as to materially impede vision between a
height of two and one-half (21/2) and ten feet (10') above the centerline
grades of the intersecting streets in the area bounded by the right of way
lines of such corner lots and a line adjoining points along said street right
of way twenty five feet (25') from the point of intersection.
   B.   Fence And Wall Restrictions In Front Yards: In any required front yard,
no fence or wall shall be permitted which materially impedes vision across such
yard between the height of two and one-half feet (21/2') and ten feet (10').
   C.   Yard Requirements For Multi-Family Dwellings: Multi-family dwellings
shall be considered as one building for the purpose of determining front, side
and rear yard requirements. The entire group as a unit shall require one front,
one rear, and two (2) side yards as specified for dwellings in the appropriate
district.
   D.   Side And Rear Yard Requirements For Nonresidential Uses Abutting
Residential Districts: Nonresidential buildings or uses shall not be located
nor conducted closer than forty feet (40') to any lot line of a residential
district, except that the minimum yard requirements may be reduced if
acceptable landscaping, screening or other mitigating feature approved by the
commission is provided.
   E.   Architectural Projections: Open structures such as porches, canopies,
balconies, platforms, carports, covered patios and similar architectural
projections shall be considered parts of the building to which attached and
shall not project into the required minimum front, side or rear yard. Eaves of
two feet (2') or less shall be disregarded for setback purposes.
   F.   Exceptions To Height Regulations: The height limitations contained in
the official schedule of district regulations do not apply to spires, belfries,
cupolas, antennas, water tanks, ventilators, chimneys or other appurtenances
usually required to be placed above the roof level and not intended for human
occupancy, except where the height of such structure will constitute a hazard
to the safe landing and take off of aircraft at an established airport.
   G.   Residential Uses In Nonresidential Zones: Lots used for residential
purposes in nonresidential zones shall be governed by setback and use
restrictions of lots in residential zones.
   H.   Buildings Adjacent To Snake River:
      1.   Will have a minimum setback measured horizontally from the high
water mark of any impounded water of the Snake River of sixty feet (60') in
unincorporated areas and a twenty foot (20') setback in incorporated areas.
      2.   Will have a minimum elevation for any finished floor level or top of
foundation of six feet (6') measured vertically from the high water mark of any
impounded water of the Snake River.
      3.   Will have a minimum elevation for the finished surface grade of the
general area of which the septic system drain field will be installed of six
feet (6') measured vertically from the high water mark of any impounded water
of the Snake River. The septic system drainfield shall also be located on the
opposite side of the building from the river unless located no less than three
hundred feet (300') horizontally from the high water mark of the river. (Ord.
411, 8-14-2002)
8-6-3: SUPPLEMENTAL GENERAL PROVISIONS:
In addition to all other regulations as specified in this title, the following
provisions shall be adhered to:
   A.   Conversion Of Dwellings To More Units: A residence may not be converted
to accommodate an increased number of dwelling units unless:
      1.   The building to be converted is located in a zoning district that
permits the applicable multi-family use;
      2.   The yard dimensions still meet the yard dimensions required by the
zoning regulations for new structures in that district;
      3.   The lot area per unit equals the lot area requirements for new
structures in that district;
      4.   The floor area per dwelling unit is not reduced to less than that
which is required for new construction in that district; and
      5.   The conversion is in compliance with all other relevant codes and
ordinances. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
   B.   Temporary Buildings And Concession Stands: Temporary buildings,
construction trailers, equipment and materials may be used in conjunction with
construction work in progress, but such temporary facilities shall be removed
upon completion of the construction work. Temporary living accommodations shall
not be permitted at a construction site unless approved by the administrator,
proper permits are obtained and approved, and the temporary unit is removed
immediately upon completion of the construction project. Storage of such
facilities or equipment beyond the completion date of the project shall require
a zoning approval authorized by the administrator as set forth in section
8-13-1 of this title. Concession stands may not be located on private property
in any residential zone. (Ord. 2012-4, 12-12-2012)
   C.   Parking And Storage Of Certain Vehicles: Automotive vehicles or
trailers of any kind or type without current license plates shall not be parked
or stored on any residentially zoned property other than in a completely
enclosed building or carport; however, one boat and one travel trailer may be
stored in the side or rear yard. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
   D.   Recreational Vehicles And Boats:
      1.   Except as otherwise authorized by this code, recreational vehicles
and boats may not be used as permanent residences, but may only be used as
temporary living quarters while occupants are engaged in recreational
activities.
      2.   Recreational vehicles parked as authorized by this code may not be
used for the storage of goods, materials, or equipment other than those items
considered to be part of the unit or essential for its immediate use, nor may
recreational vehicles so parked be used for dwelling purposes except as
otherwise provided by this code or under the following conditions:
         a.   Only one such vehicle may be used for dwelling purposes for seven
(7) consecutive days, up to a maximum of fourteen (14) days in a calendar year.
         b.   Neither the occupant nor owner of the real property upon which
the vehicle is located may receive any form of compensation for allowing the
recreational vehicle to be placed upon the real property.
         c.   Cooking in the vehicle is strictly prohibited.
         d.   Connection to sewer lines or water lines, or permanent connection
to electrical service is strictly prohibited. Temporary connection to an
electrical supply shall be allowed for the purpose of charging batteries
located in the vehicle.
      3.   Any violation of any provision of this chapter shall be punishable
by a fine not to exceed three hundred dollars ($300.00) per occurrence. An
"occurrence" is defined to be each twenty four (24) hour period that this
chapter is violated. (Ord. 2006-6, 11-8-2006)
   E.   Required Trash Areas: All trash and/or garbage collection areas for
commercial, industrial and multi-family residential uses shall be enclosed on
at least three (3) sides by a solid or sight obscuring fence or wall of at
least four feet (4') in height or within an enclosed building or structure.
Adequate vehicular access to and from such area or areas for collection of
trash and/or garbage as determined by the administrator shall be provided.
   F.   Permits For Private Septic Systems Required: All persons putting in
private septic tanks and drainfields shall first obtain a sewer system permit
from the health authority before building and zoning permits may be issued. All
septic systems shall be installed to the requirements as established by the
state, federal, and local governments and as administered by the health
authority. Septic tanks and drainfields are not permitted where city sewer
service is reasonably available.
   G.   Development Close To An Airport: The location, building height and
lighting of residential and commercial development shall be restricted within
airport approach areas as required by the state department of transportation,
division of aeronautics and public transportation, and the federal aviation
administration. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002; amd. Ord. 2006-6, 11-8-2006)
8-6-4: PROVISIONS FOR COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL USES:
No land or building in any district shall be used or occupied in any manner
creating dangerous, injurious, noxious or otherwise objectionable conditions
which could adversely affect the surrounding areas or adjoining premises,
except that any use permitted by this title may be undertaken and maintained if
acceptable measures and safeguards are implemented to reduce dangerous and
objectionable conditions to acceptable limits as established by the following
performance requirements:
   A.   Fire Hazards: Any activity involving the use or storage of flammable or
explosive materials shall be protected by adequate firefighting and fire
prevention equipment and by such safety devices as are normally used in the
handling of any such material. Such hazards shall be kept removed from adjacent
activities to a distance which is compatible with the potential danger involved
as specified in the adopted fire code 1  and the national fire protection
agency standards;
   B.   Radioactivity Or Electrical Disturbance: No activity shall emit harmful
radioactivity at any point. No electrical disturbance shall adversely affect
the operation of any equipment at any point beyond the property of the emitter
of such disturbance;
   C.   Noise: Objectionable noise as determined by the administrator, which is
objectionable due to volume, frequency or beat, shall be muffled or otherwise
controlled. Sirens and similar apparatus used solely for public purposes are
exempt from this requirement;
   D.   Vibration: No vibration shall be permitted which is discernible without
instruments on any adjoining lot or property;
   E.   Air Pollution: Air pollution shall be subject to the requirements and
regulations established by the health authority;
   F.   Glare: No direct or reflected glare shall be permitted which is
directed toward and visible from any property outside a manufacturing district
or from any street;
   G.   Erosion: No erosion, by man, wind, or water, shall be permitted which
will carry objectionable substances onto neighboring properties;
   H.   Water Pollution: Water pollution shall be subject to the requirements
and regulations established by state and federal law; (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
   I.   Enforcement Provisions: The administrator, prior to granting zoning
approval as set forth in section
8-13-1 of this title, may require the submission of statements and plans
indicating the manner in which dangerous and objectionable elements involved in
processing and in equipment operations are to be eliminated or reduced to
acceptable limits and tolerances; and (Ord. 2012-4, 12-12-2012)
   J.   Measurement Procedures: Methods and procedures for the determination of
the existence of any dangerous and objectionable elements shall conform to
applicable standard measurement procedures published by the American Standards
Institute, New York, the United States bureau of mines, the health authority
and the Manufacturing Chemists Association, Inc., Washington, D.C. (Ord. 411,
8-14-2002)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  7-1-1 of this code.
8-6-5: PROVISIONS FOR GRAVEL PITS, ROCK QUARRIES, SAND AND CLAY PITS, OR OTHER
SIMILAR MINING ACTIVITIES FOR NATURAL RESOURCES OF COMMERCIAL VALUE:
   A.   A minimum setback of thirty feet (30') is required from any road right
of way to top edge of any mining pit.
   B.   A minimum setback of ten feet (10') is required from any interior or
rear property line to top edge of any mining pit, unless otherwise agreed by
the adjacent property owner. Such agreement shall be signed, notarized and
recorded.
   C.   A maximum of one to one (1:1) slope will be maintained with backfill on
perimeter edges of the mining pits immediately following the extraction
process.
   D.   A buffer shall be established between the mining operation pits and
adjacent residential uses, county roads, state roads, or highways. Allowable
buffer materials would consist of earthen berms, hedges, rows of trees, or
other fast growing foliage that will obscure the sight of the mining operation
from adjoining road or residences. Residential development by the operator/
owner may be used as the buffer from roads and other residences, this buffer
must be in place and established as a visual buffer before the mining operation
comes within two hundred feet (200') of the boundary.
   E.   A plan which details the type of buffer materials and estimated time
schedule and plan for implementation shall be submitted and approved during the
special use permit approval. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
   F.   Safety fencing or other physical barriers as approved by the
administrator shall be erected around all pits. Temporary warning style fencing
material or other approved physical barrier with warning signs or materials
will be allowed on the sides that are continually moving because of the mining
operation. (Ord. 2007-4, 4-11-2007)
   G.   Prior to mining activity, security access gates shall be installed and
maintained to discourage trespass and dumping in the pit areas.
   H.   Operating hours shall be limited to six o'clock (6:00) A.M. to eight
o'clock (8:00) P.M. Mondays through Saturdays. No operations will be permitted
on Sundays or major holidays. Variations of these operating hours may be
approved with conditions upon the granting of the special use permit.
   I.   Gravel crushing operations shall be confined and localized to the
bottom of the pit unless otherwise approved by the commission at the granting
of the special use permit.
   J.   No concrete batch plants or other heavy equipment associated with the
ready mix concrete industry or salvaged equipment shall be located or stored at
site or in the pit.
   K.   Any fueling shall be done from operable fuel vehicles or tanks with
approved leakage containment systems and approved by the local fire chief.
   L.   No standing water shall be permitted in the pits except what is created
by natural precipitation and runoff or that is created or being used in the
gravel mining, washing, and screening processes.
   M.   A plan addressing the extent and method of rehabilitation and
reclamation shall be determined in advance of issuing the special use permit
and approved by the Idaho state department of lands, with due consideration
given to what is suitable and compatible with the surrounding area.
   N.   The following shall be minimum reclamation standards:
      1.   Reclamation of mined areas shall commence immediately after the
extraction process has ended or mined area exceeds thirty (30) acres;
      2.   The date the extraction process shall be deemed terminated will be
computed in the following manner: When ninety percent (90%) of the approved
minable area has been mined, the allowable additional time for pit termination
will be calculated by dividing remaining area by one-half (1/2) the average
annual extraction rate measured by surface area. The average annual extraction
rate shall be determined by dividing the area mined by age of the pit or the
time it took to mine the given area;
      3.   The mined areas shall be completely reclaimed within one year after
the extraction process has been terminated unless the area is used for
stockpiles;
      4.   In cases where stockpiles exist in depleted areas, the pits shall be
completely reclaimed to the full extent possible until the last stockpile is
removed;
      5.   Stockpiles shall be removed from a mined area of the pit within four
(4) years from when the time normal extraction process is terminated;
      6.   Final reclamation shall commence after the removal of the final
stockpile and shall be finished within one year from the time of the stockpile
removal or the time required for removal of stockpile as set forth in
subsection N5 of this section;
      7.   Finished grade of reclaimed area shall be at least twelve inches
(12") above seasonal high ground water level, unless provisions for ponds,
lakes or bodies of standing water are approved in both the special use permit
and reclamation plan;
      8.   Reclamation shall include a minimum of twelve inches (12") of
restored topsoil or other suitable material consisting of sixty percent (60%)
of the normal soil profile of the adjacent and surrounding properties;
      9.   Reclaimed pit sides shall have maximum slope of one to one (1:1);
      10.   Area shall be reclaimed to be used for pasturing, agricultural,
recreation, or residential uses. When reclamation is for residential use the
finished grade adjacent to the residences shall be six feet (6') above the
natural high water mark;
      11.   At the time of final reclamation an irrigation system shall be
installed to support pasturing and farming uses; and
      12.   Upon depletion of the area and the removal of stockpiles, all
temporary buildings and structures except property line fences, shall be
entirely removed from the property. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-6-6: PROVISIONS FOR GOVERNING BILLBOARDS AND SIGNS:
The purpose of this section is to control and regulate the erection and
maintenance of signs, in the interest of public safety, to promote and enhance
property values, and to encourage the design of signs to be in harmony and
compatible with the overall street or road setting and the neighborhood
character.
   A.   Definitions: For purpose of this section, certain terms, phrases, or
words used herein shall be as defined in chapter 2 of this title.
   B.   Exempt Signs: The following types of signs, when not illuminated, do
not require permits and are not subject to the general requirements of this
section:
      1.   Directional or informational signs bearing no advertising message
located within a parcel and signs not exceeding sixteen (16) square feet in
area erected for the convenience of the public, such as signs identifying
restrooms, public telephones, walkways and similar features or facilities;
      2.   Memorial signs or tablets and names of buildings and dates of
erection when mounted on or cut into the surface or facade of the building;
      3.   Traffic or other county/city signs, signs required to be mentioned
by law, railroad crossing signs, legal notices and such temporary emergency or
nonadvertising signs as may be authorized by the board of county commissioners
or the applicable city council;
      4.   Signs placed by public utilities showing the location of underground
facilities;
      5.   Project or construction signs when referring solely to the principal
use of the property;
      6.   Home signs located on the parcel of the applicable residence or home
occupancy; and
      7.   Property and temporary signs.
   C.   Prohibited Signs:
      1.   No sign or sign structure, other than those approved by the
jurisdiction having authority shall be placed upon any road or highway right of
way; and
      2.   No rotating beam, beacon, or flashing illumination resembling an
emergency light shall be used in connection with any sign display.
   D.   General Regulations:
      1.   In addition to the requirements herein provided the installation of
signs and billboards shall be governed by applicable provisions of the
currently adopted international building code.
      2.   Sign projections over a public right of way, if permitted, will be
governed by the applicable standards as established by the authority having
jurisdiction as well as provisions provided in this section.
      3.   No sign or sign structure shall be placed on private or public
property without the written consent of the owners or agents thereof.
      4.   No sign facing the side or rear property line of an abutting
residential property shall be located within fifty feet (50') of such side or
rear property line.
      5.   Flashing and/or animated signs shall be prohibited within three
hundred feet (300') of any residential zoning district.
      6.   For the purpose of preventing the blanketing of one sign by another,
the following provisions regulating the size of a sign and its location shall
govern:
         a.   No projecting sign shall be erected in the same horizontal plane
with other projecting signs unless the sizes are spaced as set forth herein,
measured center to center.
         b.   Projecting signs three feet (3') or less in depth shall be spaced
no less than ten feet (10') apart.
         c.   Projecting signs more than three (3) to six feet (6') in depth
shall be spaced no less than twenty feet (20') apart.
         d.   Projecting signs more than six feet (6') in depth shall be spaced
no less than thirty feet (30') apart.
         e.   Any projecting sign erected at a shorter distance than required
above shall be erected above the top edge or below the bottom edge of the
blanketed sign.
   E.   Home Signs:
      1.   One accessory nameplate and home occupation sign or combination is
permitted for each dwelling.
      2.   In RL, RM and RH zoning districts, the erection of such signs are
subject to the following design standards:
         a.   Each sign shall not exceed four (4) square feet in area and may
be illuminated by external illumination only.
         b.   Home occupation signs must be attached flatly to the building and
not to exceed the height of the eave line.
      3.   In other than RL, RM and RH zoning districts, the erection of such
signs are subject to the following design standards:
         a.   Each sign shall not exceed sixteen (16) square feet in area and
may be illuminated by external illumination only.
         b.   Home occupation signs located in the front yard shall be
positioned as to not obstruct vision at intersections or for access driveways.
      4.   Any home occupation sign not complying with these provisions may be
permitted only with the granting of a special use permit. (Ord. 2005-5, 10-12-
2005)
   F.   Billboards:
      1.   Billboards shall be permitted as established in the official
schedule of zoning regulations only adjacent to state highways and Interstate
84;
      2.   Billboards may be permitted as established in the official schedule
of zoning regulations adjacent to other arterial streets or roads with the
approval of a special use permit;
      3.   Billboards shall be located within one hundred feet (100') of the
street, road, highway or interstate right of way;
      4.   Billboards shall not exceed a height of fifty feet (50') from the
base of the sign or twenty five feet (25') from above grade level of the right
of way, whichever is less;
      5.   Billboards shall not exceed three hundred twenty (320) square feet
in area except along Interstate 84 where billboards shall not exceed six
hundred seventy five (675) square feet;
      6.   Billboards may be allowed two (2) faces or back to back sign faces,
provided there is no more than five feet (5') separating the sign faces;
      7.   Billboards shall not be located any closer than one thousand feet
(1,000') from any other billboard measured from center of sign to center of
sign in the direction of the traffic being served on any given side of the
street, road, highway or Interstate 84;
      8.   Billboards located on intersecting streets, roads or highways shall
not be located any closer than one thousand feet (1,000') from any billboard
located on an intersecting street, road or highway;
      9.   Billboards shall not be located within four hundred feet (400') of
any residential zoning district;
      10.   Billboard primary structure shall be of painted noncombustible
material and monopole design; and
      11.   Illumination of billboards shall be limited to the hours between
dusk and dawn. (Ord. 2007-4, 4-11-2007)
   G.   Temporary And Nonconforming Signs:
      1.   Those signs herein designated as being temporary signs shall be
completely removed by the owner of the sign or by the owner of the property
upon which the sign is located at the expiration of the time which the sign was
permitted.
      2.   Temporary signs may be permitted past the established expiration
date with the approval of a special use permit.
      3.   Nonconforming signs shall be deemed to be a conforming use and/or
structure, and owners may continue use and normal maintenance.
      4.   Nonconforming signs may only be expanded or enlarged with the
approval of a special use permit. (Ord. 2005-5, 10-12-2005)
8-6-7: PROVISIONS FOR UNIQUE LAND USES:
Certain unique land uses pose special problems that may have detrimental
influences on surrounding land uses. The following performance standards for
such unique land uses shall be adhered to in addition to all other provisions
of this title:
   A.   Accessory Building In Residential Zones:
      1.   Will not be located in any required front yard area; and
      2.   Will not be located closer than five feet (5') from any side or rear
property line.
   B.   Animal Clinic, Animal Hospital, Veterinary Office And Kennel 1 : Will
be located at least three hundred feet (300') from any residence including
motels and hotels, except for an owner's residence. The administrator may
modify these requirements if the animals are completely housed in soundproof
structures that completely screen them from view of the abutting residential
property and will comply with all state and local regulations relative to such
an operation, and maintain adequate housekeeping practices designed to prevent
the creation of a nuisance and to reduce to a minimum the factors of noise and
odor. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002; amd. Ord. 2005-5, 10-12-2005)
   C.   Meatpacking, Processing Plants And Slaughterhouse Facilities:
      1.   Will be located not less than one thousand feet (1,000') from any
residence, except for an owner's residence. This restriction may be waived if
affected property owner gives written permission to the commission;
      2.   Will be designed and located with full consideration to their
proximity to adjacent use, their effect upon adjacent and surrounding
properties, and to the reduction of nuisance factors;
      3.   Will be adequately maintained with housekeeping practices to prevent
the creation of a nuisance, and shall also be subject to the health authority
requirements as to the elimination of waste materials and the maintenance of
water quality control; and
      4.   Will be required to comply with the confined animal feeding
operation requirements when the operation confines and feeds more than two
hundred (200) animal units on a continuous basis. (Ord. 2007-4, 4-11-2007)
   D.   Bulk Storage Of Flammable Liquids And Gases, Aboveground And For
Resale:
      1.   Will be located at least three hundred feet (300') from a
residential zone, a residence, motel, and hotel, except for an owner's
residence;
      2.   Will be erected subject to the approval of the fire chief or fire
marshal; and
      3.   Will have suitable loading and unloading spaces and off street
parking facilities, subject to the approval of the fire chief or fire marshal.
   E.   Chemical, Pesticide And Fertilizer Storage And Manufacturing: Will have
adequate fire protection, storage area, handling and disposal as approved by
the fire chief or fire marshal.
   F.   Contractor's Yard:
      1.   Will be located a minimum distance of three hundred feet (300') from
any residence except for any owner's residence; or will have a sight obscuring
fence around areas utilized for storage of materials and equipment; and
      2.   Will be limited to storage, maintenance and processing incidental to
contracting work. There shall be no general industrial or commercial uses.
   G.   Drive-In Restaurant:
      1.   Will be maintained in a neat and orderly condition to prevent trash
from moving onto other properties;
      2.   Will have a six foot (6') high sight obscuring fence along the
property lines that adjoin an existing residence or residentially zoned area;
      3.   Will provide for adequate trash receptacles; and
      4.   Will not direct night lighting toward any residence.
   H.   Filling, Grading, Lagooning, Dredging, Or Other Earthmoving Activity:
      1.   Will result in the smallest amount of bare ground exposed for the
shortest time feasible;
      2.   Will provide temporary ground cover, such as mulch;
      3.   Will use diversions, silting, basins, terraces and other methods to
trap sediment;
      4.   Will provide lagooning in such a manner as to avoid creation of fish
trap conditions;
      5.   Will not restrict a floodway, channel or natural drainageway;
      6.   Will construct and stabilize sides and bottom of cuts, fills,
channels and artificial watercourses to prevent erosion or soil failure;
      7.   Will not have below grade excavation except for drainageways within
fifty feet (50') of any lot line or public right of way; and
      8.   Will restore topsoil or loam to a depth of not less than four inches
(4").
   I.   Boathouse:
      1.   Will only be located within a shore lot;
      2.   Will be limited to one on premises boathouse for each shore lot;
      3.   Will not exceed a height of fifteen feet (15');
      4.   Will not exceed a horizontal area of three hundred (300) square
feet; and
      5.   Will not be located closer than ten feet (10') to any property line.
   J.   Home Occupation:
      1.   No more than one person other than members of the family residing on
the premises shall be engaged in such occupation.
      2.   The use of the dwelling unit for the home occupation shall be
clearly incidental and subordinate to its use for residential purposes by its
occupants, and not more than twenty five percent (25%) of the floor area of the
dwelling unit shall be used in the conduct of the home occupation. (Ord. 411,
8-14-2002; amd. Ord. 2005-5, 10-12-2005)
      3.   There shall be no change in the outside appearance of the building
or premises, or other visible evidence of the conduct of such home occupation
other than one sign as allowed in section
8-6-6 of this chapter. (Ord. 2005-5, 10-12-2005)
      4.   If the dwelling or an accessory building is used as a home office
for a business that provides services at other locations, no storage of
material or equipment will be allowed outside of an enclosed building.
Temporary or overnight parking of licensed vehicles, used for related services
at other locations, is permitted. Yards for storage of materials or equipment
will not be considered as part of a home occupation and shall comply with the
specific requirements of that use.
      5.   No significant traffic shall be generated by such home occupation
and any need for parking generated by the conduct of such home occupation shall
meet the off street parking requirements as specified in this title, and shall
not be located in a required front yard.
      6.   No equipment or process shall be used in such home occupation which
creates noise, vibration, glare, fumes, odors or electrical interference
detectable to the normal senses off the lot, if the occupation is conducted in
a single-family residence, or outside the dwelling unit if conducted in other
than a single-family residence. In the case of electrical interference, no
equipment or process shall be used which creates visual or audible interference
in any radio or television receivers off the premises, or causes fluctuations
in line voltage off the premises.
      7.   Home occupations shall be conducted completely inside the dwelling,
enclosed garage or other building accessory to the dwelling. (Ord. 411, 6-14-
2002; amd. Ord. 2005-5, 10-12-2005)
   K.   Manufactured Or Mobile Homes:
      1.   A manufactured or mobile home shall not be moved onto a site or
occupied before a building permit has been issued;
      2.   At least one inspection after the permit is issued shall be to
verify compliance with applicable zoning, health, installation, and building
requirements;
      3.   A permit shall be required for all classes of manufactured homes and
shall be in addition to any other required zoning, permit, or hookup fees;
      4.   Manufactured or mobile homes as defined in this title shall only be
used for residential purposes; and
      5.   Manufactured or mobile homes that are no longer occupied and have
become run down, dilapidated or deemed unsafe or a public nuisance shall be
removed and/or deposed of at the owner's expense. (Ord. 2009-4, 5-13-2009)
   L.   Manufactured (Mobile) Home Parks Or Courts 2 :
      1.   Will be designed, constructed, operated and maintained so as to be
harmonious and appropriate in appearance with the existing or intended
character of the general vicinity so that such use will not change the
essential character of the same area;
      2.   Will not be hazardous or detrimental to existing or future
neighboring uses;
      3.   Will be served adequately by essential public facilities and
services such as highways, streets, police and fire protection, drainage,
refuse disposal and schools, or the persons or agencies responsible for the
establishment of the proposed park shall be able to provide adequately any such
services;
      4.   Will be consistent with the intent and purpose of this title and the
comprehensive plan;
      5.   Will have vehicular approaches to the property which shall be
designed as not to create an interference with traffic in surrounding streets
or roads;
      6.   Will not result in the destruction or damage of natural, scenic or
historic features of major importance;
      7.   Will meet the minimum health standards as set forth and administered
by the appropriate health authority;
      8.   Will have a minimum of eight feet (8') separation between
manufactured home units. Garages, carports or any other accessory buildings
shall be located at least eight feet (8') from all manufactured homes other
than the one they are intended to serve;
      9.   Will provide two (2) off street parking spaces for each mobile home
parking space; and
      10.   Will be a minimum total area of two (2) acres for the manufactured
home park or court including common areas, buildings, and facilities.
   M.   Outdoor Storage Of Commercial And Industrial Materials:
      1.   Will be screened from view from any existing adjoining residence or
residentially zoned area, whether or not such property is separated by an
alleyway or street; and
      2.   Will not be located in any front yard setback area.
   N.   Riding Stables And Schools:
      1.   Will locate all stables or loafing sheds not nearer than one hundred
feet (100') from any residence, except for an owner's residence. All facilities
shall be set back a distance of thirty feet (30') from any property lines;
      2.   Will be designed and located with full consideration being given to
their proximity to adjacent uses and their effect upon adjacent and surrounding
properties as to the storage of horse trailers, and the factors of noise and
odor; and
      3.   Will require that the owner or operator of such use shall have a
continuous obligation to maintain adequate housekeeping practices to prevent
the creation of a nuisance.
   O.   Rifle And Pistol Range:
      1.   Will be designed with a backstop;
      2.   Will be designed to avoid a line of fire that is directed towards
any residence or business within one mile;
      3.   Will incorporate landscaping that is compatible with the surrounding
landscaping; and
      4.   Will provide supervision and security measures during periods of
use.
   P.   Salvage Yard 3 :
      1.   Will be completely enclosed by a solid six foot (6') high sight
obscuring fence;
      2.   Will not result in the storage of automobiles, junk or salvage
material that is visible from any public right of way;
      3.   Will not result in the storage of materials that exceed the height
of fence;
      4.   Will have landscaping that is compatible with the surrounding area;
and
      5.   Will comply with other regulations or ordinances adopted by the
appropriate jurisdiction. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
   Q.   Abandoned, Junked Property 4 : (Rep. by Ord. 2007-10, 10-10-2007)
   R.   Livestock: Unless otherwise regulated in this or any other applicable
ordinance the keeping of livestock shall comply with the following provisions:
      1.   On any lots, tract or parcel not zoned agricultural within the
cities, city areas of impact, or any rural residential subdivision, having an
enclosed pasture of at least one-half (1/2) acre, fenced to hold or contain
livestock, the owner, renter or occupant thereof may have not more than one
head of horses, mules, cattle or any combination of said animals for each full
one-half (1/2) acre of enclosed pasture; or, not more than two (2) swine or
three (3) sheep or goats, or combination thereof for each full one-half (1/2)
acre of enclosed pasture; or, such owner, occupant or renter may have and keep
one horse, mule or head of cattle, or any of the same, in combination with two
(2) swine or three (3) sheep or goats or combination thereof on each full one
acre of enclosed pasture.
      2.   Livestock confined on any parcel or tract shall not exceed the
number allowed by an approved confined animal feeding operation permit. In the
absence of a confined animal feeding operation permit on parcels or tracts
within an agricultural zoning district with a minimum of one acre of fenced
pasture area, the maximum density of animal units shall not exceed five (5) per
acre in livestock density unless an approved waste management plan is in place
allowing a greater density.
      3.   Waste and runoff shall be contained completely on the premises and
not allowed to enter any river, stream, drain ditch, canal, or lateral. The
keeping and maintaining of livestock and pets shall also comply with other
livestock and animal control provisions of this title or other ordinances or
regulations as adopted by the appropriate jurisdiction. (Ord. 2003-2, 3-12-
2003; amd. Ord. 2005-5, 10-12-2005)
   S.   Sanitary Landfill:
      1.   Will conform to time limits for daily operation as defined by the
governing board;
      2.   Will provide a bond, for privately owned sites, to ensure compliance
with the provisions of the zoning approval;
      3.   Will provide for a paved street to the facility;
      4.   Will be supervised during the hours of operation; and
      5.   Will comply with any other local, state or federal regulations or
ordinances.
   T.   Refuse, Solid Waste, Stagnant Water: No person shall permit or suffer
to be or accumulate in or upon any yard, lot, place or premises or upon any
street or sidewalk adjacent to or abutting upon any lot, block, place or
premises or in any building or shed owned or occupied by him within the city
limits or area of impact, any stagnant or impure water, refuse, vegetable decay
or decaying substance, human or animal discharge, garbage or filth of any kind,
nor suffer such yard, lot, place, building or premises to be or to remain in
such condition as to cause or create a nuisance or offensive smell or to
pollute or render unhealthful the atmosphere or the premises or thereby to be,
become, cause or create a public nuisance. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002; amd. Ord.
2005-5, 10-12-2005)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  4-2A-3 of this code.
2 1. See section
  7-1-4 of this code.
3 1. See section
  2-3-7 of this code.
4 2. See title 3, chapter 2, article A of this code.
CHAPTER 7
FLOODPLAIN OVERLAY DISTRICT (FP)
SECTION:
8-7-1: Purpose And Location Of District
8-7-2: Definitions
8-7-3: General Provisions
8-7-4: Establishment Of Permit And Administration
8-7-5: Provisions For Flood Hazard Reduction
8-7-6: Nonliability Clause
8-7-7: Restrictions
8-7-8: Prohibited Uses
8-7-1: PURPOSE AND LOCATION OF DISTRICT:
It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare, and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed:
   A.   To protect human life and health;
   B.   To minimize expenditure of public money and costly flood control
projects;
   C.   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   D.   To minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   E.   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets, and bridges located in
areas of special flood hazard;
   F.   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of areas of special flood hazard so as to minimize future flood
blight areas; and
   G.   To ensure that those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard
assume responsibility for their actions.
The floodplain overlay (FP) district is created to designate areas of the
county or cities needing such consideration and is superimposed over other
districts. The FP district is the same area as the area of the county or cities
identified by the federal insurance administration/emergency management agency
flood insurance rate map (FIRM) promulgated for the county or the city, which
map is adopted by reference and declared to be part of this chapter and which
map shall be maintained on file in the records of the county or city clerk of
the county or city at all times hereafter. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-7-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter shall
be interpreted so as to give them the meanings they have in common usage and to
give this chapter its most reasonable application.
AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD: The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
Designation on maps always includes the letters A or V.
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year. Also referred to as the 100-year flood. Designation
on maps always includes the letters A or V.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations located within the
area of special flood hazard.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM): The official map on which the federal
insurance administration has delineated both the areas of special flood hazard
and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY: The official report provided by the federal insurance
administration that includes flood profiles, the flood boundary-floodway map,
and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
FLOOD OR FLOODING: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
   A.   The overflow of inland or tidal waters, and/or
   B.   The unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from any
source.
FLOODWAY: The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot (1').
LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage, in an area other than a
basement area, is not considered a building's lowest floor, provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable nonelevation design requirements found at subsection 8-7-5B1b of
this chapter.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is
built on a permanent chassis and is connected to the required utilities. For
floodplain management purposes the term "manufactured home" also includes park
trailers, travel trailers, and other similar vehicles placed on a site for
greater than one hundred eighty (180) consecutive days. For insurance purposes
the term "manufactured home" does not include park trailers, travel trailers,
and other similar vehicles.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: Structures for which the "start of construction" commenced on
or after the effective date of this chapter.
START OF CONSTRUCTION: Includes substantial improvement, and means the date the
building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair,
reconstruction, placement or other improvement was within one hundred eighty
(180) days of the permit date. The actual start means either the first
placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the
pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of
columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a
manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land
preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the
installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a
basement, footings, piers, or foundation or the erection of temporary forms;
nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings,
such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main
structure.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires location
on the ground or attachment to something having a fixed location on the ground.
Among other things, structures include buildings, mobile homes, walls, gas or
liquid storage tanks and billboards.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any repair, reconstruction, or improvement of a
structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the
market value of the structure either:
   A.   Before the improvement or repair is started, or
   B.   If the structure has been damaged and is being restored, before the
damage occurred. For the purposes of this definition "substantial improvement"
is considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor,
or other structural part of the building commences, whether or not that
alteration affects the external dimensions of the structure. (Ord. 411, 8-14-
2002)
8-7-3: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Lands To Which This Chapter Applies: This chapter shall apply to all
areas designated on the map referred to in section
8-7-1 of this chapter designated as the floodplain overlay (FP) district.
   B.   Basis For Establishing The Areas Of Special Flood Hazard: The areas of
special flood hazard identified by the federal insurance administration in a
scientific and engineering report entitled the "Flood Insurance Study" for the
applicable jurisdiction, which is most current at the time of the adoption of
this title, with accompanying flood insurance maps is hereby adopted by
reference and declared to be a part of this chapter. The "Flood Insurance
Study" is on file at the office of the county or city clerk. (Ord. 411, 8-14-
2002)
8-7-4: ESTABLISHMENT OF PERMIT AND ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Development Permit Required: A development permit shall be obtained
before construction or development begins within any area of special flood
hazard established in subsection
8-7-3B of this chapter. The permit shall be for all structures, including
manufactured homes, as set forth in the definitions, and for all development
including fill and other activities, also as set forth in the definitions.
   B.   Designation Of The Building Official: The building official is hereby
appointed to administer and implement this title by granting or denying
development permit applications in accordance with its provisions. This process
may be combined with any building permit process otherwise required by the
city.
   C.   Duties And Responsibilities Of The Administrator: Duties of the
administrator shall include, but not be limited to:
      1.   Permit Review:
         a.   Review all development permits to determine that the permit
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied.
         b.   Review all development permits to determine that all necessary
permits have been obtained from those federal, state or local governmental
agencies from which prior approval is required.
         c.   Review all development permits to determine if the proposed
development is located in the floodway. If located in the floodway, assure that
the encroachment provisions of subsection
8-7-5C1 of this chapter are met.
      2.   Use Of Other Base Flood Data: When base flood elevation data has not
been provided in accordance with subsection
8-7-3B, "Basis For Establishing The Areas Of Special Flood Hazard", of this
chapter, the administrator shall obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any
base flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal, state or other
source, in order to administer subsection
8-7-5B, "Specific Standards", and subsection
8-7-5C, "Floodways", of this chapter.
      3.   Information To Be Obtained And Maintained:
         a.   Where base flood elevation data is provided through the flood
insurance study or required as in subsection C2 of this section, obtain and
record the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new or substantially improved structures, and
whether or not the structure contains a basement.
         b.   For all new or substantially improved floodproofed structures:
            (1)   Verify and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean
sea level),
            (2)   Maintain the floodproofing certifications required in
subsection B of this section, and
            (3)   Maintain for public inspection all records pertaining to the
provisions of this chapter.
      4.   Alteration Of Watercourses:
         a.   Notify adjacent communities and the Idaho department of water
resources prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit
evidence of such notification to the federal insurance administration.
         b.   Require that maintenance is provided within the altered or
relocated portion of watercourse so that the flood carrying capacity is not
diminished.
      5.   Interpretation Of FIRM Boundaries: Make interpretations where
needed, as to exact location of the boundaries of the areas of special flood
hazard (for example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped
boundary and actual field conditions). The person contesting the location of
the boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the
interpretation. Such appeals shall be granted consistent with the standards of
section 60.6 of the rules and regulations of the national flood insurance
program (44 CFR 59-76). (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-7-5: PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION:
   A.   General Standards: In all areas of special flood hazard, the following
standards are required:
      1.   Anchoring:
         a.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure.
         b.   All manufactured homes must likewise be anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse or lateral movement, and shall be installed using methods
and practices that minimize flood damage. Anchoring methods may include, but
are not limited to, use of over the top or frame ties to ground anchors
(reference FEMA's "Manufactured Home Installation In Flood Hazard Areas"
guidebook for additional techniques).
      2.   Construction Materials And Methods:
         a.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
         b.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed using methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
         c.   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air conditioning
equipment and other service facilities shall be designed and/or otherwise
elevated or located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within
the components during conditions of flooding.
      3.   Utilities:
         a.   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system;
         b.   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and
discharge from the systems into floodwaters; and
         c.   On site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid
impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
      4.   Subdivision Proposals:
         a.   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage;
         b.   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and
constructed to minimize flood damage;
         c.   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided
to reduce exposure to flood damage; and
         d.   Where base flood elevation data has not been provided or is not
available from another authoritative source, it shall be generated for
subdivision proposals and other proposed developments which contain at least
fifty (50) lots or five (5) acres (whichever is less).
      5.   Review Of Building Permits: Where elevation data is not available
either through the flood insurance study or from another authoritative source
(subsection
8-7-4C2 of this chapter), applications for building permits shall be reviewed
to assure that proposed construction will be reasonably safe from flooding. The
test of reasonableness is a local judgment and includes use of historical data,
high water marks, photographs of past flooding, etc., where available. Failure
to elevate at least two feet (2') above grade in these zones may result in
higher insurance rates.
   B.   Specific Standards: In all areas of special flood hazard where base
flood elevation data has been provided as set forth in subsection
8-7-3B, "Basis For Establishing The Areas Of Special Flood Hazard" or
subsection
8-7-4C, "Use Of Other Base Flood Data", of this chapter, the following
provisions are required:
      1.   Residential Construction:
         a.   New construction and substantial improvements of any residential
structure shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or above
base flood elevation.
         b.   Fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are subject to
flooding are prohibited, or shall be designed to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit
of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified
by a registered professional engineer or architect or must meet or exceed the
following minimum criteria:
            (1)   A minimum of two (2) openings having a total net area of not
less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding shall be provided.
            (2)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
(1') above grade.
            (3)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or other
coverings or devices, provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters. Any residential structure shall have the lowest floor, including
basement, elevated to or above base flood elevation.
      2.   Nonresidential Construction: New construction and substantial
improvements of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure
shall either have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to the level
of the base flood elevation; or, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, shall:
         a.   Be floodproofed so that below the base flood level the structure
is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water.
         b.   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effect of buoyancy.
         c.   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect
that the design and methods of construction are in accordance with accepted
standards of practice for meeting provisions of this subsection based on their
development and/or review of the structural design. Such certifications shall
be provided to the administrator as set forth in subsection
8-7-4C3b of this chapter.
         d.   Nonresidential structures that are elevated, not floodproofed,
must meet the same standards for space below the lowest floor as described in
subsection B1b of this section.
         e.   Applicants floodproofing nonresidential buildings shall be
notified that flood insurance premiums will be based on rates that are one foot
(1') below the floodproofed level (e.g., a building constructed to the base
flood level will be rated as 1 foot below that level).
      3.   Manufactured Homes: All manufactured homes to be placed or
substantially improved within zones A1-30, AH and AE shall be elevated on a
permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the manufactured home is at
or above the base flood elevation and be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system in accordance with the provisions of subsection A1b
of this section.
   C.   Floodways: Located within areas of special flood hazard established in
subsection
8-7-3B of this chapter are areas designated as floodways. Since the floodway is
an extremely hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwater which carries
debris, potential projectiles, and erosion potential, the following provisions
apply:
      1.   Prohibit encroachments, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements, and other development unless certification by a
registered professional engineer or architect is provided demonstrating that
encroachments shall not result in any increase in flood levels during the
occurrence of the base flood discharge.
      2.   If subsection C1 of this section is satisfied, all new construction
and substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard
reduction provisions of this section. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-7-6: NONLIABILITY CLAUSE:
The granting of approval of any structure or use shall not constitute a
representation, guarantee or warranty of any kind or nature of the city or its
governing body or by any officer or employee thereof, of the practicality or
safety of any structure or use proposed and shall create no liability upon or
cause action against such public body, officer or employee for any damage that
may result pursuant thereto. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-7-7: RESTRICTIONS:
Restrictions regarding height, rear yards, side yards, front yard setback,
minimum lot area, signs, vision clearance and parking space shall be the same
as set forth in each specific district located within the floodplain overlay
zone area. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-7-8: PROHIBITED USES:
It shall be unlawful to erect, alter, maintain or establish in a floodplain
overlay zone any building, use or occupancy not permitted or allowed in the
foregoing provision, except existing nonconforming uses may continue as herein
provided. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
CHAPTER 8
RESERVED
(Ord. 2005-5, 10-12-2005)
CHAPTER 9
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS (PUD) 1
SECTION:
8-9-1: Purposes
8-9-2: Provisions Governing Planned Unit Development
8-9-3: Minimum Area
8-9-4: Uses Permitted
8-9-5: Ownership Requirements
8-9-6: Common Open Space
8-9-7: Utility Requirements
8-9-8: Increased Residential Density
8-9-9: Arrangement Of Commercial Uses
8-9-10: Arrangement Of Industrial Uses
8-9-11: Procedure For Approval Of A Planned Unit Development
8-9-12: Preapplication Meeting
8-9-13: Contents Of Application For Approval Of Preliminary Development Plan
8-9-14: Procedure For Public Notice
8-9-15: Approval In Principle By The Commission
8-9-16: Contents Of Application For Approval Of Final Development Plan
8-9-17: Recommendation By Commission
8-9-18: Action By The Board Or Respective Council
8-9-19: Expiration And Extension Of Approval Period
 
Notes
1 1. See title 9 of this code for subdivision regulations.
8-9-1: PURPOSES:
It shall be the policy to guide a major development of land construction by
encouraging planned unit development (PUD) to achieve the following:
   A.   A maximum choice of living environments by allowing a variety of
housing and building types and permitting an increased density per acre and a
reduction in lot dimensions, yards, building setbacks and acre requirements;
   B.   A more useful pattern of open space and recreation areas and if
permitted as part of the project, more convenience in location of accessory
commercial uses, industrial uses and services;
   C.   A development pattern, which preserves and utilizes natural topography
and geological features, scenic vistas, trees and other vegetation and prevents
the disruption of natural drainage patterns;
   D.   A more efficient use of land than is generally achieved through
conventional development resulting in substantial savings through shorter
utilities and streets; and
   E.   A development pattern in harmony with land use density, transportation
and community facilities' objectives of the comprehensive plan. (Ord. 411, 8-
14-2002)
8-9-2: PROVISIONS GOVERNING PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT:
Whenever there is a conflict or difference between the provisions of this
chapter and those of the other chapters of this title, the provisions of this
chapter shall prevail. Subjects not covered by this chapter shall be governed
by the respective provisions found elsewhere in this title. (Ord. 411, 8-14-
2002)
8-9-3: MINIMUM AREA:
A PUD for the following principal uses shall contain an area of not less than:
   A.   Two (2) acres for residential development;
   B.   Two (2) acres for residential use with subordinate commercial or
industrial uses;
   C.   Two (2) acres for commercial use; and
   D.   Ten (10) acres for industrial use. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-9-4: USES PERMITTED:
All uses that may be allowed within the land use district are permitted within
a PUD. Also, up to ten percent (10%) of the gross land area may be directed to
other commercial, industrial, public and quasi-public uses that are not allowed
within the land use district; provided, there is a favorable finding by the
commission:
   A.   That the uses are appropriate with the residential uses;
   B.   That the uses are intended to serve principally the residents of the
PUD;
   C.   That the uses be located and so designed as to provide direct access to
a collector or an arterial street without creating congestion or traffic
hazards; and
   D.   That a minimum of fifty percent (50%) of the proposed residential
development occur prior to the development of the related commercial or
industrial land uses. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-9-5: OWNERSHIP REQUIREMENTS:
An application for approval of a PUD may be filed by a property owner or a
person having an existing interest in the property to be included in the PUD.
The PUD application shall be filed by the holder(s) of an equitable interest in
such property.
Before approval is granted to the final development plan, the entire project
shall be under single ownership or control and legal title must be presented
with the final development plan. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-9-6: COMMON OPEN SPACE:
A minimum of ten percent (10%) of the gross land area developed in any
residential PUD project shall be reserved for common open space and
recreational facilities for the residents or users of the area being developed.
The required amount of common open space land reserved under a PUD shall either
be held in corporate ownership by owners of the project area for the use of
each owner who buys property within the development or be dedicated to the
public and retained as common open space for parks, recreation and related
uses. Public utility and similar easements and rights of way for watercourses
and other similar channels are not acceptable for common open space dedication
unless such land or right of way is usable as a trail or other similar purpose
and approved by the commission.
The responsibility for the maintenance of all open space shall be specified by
the developer before approval of the final development plan.
Every property developed under the PUD approach should be designated to abut
upon common open space or similar areas. A clustering of dwellings is
encouraged. In areas where townhouses are used, there shall be no more than
eight (8) townhouses in any contiguous group. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-9-7: UTILITY REQUIREMENTS:
Underground utilities, including telephone and electrical systems, are required
within the limits of all PUDs. Appurtenances to these systems, which can be
effectively screened, may be exempted from this requirement if the commission
finds that such exemption will not violate the intent or character of the
proposed PUD. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-9-8: INCREASED RESIDENTIAL DENSITY:
To provide for an incentive for quality PUD, the commission may authorize an
increased residential density of up to fifteen percent (15%) of the allowable
number of dwelling units. Character, identity and architectural and siting
variation incorporated in a development shall be considered cause for density
increases, provided these factors make a substantial contribution to the
objectives of the PUD which are as follows:
   A.   Landscaping (a maximum increase of 5 percent), streetscape, open spaces
and plazas, use of existing landscaping, pedestrianway treatment and
recreational areas;
   B.   Siting (a maximum increase of 5 percent), visual focal points, use of
existing physical features such as topography, view, sun and wind orientation,
circulation pattern, physical environment, variation in building setbacks and
building grouping (such as clustering); and
   C.   Design features (a maximum increase of 5 percent), street sections,
architectural styles, harmonious use of materials, parking areas broken by
landscaping features and varied use of housing types. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-9-9: ARRANGEMENT OF COMMERCIAL USES:
When PUD includes commercial uses, commercial buildings and establishments
shall be planned as groups having common parking areas and common ingress and
egress points in order to reduce the number of potential accident locations at
intersections. Planting screens or fences shall be provided on the perimeter of
the commercial areas abutting residential areas.
The plan of the project shall provide for the integrated and harmonious design
of buildings, and for adequate and properly arranged facilities for internal
traffic circulation, landscaping and such other features and facilities as may
be necessary to make the project attractive and efficient from the standpoint
of the adjoining and surrounding noncommercial areas.
All areas designed for future expansion or not intended for immediate
improvement or development shall be landscaped or otherwise maintained in a
neat and orderly manner. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-9-10: ARRANGEMENT OF INDUSTRIAL USES:
PUDs may include industrial uses if it can be shown that the development
results in a more efficient and desirable use of land.
Industrial uses and parcels shall be developed in park like surroundings
utilizing landscaping and existing woodlands as buffers to screen lighting,
parking areas, loading areas or docks and/or outdoor storage of raw materials
or products. A planned industrial area shall provide for the harmony of
buildings and a compact grouping in order to economize in the provision of such
utility services as is required. Thoroughfares shall be kept to a minimum
throughout a planned industrial area in order to reduce through traffic.
Project side yards of forty feet (40') and a rear yard of fifty feet (50')
shall be required if the project is located adjacent to any residential uses.
All intervening spaces between the right of way line and project building line
and intervening spaces between buildings, drives, parking areas and improved
areas shall be landscaped with trees and plantings and properly maintained at
all times. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-9-11: PROCEDURE FOR APPROVAL OF A PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT 1 :
When the PUD also qualifies as a subdivision, the processing of the special use
permit and subdivision application shall occur at the same time. The granting
of a special use permit for PUD shall require a preapplication, the submission
of a preliminary development plan and approval by the commission of a final
development plan as specified within this title. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 9 of this code for subdivision regulations.
8-9-12: PREAPPLICATION MEETING:
The developer shall meet with the administrator prior to the submission of the
preliminary development plan. The purpose of this meeting is to discuss early
and informally the purpose and effect of this title and the criteria and
standards contained herein, and to familiarize the developer with the
comprehensive plan, zoning ordinance, subdivision ordinance and such other
plans and ordinances as deemed appropriate. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-9-13: CONTENTS OF APPLICATION FOR APPROVAL OF PRELIMINARY DEVELOPMENT PLAN:
An application for preliminary PUD shall be filed with the administrator by a
property owner or person having existing interest in the property for which the
PUD is proposed. At a minimum, the application shall contain the following
information filed in triplicate:
   A.   Name, address and phone number of applicant;
   B.   Name, address and phone number of registered surveyor, registered
engineer and/or urban planner assisting in the preparation of the preliminary
development plan;
   C.   Legal description of property;
   D.   Description of existing use;
   E.   Zoning districts;
   F.   A vicinity map at a scale approved by the administrator showing
property lines, streets, existing and proposed zoning and such other items as
the commission may require to show the relationship of the PUD to the
comprehensive plan and to existing schools and other community facilities and
services;
   G.   A preliminary development plan at a scale approved by the administrator
showing topography at two foot (2') intervals; location and type of
residential, commercial and industrial land uses; layout, dimensions and names
of rights of way; utility easements; parks and community spaces; layout and
dimensions of lots and building setback lines; preliminary improvements
drawings showing water, sewer, drainage, electricity, telephone and natural gas
and such other characteristics as the commission deems necessary;
   H.   Proposed schedule for the development of the site; and
   I.   Evidence that the applicant has sufficient control over the land in
question to initiate the proposed development plan within two (2) years.
The application for preliminary PUD shall be accompanied by a written statement
by the developer setting forth the reasons why, in his opinion, the PUD would
be in the public interest. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-9-14: PROCEDURE FOR PUBLIC NOTICE:
The same provision for public hearing and legal notifications as required for
special use permits shall be followed. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-9-15: APPROVAL IN PRINCIPLE BY THE COMMISSION:
Within twenty eight (28) days after the public hearing the commission shall
review the preliminary development plan to determine if it is consistent with
the intent and purpose of this title; whether the proposed development advances
the general welfare of the community and neighborhood and whether the benefits,
combination of various land uses and the interrelationship with the land uses
in the surrounding area justify the deviation from standard district
regulations. The commission's approval in principle of the preliminary
development plan shall be necessary before an applicant may submit a final
development plan. Approval in principle shall not be construed to endorse a
precise location of uses, configuration of parcels or engineering feasibility.
The commission shall consider the general standards and criteria applicable to
special use permits and subdivisions before approving in principle a
preliminary development plan. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-9-16: CONTENTS OF APPLICATION FOR APPROVAL OF FINAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN:
Upon approval in principle of the development plan, an application for approval
of the final development plan may be filed with the administrator by at least
one property owner or person having a presently existing interest in the
property for which the PUD is proposed. Each application shall be signed by the
applicant, attesting to the truth and exactness of all information supplied on
the application for final development plan. Each application shall clearly
state that the approval shall expire and may be revoked if construction on the
project has not begun within two (2) years from the date of issuance of the
approval. At a minimum, the application shall contain the following
information:
   A.   A survey of the proposed development site, showing the dimensions and
bearings of the property lines, area in acres, topography, existing features of
the development site; including major wooded areas, structures, streets,
easements, utility lines and land uses;
   B.   All the information required on the preliminary development plan; the
location of lots, location and proposed density of dwelling units,
nonresidential building intensity and land use considered suitable for adjacent
properties;
   C.   A schedule for the development of units to be constructed in
progression and a description of the design principles for buildings and
streetscapes; tabulation of the number of acres in the proposed project for
various uses; the number of housing units proposed by type; estimated
residential population by type of housing; estimated nonresidential population;
anticipated timing for each unit and standards for height, open space, building
density, parking areas, population density and public improvements proposed for
each unit of the development whenever the applicant proposes an exception from
standard zoning districts or other ordinances governing development;
   D.   Engineering feasibility studies and plans showing as necessary: water,
sewer, drainage, electricity, telephone and natural gas installations, waste
disposal facilities, street improvements and nature and extent of earthwork
required for site preparation and development;
   E.   Site plan showing building(s), various functional use areas,
circulation and their relationship;
   F.   Preliminary building plans, including floor plans and exterior
elevations;
   G.   Landscaping plans; and
   H.   Deed restrictions, protective covenants and other legal statements or
devices to be used to control the use, development and maintenance of the land,
and the improvements thereon, including those areas that are to be commonly
owned and maintained. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-9-17: RECOMMENDATION BY COMMISSION:
Within sixty (60) days after receipt of the final development plan, the
commission shall recommend to the board or respective council that the final
development plan be approved as presented, approved with supplementary
conditions or disapproved. The commission shall then transmit all papers
constituting the record and the recommendations to the board or respective
council.
The commission shall find that the facts submitted with the application and
presented to them establish that:
   A.   The proposed development can be initiated within two (2) years of the
date of approval;
   B.   Each individual unit of the development, as well as the total
development, can exist as an independent unit capable of creating an
environment of sustained desirability and stability or that adequate assurance
will be provided that such objective will be attained; the uses proposed will
not be detrimental to present or potential surrounding uses, but will have a
beneficial effect which would not be achieved under standard district
regulations;
   C.   The streets and thoroughfares proposed are suitable and adequate to
carry anticipated traffic, and increased densities will not generate traffic in
such amounts as to overload the street network outside the PUD;
   D.   Any proposed commercial development can be justified at the locations
proposed;
   E.   Any exception from standard district requirements is warranted by the
design and other amenities incorporated in the final development plan; in
accordance with the PUD and the adopted policy of the board or respective
council;
   F.   The area surrounding said development can be planned and zoned in
coordination and substantial compatibility with the proposed development;
   G.   The PUD is in general conformance with the comprehensive plan; and
   H.   The existing and proposed utility services are adequate for the
population densities and nonresidential uses proposed. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-9-18: ACTION BY THE BOARD OR RESPECTIVE COUNCIL:
Within sixty (60) days after receipt of the final recommendation of the
commission, the board or respective council shall either approve, approve with
supplementary conditions or disapprove the application as presented. Upon
granting or denying the application the board or respective council shall
specify:
   A.   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the application;
   B.   The reason for approval or denial; and
   C.   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain a permit.
If the application is either approved or approved with conditions, the council
shall direct the administrator to issue zoning permits only in accordance with
the approved final development plan and the supplementary conditions attached
thereto. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-9-19: EXPIRATION AND EXTENSION OF APPROVAL PERIOD:
The approval of a final development plan for a PUD shall be for a period not to
exceed two (2) years to allow for preparation and recording of the required
subdivision plat and the development of the project. If no construction has
begun within two (2) years after approval is granted, the approval of the final
development plan shall be void. An extension of time limit or modification of
the approved final development plan may be granted if the commission finds that
such extension or modification is not in conflict with the public interest.
(Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
CHAPTER 10
NONCONFORMING USES
SECTION:
8-10-1: Intent
8-10-2: Incompatibility Of Nonconforming Uses
8-10-3: Avoidance Of Undue Hardship
8-10-4: Single Nonconforming Lots Of Record
8-10-5: Nonconforming Lots Of Record In Combination
8-10-6: Nonconforming Uses Of Structures Or Of Structures And Land In
Combination
8-10-7: Repairs And Maintenance
8-10-8: Uses Under Special Use Provisions Not Nonconforming Uses
8-10-1: INTENT:
It is the intent of this chapter to permit nonconforming uses to continue until
they are removed, but not to encourage their survival. It is further the intent
of this chapter that nonconforming uses shall not be enlarged upon, expanded or
extended, nor be used as grounds for adding other structures or uses prohibited
elsewhere in the same district. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-10-2: INCOMPATIBILITY OF NONCONFORMING USES:
Nonconforming uses are declared by this title to be incompatible with permitted
uses in the district in which such use is located. A nonconforming use shall
not be extended or enlarged after passage of this title by expansion of the
existing use or by alterations or additions to the existing buildings or
premises, or by the addition of other uses of a nature which would be generally
prohibited in the district in which such use is located. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-10-3: AVOIDANCE OF UNDUE HARDSHIP:
To avoid undue hardship, nothing in this title shall be deemed to require a
change in the plans, construction or designated use of any building on which
actual construction was lawfully begun prior to the effective date of adoption
of this title or adoption of a more restrictive amendment which would be
otherwise applicable to a previously permitted use and upon which actual
building construction has been carried on diligently. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-10-4: SINGLE NONCONFORMING LOTS OF RECORD:
In any district in which single-family dwellings are permitted, a single-family
dwelling and customary accessory buildings may be erected on any single lot of
record at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this title,
notwithstanding limitations imposed by the other provisions of this title. Such
lot must be in separate ownership and not of continuous frontage with other
lots in the same ownership (see section
8-10-5 of this chapter). This provision shall apply even though such lot fails
to meet the requirements for area or width, or both, that are generally
applicable in the district, provided that yard dimensions and requirements
other than those applying to area or width, or both, of the lot shall conform
to the regulations for the district in which such lot is located. (Ord. 411, 8-
14-2002)
8-10-5: NONCONFORMING LOTS OF RECORD IN COMBINATION:
If two (2) or more lots or a combination of lots and portions of lots with
continuous frontage in single ownership are of record at the time of passage or
amendment of this title and if all or part of the lots with no buildings do not
meet the requirements established for lot width and area, the lands involved
shall be considered to be an undivided parcel for the purpose of this title and
no portion of said parcel shall be used or sold in a manner which diminishes
compliance with lot width and area requirements established by this title, nor
any division of any parcel be made which creates a lot with a width or area
below the requirements stated in this title. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-10-6: NONCONFORMING USES OF STRUCTURES OR OF STRUCTURES AND LAND IN
COMBINATION:
If a lawful use involving individual structures, or a structure and land in
combination, exists at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this
title that would not be allowed in the district under the terms of this title,
the lawful use may be continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject
to the following provisions:
   A.   An existing structure devoted to a use not permitted by this title in
the district in which it is located shall not be enlarged, extended,
constructed, reconstructed, moved or structurally altered except in changing
the use of the structure to a use permitted in the district in which it is
located;
   B.   A nonconforming use shall not be extended to occupy any additional land
area;
   C.   If no structural alterations are made, any nonconforming use of a
structure or structure and land may, upon the issuance of a special use permit
by the commission, be changed to another nonconforming use provided that the
commission shall find that the proposed use is at least as appropriate to the
district as the existing nonconforming use. In permitting such change, the
commission may require appropriate conditions and safeguards in accord with
other provisions of this title;
   D.   Any structure, or structure and land in combination, in or on which a
nonconforming use is superseded by a permitted use shall thereafter conform to
the regulations for the district, and the nonconforming use may not thereafter
be resumed;
   E.   When a nonconforming use of a structure, or structure and land in
combination, is discontinued or abandoned for more than two (2) years (except
when government action impedes access to the premises), the structure, or
structure and land in combination, shall not thereafter be used except in
conformity with the regulations of the district in which it is located; and
   F.   Where nonconforming use status applies to a structure, or a structure
and land in combination, removal or destruction of the structure shall
eliminate the nonconforming status of the land, and the nonconforming use shall
not be resumed. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-10-7: REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE:
On any nonconforming structure, or portion of a structure containing a
nonconforming use, work may be done on ordinary repairs or on repair or
replacement of nonbearing walls, fixtures, wiring or plumbing, provided that,
the cubic content existing when it became nonconforming shall not be increased.
Nothing in this section shall be deemed to prevent the strengthening or
restoring to a safe condition of any building or part thereof declared to be
unsafe by any official charged with protecting the public safety upon order of
such official. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-10-8: USES UNDER SPECIAL USE PROVISIONS NOT NONCONFORMING USES:
Any use which is permitted as a special use in a district under the terms of
this title shall not be deemed a nonconforming use in such a district, but
shall, without further action, be considered a conforming use for the duration
of the special use permit. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
CHAPTER 11
OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING FACILITIES REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
8-11-1: General Requirements
8-11-2: Parking Standards
8-11-3: Loading Standards
8-11-4: General Standards For Parking And Loading Areas
8-11-5: General Interpretations
8-11-1: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   No building or structure shall be erected, substantially altered or its
use changed unless permanently maintained off street parking and loading spaces
have been provided in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   The provisions of this chapter, except where there is a change of use,
shall not apply to any existing building or structure. Where the use of an
existing building or structure is changed, there shall be provided as many such
spaces as may be required by this chapter.
   C.   Whenever a building or structure constructed after the effective date
hereof is changed or enlarged in floor area, number of employees, number of
dwelling units, seating capacity or otherwise, to create a need for an increase
in the number of existing parking spaces, additional parking spaces shall be
provided on the basis of the enlargement or change. Whenever a building or
structure existing prior to the effective date hereof is enlarged to the extent
of fifty percent (50%) or more in floor area, number of employees, number of
housing units, seating capacity or otherwise, said building or structure shall
then and thereafter comply with the full parking requirements set forth herein.
(Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
   D.   Except for residential uses and other uses that require all night
parking, the requirements of this chapter shall not apply to buildings and uses
located within a historical district as designated by the city council. (Ord.
2003-2, 3-12-2003)
8-11-2: PARKING STANDARDS:
   A.   The following regulations shall govern the location of off street
parking spaces and areas:
      1.   Parking spaces for all detached residential uses shall be located on
the same parcel as the use which they are intended to serve;
      2.   Parking spaces for commercial, industrial or institutional uses
shall be located not more than five hundred feet (500') from the principal use
if such parking is on the same parcel or a contiguous parcel and not more than
three hundred feet (300') if the parking spaces are located on a noncontiguous
parcel; and
      3.   Parking spaces for apartments, dormitories or similar residential
uses shall be located not more than three hundred feet (300') from the
principal use.
   B.   For the purpose of this chapter the following parking space
requirements shall apply:
Type Of Use Parking Spaces Required
Type Of Use                              Parking Spaces Required
Commercial:                               
 Automobile service garages which also  1 for each 2 gasoline pumps and 3 for
  provide repair                         each service bay
 Banks, financial institutions and      1 for each 250 square feet of public
  similar uses                           floor area
  Funeral parlors, mortuaries and        1 for each 100 square feet of floor
 similar type uses                      area in slumber rooms, parlors or
                                         service rooms
 Hotels, motels                         1 for each sleeping room plus 1 space
                                         for each 2 employees
 Offices, public or professional        1 for each 400 square feet of floor
  administration or service buildings    area
 Retail stores                          1 for each 250 square feet of retail
                                         floor area
  All other types of business or         1 for each 300 square feet of floor
 commercial uses permitted in any       area
  business district
Institutional:                            
                                         1 for each 5 seats. For areas having
                                         fixed benches or pews, the occupant
 Churches and other places of religious load shall be not less than the number
  assembly                               of seats based on 1 person for each 18
                                         inches of length of pew or bench in
                                         the main area of occupancy
 Hospitals                              1 for each bed
 Libraries, museums and art galleries   1 for each 400 square feet of floor
                                         area
                                         1 for each 200 square feet of floor
 Medical and dental clinics             area of examination, treating room
                                         office and waiting room
  Sanitariums, homes for the aged,
 nursing homes, children homes, asylums 1 for each 2 beds
  and similar uses
Manufacturing:                            
  All types of manufacturing, storage,   1 for every 2 employees (on the
 and wholesale uses permitted in any    largest shift for which the building
  manufacturing district                 is designed) plus 1 for each motor
                                         vehicle used in the business
                                         1 for every 2 employees (on the
 Express, parcel delivery and freight   largest shift for which the building
  terminal                               is designed) plus 1 for each motor
                                         vehicle maintained on the premises
Recreational or entertainment:            
 Auditoriums, sports arenas, theaters   1 for each 4 seats
  and similar uses
                                         2 for each alley or lane plus 1
 Bowling alleys                         additional space for each 100 square
                                         feet of the area used for restaurant,
                                         cocktail lounge or similar use
 Dance floors                           1 for each 50 square feet of floor
                                         area used for the activity
 Dining rooms, restaurants, taverns,    1 for each 100 square feet of dining
  nightclubs, etc.                       floor area
                                         1 for every 4 seats (every 18 inches
 Outdoor athletic fields                of bleachers), but no less than 10 for
                                         each field
                                         1 for each 5 persons' capacity plus 1
 Outdoor swimming pools (public,        for each 4 seats or 1 for each 30
  community, or club)                    square feet of floor area used for
                                         seating purposes whichever is greater
 Skating rinks                          1 for each 100 square feet of floor
                                         area used for the activity
Residential:                              
 Apartments, or multi-family dwelling   2 for each unit
  Boarding houses, rooming houses,       1 for each sleeping room or 1 for each
 dormitories and fraternity houses      permanent occupant
  which have sleeping rooms
 Manufactured home (mobile home)        2 for each unit
 Single-family or two-family dwelling   2 for each unit
Schools (public, parochial or private):   
 Business, technical and trade schools  1 for each 2 students
 Colleges, universities                 1 for each 4 students
 Elementary and junior high schools     2 for each classroom and 1 for every 8
                                         seats in auditoriums or assembly halls
 High schools                           1 for every 8 students and 1 for each
                                         teacher and employee
 Kindergartens, childcare centers,      11/2 for each but not less than 6 for
  nursery schools and similar uses       the building
 
   C.   Parking spaces and aisleways required by this chapter for the following
types of parking shall be sized as follows:
 
Type                      Length    Width    Aisle
Parallel                 23 feet  9 feet   12 feet
Diagonal 45 degree       15 feet  13 feet  13 feet
Diagonal 60 degree       18 feet  10 feet  17 feet
Perpendicular 90 degree  19 feet  9 feet   25 feet
 
(Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-11-3: LOADING STANDARDS:
   A.   The size of an off street loading space shall not be less than the
following, exclusive of platform and loading area:
      1.   Type A: Sixty five feet (65') in length, twelve feet (12') in width.
      2.   Type B: Thirty five feet (35') in length, twelve feet (12') in
width.
   B.   Off street loading spaces for commercial uses shall be provided in
accordance with the following table:
 
Gross Floor Area     Quantity And Type
(Square Feet)
   10,000 to 20,00   1B
   20,000 to 40,00   1B + 1A
   40,000 to 100,0   2B + 2A
 
      For each additional seventy five thousand (75,000) square feet or
fraction thereof, an additional type A space will be provided.
   C.   Convenient access to loading spaces from streets or alleys shall be
provided; they shall not be less than twelve feet (12') in width.
   D.   The off street loading spaces required for the uses mentioned shall not
project into the public right of way. In no case shall the required off street
loading spaces be part of the area used to satisfy the off street parking
requirements. Spaces shall not be located where their use would cause sight
obstructions at intersections.
   E.   Design and location of entrances and exits for required off street
loading areas shall be subject to review of the administrator. (Ord. 411, 8-14-
2002)
8-11-4: GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PARKING AND LOADING AREAS:
   A.   The owner of property used for parking and/or loading areas shall
maintain such area in good condition without holes and free of all
obstructions, trash and other debris.
   B.   All parking and loading areas shall provide for all weather use and
proper drainage of surface water to prevent the drainage of such water onto
adjacent properties or walkways.
   C.   Any parking area, which is intended to be used during nondaylight
hours, shall be properly illuminated to avoid accidents. Any lights used to
illuminate a parking lot shall be so arranged as to reflect the light away from
the adjoining property.
   D.   Any parking area shall be designed in such a manner that any vehicle
leaving or entering the parking area from or onto a public or private street
shall be traveling in a forward motion. Access driveways for parking areas or
loading spaces shall be located in such a way that any vehicle entering or
leaving such area shall be clearly visible by a pedestrian or motorist
approaching the access or driveway from a public or private street for a
reasonable distance considering the normal speed of such traffic.
   E.   Whenever a parking area is located in or adjacent to a residential
district, it shall be effectively screened on all sides which adjoin or face
any property used for residential purposes by an acceptably designed wall,
fence or planting screen. Such fence, wall or planting screen shall be not less
than four feet (4') or more than six feet (6') in height and shall be
maintained in good condition. The space between such fence, wall or planting
screen and the lot line of the adjoining premises in any residential district
shall be landscaped with grass, hardy shrubs or evergreen ground cover, and
maintained in good condition. In the event that terrain or other natural
features are such that the erection of such fence, wall or planting screen will
not serve the intended purpose, then no such fence, wall or planting screen and
landscaping shall be required.
   F.   Whenever a parking lot extends to a property line, wheel blocks or
other suitable devices shall be installed to prevent any part of a parked
vehicle from extending beyond the property line.
   G.   No part of any parking area for more than ten (10) vehicles shall be
closer than twenty feet (20') to any dwelling unit, school, hospital or other
institution for human care located on an adjoining lot unless separated by an
acceptably designed screen. If on the same lot with a one-family residence, the
parking area shall not be located within the front yard required for such
building. In no case shall any part of a parking area be closer than four feet
(4') to any established street or alley right of way.
   H.   The parking of a disabled vehicle within a residential or commercial
district for a period of more than two (2) weeks shall be prohibited, unless
such vehicle is stored in an enclosed garage or other accessory building.
   I.   Two (2) or more nonresidential users may jointly provide and use
parking spaces when their hours of operation do not normally overlap, provided
that a written agreement executed by each owner of the properties involved, and
duly recorded, establishes the unconditional right of each owner to use the
designated parking area during the permitted hours as long as each structure to
which the parking pertains remains in existence. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-11-5: GENERAL INTERPRETATIONS:
In the interpretation of this chapter, the following shall govern:
   A.   Parking spaces for other permitted or conditional uses not listed in
this chapter shall be determined by the administrator;
   B.   Fractional numbers shall be increased to the next whole number; and
   C.   Where there is an adequate public transit system or where for any other
reason parking demand is unusually low, then the parking space provisions cited
may be reduced proportionately by the commission. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
CHAPTER 12
ADMINISTRATION
SECTION:
8-12-1: General
8-12-2: Administrator
8-12-3: Commission Membership
8-12-4: Commission Organization, Rules And Expenditures
8-12-5: Duties Of The Commission
8-12-6: Conflict Of Interest
8-12-1: GENERAL:
For the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this title, an administrator
and commission are hereby created. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-12-2: ADMINISTRATOR:
The city shall, as provided in this code, appoint an administrator to
administer this title. The administrator may be provided with the assistance of
such other persons as the city may direct.
For the purpose of this title, the administrator shall have the following
duties:
   A.   Advise interested persons of the zoning ordinance provisions;
   B.   Notify the news media regarding matters of public interest;
   C.   Aid applicants in the preparation and expedition of required
application;
   D.   Issue zoning permits, provide required notifications and such similar
administrative duties;
   E.   Investigate all violations of this title and notify in writing the
persons or entities responsible for such violations, ordering the action
necessary to correct such violations; and
   F.   Assist the commission and council in carrying out the provisions of
this title. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-12-3: COMMISSION MEMBERSHIP:
   A.   Planning And Zoning Commission: The commission shall consist of not
less than five (5) nor more than nine (9) voting members, all appointed by the
mayor and confirmed by a majority vote of the city council. An appointed member
of a commission must have resided in the county for two (2) years prior to his
appointment, and must remain a resident of the county during his service on the
commission. At least one but not more than two (2) of the members of the
commission shall reside within the city's area of impact. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
   B.   Number And Term: A separate ordinance establishing a planning and
zoning commission to exercise the powers under this title shall set forth the
number of members to be appointed. The term of office for members shall be not
less than three (3) years. Members may be reappointed to additional terms as
deemed necessary by the board of county commissioners or the applicable city
council. (Ord. 2005-5, 10-12-2005)
   C.   Vacancies: Vacancies occurring otherwise than through the expiration of
terms shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointment. Members
may be removed for cause by a majority vote of the city council.
   D.   Member Selection; Compensation: Members shall be selected without
respect to political affiliation and may receive such mileage and per diem
compensation as provided by the city council. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-12-4: COMMISSION ORGANIZATION, RULES AND EXPENDITURES:
   A.   Organization: The commission shall elect a chairman and fill any other
office that it may deem necessary. A commission may establish subcommittees,
advisory committees, hearing examiners, or neighborhood groups to advise and
assist in carrying out the responsibilities. A commission may appoint nonvoting
ex officio advisors as may be deemed necessary.
   B.   Rules, Records And Meetings: Written organization papers or bylaws
consistent with this title and other laws of the state for the transaction of
business of the commission shall be adopted. A record of meetings, hearings,
resolutions, studies, findings, permits and actions taken shall be maintained.
All meetings and records shall be open to the public. At least one regular
meeting shall be held each month for not less than nine (9) months in a year. A
majority of voting members of the commission shall constitute a quorum.
   C.   Expenditures And Staff: With approval of the city council, the
commission may receive and expend funds, goods and services from the federal
government or agencies and instrumentalities of state or local governments or
from civic and private sources and may contract with these entities and provide
information and reports as necessary to secure aid. Expenditures by a
commission shall be within the amounts appropriated by the city council. Within
such limits, any commission is authorized to hire employees and technical
advisors, including, but not limited to, planners, engineers, architects and
legal assistants. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-12-5: DUTIES OF THE COMMISSION:
For the purpose of this title the commission shall have the following duties:
   A.   May initiate proposed amendments to this title and conduct an annual
review of the complete zoning ordinance;
   B.   Review all proposed amendments to this title and make recommendations
to the city council;
   C.   Review all planned unit developments and make recommendations to the
city council;
   D.   Grant special use permits as specified in the official schedule of
district regulations and under the conditions as herein specified with such
additional safeguards as will uphold the intent of this title;
   E.   Hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is an error in any
order, requirement, decision, interpretation or determination made by the
administrator; and
   F.   Authorize such variances from the terms of this title as will not be
contrary to the public interest where, owing to the special conditions, a
literal enforcement of this title will result in unnecessary hardship, and so
that the spirit of this title shall be observed and substantial justice done.
(Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-12-6: CONFLICT OF INTEREST:
A member or employee of the city council or commission shall not participate in
any proceeding or action when the member or employee or his employer, business
partner, business associate or any person related to him by affinity or
consanguinity within the second degree has an economic interest in the
procedure or action. Any actual or potential interest in any proceeding shall
be disclosed at or before any meeting at which the action is being heard or
considered. A knowing violation of this section shall be a misdemeanor. (Ord.
411, 8-14-2002)
CHAPTER 13
ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
8-13-1: Zoning Review Required
8-13-2: Contents Of Application
8-13-3: Zoning Review
8-13-4: Expiration Of Zoning Review Approval
8-13-5: Exemption From Zoning/Building Permit
8-13-6: Special Requirements For Issuance Of Building Permits
8-13-7: Certificate Of Occupancy
8-13-8: Temporary Certificate Of Occupancy
8-13-9: Statement Of Intent To Declare A Manufactured Home Real Property
8-13-10: Record Of Zoning Permits And Certificates Of Occupancy
8-13-11: Failure To Obtain A Zoning Review Or Certificate Of Occupancy
8-13-12: Construction And Use To Be As Provided In Applications, Plans, Permits
And Certificates
8-13-13: Complaints Regarding Violations
8-13-14: Penalties
8-13-15: Schedule Of Fees, Charges And Expenses
8-13-1: ZONING REVIEW REQUIRED:
No building or other structure shall be erected, moved, added to or
structurally altered, nor shall any building, structure, or land be established
or changed in use without review and approval by the zoning administrator.
Prior to approval of any building permit, the building official will request a
review of the building permit application by the zoning administrator, who will
determine whether the proposed use described in the building permit application
is in compliance with the city's zoning laws. The review will be conducted as
provided in section
8-13-3 of this chapter. (Ord. 2012-4, 12-12-2012)
8-13-2: CONTENTS OF APPLICATION:
The application for zoning permit shall be signed by the owner or applicant
attesting to the truth and exactness of all information supplied on the
application. Each application shall clearly state that the permit shall expire
and be considered revoked if work has not begun within one hundred eighty (180)
days from the date the permit was issued. At a minimum, the application shall
contain the following information:
   A.   Name, address and phone number of applicant and name, address and phone
number of owner if applicant is not the owner;
   B.   Legal description of property;
   C.   Existing use;
   D.   Proposed use;
   E.   Zoning district;
   F.   Plan, drawn to scale, showing the actual dimensions and the shape of
the lot to be built upon; the exact size and location of existing buildings on
the lot, if any; and the location and dimensions of the proposed building(s) or
alterations;
   G.   Building heights;
   H.   Number of off street parking spaces or loading spaces;
   I.   Number of dwelling units;
   J.   Proposed sewer, water and electrical facilities; and
   K.   Such other matters as may be necessary to determine conformance with,
and provision for, the enforcement of this title. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-13-3: ZONING REVIEW:
Within twenty eight (28) days after the receipt of a request for review as set
forth in section
8-13-1 of this chapter, the administrator shall either approve or disapprove
the application in conformance with the provisions of this title. Any approval
by the zoning administrator however, shall be conditional upon the commencement
of work within one hundred eighty (180) days. If the proposed use is not in
compliance with the city's zoning laws, the zoning administrator will determine
what is required and advise the building official. Any recommendation by the
zoning administrator that the building permit not be issued because of lack of
compliance with the city's zoning laws shall be in writing and may be hand
delivered, mailed or sent by e-mail to the building official. The building
official shall advise the applicant of such determination. (Ord. 2012-4, 12-12-
2012)
8-13-4: EXPIRATION OF ZONING REVIEW APPROVAL:
If the work described in a building permit for which there was a zoning review
has not begun within one hundred eighty (180) days from the date of issuance of
the building permit, said approval shall expire and be considered revoked by
the administrator. No written notice of expiration or revocation need be given
to the persons affected. (Ord. 2012-4, 12-12-2012)
8-13-5: EXEMPTION FROM ZONING/BUILDING PERMIT:
Structures or buildings constructed and located in an agricultural zone on a
parcel that meets the below definition for agricultural exemption, will only be
required to obtain a siting permit in lieu of a building permit. (Ord. 411, 8-
14-2002)
A parcel or tract of land that is more than five (5) contiguous acres, and is
actively devoted to agriculture is eligible for an agricultural exemption when
meeting the following criteria:
   A.   It is used to produce field crops including, but not limited to,
grains, feed crops, fruits and vegetables; or
   B.   It is used to produce nursery stock as defined in Idaho Code, section
22-2302; or
   C.   It is used by the owner for the grazing of livestock to be sold as part
of a net profitmaking enterprise, or is leased by the owner to a bona fide
lessee for grazing purposes; or
   D.   It is in a cropland retirement or rotation program; and
   E.   Is not a lot, tract or parcel within a subdivision or planned unit
development. (Ord. 2003-2, 3-12-2003)
8-13-6: SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ISSUANCE OF BUILDING PERMITS:
The following are requirements dealing with providing utility hookups and
payment of hookup fees prior to the issuance of a zoning/building permit:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to request or demand from any utility, private or
public, the connection of power to any structure, house, building,
installation, including manufactured homes, for which a building permit is
required, without first displaying to said utility or other company a valid
building permit.
   B.   Each utility, private or public, receiving such a request for
connection of utilities without compliance with the terms of this section,
shall promptly notify the city.
   C.   No building permit shall be issued for any structures located within
the corporate limits of the city which would require public services without
verification that the appropriate hookup fees or deposits have been paid.
   D.   Manufactured home parks (mobile home parks) shall not allow a unit to
be connected to utilities without verification that a building permit has been
issued as required by state law and local ordinances.
   E.   No building permit shall be issued for structures utilizing private
septic systems without first obtaining a subsurface sewage permit from the
applicable health authority. (Ord. 2009-4, 5-13-2009)
8-13-7: CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY:
It shall be unlawful to use or occupy or permit the use or occupancy of any
building or premises, or both, or part thereof thereafter created, erected,
changed, converted or wholly or partly altered or enlarged in its use or
structure until a certificate of occupancy shall have been issued therefor
stating that the proposed use of the building or land conforms to the
requirements of this title and with all conditional provisions that may have
been imposed. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002; amd. Ord. 2009-4, 5-13-2009)
8-13-8: TEMPORARY CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY:
A temporary certificate of occupancy may be issued by the administrator for a
period not exceeding six (6) months during alterations or partial occupancy of
a building pending its completion. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002; amd. Ord. 2009-4, 5-
13-2009)
8-13-9: STATEMENT OF INTENT TO DECLARE A MANUFACTURED HOME REAL PROPERTY:
Pursuant to Idaho Code section 63-304, manufactured homes may be declared as
real property. A manufactured home may only be accepted as real property upon
the submittal of an application as prescribed by the state, properly completed,
signed and notarized and upon verification of compliance with all state and
local building codes and manufactured home installation standards. (Ord. 2005-
5, 10-12-2005; amd. Ord. 2009-4, 5-13-2009)
8-13-10: RECORD OF ZONING PERMITS AND CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY:
The administrator shall maintain a record of all zoning permits and
certificates of occupancy and copies shall be furnished upon request to any
person. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002; amd. Ord. 2005-5, 10-12-2005; Ord. 2009-4, 5-13-
2009)
8-13-11: FAILURE TO OBTAIN A ZONING REVIEW OR CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY:
Failure to obtain a zoning review or certificate of occupancy shall be a
violation of this title, and punished as a misdemeanor. (Ord. 2012-4, 12-12-
2012)
8-13-12: CONSTRUCTION AND USE TO BE AS PROVIDED IN APPLICATIONS, PLANS, PERMITS
AND CERTIFICATES:
Zoning permits or certificates of occupancy issued on the basis of plans and
applications approved by the administrator authorize only the use and
arrangement set forth in such approved plans and applications or amendments
thereto, and no other use, arrangement or construction. Use, arrangement or
construction contrary to that authorized shall be deemed a violation of this
title. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002; amd. Ord. 2005-5, 10-12-2005; Ord. 2009-4, 5-13-
2009)
8-13-13: COMPLAINTS REGARDING VIOLATIONS:
Whenever a violation of this title occurs, or is alleged to have occurred, any
person may file a written complaint. Such complaint stating fully the causes
and basis thereof shall be filed with the administrator. The administrator
shall properly record such complaint and immediately investigate and take
action thereon as provided by this title. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002; amd. Ord. 2005-
5, 10-12-2005; Ord. 2009-4, 5-13-2009)
8-13-14: PENALTIES:
The county attorney or respective city attorney may, in addition to taking
whatever criminal action deemed necessary, take steps to civilly enjoin any
violation of this title. Penalties for failure to comply with or violations of
the provisions of this title shall be as follows:
Violation of any of the provisions of this title or failure to comply with any
of its requirements shall constitute a misdemeanor and shall be subject to a
fine not exceeding three hundred dollars ($300.00) and to imprisonment not
exceeding thirty (30) days, or both such fine and imprisonment. Each day such
violation continues shall be considered a separate offense. The landowner,
tenant, subdivider, builder, public official or any other person who commits,
participates in, assists in or maintains such violation may be found guilty of
a separate offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the council or any
other public official or private citizen from taking such lawful action as is
necessary to restrain or prevent any violation of this title or the Idaho Code.
(Ord. 2005-5, 10-12-2005; amd. Ord. 2009-4, 5-13-2009)
8-13-15: SCHEDULE OF FEES, CHARGES AND EXPENSES:
The city council, by resolution, shall establish a schedule of fees, charges
and expenses and a collection procedure for zoning permits, amendments,
appeals, variances, special use permits, plan approvals and other matters
pertaining to the administration and enforcement of this title requiring
investigations, inspections, legal advertising, postage and other expenses. The
schedule of fees shall be posted in the office of the administrator, and may be
altered or amended only by the city council. Until all applicable fees, charges
and expenses have been paid in full, no action shall be taken on any
application or appeal. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002; amd. Ord. 2005-5, 10-12-2005; Ord.
2009-4, 5-13-2009)
CHAPTER 14
APPEAL, VARIANCE AND ACTION BY AFFECTED PERSONS
SECTION:
8-14-1: General
8-14-2: Administrative Appeals
8-14-3: Stay Of Proceedings
8-14-4: Variance
8-14-5: Application And Standards For Variances
8-14-6: Supplementary Conditions And Safeguards
8-14-7: Public Hearing
8-14-8: Variance Procedure In City Areas Of Impact
8-14-9: Action By The Commission
8-14-10: Notification Of Applicant
8-14-11: Appeal To Board Or Respective Council
8-14-12: Request For Hearing By Affected Persons
8-14-13: Application And Standards For Appeals
8-14-14: Mediation
8-14-1: GENERAL:
The commission shall consider administrative appeals: a) alleging that an error
has been made by the administrator, b) applications for variances from the
terms of this title and c) requests for hearings from affected persons. (Ord.
411, 8-14-2002)
8-14-2: ADMINISTRATIVE APPEALS:
Appeals to the commission concerning interpretation or administration of this
title may be taken by any person aggrieved or by any officer or bureau of the
legislative authority affected by any decision of the administrator. Such
appeal shall be taken within twenty eight (28) days after the decision of the
administrator by filing with the administrator and with the commission a notice
of appeal specifying the grounds upon which the appeal is being taken. The
administrator shall transmit to the commission all the papers constituting the
record upon which the appeal is based. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-14-3: STAY OF PROCEEDINGS:
An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action taken unless the
administrator certifies to the commission after the notice of appeal is filed
with him that by reason of facts stated in the application, a stay would, in
his opinion, cause imminent peril to life and property. In such case,
proceedings shall not be stayed other than by a restraining order which may be
granted by the commission or by a court based upon an application, with notice
to the administrator showing due cause. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-14-4: VARIANCE:
The commission may authorize in specific cases such variance from the terms of
this title as will not be contrary to the public interest where, owing to
special conditions, a literal enforcement of the provisions of this title would
result in unnecessary hardship. No nonconforming use of the neighboring lands,
structures or buildings in the same district and no permitted or nonconforming
use of lands, structures or buildings in other districts shall be considered
grounds for issuance of a variance. Variances shall not be granted on the
grounds of convenience or profit, but only where strict application of the
provisions of this title would result in unnecessary hardship. (Ord. 411, 8-14-
2002)
8-14-5: APPLICATION AND STANDARDS FOR VARIANCES:
A variance from the terms of this title shall not be granted by the commission
unless and until a written application for a variance is submitted to the
administrator and the commission containing:
   A.   Name, address and phone number of applicant;
   B.   Legal description of property;
   C.   Description of nature of variance requested; and
   D.   A narrative statement demonstrating that the requested variance
conforms to the following standards:
      1.   That special conditions and circumstances exist which are not
applicable to other lands, structures or buildings in the same district;
      2.   That a literal interpretation of the provisions of this title would
deprive the applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by other properties in the
same district under the terms of this title;
      3.   That special conditions and circumstances do not result from the
actions of the applicant; and
      4.   That granting the variance requested will not confer on the
applicant any special privilege that is denied by this title to other lands,
structures or buildings in the same district.
A variance shall not be granted unless the commission makes specific findings
of fact based directly on the particular evidence presented to it, which
supports conclusions that the above mentioned standards and conditions have
been met by the applicant. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-14-6: SUPPLEMENTARY CONDITIONS AND SAFEGUARDS:
Under no circumstances shall the commission grant an appeal or variance to
allow a use not permissible under the terms of this title in the district
involved, or any use expressly or by implication prohibited by the terms of
this title in said district. In granting any appeal or variance, the commission
may prescribe appropriate conditions and safeguards in conformity with this
title. Violation of such conditions and safeguards, when made a part of the
terms under which the appeal or variance is granted, shall be deemed a
violation of this title. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-14-7: PUBLIC HEARING:
Upon receipt of the application for an appeal or a variance, the commission
shall hold a public hearing, publish notice in a newspaper and give written
notice to all parties as required for special use permits. (See section
8-15-7 of this title.) (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-14-8: VARIANCE PROCEDURE IN CITY AREAS OF IMPACT:
In cases where the parcel or property involved in the variance application is
located in an area of city impact, the applicable city shall have thirty (30)
days to review the application. The purpose of this review is to allow the city
time to review and evaluate the application with respects to the possible
impact on the city or compliance with the city's ordinances and comprehensive
plan. If the city deems that thirty (30) days are inadequate for a thorough
review, it may be granted a thirty (30) day extension upon written request.
After the review, the city shall make a recommendation to the Minidoka County
commission to approve, conditionally approve, postpone decision for additional
information or disapprove the request for variance. Upon making a
recommendation the commission shall specify:
   A.   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the application;
   B.   The reasons for the specific recommendation; and
   C.   The recommended actions, if any, that the applicant could take to
obtain a permit. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-14-9: ACTION BY THE COMMISSION:
Within twenty eight (28) days after the public hearing the commission shall
approve, conditionally approve, postpone decision for further study or
disapprove the request for appeal or variance. Upon granting or denying an
application the commission shall specify:
   A.   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the application;
   B.   The reasons for approval or denial; and
   C.   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain a permit.
(Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-14-10: NOTIFICATION OF APPLICANT:
Within seven (7) days after a decision has been rendered, the administrator
shall provide the applicant with written notice of the action on the request.
(Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-14-11: APPEAL TO BOARD OR RESPECTIVE COUNCIL:
The applicant or any affected persons who appeared in person or in writing
before the commission may appeal the decision of the commission to the board or
respective council provided the appeal is submitted to the council within
fourteen (14) days from the date of the commission's action. Upon receipt of an
appeal from the action of the commission, the board or respective council shall
set a hearing date to consider all information, testimony and commission's
minutes of the public hearing to reach decision. The board or respective
council may overrule the commission by a favorable vote of a simple majority of
the full board or respective council. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-14-12: REQUEST FOR HEARING BY AFFECTED PERSONS:
An "affected person" shall mean one having an interest in real property, which
may be adversely affected by the issuance or denial of a permit authorizing the
development. Any affected person may at any time prior to final action on
rezone, special use, or variance permit, if no hearing has been held on the
application, petition the commission or board or respective council in writing
to hold a hearing as required in section
8-14-7 of this chapter. Through petition for a hearing, the hearing shall be
held.
After a hearing, the commission, board or respective city council may:
   A.   Grant or deny a permit; or
   B.   Delay such a decision for a definite period of time for further study
or hearing not to exceed sixty (60) days. (Ord. 2009-4, 5-13-2009)
An affected person aggrieved by a decision may within thirty (30) days after
all remedies have been exhausted under local ordinances seek judicial review
under the procedures provided by Idaho Code sections 67-5215(b) through (g) and
67-5216. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-14-13: APPLICATION AND STANDARDS FOR APPEALS:
An administrative appeal or a decision of the commission shall not be
considered until an appeal is submitted in writing to the administrator and/or
board or applicable city council containing:
   A.   Name, address and phone number of appellant;
   B.   Legal description of property;
   C.   Description of nature of the appeal requested;
   D.   A narrative statement demonstrating legal basis and reason for the
appeal; and
   E.   Applicable fee as established by the board or applicable city council.
Any decision as a result of an appeal becomes valid when the specific findings
of fact based directly on the particular evidence presented to it, approved and
signed. (Ord. 2009-4, 5-13-2009)
8-14-14: MEDIATION:
   A.   Application For Mediation: Mediation may be requested in writing by any
applicant, an affected person, the mayor, the city council, the planning and
zoning commission, any department head of the city, a planning and zoning
commission member or member of the city council as to any decision of the
planning and zoning commission or council with respect to any decision of the
city council under this title, at any time prior to filing of a lawsuit with
the district court.
   B.   Mediation Session: The applicant and any party or parties objecting to
the application shall participate in at least one mediation session if
mediation is requested by any party referred to in subsection A of this
section, except as herein provided. City council shall select the mediator and
shall pay the expense of mediation for the first meeting among mediating
parties, if the mediation has been requested by the city council or the city's
planning and zoning commission. If mediation is not requested by the city
council or the planning and zoning commission, or in the case of subsequent
sessions of the mediation when the city council or planning and zoning
commission requested mediation, compensation of the mediator shall be
determined among each party participating in the mediation prior to or at the
outset of the first mediation. If not so determined, then the city council may
require the parties to the mediation to share the costs as it determines. A
party requesting mediation, other than the city council or the city's planning
and zoning commission, shall at the time of request of mediation tender to the
city clerk in full the estimated mediator's fees for one session of mediation
as determined by the city clerk as a condition of going forward with the
mediation. Such prepayment is without prejudice to the parties or city council
determining which parties shall actually bear the cost of the meditation as
above provided.
   C.   Participation: If the first mediation session has been requested by the
planning and zoning commission or by the city council, all parties to the
controversy shall be required to participate in at least one session of
mediation as a condition precedent to other relief. However, an applicant may
decline to participate in mediation which has been requested by an affected
person and an affected person may decline to participate in a mediation
requested by the applicant. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002; amd. Ord. 2009-4, 5-13-2009)
   D.   Time Limitation: Upon request for mediation, any time limitation shall
be tolled. Such tolling shall cease when the first of any of the following
occurs:
      1.   When the applicant or any affected person(s) has participated in at
least one mediation session and states in writing that no further participation
by that party is desired. The person making such statement is obligated to
serve or deliver a copy of same to all parties entitled to notice; or
      2.   Upon receipt by the county or city as well as the applicant or
affected person of a written refusal by the applicant or affected person to
mediate when such person is not obligated to mediate as herein provided. The
party declining to mediate shall have the obligation of giving notice of the
same to all parties to whom notice should be given; or
      3.   Upon notice of a request for mediation where no mediation session is
scheduled for at least twenty eight (28) days from the date of such a request.
(Ord. 2009-4, 5-13-2009)
   E.   Public Hearing: A public hearing shall be held before city council
where a resolution through mediation occurs following a final decision on an
application made the basis of such mediation.
   F.   Not Part Of Official Record: The mediation process shall not be part of
the official record regarding consideration of the application upon which the
mediation is based. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002; amd. Ord. 2009-4, 5-13-2009)
CHAPTER 15
SPECIAL USE
SECTION:
8-15-1: General
8-15-2: Contents Of Application For Special Use Permit
8-15-3: General Standards Applicable To All Special Uses
8-15-4: Public Sites And Open Spaces
8-15-5: Supplementary Conditions And Safeguards
8-15-6: Transfer Of Special Use Permits
8-15-7: Procedure For Hearing And Notice
8-15-8: Special Requirements For Hearings In The County
8-15-9: Special Use Permit Application Procedure In City Area Of Impact
8-15-10: Action By The Commission
8-15-11: Notification To Applicant
8-15-12: Appeal To City Council
8-15-1: GENERAL:
It is recognized that an increasing number of new kinds of uses are appearing,
and that many of these and some other conventional uses possess characteristics
of such unique and special nature relative to location, design, size, method of
operation, circulation and public facilities that each specific use must be
considered individually.
The commission shall hold a public hearing on each special use permit
application as specified in the schedule of regulations. The commission may
approve, conditionally approve or deny a special use permit under the
conditions herein specified and such additional safeguards as will uphold the
intent of this title. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-15-2: CONTENTS OF APPLICATION FOR SPECIAL USE PERMIT:
An application for special use permit shall be filed with the administrator by
at least one owner or lessee of property for which such special use is
proposed. At a minimum, the application shall contain the following: (Ord.
2009-4, 5-13-2009)
   A.   Name, address and phone number of applicant and name, address and phone
number of owner, if applicant is not the owner;
   B.   Legal description of property;
   C.   Description of existing use;
   D.   Zoning district;
   E.   Description of proposed special use; (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
   F.   A plan drawn to an approved scale of the proposed site for the special
use showing the location of all buildings, parking and loading area, traffic
access and traffic circulation, open spaces, landscaping, refuse and service
areas, utilities, signs, yards and such other information as the commission may
require to determine if the proposed special use meets the intent and
requirements of this title; and (Ord. 2009-4, 5-13-2009)
   G.   A narrative statement evaluating the effect on adjoining property, the
effect of such elements as noise, glare, odor, fumes and vibration on adjoining
property, a discussion of the general compatibility with adjacent and other
properties in the district, and the relationship of the proposed use to the
comprehensive plan. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-15-3: GENERAL STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO ALL SPECIAL USES:
The commission shall review the particular facts and circumstances of each
proposed special use in terms of the following standards and shall find
adequate evidence showing that such use at the proposed location:
   A.   Will, in fact, constitute a special use as established on the official
schedule of district regulations for the zoning district involved;
   B.   Will be harmonious with and in accordance with general objectives or
with any specific objective of the comprehensive plan and/or the zoning
ordinance;
   C.   Will be designed, constructed, operated and maintained to be harmonious
and appropriate in appearance with the existing or intended character of the
general vicinity and that such use will not change the essential character of
the same area;
   D.   Will not be hazardous or disturbing to existing or future neighboring
uses;
   E.   Will be served adequately by essential public facilities and services
such as highways, streets, police and fire protection, drainage structures,
refuse disposal, water and sewer and schools, or the persons or agencies
responsible for the establishments of the proposed use shall provide adequately
any such services;
   F.   Will not create excessive additional requirements at public cost for
public facilities and services and will not be detrimental to the economic
welfare of the community;
   G.   Will not involve uses, activities, processes, materials, equipment and
conditions of operation that will be detrimental to any persons, property or
the general welfare by reason of excessive production of traffic, noise, smoke,
fumes, glare or odors;
   H.   Will have vehicular approaches to the property which shall be so
designed as not to create an interference with traffic on surrounding public
thoroughfares; and
   I.   Will not result in the destruction, loss or damage of a natural, scenic
or historic feature of major importance. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-15-4: PUBLIC SITES AND OPEN SPACES:
Public sites and open spaces shall conform to the following:
   A.   Public Uses: Where it is determined that a proposed park, playground,
school or other public use as shown on the future acquisition map, as
authorized in section 67-6517, Idaho Code, is located in whole or in part
within a proposed development the commission shall notify the appropriate
public agency concerning the land proposed to be acquired. Within thirty (30)
days of the date of notice, the public agency may request the governing body to
suspend consideration of the permit for sixty (60) days from the date of the
request; however, if an agreement is not reached within sixty (60) days the
commission shall resume consideration of the special use application.
   B.   Natural Features: Existing natural features which add value to
residential development and enhance the attractiveness of the community (such
as trees, watercourses, historic spots and similar irreplaceable assets) shall
be preserved in the design of the development.
   C.   Special Developments: In the case of planned unit developments 1  and
large scale developments the commission shall require sufficient park or open
space facilities of acceptable size, location and site characteristics that may
be suitable for the proposed development. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  8-9-6 of this title.
8-15-5: SUPPLEMENTARY CONDITIONS AND SAFEGUARDS:
In granting any special use, the commission may prescribe appropriate
conditions, bonds and safeguards in conformity with this title. Violations of
such conditions, bonds or safeguards, when made a part of the terms under which
the special use permit is granted, shall be deemed a violation of this title
and may be subject to revocation of said permit. (Ord. 2005-5, 10-12-2005)
8-15-6: TRANSFER OF SPECIAL USE PERMITS:
Special use permits will transfer with the change of ownership of the property
unless prohibited by specific condition(s) of the permit. Prohibition or
special provisions for transfer of permit may be specified as conditions of
permit approval. (Ord. 2005-5, 10-12-2005)
8-15-7: PROCEDURE FOR HEARING AND NOTICE:
Prior to granting a special use permit, at least one public hearing in which
interested persons shall have an opportunity to be heard shall be held. At
least fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing notice of the time and place and a
summary of the proposal shall be published in the official newspaper or paper
of general circulation within the jurisdiction. Notice may also be made
available to other newspapers, radio and television stations serving the
jurisdiction for use as a public service announcement. Notice shall be posted
on the premises not less than one week prior to the hearing. Notice shall also
be provided to property owners or purchasers of record within three hundred
feet (300') of the external boundaries of the land being considered, and any
additional area that may be substantially impacted by the proposed special use
as determined by the commission. When notice is required to two hundred (200)
or more property owners or purchasers of record, in lieu of the mailing
notification, two (2) notices in the newspaper or paper of general circulation
is sufficient; provided, the second notice appears ten (10) days prior to the
public hearing. If notice is given to fewer than two hundred (200) property
owners or purchasers of record, notice shall be by regular first class mail
with postage prepaid to the address shown on the rolls of the county tax
collector at the time of mailing. An agent from the respective jurisdiction who
mails the notices shall file a certificate with the commission secretary
showing the date of mailing and listing the names and addresses to which the
notice was sent. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002; amd. Ord. 2005-5, 10-12-2005)
8-15-8: SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS FOR HEARINGS IN THE COUNTY:
In cases where the parcel or property involved in the special use application
is located outside any of the incorporated city limits the following additional
hearing requirements shall apply:
   A.   If the parcel borders on or is close to a city limits notice shall be
provided to property owners or purchasers of record located in the city limits
within three hundred feet (300') of the external boundaries of the land being
considered. In addition notice shall be provided to property owners or
purchasers of record located outside the city limits within one-half (1/2) mile
of the external boundaries of the land being considered;
   B.   If the parcel is completely outside and at least three hundred feet
(300') from a city limits notice shall be provided to property owners or
purchasers of record located outside the city limits within one-half (1/2) mile
of the external boundaries of the land being considered; and
   C.   If the parcel is completely outside and at least three hundred feet
(300') from a city limit and if the application is for a commercial or
industrial livestock confinement operation notice shall be provided to property
owners or purchasers of record located outside the city limits within one mile
of the external limits of the confinement operation considered. (Ord. 411, 8-
14-2002; amd. Ord. 2005-5, 10-12-2005)
8-15-9: SPECIAL USE PERMIT APPLICATION PROCEDURE IN CITY AREA OF IMPACT:
In cases where the parcel or property involved in the special use permit
application is located in a city's area of impact, the city shall have thirty
(30) days to review the application. The purpose of this review is to allow the
city time to review and evaluate the application with respect to the possible
impact on the city or compliance with the city's ordinances and comprehensive
plan. If the city deems that thirty (30) days are inadequate for a thorough
review, it may be granted a thirty (30) day extension upon written request.
After the review, the city shall make a recommendation to the county commission
to approve, conditionally approve, postpone decision for additional information
or disapprove the request for the special use permit. Upon making a
recommendation the commission shall specify:
   A.   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the application;
   B.   The reasons for the specific recommendation; and
   C.   The recommended actions, if any, that the applicant could take to
obtain a permit. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002; amd. Ord. 2005-5, 10-12-2005)
8-15-10: ACTION BY THE COMMISSION:
Within twenty eight (28) days after the public hearing, the commission shall
either approve, conditionally approve, postpone decision for further study or
disapprove the application as presented. If the application is approved or
approved with modifications the commission shall direct the administrator to
issue a special use permit listing the specific conditions specified by the
commission for approval.
   A.   Upon granting of a special use permit, conditions may be attached to a
special use permit, including, but not limited to, those:
      1.   Minimizing adverse impact on other development;
      2.   Controlling the sequence and timing of development;
      3.   Controlling the duration of development;
      4.   Assuring that development is maintained properly;
      5.   Designating the exact location and nature of development;
      6.   Requiring the provision for on site public facilities or services;
      7.   Requiring more restrictive standards than those generally required
in an ordinance; and
      8.   Limiting duration of the special use permit and requiring
termination of the use upon expiration of the permit.
   B.   Prior to granting a special use permit, the commission may request
studies from the planning staff or public agencies concerning social, economic,
fiscal and environmental effects of the proposed special use. A special use
permit is not transferable from one parcel of land to another. Upon granting or
denying an application the commission shall specify:
      1.   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the application;
      2.   The reasons for approval or denial; and
      3.   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain a
permit. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002; amd. Ord. 2005-5, 10-12-2005)
8-15-11: NOTIFICATION TO APPLICANT:
Within seven (7) days after a decision has been rendered the administrator
shall provide the applicant with written notice of the action on the request.
(Ord. 411, 8-14-2002; amd. Ord. 2005-5, 10-12-2005)
8-15-12: APPEAL TO CITY COUNCIL:
The applicant or any affected person who appears in person or in writing before
the commission may appeal the decision of the commission to the city council
provided the appeal is submitted to the city council within fourteen (14) days
from the commission's action. Upon receipt of an appeal from the action of the
commission, the city council shall set a hearing date to consider all
information, testimony and the commission's minutes of the public hearing to
reach a decision to uphold, conditionally uphold or overrule the decision of
the commission. The city council may overrule, amend, approve or conditionally
approve that action of the commission or remand the matter back to the
commission by a simple majority of the quorum of the city council. (Ord. 411,
8-14-2002; amd. Ord. 2005-5, 10-12-2005)
CHAPTER 16
AMENDMENTS
SECTION:
8-16-1: General
8-16-2: Initiation Of Zoning Amendments
8-16-3: Contents Of Application
8-16-4: Transmittal To Commission
8-16-5: Commission Public Hearing
8-16-6: Recommendation By Commission
8-16-7: Action By City Council
8-16-8: Special Requirements For Hearings In The County
8-16-9: Amendment Or Rezone Procedure In City Area Of Impact
8-16-10: Resubmission Of Application
8-16-1: GENERAL:
Whenever the public necessity, convenience, general welfare or good zoning
practices require, the city council may, by ordinance after receipt of
recommendation thereon from the commission and subject to procedures provided
by law, amend, supplement, change or repeal the regulations, restrictions and
boundaries or classification of property. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-16-2: INITIATION OF ZONING AMENDMENTS:
Amendments to this title may be initiated in one of the following ways:
   A.   By adoption of a motion by the commission;
   B.   By adoption of a motion by the city council; and
   C.   By the filing of an application by a property owner or a person who has
existing interest in property within the area proposed to be changed or
affected by said amendment. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-16-3: CONTENTS OF APPLICATION:
Applications for amendments to the official zoning map adopted as part of this
title shall contain at least the following information:
   A.   Name, address and phone number of applicant;
   B.   Proposed amending ordinance, approved as to form by the city attorney;
   C.   Present land use;
   D.   Present zoning district;
   E.   Proposed use;
   F.   Proposed zoning district;
   G.   A vicinity map at a scale approved by the administrator showing
property lines, thoroughfares, existing and proposed zoning and such other
items as the administrator may require;
   H.   A list of all property owners and their mailing addresses who are
within three hundred feet (300') of the external boundaries of the land being
considered;
   I.   A statement on how the proposed amendment relates to the comprehensive
plan, availability of public facilities and compatibility with the surrounding
area and quantifiable data that will verify that rezoning would not cause
economic, social or physical stress on existing uses of surrounding areas; and
   J.   A fee as established by the council. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-16-4: TRANSMITTAL TO COMMISSION:
Zoning districts shall be amended in the following manner:
   A.   Requests for an amendment to the zoning ordinance shall be submitted to
the commission, which shall evaluate the request to determine the extent and
nature of the amendment requested;
   B.   If the request is in accordance with the adopted comprehensive plan,
the commission may recommend, and the city council may adopt or reject the
ordinance amendment under the notice and hearing procedures as herein provided;
and
   C.   If the request is not in accordance with the adopted comprehensive
plan, the request shall be submitted to the commission, which may recommend and
the council may adopt or reject an amendment to the comprehensive plan under
the notice and hearing procedures provided in section 67-6509 of the Idaho
Code. After the comprehensive plan has been amended, the zoning ordinance may
then be amended as hereinafter provided for. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-16-5: COMMISSION PUBLIC HEARING:
The commission shall hold a public hearing and make recommendations on proposed
zoning amendments. Zoning amendments may consist of text or map revisions.
   A.   Zoning Ordinance Text Amendment: The commission, prior to recommending
a zoning ordinance text amendment to the city council shall conduct at least
one public hearing in which interested persons shall have an opportunity to be
heard. At least fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing, notice of time and
place and the amendment shall be published in the official newspaper or paper
of general circulation within the jurisdiction. Following the commission's
hearing, if the commission makes a material change from what was presented at
the public hearing, further notice and hearing shall be provided before the
commission forwards the amendment with its recommendation to the city council.
   B.   Zoning Ordinance Map Amendment: The commission, prior to recommending a
zoning ordinance map amendment that is in accordance with the comprehensive
plan to the city council shall conduct at least one public hearing in which
interested persons shall have an opportunity to be heard. At least fifteen (15)
days prior to the hearing, notice of time and place of hearing and an accurate
summary of the amendment shall be published in the official newspaper or paper
of general circulation within the jurisdiction. Additional notice shall be
provided by mail to property owners and residents on the land being considered,
owners and residents within three hundred feet (300') of the external
boundaries of the land being considered, and any owners and residents of
additional areas that may be impacted by the proposed change as determined by
the commission. A copy of the notice shall be posted on the subject property at
least one week prior to the hearing. When notice is required to two hundred
(200) or more property owners or residents, in lieu of the mail notification
two (2) notices in the official newspaper or paper of general circulation is
sufficient, provided that the second notice appears ten (10) days prior to the
public hearing. If the notice is given to fewer than two hundred (200) property
owners or purchasers of record, notice shall be by regular first class mail
with postage prepaid to the address shown on the rolls of the county tax
collector at the time of mailing. The city zoning commission agent who mails
the notices shall file a certificate with the commission secretary showing the
date of mailing and listing the names and addresses to which the notice was
sent.
   C.   Material Change: Following the commission's hearing, if the commission
makes material change from what was presented at the public hearing, further
notice and hearing shall be provided before the commission forwards the
amendment with its recommendation to the city council. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-16-6: RECOMMENDATION BY COMMISSION:
Within seventy (70) days from the receipt of the proposed amendment, the
commission shall transmit its recommendation to the city council. The
commission may recommend a modification of the amendment requested, or it may
recommend that the amendment be denied. The commission shall ensure that any
favorable recommendations for amendments are in accordance with the
comprehensive plan and established goals and objectives. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-16-7: ACTION BY CITY COUNCIL:
The city council, prior to adopting, revising or rejecting the amendment to the
zoning ordinance as recommended by the commission shall conduct at least one
public hearing using the same notice and hearing procedures as the commission.
Following the city council hearing, if the city council makes a material change
from what was presented at the public hearing, further notice and hearing shall
be provided before the city council adopts the amendment.
The city council shall accept the recommendation of the commission's report
unless rejected by a vote of a simple majority of the full city council.
Upon granting or denying an application to amend the zoning ordinance, the city
council shall specify:
   A.   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the application;
   B.   The reasons for approval or denial; and
   C.   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain an
amendment to the ordinance or a permit to use the applicant's property in the
way which the applicant seeks if a means exists to obtain such permit.
In the event the city council shall approve an amendment, such amendment shall
thereafter be made part of this title upon the preparation and passage of an
ordinance. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-16-8: SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS FOR HEARINGS IN THE COUNTY:
In cases where the parcel or property involved in the rezone or map amendment
application is located outside any of the incorporated city limits the
following additional hearing requirements shall apply:
   A.   If the parcel borders on or is close to a city limits notice shall be
provided to property owners or purchasers of record located in the city limits
within three hundred feet (300') of the external boundaries of the land being
considered. In addition notice shall be provided to property owners or
purchasers of record located outside the city limits within one-half (1/2) mile
of the external boundaries of the land being considered;
   B.   If the parcel is completely outside and at least three hundred feet
(300') from a city limits notice shall be provided to property owners or
purchasers of record located outside the city limits within one-half (1/2) mile
of the external boundaries of the land being considered; and
   C.   If the parcel is completely outside and at least three hundred feet
(300') from a city limit and if the application is for a commercial or
industrial livestock confinement operation notice shall be provided to property
owners or purchasers of record located outside the city limits within one mile
of the external limits of the confinement operation considered. (Ord. 411, 8-
14-2002)
8-16-9: AMENDMENT OR REZONE PROCEDURE IN CITY AREA OF IMPACT:
In cases where the parcel or property involved in the amendment or rezone
application is located in an area of city impact, the applicable city shall
have thirty (30) days to review the application. The purpose of this review is
to allow the city time to review and evaluate the application with respects to
the possible impact on the city or compliance with the city's ordinances and
comprehensive plan. If the city deems that thirty (30) days are inadequate for
a thorough review, it may be granted a thirty (30) day extension upon written
request.
After the review, the city shall make a recommendation to the county commission
to approve, conditionally approve, postpone decision for additional information
or disapprove the request for the amendment or rezone. Upon making a
recommendation the commission shall specify:
   A.   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the application;
   B.   The reasons for the specific recommendation; and
   C.   The recommended actions, if any, that the applicant could take to
obtain a permit. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-16-10: RESUBMISSION OF APPLICATION:
No application for a reclassification of any property which has been denied by
the board shall be resubmitted in either substantially the same form or with
reference to substantially the same premises for the same purpose within a
period of one year from the date of such final action, unless there is an
amendment in the comprehensive plan which resulted from a change in conditions
as applying to the specific property under consideration. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
CHAPTER 17
CONFINED ANIMAL FEEDING OPERATION REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-17-1: General, Scope, And Applicability
8-17-2: Definitions
8-17-3: Application Requirements And Procedure
8-17-4: Existing Confined Animal Feeding Operations
8-17-5: Location, Separation And Setbacks
8-17-6: Performance Standards
8-17-7: Building Permits And Certificate Of Occupancy
8-17-8: Procedure For Hearing
8-17-9: Administrative Approval
8-17-10: Revision Of Operating Permit
8-17-11: Enforcement And Termination
8-17-12: Permit Application Fees
8-17-1: GENERAL, SCOPE, AND APPLICABILITY:
   A.   General: The specific provisions of this chapter have been implemented
by the city of Paul as an accommodation to Minidoka County but the uses herein
described and regulated are not permitted in the city of Paul. The provisions
of this chapter are minimum standards and any more restrictive standards
required by other local, state and/or federal laws, rules and/or regulations
must be complied with.
   B.   Classes Of Confined Animal Feeding Operations: Confined animal feeding
operations are classified in the different levels as established in this
chapter and chapter 2 of this title.
   C.   Scope And Applicability: Confined animal feeding operations subject to
the requirements of this chapter include all new operations or expanding
existing operations, which meet the definitions of confined animal feeding
operations as defined in this title.
      1.   Commercial And Industrial Confined Animal Feeding Operation: Any
owner and/or operator of a commercial or industrial confined animal feeding
operation shall, prior to the commencement of any such confinement operation,
secure an operating permit for such operation from the Minidoka County planning
and zoning commission, pursuant to the procedure set forth in this title. Such
permit shall be required for all commercial or industrial confined animal
feeding operations, including those operations that are considered
nonconforming uses of record upon expansion or increase of the size of
operation. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
      2.   Domestic Confined Animal Feeding Operation: Any owner and/or
operator of a domestic confined animal feeding operation may obtain an
operating permit for such confinement operation from the Minidoka County
planning and zoning commission, pursuant to the procedure set forth in this
title. All domestic confined animal feeding operations shall comply with
section
8-17-5 of this chapter, whether or not a CAFO permit has been obtained. (Ord.
2005-5, 10-12-2005)
      3.   Building Permit: Any owner and/or operator of a confined animal
feeding operation shall obtain a building permit prior to the construction of
any permanent structures associated with a confined animal feeding operation,
except as exempted in section
8-13-5 of this title. Such permit shall be issued by the Minidoka County
building inspector upon approval of a livestock confinement application by the
planning and zoning commission. (Ord. 2009-4, 5-13-2009)
8-17-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, certain terms, phrases, or words used herein
shall be defined as follows (these definitions are also included in chapter 2
of this title):
ANIMAL UNIT EQUIVALENTS: All livestock shall have the following animal unit
equivalents:
Type  Animal Units
Type                                                          Animal Units
Dairy cattle:                                                 
 Holsteins                  Milking and dry cows                1.4
 Jerseys                    Milking and dry cows                1.0
 Others                     1,000 lbs. of live body weight      1.0
 Heifers                    100 to 300 lbs.                     0.2
                           300 to 500 lbs.                     0.4
                           500 to 700 lbs.                     0.6
                           700 to 900 lbs.                     0.8
                           900 to 1,000 lbs.                   1.0
                                                            
Beef cattle - slaughter/feeder:                                
                           100 to 300 lbs.                     0.2
                           300 to 500 lbs.                     0.4
                           500 to 700 lbs.                     0.6
                           700 to 900 lbs.                     0.8
                           900 to 1,000 lbs.                   1.0
                                                            
Swine:                                                        
 Boars                      1,000 lbs. of live body weight      1.0
 Sows                       1,000 lbs. of live body weight      1.0
 Pigs                       55 lbs. to market                   0.5
                           Up to 55 lbs.                       0.25
                                                            
Sheep/lambs                  Each                                0.1
                                                            
Horse                                                           1.25
                                                            
Furbearing animals:          Less than 10 lbs. in body weight    0.01
                           Other - based on body weight as   
                             herein specified
                                                            
Chickens:                                                     
 Layers                     Each                                0.033
 Broilers                   Each                                0.033
Turkeys                      Each                                0.18
Ducks                        Each                                0.02
                                                            
For species not specifically 1,000 lbs. of live body weight      1.0
identified
 
CAFO: See definition of Confined Animal Feeding Operations.
COMMERCIAL CONFINED ANIMAL FEEDING OPERATION: A contiguous parcel of land upon
which there is one or more livestock confinement areas, and upon which there
are confined more than two hundred (200) but less than one thousand (1,000)
livestock animal equivalent units of large livestock or more than one thousand
five hundred (1,500) but less than fifteen thousand (15,000) units of fowl and
furbearers.
COMMERCIAL FEEDLOT-STOCKYARD: See definition of Commercial Confined Animal
Feeding Operation or Industrial Confined Animal Feeding Operation.
CONFINED ANIMAL FEEDING OPERATION, EXISTING: The use of any premises as a
confined animal feeding operation which does not conform to the regulations of
this title, but which was in existence at the effective date hereof.
CONFINED ANIMAL FEEDING OPERATIONS: The use of real property for the keeping,
stabling, feeding, confinement and maintenance of livestock, except where such
livestock are fed exclusively on growing range or pasturage when one or more of
the following conditions will exist:
   A.   Livestock operations or facilities that confine, stable, feed or
maintain one hundred (100) or more total animal units or operations located on
twenty (20) acres or less with more than five (5) animal units per acre.
   B.   Livestock operations that consist of one hundred (100) to one thousand
(1,000) animal units that stable or confine and feed or maintain for a total of
one hundred twenty (120) days or more in any twelve (12) month period and
crops, vegetation forage growth, or postharvest residues are not sustained in
the normal growing season over any portion of the lot or facility.
   C.   Livestock operations that consist of one thousand (1,000) animal units
or more that stable or confine and feed or maintain for a total of forty five
(45) days or more in any twelve (12) month period and crops, vegetation forage
growth, or postharvest residues are not sustained in the normal growing season
over any portion of the lot or facility.
Confined animal feeding operation shall include barns, sheds, feed storage
facilities as well as corrals, lagoons, and parking, feed and waste storage
areas. Operations located on properties that are not contiguous shall be
treated as separate operations. Also known as livestock confinement operation
or LCO, but for the purpose of this title shall be referred to as confined
animal feeding operation or CAFO. The three (3) classifications of confined
animal feeding operations are domestic, commercial and industrial and are
separately defined in this chapter.
DAIRY: See definition of Industrial Confined Animal Feeding Operation,
Commercial Confined Animal Feeding Operation or Domestic Confined Animal
Feeding Operation.
DOMESTIC CONFINED ANIMAL FEEDING OPERATION: A contiguous parcel of land upon
which there is one or more livestock confinement areas, and upon which there
are confined at least twenty five (25) but no more than two hundred (200)
livestock animal equivalent units of large livestock and/or at least five
hundred (500) but no more than one thousand five hundred (1,500) units of fowl
and/or furbearers.
FEEDLOT: See definition of Industrial Confined Animal Feeding Operation,
Commercial Confined Animal Feeding Operation or Domestic Confined Animal
Feeding Operation.
FOWL: Chickens, ducks, geese, pheasants, partridge, guinea hens, peacocks, or
other similar domesticated birds excluding ostriches and emus.
FURBEARERS: Mink, fox, beaver, otter, or other similar domesticated animals.
INDUSTRIAL CONFINED ANIMAL FEEDING OPERATION: A contiguous parcel of land upon
which there is one or more confinement areas, and upon which there are confined
two thousand (2,000) or more livestock animal equivalent units of large
livestock or fifteen thousand (15,000) or more units of fowl and furbearers.
LCO: Livestock confinement operation.
LAGOONS, WASTE: Ponds or other facilities designed and used for the storage of,
or as a waste treatment system for liquid or semiliquid waste, waste products
or wastewater for confined animal feeding operations. For the purpose of this
title waste lagoons do not include facilities such as berms, banks, trenches,
ponds or other storm runoff containment systems designed strictly for the
occasional or seasonal rain or snow melt runoff of livestock confinement areas.
LIQUID WASTE: A liquid substance containing any wastewater, waste or waste
products, separately or in combination.
LIVESTOCK: Fowl, furbearers, cattle, dairy animals, swine, sheep, goats,
horses, mules, llamas, ostriches, emus, and other similar domesticated animals
including their offspring.
LIVESTOCK CONFINEMENT AREA: A structure or area of land within which livestock
are confined for a period of more than forty eight (48) hours during any seven
(7) consecutive days.
LIVESTOCK CONFINEMENT OPERATION: See definition of Confined Animal Feeding
Operation. Also known as LCO, but for the purpose of this title shall be
referred to as confined animal feeding operations or CAFO.
LIVESTOCK, LARGE: Cattle, dairy animals, swine, sheep, goats, horses, llamas,
mules, donkeys, ostriches, emus and other similar domesticated animals,
including their offspring.
OCCUPIED RESIDENTIAL USE: A "residential use" defined in chapter 2 of this
title, which has actual residential habitation by one or more persons during
the preceding three (3) years.
ODOR: The presence in the outdoor atmosphere of any contaminant or combination
thereof in such quantity, nature and duration and under such conditions as
would be injurious to human health or welfare, to animal or plant life, or to
property, or to interfere unreasonably with the enjoyment of life or property.
ODOR ABATEMENT: The reduction or elimination of odors present in the ambient
air.
ODOR ABATEMENT PLAN: A written plan prepared by the owner/applicant stating
methods and practices to be used to minimize or eliminate odors.
PEST ABATEMENT: The reduction or elimination of pests such as, but not limited
to, flies, insects, rodents, etc.
PEST ABATEMENT PLAN: A written plan prepared by the owner/applicant stating
methods and practices to be used to minimize or eliminate pests.
SITING ADVISORY TEAM ("TEAM"): A team comprised of representatives from the
Idaho state department of agriculture (ISDA), Idaho division of environmental
quality (IDEQ), Idaho department of water resources (IDWR), and an official
designee of Minidoka County. The siting advisory team may invite
representatives of the state universities of Idaho and the following federal
agencies: U.S. environmental protection agency (EPA), U.S. natural resources
conservation service (NRCS), U.S. geological survey (USGS), and the United
States department of agriculture, agricultural research services (USDA), to
participate as advisor and/or consultants to the team.
STORM RUNOFF CONTAINMENT: The storage facility that intercepts precipitation
runoff of a corral(s) based on the requirement for a 25-year, 24-hour storm
event only. This does not include wastewater.
WASTE: Waste normally associated with animal feeding operations, which may
include waste products, wastewater and feed residues.
WASTE PRODUCTS: Organic waste matter such as urine and/or feces.
WASTE TREATMENT SYSTEM: The process, area, or mechanism employed for the
retention, storage and treatment of liquid or solid wastes.
WASTEWATER: Water that has been used, for washing, flushing, or in a
manufacturing process, which also contains waste products. (Ord. 411, 8-14-
2002; amd. Ord. 2005, 10-12-2005)
8-17-3: APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS AND PROCEDURE:
An application for a livestock confinement operating permit shall be filed with
the office of the administrator upon a form prescribed by the administrator and
approved by the board. At a minimum the application shall contain the
following:
   A.   Name, address, and telephone number of the operator and name, address
and telephone number of owner if different than operator.
   B.   Legal description and address of the property including the acreage.
   C.   A full description of the present use of the property including the
present zoning of property.
   D.   The proposed animal capacity of the operation and the type of animals
to be confined.
   E.   For expansion of an existing operation the existing or previous
capacity of the operation and the type of animals that had been confined.
   F.   A narrative statement describing the confined animal feeding operation
including a complete description of the facilities and their capacities.
   G.   A map including surface contours, soil depths and types, size and
location of drainage points of the CAFO site obtained from the USDA natural
resource conservation service or other source. Changes to the existing contours
shall be shown on a separate contour map prepared by an engineer or land
surveyor licensed in the state of Idaho.
   H.   A vicinity map showing the following information within one mile of the
exterior boundaries of the proposed operation:
      1.   Location of all residences.
      2.   Location and use of all other buildings.
      3.   Location of all public, domestic, or irrigation wells.
      4.   Location of monitoring and injection wells and seep tunnels of
record.
      5.   Irrigation canals, laterals and ditches.
      6.   Rivers, streams, springs, reservoirs and wetlands.
      7.   Flood zones if applicable.
      8.   Other confined animal feeding operations.
   I.   The site plan submitted with said application shall comply with and
include the following:
      1.   Dimensions, size and location of any existing or proposed buildings
or additions, including setback measurements.
      2.   Dimensions, size and location of all, but not limited to, feed
storage areas, livestock confinement areas, waste storage areas and water
wells.
      3.   The CAFO's location and distance from canals, ditches, injection
wells and sinkholes.
      4.   Traffic access and public roads or highways.
      5.   The location and placement of area lighting fixtures.
      6.   The site plan shall indicate planned expansion areas, future
construction sites and all other proposed aspects of the CAFO as herein
mentioned. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
      7.   The site plan shall be prepared a minimum size of eighteen by twenty
four inches (18 x 24") and drawn to a scale approved by the administrator.
(Ord. 2003-2, 3-12-2003)
   J.   Waste system design plan for solid and liquid waste approved by the
appropriate agency of the state of Idaho.
   K.   Nutrient management plan.
   L.   A characterization of the proposed CAFO and any land application site
(s) owned, leased, operated or contracted by the applicant, which land is part
of the nutrient management plan and includes the following information:
      1.   Annual precipitation as contained in the Idaho waste management
guidelines.
      2.   Soil characteristics from NRCS.
      3.   Hydrogeological factors from IDWR, ISDA, and USGS including:
         a.   Depth to first water yielding zone and first encountered water,
         b.   Direction of ground water movement and gradient,
         c.   Sources of estimated recharge,
         d.   Seasonal variations in water level and recharge characteristics,
         e.   Susceptibility to contamination, and
         f.   Ground water/surface water relationships.
      4.   Water quality data from IDEQ, ISDA, and USGS including.
         a.   Microorganisms (bacteria or single cell),
         b.   Nutrients, including, but not limited to, nitrates and
phosphorous, and
         c.   Pharmaceuticals and organic compounds.
   M.   Idaho department of water resources application and subsequent licensor
for water source and rights.
   N.   Pest and odor abatement plans.
   O.   Written comment on and the approval from the Minidoka County highway
district of ingress and egress points of the site.
   P.   Written comment on and the approval from the applicable local fire
protection district of roads on the site plan.
   Q.   Written comment on and the approval from the applicable irrigation
district with respects to the CAFO operation.
   R.   Siting advisory team report.
   S.   Application fee as established by resolution of the board. (Ord. 411,
8-14-2002)
8-17-4: EXISTING CONFINED ANIMAL FEEDING OPERATIONS:
   A.   General:
      1.   This title does not relieve any nonregistered confined animal
feeding operation of any requirements by other local, state or federal
ordinances and laws.
      2.   A confined animal feeding operation which has previously received
its approval and is in compliance with conditions of said approval need not
reapply under this title.
      3.   For the purpose of this chapter a nonconforming confined animal
feeding operation shall be one that does not conform to the regulations of this
chapter, but which was lawfully in existence at the time that this chapter went
into effect.
      4.   A nonconforming confined animal feeding operation may be changed to
a conforming use by meeting the requirements of this chapter.
      5.   A nonconforming confined animal feeding operation may make
improvements provided that the number of animal units does not increase, that
the improvements will be a benefit to the area, will improve operating and
maintenance practices of the facility, and improve the overall appearance of
the site.
      6.   Any improvements made to a nonconforming confined animal feeding
operation shall not increase in any manner a noncomplying existing condition of
the operation.
      7.   A confined animal feeding operation to be considered nonconforming
or existing shall provide proof of continuous operation and evidence of the
number of animal units at various stages of operation prior to the enactment of
this original ordinance.
      8.   A nonconforming confined animal feeding operation shall lose its
nonconforming or grandfather use rights if the operation ceases for more than
three (3) years.
      9.   An owner/operator may establish a new and/or different confined
animal feeding operation without bringing the nonconforming CAFO into
compliance. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
   B.   Expansion Of Existing Confined Animal Feeding Operations:
      1.   Nonconforming animal feeding operations shall not increase in size
or capacity without first conforming to the requirements of this chapter and
obtaining applicable approval for a confined animal feeding operation.
      2.   Upon establishment of the records for a nonconforming confined
animal feeding operation, an operation of one thousand (1,000) animal units or
less may apply for a onetime expansion up to ten percent (10%) of the existing
operation but not to exceed a total of one thousand (1,000) animal units.
      3.   The expansion of a nonconforming confined animal feeding operation
will be allowed if it does not result in the required expansion of the lagoon
or runoff containment.
      4.   The expansion of a nonconforming confined animal feeding operation
shall not decrease the distance of any nonconforming setback without first
obtaining a variance by virtue of a signed notarized waiver of the affected
property owner.
      5.   Nonconforming animal feeding operations that request expansion
beyond the criteria set forth herein shall comply with the provisions and
approval process as set forth in this chapter. (Ord. 2009-4, 5-13-2009)
   C.   Conversion Of Existing Livestock Confinement Operation: An existing
approved livestock confinement operation (LCO) permit may be converted to a new
confined animal feeding operation permit pursuant to the following conditions
and procedures:
      1.   The livestock confinement operation shall have been in continuous
operation with no period of ceased operations greater than three (3) years;
      2.   The conversion to a new CAFO permit shall not increase the operation
from domestic to commercial;
      3.   The approved number of animals approved in the original permit shall
be converted to the applicable animal units;
      4.   Waste management plans shall be brought to current standards and
requirements and be approved by the applicable Idaho state agency; and
      5.   An application for conversion of a livestock confinement operation
to a current confined animal feeding operation shall be submitted to the
administrator and reviewed and approved or denied by the Minidoka County
planning and zoning commission. (Ord. 2005-5, 10-12-2005)
8-17-5: LOCATION, SEPARATION AND SETBACKS:
   A.   Existing Facilities: Existing facilities associated with a confined
animal feeding operation which do not meet the location, separation and setback
requirements of this chapter at the time of the adoption of this title shall be
exempt from said requirements, provided said facilities do not become an
inactive operation as set forth in subsection
8-17-11D of this chapter. Replacement of existing structures, or additions
thereto shall be subject to public road right of way setbacks as provided in
this title, but shall not be placed any closer to occupied residential uses.
   B.   Permitted Locations: New confined animal feeding operations shall be
allowed to locate as follows:
      1.   Permitted locations for all new confined animal feeding operations
shall be allowed only in zoning districts as set forth in the official schedule
of zoning regulations in section
8-5-2 of this title.
      2.   New industrial confined animal feeding operations shall not locate
within any of the city's areas of impact.
      3.   New industrial confined animal feeding operations shall not locate
within one mile of any of the city's corporate limits.
      4.   New commercial confined animal feeding operations shall be allowed
to locate within any of the city's areas of impact only within the proper
zoning district and with the granting of a special use approved by both the
city and county planning and zoning commissions.
   C.   Public Rights Of Way: All new structures and facilities shall be
subject to public road setback limitations, including confinement areas,
loading, off loading, and feed storage facilities as set forth in the official
height and area regulations in section
8-5-3 of this title. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
   D.   Separation From Residences And Other Buildings: All livestock
confinement areas, sewage lagoons, separators, solid waste storage and
composting facilities shall be located not less than the following distances
from occupied uses not associated with the confined animal feeding operation
including residential uses, churches, schools or other buildings used for human
occupancy, including mobile homes: (Ord. 2009-4, 5-13-2009)
      1.   Domestic confined animal feeding operation: Five hundred feet
(500').
      2.   Commercial confined animal feeding operations: One thousand feet
(1,000').
      3.   Industrial confined animal feeding operations: One thousand three
hundred twenty feet (1,320').
   E.   Residential Encroachment:
      1.   No residential use, including mobile homes (not associated with the
confined animal feeding operation) shall be permitted upon any property where
the location of such residential use would encroach upon the separations
required of an approved confined animal feeding operation, which has a
construction or operating permit.
      2.   New residential subdivisions or planned unit developments proposed
after the effective date hereof shall be located no closer than one mile to any
approved industrial confined animal feeding operation.
   F.   Other Use Encroachment:
      1.   No commercial uses, churches, schools or other buildings used for
human occupancy shall be permitted upon any property where the location of such
use would encroach upon the separations required of an approved confined animal
feeding operation, which has a construction or operating permit.
      2.   New commercial subdivisions or planned unit developments proposed
after the effective date hereof shall be located no closer than one mile to any
approved industrial confined animal feeding operation.
   G.   Waste Lagoons:
      1.   Liquid waste treatment lagoons, separators, holding ponds, liquid
and/or solid waste storage facilities shall be a minimum of fifty feet (50')
away from the water's edge of any canal, lateral or ditches.
      2.   Liquid waste treatment lagoons, separators, holding ponds, liquid
and/or solid waste storage facilities shall be not less than three hundred feet
(300') from any public road rights of way and property boundaries.
      3.   Liquid waste treatment lagoons, separators, holding ponds, liquid
and/or solid waste storage facilities shall be not less than three hundred feet
(300') from any domestic well.
      4.   Liquid waste treatment lagoons, separators, holding ponds, liquid
and/or solid waste storage facilities shall be not less than one thousand feet
(1,000') from any public water system.
   H.   Corrals:
      1.   The closest edge of corrals shall be located at least three hundred
feet (300') from any domestic well.
      2.   The closest edge of corrals shall be located at least one thousand
feet (1,000') from any public water system.
   I.   Runoff Containment:
      1.   For maintenance and control reasons all runoff containment systems
shall be maintained entirely on the property of the confined animal feeding
operation.
      2.   For maintenance and control reasons any part of a runoff containment
systems shall be located at least thirty feet (30') from any public right of
way or property line.
      3.   The closest inside edge of runoff containing wall or bank shall be
located at least three hundred feet (300') from any domestic well and one
thousand feet (1,000') from any public water system.
   J.   Feed Storage Areas:
      1.   All feed storage facilities shall be serviced with adequate ingress
and egress to public rights of way that does not obstruct vision or cause any
other type of traffic hazard.
      2.   All permanent feed storage structures shall comply with setbacks and
separation as established in this title and the adopted building code.
      3.   Feed storage areas that utilize beet pulp, corn silage, haylage,
potatoes or any other feed product resulting from the ensilage process shall
comply with the same location and setback requirements as those required of
confinement areas.
   K.   Composting Facilities: Composting facilities shall be located a minimum
of fifty feet (50') from public road rights of way, and any canal, lateral, or
ditch water edge. Separation for composting facilities from residential and
other uses shall comply with requirements established in subsection D of this
section.
   L.   Wellhead Protection District: All confined animal feeding operations
located within a wellhead protection district shall be in compliance with the
wellhead protection district ordinance requirements.
   M.   Other Location And Separation Requirements: Location of waste lagoons,
corrals, wells, septic systems and other livestock confinement related
facilities and structures shall comply with all applicable requirements of the
department of environmental quality, the department of agriculture or other
applicable state or federal agency.
   N.   Variances: Variances from the separation requirements of residential
uses, other buildings, and property boundaries may be granted if consent
thereto is obtained and recorded by the landowners of such property and the
owner/operator of an affected confined animal feeding operation. (Ord. 411, 8-
14-2002)
8-17-6: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
   A.   General:
      1.   The owner/operator must be in compliance with and not in violation
of any federal, state or other local law or ordinance.
      2.   The owner/operator shall not begin construction of new improvements
for a CAFO at the proposed site without the final zoning approval. If it is
determined that construction has commenced, penalties will be imposed in
accordance with the provisions of this title.
   B.   Waste Management:
      1.   Liquid waste, solid waste, and manure shall be handled and managed
in accordance with the design plan approved by the Idaho department of health
and welfare, division of environmental quality and the Idaho department of
agriculture, and submitted with the application for the CAFO operating permit.
(Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
      2.   Industrial confined animal feeding operations using a liquid waste
system shall have waste and odor management systems designed by a professional
engineer registered in the state of Idaho and having experience in the design
and implementation of said systems or an Idaho department of agriculture
certified nutrient management planner.
         a.   The applicant's contract with said engineering firm or certified
planner shall contain a supervision and completion inspection clause that will
assure proper installation and operation of the system and insurance or a
performance bond in an amount sufficient to cover the replacement or
modification of the system.
         b.   At project completion the engineer or certified planner shall
submit a report to the administrator certifying that the waste and odor
management systems have been installed in accordance with original design
specifications or, if modifications have been made, what those modifications
are, how they will affect overall performance and that the systems will
function properly.
         c.   At the end of one year the engineer or certified planner shall
submit a written report certifying that all systems are functioning properly.
(Ord. 2005, 10-12-2005)
      3.   Lagoons, storm runoff containment or earthen structures containing
waste shall meet both the state of Idaho and environmental protection agency's
standards for leakage and construction.
      4.   The confined animal feeding operation shall have a favorable rating
from the siting advisory team or documented information showing the detail for
the mitigation of problem areas for an unfavorable rating.
      5.   Solid and liquid waste may be applied to property not owned by the
animal feeding operation owner. In such circumstances the owner/operator shall
maintain records of any agreements or arrangements with the applicable
landowners demonstrating permission for such waste land application. These
records shall be maintained on an ongoing basis and made available to the
administrator upon request.
      6.   A new animal feeding operation siting permit, expansion or transfer
of an existing permit will require the applicant to provide documentation
listing facilities located off site of the animal feeding operation taking
solid or liquid waste and documentation shall be part of the siting permit
application. Transferring the waste to another entity does not relieve the
owner/operator from meeting the requirements of the nutrient management plan or
the responsibility to prevent pollution of the surface or ground water of the
state of Idaho. Duplication of land application sites for liquid or solid waste
is prohibited.
      7.   The owner of the confined animal feeding operation shall maintain
records, available to the administrator, to verify that the number of animals
does not exceed the number of permitted animal units, nutrient management plan
is functioning properly; contracts for the application of wastes are valid,
waste and odor systems are functioning as designed. Failure to do so will
render the owner in noncompliance and subject to the enforcement section of
this chapter. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
      8.   Each confined animal feeding operation shall maintain records
documenting the land area set aside for waste application as established in the
approved nutrient and waste management plan. Such documentation shall be made
available, upon request, to the administrator. (Ord. 2005, 10-12-2005)
   C.   Pest Abatement Plan:
      1.   A pest abatement plan shall be prepared and submitted by the owner/
applicant for the confined animal feeding operation.
         a.   The pest abatement plan shall provide specific methods for
preventing pests, including, but not limited to, flies, insects, rodents, etc.
         b.   The pest abatement plan shall include physical, structural, or
chemical means to abate the population of flies, insects, rodents, etc.
      2.   The owner/operator shall examine the plan annually to evaluate the
effectiveness of the plan, modify for changed conditions and determine if
feasible technologies are available and appropriate for the operation.
      3.   The owner/operator shall maintain records of all pest abatement
practices for verification if necessary to the administrator.
   D.   Odor Abatement Plan:
      1.   An odor abatement plan shall be prepared and submitted by the owner/
operator of the confined animal feeding operation for approval.
      2.   Odor abatement facilities shall be designed, constructed and managed
so as to minimize any adverse impacts on the surrounding property not owned by
the owner/operator.
      3.   The plan shall address specific methods for the abatement of odors
including, but not limited to, the following:
         a.   Drainage: Corrals, holding pens, etc.
         b.   Manure storage management: Liquid and solid.
         c.   Land application of waste: Application rates, dilution factors,
etc.
         d.   Carcass disposal.
         e.   General housekeeping.
         f.   Chemical or microbic practices.
         g.   Any other facility or practice for odor control.
      4.   The owner/operator shall examine the plan annually to evaluate the
effectiveness of the plan, modify for changed conditions and determine if
feasible technologies are available and appropriate for the operation.
      5.   The owner/operator shall maintain records of all odor abatement
practices for verification if necessary to the administrator.
   E.   Runoff Control And Water Quality: The confined animal feeding operation
shall be constructed and operated so as to prevent the runoff of animal waste,
silt, or other debris to adjoining property, public rights of way, or
irrigation works.
      1.   Operation of the confined animal feeding operation will not cause,
either alone or in conjunction with other causes, contamination of surface or
ground water and will comply with the state of Idaho's antidegradation policy.
      2.   There shall be no discharge of pollutants into surface or ground
water except as permitted by the appropriate state and/or federal agency. A
copy of such permit from any agency relative to discharge of pollutants must be
on file with the siting permit.
      3.   The confined animal feeding operation has adequate potable water to
operate, which must be evidenced by a permit or license from the Idaho
department of water resources.
      4.   The confined animal feeding operation permit may be approved and
issued with proof of application for a water right; building or construction
permits will be issued, however, no construction may be started without written
proof of an approved water right or completed transfer from the Idaho
department of water resources.
   F.   Area Lighting: Area lighting shall be located and/or shielded in such a
manner so that the light source will be directed down and inside the property
lines of the confined animal feeding operation. Area lighting shall also be
located and/or shielded in such a manner so that the light source will not
blind, restrict, or otherwise interfere with the vision of operators of motor
vehicles on public roadways.
   G.   Capacity And Density: Livestock confined within a confined animal
feeding operation shall not exceed the number allowed by the operating permit.
The maximum density of animal units shall not exceed five (5) per acre in
livestock density unless an approved waste management plan is in place allowing
a greater density. Nor shall the total number exceed that approved on the
confined animal feeding operation permit or that is allowed in the applicable
zoning district for the designated class of the confined animal feeding
operation.
   H.   Dust Control: The confined animal feeding operation shall be managed to
prevent dust from creating a public road visibility hazard.
   I.   Zoning: Confined animal feeding operations shall be permitted only as
established in the official schedule of zoning regulations. (Ord. 411, 8-14-
2002)
8-17-7: BUILDING PERMITS AND CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY:
   A.   Building Permits: Building and/or siting permits are required before
construction shall commence on new or expanding facilities. Where building
permits are required a certificate of occupancy will be required before
occupancy and/or use of the new or expanded facilities.
      1.   Prior to commencing construction on a new facility or before making
any improvements or expansion to an existing facility, the owner/operator shall
contact the administrator to obtain the necessary permits.
      2.   Inspection during construction of the facilities authorized by the
building permit(s) shall occur at regular intervals as determined by the
building official and additional inspections may occur at request of the owner/
operator or his/her duly appointed agent.
      3.   The building official or his/her appointed representative shall
perform the inspections and shall have the right to enter the property to
conduct such inspections to assure compliance with the provisions of Minidoka
County ordinances.
      4.   The administrator, building official or their appointed
representative shall have authority to issue and post on the premises of the
property a "stop work" order if an inspection reveals a violation of the terms
of the siting or building permits. All work must cease after posting of the
order and will not be permitted to resume until the violation(s) has been
corrected.
   B.   Change Orders:
      1.   If the owner/operator desires to make changes to the proposed
facilities authorized under the siting and building permits, he/she shall
present a written change order request to the administrator or building
official.
      2.   The request shall clearly specify the proposed change(s) being
requested, including an explanation and justification for such change(s) along
with any supporting documents.
      3.   If the proposed change(s) involves the relocation of major
improvements such as, but not limited to, the waste treatment system, free
stalls, barns or corrals, notice of the proposed change(s) will be given to
those affected persons noticed in the initial hearing.
      4.   No change order request(s) will be considered which may violate the
requirements of this title or any other local, state or federal requirements.
      5.   The administrator shall review all change order requests to
determine if they substantially alter the siting permit. If it is determined
that the request does substantially alter the permit, then the request shall be
presented to the commission for a determination.
      6.   Decisions by the administrator may be appealed to the commission and
decisions of the commission may be appealed to the board.
   C.   Certificates Of Occupancy And Compliance:
      1.   Prior to the occupancy and/or use of a new or expanded confined
animal feeding operation facility the owner/operator shall obtain a certificate
of compliance for the operation.
      2.   Prior to the occupancy and/or use of buildings which did require a
building permit, the owner/operator shall obtain a certificate of occupancy for
those buildings.
      3.   The owner/operator shall provide a copy of licensor for the water
source from the Idaho department of water resources.
      4.   The owner/operator shall have the necessary certificate(s) and/or
permit(s) from the appropriate local, state and/or federal agencies prior to
the commencement of operations or occupancy.
      5.   Upon completion and final inspection of the facilities authorized by
the permit(s) and upon compliance with the provisions of the applicable
ordinances the administrator or building official shall issue a certificate of
occupancy.
      6.   The certificate shall certify that all facilities have been
inspected and conform to the terms of the permit(s), is in compliance with the
provisions of Minidoka County ordinances and the owner/operator is fully
authorized to occupy and operate the confined animal feeding operation.
   D.   Construction:
      1.   Construction of a confined animal feeding operation must commence
within two (2) years of the issuance of the permit and must be ready for
operation within five (5) years of the issuance of the permit or it shall
expire.
      2.   Construction and operation levels may be accomplished in stages if
such proposal is submitted and approved with the application. (Ord. 411, 8-14-
2002)
8-17-8: PROCEDURE FOR HEARING:
   A.   Application Review: The administrator shall review the application for
completeness. Upon determining that the application is complete, the zoning
official shall submit the application to the siting advisory team within
fifteen (15) days.
   B.   Siting Advisory Report: Upon receipt of the siting advisory team report
and after determination by the administrator that the application and report is
complete, the application will be prepared for public hearing.
   C.   Hearing Notice: Notice of hearing on a proposed confined animal feeding
operation shall be given as provided in chapter 15 of this title.
   D.   Action By The Commission: The Minidoka County planning and zoning
commission shall render a decision on a CAFO application pursuant to chapter 15
of this title, which said decision may be appealed pursuant to chapter 14 of
this title.
   E.   Issuance Of Permit: The administrator shall issue an operating permit
within fifteen (15) working days of approval of an application by the planning
and zoning commission, and shall cause a notice of the issuance of such permit
to be recorded in the office of the county recorder of Minidoka County within
five (5) working days of issuance.
   F.   Issuance Of Construction Permits: Upon approval and recording of the
CAFO permit and after construction plans have been reviewed and applicable fees
paid, the building official shall issue appropriate construction or building
permits. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-17-9: ADMINISTRATIVE APPROVAL:
   A.   An administrative approval process when permitted in the official
schedule of zoning regulations may be used to approve applications for a
confined animal feeding operation.
   B.   For a commercial application the administrator shall review the
application for completeness. Upon determining that the application is
complete, the zoning official shall submit the application to the siting
advisory team within fifteen (15) days.
   C.   Upon receipt of the siting advisory team report of a commercial
application and after determination by the administrator that the application
is complete, the administrator shall review the application and either approve,
approve with conditions or deny the application.
   D.   For a domestic application the administrator shall review the
application for completeness. After determination by the administrator that the
application is complete, the administrator shall review the application and
within thirty (30) working days either approve, approve with conditions or deny
the application.
   E.   The administrator will inform the applicant in writing within fifteen
(15) working days of the decision. The decision of the administrator may be
appealed to the Minidoka County planning and zoning commission within twenty
eight (28) days of the administrator's decision.
   F.   The administrator may authorize a public hearing on any application
submitted if in his/her judgment that it is necessary to comply with the
objectives of this title and/or in a situation where special circumstances or
conditions may exist. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-17-10: REVISION OF OPERATING PERMIT:
   A.   Revision Of Permit: An owner/operator of a confined animal feeding
operation may be granted a revision of an operating permit upon application
therefor to the zoning administrator. Said application shall contain a summary
of proposed changes to the confined animal feeding operation, and shall include
a revised site plan if the location of any permanent facility is changed from
the existing permit. If the proposed changes in livestock numbers exceed the
capacity of the waste system design plan, a revised waste system design must be
approved by the Idaho department of health and welfare, division of
environmental quality for feedlots and the Idaho department of agriculture for
dairies, and submitted with the application.
   B.   Hearing Required: Any revision of an operating permit which will
include property outside the boundaries of an existing permit, which involves a
change of class of operation, or which exceeds the exempted increase amount
shall require a public hearing as set forth in section
8-17-8 of this chapter. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
   C.   Transfer Of Permit: The holder of the existing permit may transfer an
existing CAFO or LCO operating or construction permit to a new owner or
operator upon written notification to the zoning administrator, provided that:
      1.   The new owner shall file a transfer statement with the administrator
within ninety (90) days from the date of purchase. The transfer statement shall
include the date of transfer and purchase, with names and mailing addresses of
both the transferor and transferee.
      2.   The previous owner/operator shall provide a signed statement,
stating that the confined animal feeding operation is in compliance with all
local, state and federal regulations and/or requirements.
      3.   If not currently in place at the time of the transfer, the new
owner/operator shall submit a current nutrient management plan and odor and
pest abatement plans with the other transfer documents. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002;
amd. Ord. 2009-4, 5-13-2009)
8-17-11: ENFORCEMENT AND TERMINATION:
   A.   General Procedure:
      1.   Whenever a zoning official shall determine that a violation of this
chapter has occurred or is about to occur, the zoning official shall take
action in accordance with the provisions of this title.
      2.   Complaints made by individuals shall be in writing and contain the
nature of the complaint(s), name and address of the confined animal feeding
operation, time(s) and date(s) of occurrence, and name, address and phone
number of the complainant.
      3.   Complaints properly submitted for odor problems will be forwarded to
the appropriate state agency for enforcement of state regulation for odor
control.
      4.   Upon receiving a complaint the administrator shall have the alleged
complaint investigated.
      5.   Upon investigation of the alleged complaint the administrator shall
determine if a violation exists. If no violation exists the administrator will
notify the complainant within twenty (20) working days. If there is a violation
the administrator will take action in accordance with the provisions of this
title.
      6.   Upon determination that a violation exists the administrator shall
notify the owner/operator within ten (10) working days. Notice shall be
effective upon hand delivery or three (3) days after the date of mailing.
      7.   The owner/operator shall respond to the administrator within ten
(10) working days.
         a.   If the violation can be corrected within twenty eight (28)
working days or less the response shall contain a description of the corrective
action(s) and estimated time necessary for completion.
         b.   If the violation is such that it will require additional time to
correct, the owner/operator will submit in writing within ten (10) working days
of the above described notice a proposed compliance schedule for review and
approval by the administrator. The compliance schedule will explain in detail
what actions will be taken to correct the violation(s) and a time schedule for
completion.
      8.   The administrator shall review the proposed compliance schedule and
determine if the time requested is reasonable. The owner/operator shall be
required to schedule and attend a meeting with the administrator within ten
(10) working days of submittal of the proposed compliance schedule.
      9.   In the event that a compliance schedule cannot be agreed upon, the
administrator shall then send the proposal to the commission for their review.
The commission will review the proposal and recommendations of the
administrator and render a decision within twenty (20) working days.
      10.   Upon acceptance of the compliance schedule the administrator shall
contact the complainant with the decision and provide a copy of the schedule.
      11.   Failure of the owner/operator to meet the requirements of this
section or abide by the proposed compliance schedule shall result in final
enforcement action.
   B.   Final Enforcement And/Or Revocation:
      1.   The administrator may revoke a CAFO operating permit if an owner/
operator fails to comply with the conditions of such permit or the compliance
schedule after thirty (30) days' written notice of such noncompliance. Notice
of such termination shall be mailed to the owner/operator, which shall advise
said owner/operator of the effective date of such termination and of his right
to appeal such decision pursuant to chapter 14 of this title.
      2.   In the event the violation threatens the public health, safety and
general welfare of the citizens of Minidoka County, the Minidoka County board
of county commissioners may take any actions it deems necessary to abate such
violation.
   C.   Penalty For Violation Of CAFO Operating Permit: Any owner/operator of a
confined animal feeding operation who violates the conditions of the operating
permit granted said operation shall be in violation of this zoning ordinance
and subject to civil and criminal penalties as set forth in chapter 13 of this
title.
   D.   Inactive Operations: Upon application to the zoning administrator by an
interested party, a confined animal feeding operation permit may be terminated
where there have been no active confinement activities within such CAFO for a
period of three (3) years. The administrator shall give ninety (90) days' prior
written notice to any owner/operator of his intention to terminate such permit
unless operations are resumed with confinement of the minimum number of
livestock for the type of operating permit held for such CAFO.
   E.   Voluntary Termination: An owner/operator of a confined animal feeding
operation may voluntarily terminate a confined animal feeding operation permit
by delivering to the administrator a written termination notice.
   F.   Termination Notices: The administrator within five (5) days of its
effective date shall record notice of the termination of a confined animal
feeding operation permit in the office of the county recorder of Minidoka
County, Idaho. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-17-12: PERMIT APPLICATION FEES:
The board of county commissioners or the respective city council, by
resolution, shall establish a schedule of fees for CAFO operating permits
pursuant to chapter 13 of this title. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
CHAPTER 18
TELECOMMUNICATIONS TOWERS, ANTENNAS AND RELATED FACILITIES
SECTION:
8-18-1: General, Scope And Applicability
8-18-2: Definitions
8-18-3: Exemptions
8-18-4: Permitted/Prohibited Locations
8-18-5: Special Use Permit
8-18-6: Annual Information Report
8-18-7: Removal And Security For Removal
8-18-8: Preexisting Telecommunication Towers
8-18-9: Enforcement
8-18-10: Structural Design And Environmental Standards
8-18-11: Separation And Setback Requirements
8-18-12: Permits
8-18-1: GENERAL, SCOPE AND APPLICABILITY:
   A.   General: The purpose of this chapter is to provide a set of standards
for the development and installation of telecommunication towers, antennas and
related facilities. The regulations contained herein are designed to protect
and promote public health, safety and the community welfare of the city of
Paul, and to encourage managed development of telecommunications
infrastructure, while not unduly restricting the development of needed
telecommunications facilities.
   B.   Scope And Applicability: The city shall apply these regulations to
accomplish the following:
      1.   Minimize adverse visual effects of telecommunication towers,
antennas and related facilities through design and siting standards.
      2.   Maintain and ensure that a nondiscriminatory, competitive and broad
range of telecommunications services and high quality telecommunications
infrastructure consistent with the federal telecommunications act of 1996 are
provided to serve the community.
      3.   Provide a process for obtaining necessary permits for
telecommunications facilities while at the same time protecting the interests
of the citizens of Paul.
      4.   Protect environmentally sensitive areas of the city by regulating
the location, design and operation of telecommunication facilities.
      5.   Encourage the use of alternative support structures, collocation of
new antennas on existing telecommunication towers, camouflaged towers, and
construction of towers with the ability to locate more than one provider.
Furthermore, this chapter is not intended to regulate residential satellite
dishes or residential television antennas that are used privately. Additionally
it is not intended to regulate satellite dishes/antennas whose regulation is
prohibited by Idaho statutes or as preempted by federal law. (Ord. 411, 8-14-
2002)
8-18-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, certain terms, phrases, or words used herein
shall be defined as follows (these definitions are also included in chapter 2
of this title):
ALTERNATIVE SUPPORT STRUCTURE: Clock towers, steeples, silos, light poles,
water towers, buildings or similar structures that may support
telecommunication facilities.
ANTENNA: Any system of wires, poles, rods, reflecting discs, or similar devices
used for the transmission or reception of electromagnetic waves when such
system is either external to or attached to the exterior of a structure.
Antennas shall include devices having active elements extending in any
direction, and directional beam type arrays having elements carried by and
disposed from a generally horizontal boom that may be mounted upon and rotated
through a vertical mast or tower interconnecting the boom and antenna support,
all of which elements are deemed to be a part of the antenna.
ANTENNA, BUILDING MOUNTED: Any antenna, other than an antenna with its supports
resting on the ground, directly attached or affixed to a building.
ANTENNA, GROUND MOUNTED: Any antenna with its base placed directly on the
ground.
ANTENNA, UTILITY POLE MOUNTED: An antenna attached, without regard to mounting,
to or upon an existing or replacement electric transmission or distribution
pole, street light, traffic signal, athletic field light, utility support
structure or other similar structure approved by the city of Paul planning and
zoning department.
BUILDING: Any structure designed or intended for the support, enclosure,
shelter or protection of persons, animals, chattels, or property of any kind,
but not including fences or advertising signs.
HEIGHT, TELECOMMUNICATIONS TOWER: The distance measured from the original grade
at the base of the tower to the highest point of the tower. This measurement
excludes any attached antennas, protection devices (e.g., lightning rods) and
lighting.
MONOPOLE: A telecommunication tower of a single pole design.
NAVIGABLE STREAM OR LAKE: As designated on the United States geological survey
(USGS) map and/or the maps of Minidoka County or the city of Paul.
OPERATION (TELECOMMUNICATIONS): Means other than nominal use; when a facility
is used regularly as an integral part of an active system of telecommunications
it shall be deemed in operation.
PLATFORM (ANTENNAS): A support system that may be used to connect antennas and
antenna arrays to telecommunication towers or alternative support structures.
SATELLITE DISH: A device incorporating a reflective surface that is solid, open
mesh, or bar configured that is shell dish, cone, horn, or cornucopia shaped
and is used to transmit and/or receive electromagnetic signals. This definition
is meant to include, but is not limited to, what are commonly referred to as
satellite earth stations, TVROs (satellite television receive only) and
satellite microwave antennas.
TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITY: A facility, site, or location that contains one or
more antennas, telecommunication towers, alternative support structures,
satellite dish antennas, other similar communication devices, and support
equipment which is used for transmitting, receiving, or relaying
telecommunications signals.
TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITY (COLLOCATED): A telecommunication facility comprised
of a single telecommunication tower or building supporting multiple antennas,
dishes, or similar devices owned or used by more than one public or private
entity.
TELECOMMUNICATION SUPPORT FACILITY: The telecommunication equipment buildings
and equipment cabinets.
TOWER, CAMOUFLAGED: Any telecommunication tower that due to design or
appearance entirely hides, obscures, or conceals the presence of the tower and
antennas.
TOWER FARM: A parcel of ground on which multiple telecommunication towers or
antennas are located and clustered together on a single parcel for economic,
aesthetic, or other reasons.
TOWER, GUYED: A telecommunications tower that is supported in whole or in part
by guywires and ground anchors or other means of support besides the
superstructure of the tower itself.
TOWER, LATTICE: A telecommunication tower that consists of vertical and
horizontal supports and crossed metal braces.
TOWER, TELECOMMUNICATION: Any structure that is designed and constructed
primarily for the purpose of supporting one or more antennas, including
camouflaged towers, lattice towers, guy towers, or monopole towers. This
includes radio and television transmission towers, microwave towers, and common
carrier towers. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-18-3: EXEMPTIONS:
The following shall be permitted without county review and approvals:
   A.   Receive Only Antennas: The use of all television antenna, satellite
dishes and receive only antennas, provided that the primary use of the property
is not a telecommunications facility and that the antenna use is accessory to
the primary use of the property.
   B.   Amateur Radio: This chapter shall not govern the installation of any
antenna and their supporting towers, poles and masts that is owned and/or
operated by a federally licensed amateur radio operator or is used exclusively
for receive only antennas.
   C.   Mobile Services: Mobile services providing public information coverage
of news events of a temporary or emergency nature. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
   D.   Ground Mounted Antennas: Freestanding (ground mounted antenna) antennas
(not supported on or attached to a building) and their supporting towers, poles
or masts and their equipment buildings one hundred twenty (120) square feet or
less in size, may be installed without a zoning review when the overall height
of the antennas and their supporting structures do not exceed a height of
twenty feet (20') above the original grade at the site of the installation.
(Ord. 2012-4, 12-12-2012)
   E.   Building Mounted Antennas: Antennas installed on, or attached to, any
existing building (building mounted antenna), an existing telecommunication
tower, or alternative support structure and their equipment buildings one
hundred twenty (120) square feet or less in size, when the height of the
antenna and its supporting tower, pole or mast is twenty feet (20') or less
above the highest part of the building or alternative support structure to
which it is attached.
   F.   Utility Pole Mounted Antennas: Utility pole mounted antennas if the
height of the antenna is twenty feet (20') or less above the highest part of
the utility pole. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-18-4: PERMITTED/PROHIBITED LOCATIONS:
   A.   Permitted Locations: Telecommunications facilities may be permitted in
zoning districts as established by the official schedule of zoning regulations.
(Ord. 2003-2, 3-12-2003)
   B.   Prohibited Locations: No telecommunications facilities will be allowed
in the following areas:
      1.   Historic sites, as defined by local, state and/or federal
regulation.
      2.   Critical species habitats, as defined by local, state and/or federal
regulation.
      3.   Wetlands, as defined by local, state and/or federal regulation.
      4.   Floodplains, as defined by local, state and/or federal regulation.
(Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-18-5: SPECIAL USE PERMIT:
When required by the official schedule of zoning regulations, an application
will be submitted for approval pursuant to the procedure established in chapter
15 of this title for the location and construction of telecommunication towers
or associated structures.
   A.   Submittal Information: Applications for telecommunication towers and
associated structures will provide the following information:
      1.   Completed special use permit application.
      2.   Original signature of applicant and landowner (if the
telecommunication facility is located in an easement or pursuant to a ground
lease, the beneficiaries of the easement or ground lease and underlying
property owner must authorize the application).
      3.   The identity of the carrier, provider, applicant, landowner and
service provider and their legal status.
      4.   The name, address and telephone number of the officer, agent and/or
employee responsible for the accuracy of the application.
      5.   A plat of survey, showing the parcel boundaries, tower, facilities,
location, access, landscaping and fencing.
      6.   A written legal description of the site.
      7.   In the case of a leased site, a lease agreement or binding lease
memorandum, which shows on its face that it does not preclude the tower owner
from entering into leases on the tower with other provider(s) and the legal
description and amount of property leased.
      8.   A description of the telecommunications services that the applicant
offers or provides, to persons, firms, businesses or institutions.
      9.   Federal communication commission (FCC) license numbers and
registration numbers, if applicable.
      10.   Copies of finds of no significant impacts (FONSI) statement from
the federal communication commission (FCC) or environmental impact study (EIS),
if applicable.
      11.   An alternatives analysis prepared by the applicant or on behalf of
the applicant by its designated technical representative, subject to the review
and approval of the planning and zoning commission, which identifies all
reasonable, technically feasible, alternative locations and/or facilities which
could provide the proposed telecommunication service. The intention of the
alternatives analysis is to present alternative strategies that could minimize
the number, size, and adverse environmental impacts of facilities necessary to
provide the needed services to the county. The analysis shall address the
potential for collocation and the potential to locate facilities as close as
possible to the intended service area. It shall also explain the rationale for
selection of the proposed site in view of the relative merits of any of the
feasible alternatives. Approval of the project is subject to the review and
approval of the planning and zoning commission. The county may require
independent verification of this analysis at the applicant's expense, the
consultant will be chosen by the planning and zoning commission from a list
mutually agreed upon by the county and the telecommunications industry.
      12.   Plans indicating security measures (e.g., access, fencing,
lighting, etc.).
      13.   Tabular and map inventory of all of the applicant's existing
telecommunications towers that are located within the city of Paul and
including all of the applicant's existing towers within one thousand five
hundred feet (1,500') of the county boundary. The inventory shall specify the
location, height, type, and design of each of the applicant's existing
telecommunication towers, and the ability of the tower or antenna structure to
accommodate additional collocation antennas.
      14.   A report prepared by an engineer licensed by the state of Idaho
certifying the structural design of the tower and its ability to accommodate
additional antennas.
      15.   Proof of liability coverage.
      16.   Such other information as the planning and zoning commission may
require.
      17.   Proof of notification to and request for approval from the federal
aviation administration with respects to tower location, height and lighting
requirements. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
   B.   Collocation: As a condition of approval of the special use permit and/
or building permit all tower owners shall make available unused space for
collocation of other telecommunication facilities, including space for those
entities providing similar, competing services. Collocation is not required if
the host facility can demonstrate that the addition of the new service or
facilities would impair existing service.
All telecommunication support facilities shall be designed to facilitate site
sharing. Special use permits or building permits for new telecommunication
towers will not be issued until the applicant demonstrates that collocation on
an existing facility is not feasible. Feasibility shall be determined through a
review process by the commission. (Ord. 2005, 10-12-2005)
   C.   Technical Review: The planning and zoning department, upon direction of
the city of Paul planning and zoning commission, shall employ on behalf of the
county an independent technical expert to review materials submitted. The
consultant will be chosen from a list mutually agreed upon by the county and
the applicant. The applicant shall pay all the costs of said review. The
payment to the planning and zoning department shall be due upon receipt of the
invoice. All fees and charges accumulated for the technical review must be paid
in full prior to the issuance of the special use permit.
   D.   Required Submittals Following Permit Approval: For each
telecommunication tower or associated structure special use permit approved by
the city of Paul planning and zoning commission the applicant shall submit the
following before the special use permit will be issued:
      1.   Copies of the determination of no hazard from the federal aviation
administration (FAA) including any aeronautical study determination or other
findings and other agencies, if applicable.
      2.   Copies of any environmental assessment (EA) reports on form 600 or
form 854 submitted to the federal communication commission (FCC), if
applicable.
      3.   Copies of any filings submitted to the federal communication
commission (FCC) shall be submitted within thirty (30) days of filing, subject
to the review of the administrator.
      4.   Proof of bond as security for removal. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-18-6: ANNUAL INFORMATION REPORT:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of the annual review report is to provide the
county with accurate and current information concerning the telecommunications
tower owners and providers who offer or provide telecommunications services
within the county, to assist the county in enforcement of this chapter, and to
assist the county in monitoring compliance with the special use permit.
   B.   Required Submittals: Upon request and when directed and authorized by
the city council, all telecommunications tower owners of any new or existing
telecommunication tower shall submit annually on or before January 31 of each
year, to the planning and zoning department, a telecommunications facility
annual information report. The annual report shall include the following:
      1.   The tower owner name(s), address(es), phone number(s), contact
person(s).
      2.   Annual review fee.
      3.   Proof of bond as security for removal.
      4.   List of all collocating operators utilizing the tower.
   C.   Annual Report Fee: Following the special use permit approval, and every
year thereafter the tower owner shall submit, on or before January 31 of each
year, to the planning and zoning department, an annual review fee as
established by the city of Paul for each tower site. The fee submittal is the
responsibility of each tower owner. Failure to provide this information shall
result in a civil forfeiture of three hundred dollars ($300.00) per day until
the administrator receives the information. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-18-7: REMOVAL AND SECURITY FOR REMOVAL:
   A.   Removal: It is the express policy of city of Paul that
telecommunications facilities be removed once they are no longer in use and not
a functional part of providing telecommunication service and that it is the
telecommunications tower owner's responsibility to remove such facilities and
restore the site to its original condition or a condition approved by the city
of Paul planning and zoning commission. This restoration shall include removal
of any subsurface structure or foundation, including concrete, used to support
the telecommunications facility down to five feet (5') below the surface. After
a telecommunications facility is no longer in operation, the tower owner shall
have ninety (90) days to effect removal and restoration unless weather
prohibits such efforts.
   B.   Security For Removal: The telecommunications tower owner shall provide
to the city of Paul, prior to the issuance of the special use permit or the
issuance of a building permit, a performance bond in the amount of twenty
thousand dollars ($20,000.00) or a bond equal to a written estimate from a
qualified tower removal contractor to guarantee that the telecommunications
facility will be removed when no longer in operation. City of Paul will be
named as obligee in the bond and must approve the bonding company. (Ord. 411,
8-14-2002)
8-18-8: PREEXISTING TELECOMMUNICATION TOWERS:
   A.   Nonconforming And Conforming: Telecommunication towers, and facilities
may add to, move or replace the tower and facilities upon approval of the
administrator. An existing tower may be replaced by the same size of tower,
increased in height a maximum of fifty feet (50'), and/or relocated or
reconstructed within fifty feet (50') of its existing location to accommodate
collocation subject to meeting all the applicable sections of this chapter.
Routine maintenance and repair on telecommunications facilities is permitted.
   B.   Existing Use Review:
      1.   Towers Structurally Capable For Collocation: Beginning the effective
date hereof, all telecommunications tower owners, applicable to the
requirements of this chapter operating in the city of Paul prior to the
adoption of this chapter, shall provide the information required under section
8-18-5 of this chapter (except proof of bond and proof of insurance), and pay
the annual fee for tower site on or before January 31 of each year. Failure to
provide this information shall result in a civil forfeiture of three hundred
dollars ($300.00) per day until the administrator receives the information.
      2.   Towers Structurally Incapable For Collocation: Beginning the
effective date hereof, all telecommunications tower owners, applicable to the
requirements of this chapter operating in the city of Paul prior to the
adoption of this chapter, shall provide the information required under section
8-18-5 of this chapter (except proof of bond and proof of insurance), and
submit documents that the tower is structurally incapable of collocation, and
pay a onetime fee equivalent to the annual fee for each tower site on or before
the following January 31. Failure to provide this information shall result in a
civil forfeiture of three hundred dollars ($300.00) per day until the
administrator receives the information. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-18-9: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Revocation: Grounds for revocation of the special use permit
telecommunication towers and associated structures, shall be limited to one of
the following findings:
      1.   The owner of such site, service provider and/or tower owner fails to
comply with the requirements of this chapter.
      2.   The permittee has failed to comply with the conditions of approval
of the special use permit.
      3.   The facility has not been properly maintained.
   B.   Revocation Process: The following is the procedure for revocation of a
special use permit for telecommunication towers and associated structures:
      1.   The owner of such site, service provider and/or tower owner shall be
notified by certified mail of noncompliance by the city's planning and zoning
department.
      2.   The owner shall comply with such notice within thirty (30) days to
the satisfaction of the administrator.
      3.   If compliance is not obtained within thirty (30) days, the
administrator shall notify the city attorney of the noncompliance and proceed
with the revocation process. (Staff, to adjust for seasonal limitations, may
extend this time period.)
   C.   Abandonment: Any antenna or tower that is not operated for a continuous
period of twelve (12) months shall be considered abandoned. Time may be
extended upon review and approval of the administrator, if the tower owner
demonstrates a good faith effort to secure new tenants. In such circumstances,
the following shall apply:
      1.   The owner of such antenna or tower shall remove said antenna and/or
tower including all supporting equipment and building(s) within ninety (90)
days of receipt of notice from the planning and zoning department notifying the
owner of such abandonment. If removal to the satisfaction of the planning and
zoning department does not occur within said ninety (90) days, the city will
order removal utilizing the established bond and salvage said antenna or tower
and all supporting equipment and building(s). If there are two (2) or more
users of a single tower, then this provision shall not become effective until
all operations of the tower cease.
      2.   The recipient of a conditional use permit for a telecommunications
facility under this title shall notify the planning and zoning department when
the facility is no longer in operation. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-18-10: STRUCTURAL DESIGN AND ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARDS:
   A.   Tower, Antenna And Facilities Requirements: All telecommunication
facilities shall be designed to blend into the surrounding environment to the
greatest extent feasible. To this end, all of the following measures shall be
implemented:
      1.   All telecommunication facilities shall comply at all times with all
federal communication commission (FCC) rules, regulations, and standards. To
that end no telecommunication facility or combination of facilities shall
produce at any time power densities in any inhabited area that exceed the
federal communication commission (FCC) adopted standard for human exposure, as
amended, or any more restrictive standard subsequently adopted or promulgated
by the federal government. All telecommunication towers and antennas shall meet
or exceed the standards and regulations in place at the time of the issuance of
the special use permit, of the federal aviation administration (FAA), the Idaho
state bureau of aeronautics, occupational safety and health association (OSHA),
the federal communication commission (FCC) and authority to regulate towers and
antennas.
      2.   Telecommunication towers shall be constructed out of metal or other
nonflammable material, unless specifically permitted for monopole applications.
      3.   All ground mounted telecommunication towers shall be self-
supporting monopoles or lattice towers except where satisfactory evidence is
submitted to the planning and zoning commission that a guyed tower is required.
      4.   Satellite dish and parabolic antennas shall be situated as close to
the ground as possible to reduce visual impact without compromising their
function.
      5.   Telecommunication support facilities (e.g., equipment rooms,
utilities, and equipment enclosures) shall be constructed out of nonreflective
materials (visible exterior surfaces only). Telecommunication support
facilities shall be no taller than one story fifteen feet (15') in height,
measured from the original grade at the base of the facility to the top of the
structure, and shall be designed to blend with existing architecture in the
area or shall be screened from sight by mature landscaping, and shall be
located or designed to minimize their visibility.
      6.   Telecommunications towers, facilities and antennas shall be designed
and constructed in accordance with the uniform building code and other
applicable state and federal requirements.
      7.   The maximum height of an antenna platform located on a rooftop shall
be twenty feet (20') above the roof.
      8.   Telecommunication facilities shall not interfere with or obstruct
existing or proposed public safety, fire protection or supervisory controlled
automated data acquisition (SCADA) operation telecommunication facilities. The
applicant, at no cost to the county, shall correct any actual interference and/
or obstruction.
   B.   Height: The height of a telecommunication tower shall be measured from
the original grade at the base of said tower to the highest part of the tower
itself. In the case of building mounted towers the height of the tower includes
the height of the portion of the building on which it is mounted. In the case
of "crankup" or other similar towers whose height can be adjusted, the height
of the tower shall be the maximum height to which it is capable of being
raised.
   C.   Lighting: Telecommunication towers shall not be artificially lighted
unless required by the federal aviation administration (FAA) or other
applicable regulatory authority. When required by the FAA, white strobe lights
during the day will be permitted with red flashing lights required from dusk to
dawn.
   D.   Site Development, Roads And Parking:
      1.   A leased parcel intended for the location of new telecommunication
towers and associated structures shall maintain a minimum parcel size of two
thousand five hundred (2,500) square feet. The Minidoka County planning and
zoning commission may modify the leased parcel size requirement after public
hearing and review.
      2.   A parcel owned by the telecommunication carrier and/or provider and
intended for the location of new telecommunication towers and equipment
buildings shall meet the minimum size requirement of the ordinance.
      3.   All sites must be served by a minimum thirty foot (30') wide
easement with a turnaround. The Minidoka County planning and zoning commission
may modify the easement and turnaround requirement after public hearing and
review. All sites shall use existing access points and roads whenever possible.
The respective county highway district or the applicable road jurisdiction
shall approve the access point to the site.
   E.   Vegetation Protection And Facility Screening:
      1.   All telecommunications facilities shall be installed in such a
manner so as to minimize disturbance to existing native vegetation and shall
include suitable mature landscaping to screen the facility, where necessary to
be compatible with adjoining and surrounding areas. For purposes of this
section, "mature landscaping" shall mean trees, shrubs or other vegetation of a
size that will provide the appropriate level of visual screening.
      2.   Upon project completion, the owner(s)/operator(s) of the facility
shall be responsible for maintenance and replacement of all required vegetation
and landscaping.
      3.   Facility structures and equipment, including supporting structures,
shall be located, designed and screened to blend with the existing natural or
built surroundings, so as to reduce visual impacts.
   F.   Fire Prevention: All telecommunication facilities shall be designed and
operated in accordance with all applicable codes regarding fire prevention.
   G.   Noise And Traffic: All telecommunication facilities shall be
constructed and operated in such a manner as to minimize the amount of
disruption caused to nearby properties. To that end all the following measures
shall be implemented for telecommunication facilities:
      1.   Noise producing construction activities shall only take place on
weekdays (Monday through Saturday, nonholiday) between the hours of six o'clock
(6:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M., except in times of emergency repair.
      2.   Backup generators shall only be operated during power outages and
for testing and maintenance purposes. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-18-11: SEPARATION AND SETBACK REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Separation Requirements: Minimum separation required between
telecommunication towers (by tower type):
 
Tower Type        Lattice       Guyed         Monopole
                                              >85 Feet
Lattice              1,500 fe   1,500 fe750 feet
Guyed                1,500 fe   1,500 fe750 feet
Monopole >85 feet    750 feet   750 feet750 feet
 
      1.   Two (2) or more towers may be permitted to be located within one
hundred feet (100') of each other subject to approval of special use permit or
when located in a tower/antenna farm.
      2.   Camouflaged towers are exempt from separation between towers
requirement listed above.
      3.   Even when reduction in separations are allowed location or placement
shall comply with separate setback requirements.
   B.   Setback Requirements: All setbacks shall be measured from the base of
the tower or structure and are required as follows:
      1.   Setback requirements shall apply to new towers and antennas,
existing towers or antennas are allowed to remain in present location.
      2.   Setbacks from all habitable residential buildings, except buildings
located on the subject parcel, shall be a distance equal to one hundred twenty
five percent (125%) of the height of the tower.
      3.   Setbacks from all historic sites and districts shall be a distance
equal to one hundred twenty five percent (125%) of the height of the tower from
historic sites and districts.
      4.   Setbacks from property lines shall be set back a minimum of fifty
feet (50') from all property lines. This requirement does not apply to the
boundary of the leased parcel unless the leased parcel boundary is also a
property line. Under special circumstances the Minidoka County planning and
zoning commission may modify this setback requirement after public hearing and
review.
      5.   Setback from the high water mark of the Snake River shall be a
minimum of one hundred twenty five percent (125%) of the tower height measured
from the natural high water mark.
      6.   All guywire anchors shall be at least twenty five feet (25') from
all property lines. Under special circumstances the Minidoka County planning
and zoning commission may modify this setback requirement after public hearing
and review. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-18-12: PERMITS:
   A.   Special Use Permit: A special use permit is required for all
telecommunication towers and associated structures as established by the
official schedule of zoning regulations. The administrator shall approve
collocation on facilities previously approved by Minidoka County planning and
zoning commission administratively, provided that the applicant complies with
the provisions of this chapter and provides a completed application and permit
fee.
   B.   Building Permit: A building permit will be required for all
telecommunication towers and associated structures. No building permit will be
required for the installation of additional equipment directly to the tower or
antenna for the purpose of collocation. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
CHAPTER 19
SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
SECTION:
8-19-1: Purpose And Intent
8-19-2: Definitions
8-19-3: Establishment And Classification Of Businesses
8-19-4: Measurement Of Distance
8-19-5: Location Of Sexually Oriented Businesses
8-19-6: Regulations Governing Existing Businesses
8-19-7: Injunction
8-19-8: Permit; Purpose And Intent
8-19-9: Permit Required
8-19-10: Investigation And Application
8-19-11: Issuance Of Permit
8-19-12: Annual Permit Fee
8-19-13: Inspection
8-19-14: Expiration Of Permit
8-19-15: Suspension Of Permit
8-19-16: Revocation Of Permit
8-19-17: Judicial Review Of Permit Denial, Suspension Or Revocation
8-19-18: Transfer Of Permit
8-19-19: Employee License
8-19-20: Regulations Pertaining To Exhibition Of Sexually Explicit Films Or
Videos In Video Booths
8-19-21: Prohibitions Regarding Minors And Sexually Oriented Businesses
8-19-22: Advertising And Lighting Regulations
8-19-23: Hours Of Operation
8-19-24: Public Nudity Prohibited
8-19-25: Prohibition Of Live Adult Entertainment
8-19-26: Additional Criminal Prohibitions For Operation Without A Valid Permit
8-19-27: Exemptions
8-19-28: Criminal Penalties And Additional Legal, Equitable, And Injunctive
Relief
8-19-29: Immunity From Prosecution
8-19-30: Prohibition Of Distribution Of Sexual Devices
8-19-31: Scope And Interpretation
8-19-32: Severability
8-19-33: Conflicting Ordinance Repealed
8-19-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   A.   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate sexually oriented businesses
which sell, display, or distribute indecent materials, or which sponsor,
exhibit or engage in conduct, which is indecent, but which is not obscene such
as to be prohibited by state law.
   B.   It is also the purpose and intent of this chapter to regulate sexually
oriented businesses to promote the health, safety, morals, and general welfare
of the citizens of the city and to establish reasonable and uniform regulations
to prevent any deleterious location and concentration of sexually oriented
businesses within the city, thereby reducing or eliminating the adverse
secondary effects from such sexually oriented businesses.
   C.   The provisions of this chapter have neither the purpose nor effect of
imposing a limitation or restriction on the content of any communicative
materials, including sexually oriented materials. Similarly, it is not the
intent nor effect of this chapter to restrict or deny access by adults to
sexually oriented materials protected by the first amendment, or to deny access
by the distributors and exhibitors of sexually oriented entertainment to their
intended market. Neither is it the intent nor effect of this chapter to condone
or legitimize the distribution of obscene material. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-19-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, certain terms and words are defined as
follows:
COUCH OR STRADDLE DANCE: An employee of the establishment intentionally
touching or coming within ten feet (10') of any patron while engaged in the
display or exposure of any "specified anatomical area", or any "specified
sexual activity".
EMPLOYEE: A person who works or performs in and/or for a sexually oriented
business, regardless of whether or not said person is paid a salary, wage or
other compensation by the operator of said business.
ESTABLISHMENT: Means and includes any of the following:
   A.   The opening or commencement of any such business as a new business;
   B.   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not a sexually
oriented business, to any of the sexually oriented businesses defined in this
chapter;
   C.   The addition of any of the sexually oriented businesses defined in this
chapter to any other existing sexually oriented business; or
   D.   The relocation of any such sexually oriented business.
LIVE ADULT ENTERTAINMENT: Any exhibition, dance, or performance for
consideration by a person who appears nude or seminude, or a performance, which
is characterized by the exposure of "specified anatomical areas" or by
"specified sexual activities", including the performance of a "straddle" or
"couch" dance.
NUDITY OR STATE OF NUDITY: The appearance of human bare buttocks, anus, male
genitals, female genitals, or the areola or nipple of the female breast; or a
state of dress which fails to opaquely and fully cover a human buttocks, anus,
male or female genitals, pubic region or areola or nipple of the female breast.
OPERATOR: The owner, permit holder, custodian, manager, operator or person in
charge of any permitted or licensed premises.
PERMITTED OR LICENSED PREMISES: Any premises that requires a license and/or
permit and that is classified as a sexually oriented business.
PERMITTEE AND/OR LICENSEE: A person in whose name a permit and/or license to
operate a sexually oriented business has been issued, as well as the individual
listed as an applicant on the application for a permit and/or license.
PERSON: An individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation, association,
or other legal entity.
PUBLIC BUILDING: Any building owned, leased or held by the United States, the
state, the county, the city, any special district, school district, or any
other agency or political subdivision of the state or the United States, which
building is used for governmental purposes.
PUBLIC PARK OR RECREATION AREA: Any public land which has been designated for
park or recreational activities including, but not limited to, a park,
playground, nature trails, swimming pool, reservoir, athletic field, basketball
or tennis courts, pedestrian/bicycle paths, open space, wilderness areas, or
similar public land within the city which is under the control, operation, or
management of the city park and recreation authorities.
PUBLIC PLACE: All outdoor places owned by or open to the general public, and
all buildings and enclosed places owned by or open to the general public,
including, but not limited to, places of entertainment, taverns, restaurants,
clubs, theaters, dance halls, banquet halls, party rooms or halls limited to
specific members, restricted to adults or to patrons invited to attend, whether
or not an admission is charged. The term does not include private rooms used
primarily for residential purposes, hotel rooms or other private places used
for human habitation or bona fide dressing rooms or restrooms.
RELIGIOUS INSTITUTION: Any church, synagogue, mosque, temple or building which
is used primarily for religious worship and related religious activities.
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT: Any district established by the zoning ordinance, which
is characterized by residential uses.
RESIDENTIAL USE: A single-family dwelling, duplex, townhouse, multiple-family,
or mobile home park or subdivision and campground or other use characterized by
its devotion to human habitation, excluding hotels, motels, boarding
establishments or similar commercial establishments.
SCHOOL: Any public or private educational facility including, but not limited
to, child daycare facilities, nursery schools, preschools, kindergartens,
elementary schools, primary schools, intermediate schools, junior high schools,
middle schools, high schools, vocational schools, secondary schools,
continuation schools, special education schools, junior colleges, and
universities. School includes the school grounds, but does not include the
facilities used primarily for another purpose and only incidentally as a
school.
SEMINUDE: A state of dress in which clothing covers no more than the genitals,
pubic region, and areola of the female breast, as well as portions of the body
covered by supporting straps or devices.
SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES: Those businesses defined as follows:
   Adult Arcade: An establishment where, for any form of consideration, one or
more still or motion picture projectors, slide projectors, computers, or other
similar image producing machines, for viewing by five (5) or fewer persons
each, are regularly used to show films, motion pictures, videocassettes, DVDs,
CD-ROMs, slides, computer generated images, or other photographic reproductions
which are characterized by the depiction or description of "specified sexual
activities" or "specified anatomical areas".
   Adult Bookstore, Adult Novelty Store Or Adult Video Store: A commercial
establishment which has significant or substantial portion of its stock in
trade or derives a significant or substantial portion of its revenues or
devotes a significant or substantial portion of its interior business or
advertising to the sale, rental for any form of consideration, of any one or
more of the following:
   A.   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or photographs,
films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides, DVDs, CD-ROMs, or other visual
representations which are characterized by the depiction or description of
"specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas".
   B.   Instruments, devices, or paraphernalia which are designed for use or
marketed primarily for stimulation of human genital organs or for
sadomasochistic use or abuse of themselves or others.
   C.   An establishment may have other principal business purposes that do not
involve the offering for sale, rental or viewing of materials depicting or
describing "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas", and
still be categorized as adult bookstore, adult novelty store, or adult video
store. Such other business purposes will not serve to exempt such
establishments from being categorized as an adult bookstore, adult novelty
store or adult video store so long as one of its business purposes is offering
for sale or rental, for some form of consideration, the specified materials
which depict or describe "specified anatomical areas" or "specified sexual
activities". For the purpose of determining whether a significant or
substantial portion of the stock in trade or revenues consist of or is derived
from the sale of materials which depict or describe "specified sexual
activities" or "specified anatomical areas", the amount of such stock in trade
or revenues shall be compared to the aggregate amount of revenues derived from
the sale of all such materials sold or displayed and the revenues or amount of
stock in trade derived from or consisting of all materials described in
subsections A and B of this definition, over a period of at least one month.
   Adult Cabaret: A nightclub, bar, restaurant, "bottle club", juice bar or
similar commercial establishment, whether or not alcoholic beverages are
served, which regularly features: a) persons who appear nude or in a state of
nudity or seminude; b) live performances which are characterized by the
exposure of "specified anatomical areas" or by "specified sexual activities",
or c) films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides, or other photographic
reproductions which are characterized by the depiction or description of
"specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas".
   Adult Motel: A motel, hotel or similar commercial establishment which: a)
offers public accommodations, for any form of consideration, which provides
patrons with closed circuit television transmissions, films, motion pictures,
videocassettes, slides, DVDs, CD-ROMs, or other photographic reproductions
which are characterized by the depiction or description of "specified sexual
activities" or "specified anatomical areas" and which advertises the
availability of this sexually oriented type of material by means of a sign
visible from the public right of way, or by means of any off premises
advertising including, but not limited to, newspapers, magazines, pamphlets or
leaflets, radio or television, or b) offers a sleeping room for rent for a
period of time less than ten (10) hours; or c) for any form of consideration,
allows a tenant or occupant to subrent the sleeping room for a time period of
less than ten (10) hours.
   Adult Motion Picture Theater: A commercial establishment where films, motion
pictures, videocassettes, slides, DVDs, CD-ROMs, or similar photographic
reproductions which are characterized by the depiction or description of
"specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas" are shown for any
form of consideration.
   Adult Theater: A theater, concert hall, auditorium, or similar commercial
establishment which, for any form of consideration, regularly features persons
who appear in a state of nudity or live performances which are characterized by
exposure of "specified anatomical areas" or by "specified sexual activities".
   Escort: A person who, for any form of consideration, agrees or offers to act
as a companion or date for another person, or who agrees or offers to privately
model lingerie or to privately perform a striptease for or dance with another
person.
   Escort Agency: A person or business association who furnishes, offers to
furnish, or advertises to furnish escorts as one of its primary business
purposes for a fee, tip, or other consideration.
   Massage Parlor: Any place where, for any form of consideration or gratuity,
massage, alcohol rub, administration of fomentations, electric or magnetic
treatments, or any other treatment manipulation of the human body which occurs
as a part of or in connection with "specified sexual activities", or where any
person providing such treatment, manipulation, or service related thereto,
exposes his or her "specified anatomical areas". The definition of sexually
oriented businesses shall not include the practice of massage in any licensed
hospital, nor by a licensed hospital, nor by a licensed physician, surgeon,
chiropractor or osteopath, massage therapist, nor by any nurse or technician
working under the supervision of a licensed physician, surgeon, chiropractor or
osteopath, nor by trainers for any amateur, semiprofessional or professional
athlete or athletic team or school athletic program.
   Nude Model Studio: Any place where a person, who regularly appears in a
state of nudity or displays "specified anatomical areas" is provided for money
or any form of consideration to be observed, sketched, drawn, painted,
sculptured, photographed, or similarly depicted by other persons.
   Sexual Encounter Establishment: A business or commercial establishment, that
as one of its primary business purposes, offers for any form of consideration,
a place where two (2) or more persons may congregate, associate, or consort for
the purpose of "specified sexual activities" or the exposure of "specified
anatomical areas" or activities when one or more of the persons is in a state
of nudity or seminude. The definition of sexually oriented businesses shall not
include an establishment where a medical practitioner, psychologist,
psychiatrist, or similar professional person licensed by the state engages in
medically approved and recognized sexual therapy.
SIGNIFICANT OR SUBSTANTIAL: At least twenty five percent (25%).
SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS: Means and includes any of the following:
   A.   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic region,
anus, or female breasts below a point immediately above the top of the areolas;
or
   B.   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if completely
and opaquely covered.
SPECIFIED CRIMINAL ACT: Any sexual crimes against children, sexual abuse, rape
or crimes connected with another sexually oriented business including, but not
limited to, distribution of obscenity or material harmful to minors,
prostitution, pandering, or tax violations.
SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES: As used in this chapter, means and includes any of
the following:
   A.   The fondling or other intentional touching of human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus, or female breasts;
   B.   Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation, or sodomy;
   C.   Masturbation, actual or simulated; or
   D.   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation, arousal or tumescence.
   E.   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
activities set forth in subsections A through D of this definition.
SUBSTANTIAL ENLARGEMENT OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS: The increase in the
floor areas occupied by the business by more than fifteen percent (15%), as the
floor areas exist on the effective date hereof.
TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS: Includes any
of the following:
   A.   The sale, lease or sublease of the business;
   B.   The transfer of securities which constitute a controlling interest in
the business, whether by sale, exchange or similar means;
   C.   The establishment of a trust, gift or other similar legal devise which
transfers ownership or control of the business, except for transfer by bequest
or other operation of law upon the death of a person possessing the ownership
or control.
ZONING ORDINANCE: The Minidoka County/cities zoning ordinance as adopted by
Minidoka County, or the cities of Rupert, Heyburn, Paul, Acequia or Minidoka,
Idaho, as presently constituted or as may be amended hereafter. (Ord. 411, 8-
14-2002)
8-19-3: ESTABLISHMENT AND CLASSIFICATION OF BUSINESSES:
   A.   The establishment and operation of a sexually oriented business shall
be permitted only in an industrial light (IL) or industrial heavy (IH) zone,
and shall be subject to the restrictions set forth in this chapter. (Ord. 2005-
5, 10-12-2005)
   B.   No person shall cause or permit the establishment of a sexually
oriented business within one thousand feet (1,000') of another such business or
within one thousand five hundred feet (1,500') of any religious institution,
school, boys' club, girls' club, or similar existing youth organization, or
public park or public building, or within one thousand five hundred feet
(1,500') of any property zoned for residential use or used for residential
purposes.
   C.   Notwithstanding the distance requirements of subsection B of this
section, the location of sexually oriented businesses within retail shopping
centers in such zones is permitted where such activities will have their only
frontage upon enclosed malls or malls isolated from direct view from public
streets, parks, schools, religious institutions, boys' clubs, girls' clubs, or
similar existing youth organizations, public buildings or residential districts
or uses. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-19-4: MEASUREMENT OF DISTANCE:
As regarding subsection 8-19-3B of this chapter, distance between any two (2)
sexually oriented businesses shall be measured in a straight line, without
regard to intervening structures, from the closest exterior structural wall of
each business. The distance between any sexually oriented business and any
religious institution, public or private elementary or secondary school, boys'
club, girls' club, or similar existing youth organization, or public park or
public building or any properties zoned for residential use or used for
residential purposes shall also be measured in a straight line, without regard
to intervening structures or objects from the nearest point of the property
line of the premises where the sexually oriented business is conducted, to the
nearest point of the property line of the premises of a religious institution,
public or private elementary or secondary school, boys' club, girls' club, or
similar existing youth organization, or public park or public building or any
properties zoned for residential use or used for residential purposes. (Ord.
411, 8-14-2002)
8-19-5: LOCATION OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES:
Sexually oriented businesses shall be permitted only in the IL (industrial
light) or IH (industrial heavy) zone and shall otherwise be subject to the
provisions of this zoning ordinance applicable to such zones, together with the
provisions of this chapter. In the event of any conflict between the zoning
ordinance and this chapter, then the provisions of this chapter shall control.
Permits for sexually oriented businesses shall be required and governed by the
procedures and policies specified in section
8-19-9 of this chapter. In addition, any person who owns, operates or controls
a sexually oriented business shall be subject to the following restrictions:
   A.   The person commits a misdemeanor if he operates or causes to be
operated a sexually oriented business except as provided in section
8-19-3 of this chapter.
   B.   The person commits a misdemeanor if he operates or causes to be
operated a sexually oriented business within one thousand five hundred feet
(1,500') of the following:
      1.   Any religious institution;
      2.   Any school;
      3.   The boundary of any residential zone;
      4.   A public park adjacent to any residential zone;
      5.   A property line of a lot devoted to residential use; or
      6.   A boys' club, girls' club, or similar existing youth organization,
except as provided in subsection
8-19-3C of this chapter.
   C.   A person commits a misdemeanor if he operates or causes to be operated
a sexually oriented business within one thousand feet (1,000') of another such
business, which will include any adult arcade, adult bookstore, adult video
store, adult cabaret, adult motel, adult motion picture theater, adult theater,
massage parlor or any sexual encounter establishment, except as provided in
subsection
8-19-3C of this chapter.
   D.   A person commits a misdemeanor if he causes or permits the operation,
establishment, or maintenance of more than one sexually oriented business
within the same building, structure, or portion thereof, except as provided in
subsection 8-19-3C of this chapter, or causes the substantial enlargement of
any sexually oriented business in any building, structure or portion thereof
containing another sexually oriented business.
   E.   It is a defense to prosecution under this section if a person appearing
in a state of nudity did so in a modeling class operated:
      1.   By a proprietary school, licensed by the state of Idaho; a college,
junior college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation;
      2.   By a private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or
      3.   In a structure:
         a.   Which has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure and
no other advertising that indicates a nude person is available for viewing;
         b.   Where, in order to participate in a class a student must enroll
at least three (3) days in advance of the class; and
         c.   Where no more than one nude model is on the premises at any one
time. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-19-6: REGULATIONS GOVERNING EXISTING BUSINESSES:
   A.   Any sexually oriented businesses lawfully operating on the effective
date hereof that are in violation of sections
8-19-3 and
8-19-5 of this chapter shall be deemed a nonconforming use. A nonconforming use
will be permitted to continue for a period of one year, with a possible
extension of one year to be granted by the city planning and zoning commission
only upon a convincing showing of extreme financial hardship which is defined
as the recovery of the initial financial investment in the nonconforming use,
unless sooner terminated for any reason or voluntarily discontinued for a
period of thirty (30) days or more. Such nonconforming uses shall not be
increased, enlarged, extended or altered except that the use may be changed to
a conforming use. If two (2) or more sexually oriented businesses are within
one thousand feet (1,000') of one another and otherwise in a permissible
location, the sexually oriented business which was first established and
continually operating at the particular location is the conforming use and the
later established business(es) is nonconforming, except as provided in
subsection
8-19-3C of this chapter.
   B.   A sexually oriented business lawfully operating as conforming use is
not rendered a nonconforming use by the location, subsequent to the grant or
renewal of a sexually oriented business permit and/or license, of a church,
public or private elementary or secondary school, public park, public building,
residential district, or residential lot within one thousand five hundred feet
(1,500') of the sexually oriented business. This provision applies only to the
renewal of a valid permit and/or license and does not apply when an application
for a permit and/or license is submitted after a permit and/or license has
expired or has been revoked.
   C.   Any establishment subject to the provision of this section shall apply
for the permit provided for by section
8-19-10 of this chapter within thirty (30) days of the effective date hereof.
Any establishment, existing prior to the effective date hereof, shall comply
with the regulations pertaining to sections
8-19-20,
8-19-22, and
8-19-30 of this chapter, within sixty (60) days of the effective date hereof,
and all other applicable permit regulations within thirty (30) days of the
effective date hereof. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-19-7: INJUNCTION:
A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented business
without having a valid permit due to locational restrictions is subject to a
suit for injunction as well as prosecution for the criminal violation. Such
violation shall be punishable by a fine of three hundred dollars ($300.00) and/
or thirty (30) days' imprisonment, and if an injunction must be sought,
attorney fees and costs may be assessed by the court against the sexually
oriented business. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-19-8: PERMIT; PURPOSE AND INTENT:
It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate sexually oriented businesses, to
promote the health, safety, morals and general welfare of the citizens of the
city, and to establish reasonable and uniform regulations to prevent
deleterious effects of sexually oriented businesses within the city. The
provisions of this chapter have neither the purpose nor effect of imposing a
limitation or restriction on the content of any communicative materials,
including sexually oriented materials. Similarly, it is not the intent nor
effect of this chapter to restrict or deny access by adults to sexually
oriented materials protected by the first amendment, or to deny access by the
distributors and exhibitors of sexually oriented entertainment to their
intended market. Neither is it the intent nor effect of this chapter to in any
way condone or legitimize the distribution of obscene or harmful material to
minors. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-19-9: PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   No sexually oriented business shall be permitted to operate without a
valid sexually oriented business permit issued by the city for the particular
type of business. It shall be unlawful and a person commits a misdemeanor if
he/she operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented business without
said permit.
   B.   The city planning and zoning administrator or his/her designee is
responsible for granting, denying, revoking, renewing, suspending, and
canceling sexually oriented business permits for proposed or existing sexually
oriented businesses. The city planning and zoning administrator or his/her
designee is also responsible for ascertaining whether a proposed sexually
oriented business for which a permit is being applied for complies with all
locational requirements of sections
8-19-3,
8-19-5, and
8-19-6 of this chapter, all applicable zoning laws and/or regulations now in
effect or as amended or enacted subsequent to the effective date hereof in the
city and the city comprehensive plan.
   C.   The city police department shall be responsible for enforcing all other
provisions of this chapter. The city police department shall, upon request from
the city planning and zoning administrator, provide information on whether an
applicant has been convicted of a specified criminal act during the time period
set forth.
   D.   The city planning and zoning administrator and the applicable law
enforcement department shall be jointly responsible for inspecting a proposed,
permitted or nonpermitted sexually oriented business in order to ascertain
whether it is in compliance with this chapter.
   E.   An application for a permit must be made on a form provided by the
city. Any person desiring to operate a sexually oriented business shall file
with the city clerk an original and two (2) copies of a sworn permit
application on the standard application form supplied by the city or designee.
   F.   The completed application shall contain the following information and
shall be accompanied by the following documents:
      1.   If the applicant is:
         a.   An individual, the individual shall state his/her legal name and
any aliases and submit satisfactory proof that he/she is eighteen (18) years of
age;
         b.   A partnership, the partnership shall state its complete name, and
the names of all partners, whether the partnership is general or limited, and a
copy of the partnership agreement, if any;
         c.   A corporation, the corporation shall state its complete name, the
date of its incorporation, evidence that the corporation is in good standing
under the laws of Idaho, the names and capacity of all officers, directors and
principal stockholders, and the name of the registered corporate agent and the
address of the registered office for service of process.
      2.   If the applicant intends to operate the sexually oriented business
under a name other than that of the applicant, he must state:
         a.   The sexually oriented business's fictitious name, and
         b.   Submit documents evidencing compliance with chapter 5, title 53,
Idaho Code.
      3.   Whether the applicant or any of the other individuals listed
pursuant to this section has, within the two (2) or five (5) year period as
specified in section
8-19-11 of this chapter immediately preceding the date of the application, been
convicted of a specified criminal act, and, if so, the specified criminal act
involved, the date of conviction and the place of conviction.
      4.   Whether the applicant or any of the other individuals listed
pursuant to this subsection F has had a previous permit under this chapter or
other similar sexually oriented business ordinances from another city or county
denied, suspended or revoked, including the name and location of the sexually
oriented business for which the permit was denied, suspended or revoked, as
well as the date of the denial, suspension or revocation, and whether the
applicant or any other individuals listed pursuant to this subsection F has
been a partner in a partnership or an officer, director or principal
stockholder of a corporation that is permitted under this chapter whose permit
has previously been denied, suspended or revoked, including the name and
location of the sexually oriented business for which the permit was denied,
suspended or revoked as well as the date of denial, suspension or revocation.
      5.   Whether the applicant or any other individual listed pursuant to
this subsection F holds any other permits and/or licenses under this chapter or
other similar sexually oriented business ordinance from another city or county
and, if so, the names and locations of such other permitted businesses.
      6.   The single classification of permit for which the applicant is
filing.
      7.   The location of the proposed sexually oriented business, including a
legal description of the property, street address, and telephone number(s), if
any.
      8.   The mailing addresses and residential addresses of the applicant and
each partner, member, officer, director and shareholder listed in this
subsection F.
      9.   A recent photograph of the applicant(s) or its manager, partner,
member or president.
      10.   The driver's permit number, social security number, and/or state or
federally issued tax identification number of the applicant or its manager,
partner, member or president.
      11.   A sketch or diagram showing the configuration of the premises,
including a statement of total floor space occupied by the business. The sketch
or diagram need not be professionally prepared, but it must be drawn to a
designated scale or drawn with marked dimensions of the interior of the
premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches (±6").
      12.   A current certificate and straight line drawing prepared within
thirty (30) days prior to application by an Idaho registered land surveyor
depicting the property lines and the structures containing any established
existing uses regulated by this chapter within one thousand five hundred feet
(1,500') of the property to be certified; the property lines of any established
religious institution/synagogue, school, or public park or recreation area
within one thousand five hundred feet (1,500') of the property to be certified;
and the property lines of any residentially zoned area or residential property
within one thousand five hundred feet (1,500') of the property to be certified.
For purposes of this section, a use shall be considered existing or established
if it is in existence at the time an application is submitted. Sexually
oriented businesses allowed under subsection
8-19-3C of this chapter are exempt from this requirement.
      13.   If a person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is
an individual, he/she must sign the application for a permit as applicant. If a
person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is other than an
individual, each individual who has a ten percent (10%) or greater interest in
the business must sign the application for a permit as applicant. If a
corporation is listed as owner of a sexually oriented business or as the
entity, which wishes to operate such a business, each individual having a ten
percent (10%) or greater interest in the corporation must sign the application
for a permit as applicant.
      14.   If a person wishes to operate a sexually oriented business which
shall exhibit on the premises films, videocassettes, DVDs, CD-ROMs, or other
video reproductions which depict specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas, then said person shall comply with the application
requirements stated in section
8-19-20 of this chapter.
   G.   Applicants for a permit under this section shall have a continuing duty
to promptly supplement application information required by this section in the
event that said information changes in any way from what is stated on the
application. The failure to comply with said continuing duty within thirty (30)
days from the date of such change, by supplementing the application on file
with the city clerk or his/her designee, shall be grounds for suspension of a
permit.
   H.   In the event that the city clerk or his/her designee determines or
learns at any time that the applicant has improperly completed the application
for a proposed sexually oriented business, he/she shall promptly notify the
applicant of such fact and allow the applicant ten (10) days to properly
complete the application. The time period for granting or denying a permit
shall be stayed during the period in which the applicant is expressly allowed
an opportunity to properly complete the application.
   I.   The applicant must be qualified according to the provisions of this
chapter and the premises must be inspected and found to be in compliance with
all federal, state or city health, fire and building codes and laws.
   J.   The applicant shall be required to pay a nonrefundable application fee
of one hundred dollars ($100.00) at the time of filing an application under
this chapter.
   K.   Prior to obtaining any permit or license to operate any sexually
oriented business defined in this chapter, and as part of any application for a
permit under this section, the applicant shall obtain from the administrator of
planning and zoning, or his or her designee, a certification that the proposed
location of such business complies with the locational requirements of sections
8-19-5 and
8-19-6 of this chapter.
   L.   The fact that a person possesses other types of state or city permits
and/or licenses does not exempt the applicant from the requirement of obtaining
a sexually oriented business permit.
   M.   By applying for a permit under this chapter, the applicant shall be
deemed to have consented to the provisions of this chapter and to the exercise
by the administrator of planning and zoning or his/her designee, the Paul
police department and all other city agencies charged with enforcing the laws,
ordinances and codes applicable in the city of their respective
responsibilities under this chapter.
   N.   The applicant shall be required to provide the city with the names of
any and all employees who are required to be licensed pursuant to section
8-19-19 of this chapter. This shall be a continuing requirement even after a
permit is granted or renewed. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-19-10: INVESTIGATION AND APPLICATION:
   A.   Upon receipt of an application properly filed with the city clerk and
upon payment of the nonrefundable application fee, the city clerk or his/her
designee, shall immediately stamp the application as received and shall
immediately thereafter send photocopies of the application to the city police
department and any other city divisions or agencies responsible for enforcement
of health, fire and building codes and laws. Each division or agency shall
promptly conduct an investigation of the applicant, application and the
proposed sexually oriented business in accordance with its responsibilities
under law and as set forth in this chapter. Said investigation shall be
completed within twenty (20) days of receipt of the application by the city or
its designee. At the conclusion of its investigation, each department or agency
shall indicate on the photocopy of the application its approval or disapproval
of the application, date it, sign it, and, in the event it disapproves, state
the reasons therefor. The city police department shall only be required to
certify the NCIC records request check mentioned in section
8-19-11 of this chapter. The city police department shall not be required to
approve or disapprove applications.
   B.   The city council shall disapprove an application if it finds that the
proposed sexually oriented business will be in violation of any provision of
any statute, code, ordinance, regulation or other law in effect in the city.
(Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-19-11: ISSUANCE OF PERMIT:
   A.   Application Approval Or Rejection: The city council shall grant or deny
an application for a permit within sixty (60) days from the date of its proper
filing. Upon the expiration of the sixtieth day, unless the applicant requests
and is granted a reasonable extension of time, the applicant shall be permitted
to begin operating the business for which the permit is sought, unless and
until the administrator of planning and zoning, or his/her designee, notifies
the applicant of a denial of the application and states the reason(s) for that
denial.
   B.   Grant Of Application For Permit:
      1.   The city council shall grant the application unless one or more of
the criteria set forth in subsection C of this section is present.
      2.   The permit, if granted, shall state on its face the name of the
person or persons to whom it is granted, the expiration date, and the address
of the sexually oriented business. The permit shall also indicate that the
sexually oriented business whether permitted or not may be subject to
prohibitions against public nudity and indecency pursuant to the United States
supreme court decision in Barnes v. Glen Theater, Inc., 501 U.S. 560 (1991).
The permit shall be posted in a conspicuous place at or near the entrance to
the sexually oriented business so that it can be read easily at any time.
   C.   Denial Of Application For Permit:
      1.   The city council shall deny the application for any of the following
reasons:
         a.   An applicant is under eighteen (18) years of age.
         b.   An applicant or an applicant's spouse is overdue on his/her
payment to the city of any taxes, fees, fines, or penalties assessed against
him/her or imposed upon him/her in relation to a sexually oriented business.
         c.   An applicant is residing with a person who has been denied a
permit by the city to operate a sexually oriented business within the preceding
twelve (12) months, or residing with a person whose permit to operate a
sexually oriented business has been revoked by any other governmental or
regulatory agency within the preceding twelve (12) months.
         d.   An applicant has failed to provide information required by this
section or permit application for the issuance of the permit or has falsely
answered a question or request for information on the application form.
         e.   The premises to be used for the sexually oriented business has
not been approved as being in compliance with health, fire and building codes
by the department or agency responsible under law for investigating said
compliance.
         f.   The application or permit fees required by this chapter have not
been paid.
         g.   An applicant of the proposed business is in violation of, or is
not in compliance with, any of the provisions of this chapter including, but
not limited to, the zoning locational requirements for a sexually oriented
business under sections
8-19-3,
8-19-5, and
8-19-6 of this chapter.
         h.   The granting of the application would violate a statute,
ordinance, or court order.
         i.   The applicant has a permit under this chapter, which has been
suspended or revoked.
         j.   An applicant has been convicted of a "specified criminal act" for
which:
            (1)   Less than two (2) years have elapsed since the date of
conviction or the date of release from confinement, whichever is the later
date, if the conviction is of a misdemeanor offense for the "specified criminal
acts" which are sexual crimes against children, sexual abuse, rape or crimes
connected with another sexually oriented business including, but not limited
to, distribution of obscenity or material harmful to minors, prostitution,
pandering, or tax violations;
            (2)   Less than five (5) years have elapsed since the date of
conviction or the date of release from confinement, whichever is the later
date, if the conviction is of a felony offense for the "specified criminal
acts" which are sexual crimes against children, sexual abuse, rape or crimes
connected with another sexually oriented business including, but not limited
to, distribution of obscenity or material harmful to minors, prostitution,
pandering, or tax violations;
            (3)   Less than five (5) years have elapsed since the date of
conviction or the date of release from confinement, whichever is the later
date, if the convictions are of two (2) or more misdemeanor offenses for
"specified criminal acts" which are sexual crimes against children, sexual
abuse, rape or crimes connected with another sexually oriented business
including, but not limited to, distribution of obscenity or materials harmful
to minors, prostitution, pandering or tax violations; offenses occurring within
any twenty four (24) month period;
            (4)   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no
effect on disqualification of the applicant;
            (5)   An applicant who has been convicted of the above described
"specified criminal acts" may qualify for a sexually oriented business permit
only when the time period required above in this subsection C1j has elapsed.
         k.   An applicant knowingly has in his or her employ, an employee who
does not have a valid license as required in section
8-19-9 of this chapter.
      2.   If the city council denies the application, the city clerk shall
notify the applicant of the denial and state the reason(s) for the denial
within ten (10) days after the date of such denial.
      3.   If a person applies for a permit for a particular location within a
period of twelve (12) months from the date of denial of a previous application
for a permit at the location, and there has not been an intervening change in
the circumstances which could reasonably be expected to lead to a different
decision regarding the former reasons for denial, the application shall be
denied. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-19-12: ANNUAL PERMIT FEE:
The annual fee for a sexually oriented business permit is eight hundred fifty
dollars ($850.00). Such fee shall accompany the application filed under
subsection
8-19-9F of this chapter. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-19-13: INSPECTION:
   A.   An applicant or permittee shall permit representatives of the planning
and zoning office, the county health department, and the fire department to
inspect the premises of a sexually oriented business for the purpose of
ensuring compliance with the law, at any time it is occupied or open for
business.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for a person who operates a sexually oriented
business, regardless of whether or not a permit has been issued for said
business under this chapter, or his/her agent or employee, if he/she refuses to
permit such lawful inspection of the premises at any time that it is occupied
or open for business. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-19-14: EXPIRATION OF PERMIT:
   A.   Each permit shall expire one year from the date of issuance and may be
renewed only by making application as provided in section
8-19-11 of this chapter (for renewals, filing of original survey shall be
sufficient). Application for renewal shall be made at least thirty (30) days
before the expiration date, and when made less than thirty (30) days before the
expiration date, the expiration of the permit will not be affected.
   B.   When the city council denies renewal of the permit, the applicant shall
not be issued a permit under this chapter for one year from the date of denial.
If, subsequent to denial, the city council finds that the basis for denial of
the renewal of the permit has been corrected, the applicant shall be granted a
permit if at least ninety (90) days have elapsed since the date denial became
final. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-19-15: SUSPENSION OF PERMIT:
   A.   The administrator of planning and zoning and/or the chief of police of
the city of Paul shall suspend a permit for a period not to exceed thirty (30)
days if he/she determines that a permittee, or an employee of a permittee, has:
      1.   Violated or is not in compliance with any section of this chapter;
or
      2.   Been under the influence of alcoholic beverages while working in the
sexually oriented business premises; or
      3.   Refused to allow an inspection of sexually oriented business
premises as authorized by this chapter; or
      4.   Knowingly permitted gambling by any person on the sexually oriented
business premises; or
      5.   Operated the sexually oriented business in violation of a building,
fire, health, or zoning statute, code, ordinance or regulation, whether
federal, state or local, said determination being based on investigation by the
division, department or agency charged with enforcing said rules or laws. In
the event of such statute, code, ordinance or regulation violation, the city or
its designee, shall promptly notify the permittee of the violation and shall
allow the permittee a seven (7) day period in which to correct the violation.
If the permittee fails to correct the violation before the expiration of the
seven (7) day period, the city or its designee, shall forthwith suspend the
permit and shall notify the permittee of the suspension.
      6.   Engaged in permit transfer contrary to section
8-19-18 of this chapter. In the event that the administrator of planning and
zoning suspends a permit on the ground that a permittee engaged in a permit
transfer contrary to section
8-19-18 of this chapter, the director or his/her designee shall forthwith
notify the permittee of the suspension. The suspension shall remain in effect
until the applicable section of this chapter has been satisfied.
      7.   Operated the sexually oriented business in violation of the hours of
operation required in section
8-19-23 of this chapter.
      8.   Knowingly employs a person who does not have a valid license as
required in section
8-19-19 of this chapter.
   B.   The suspension shall remain in effect until the violation of the
statute, code, ordinance or regulation in question has been corrected. (Ord.
411, 8-14-2002)
8-19-16: REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
   A.   The city council shall revoke a permit if a cause of suspension in
section
8-19-15 of this chapter occurs and the permit has been suspended within the
preceding twelve (12) months.
   B.   The city council shall revoke a permit upon determining that:
      1.   A permittee gave false or misleading information in the material
submitted during the application process that tended to enhance the applicant's
opportunity for obtaining a permit; or
      2.   A permittee or an employee has knowingly allowed possession, use or
sale of controlled substances in or on the premises; or
      3.   A permittee or an employee has knowingly allowed prostitution on the
premises; or
      4.   A permittee or an employee knowingly operated the sexually oriented
business during a period of time when the permittee's permit was suspended; or
      5.   A permittee has been convicted of a "specified criminal act" for
which the time period required in section
8-19-11 of this chapter has not elapsed; or
      6.   On two (2) or more occasions within a twelve (12) month period, a
person or persons committed an offense, occurring in or on the permitted
premises, constituting a specified criminal act for which a conviction has been
obtained, and the person or persons were employees of the sexually oriented
business at the time the offenses were committed. The fact that a conviction is
being appealed shall have no effect on the revocation of the permit; or
      7.   A permittee is convicted of tax violations for any taxes or fees
related to a sexually oriented business; or
      8.   A permittee or an employee has knowingly allowed any act of sexual
intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation, or any other specified
sexual activities to occur in or on the permitted premises.
      9.   A permittee has been operating more than one sexually oriented
business under a single roof except as provided in subsection
8-19-3C of this chapter.
   C.   When the city council revokes a permit, the revocation shall continue
for one year and the permittee shall not be issued a sexually oriented business
permit for one year from the date revocation became effective. If, subsequent
to revocation, the city council finds that the basis for revocation under this
section has been corrected, the applicant shall be granted a permit if at least
ninety (90) days have elapsed since the date revocation became effective. If
the permit was revoked under this section, an applicant may not be granted
another permit until the number of years required under this section have
elapsed. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-19-17: JUDICIAL REVIEW OF PERMIT DENIAL, SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION:
After denial of an application, or denial of a renewal of an application, or
suspension or revocation of a permit, the applicant or permittee may seek
review of such administrative action pursuant to and within the time frames
established by the Idaho administrative procedure act. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-19-18: TRANSFER OF PERMIT:
   A.   A permittee shall not operate a sexually oriented business under the
authority of a permit at any place other than the address designated in the
application for permit.
   B.   A permittee shall not transfer his/her permit to another person unless
and until such other person satisfies the following requirements:
      1.   Obtains an amendment to the permit from the city council which
provides that he/she is now the permittee, which amendment may be obtained only
if he/she has completed and properly filed an application with the city clerk
or his/her designee, setting forth the information called for under section
8-19-11 of this chapter in the application; and
      2.   Pays a transfer fee of twenty percent (20%) of the annual permit fee
set by this chapter.
   C.   No permit may be transferred when the administrator of planning and
zoning, the chief of police or the city council have notified the permittee
that suspension or revocation proceedings have been or will be brought against
the permittee.
   D.   A permittee shall not transfer his permit to another location.
   E.   Any attempt to transfer a permit either directly or indirectly in
violation of this section is hereby declared void and the permit shall be
deemed revoked upon the date such transfer is made. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-19-19: EMPLOYEE LICENSE:
   A.   License; Fee: Each individual to be employed in a sexually oriented
business, as defined in section
8-19-2 of this chapter, who engages in the services rendered by a nude model
studio, escort or escort agency, sexual encounter establishment, massage
parlor, or a live performer or entertainer shall be required to obtain a
sexually oriented business employee license. Each applicant shall pay a permit
fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00). Said fee is to cover reasonable
administrative costs of the licensing application process.
   B.   License Form: Before any applicant may be issued a sexually oriented
business employee license, the applicant shall submit on a form to be provided
by the city clerk or his/her designee the following information:
      1.   The applicant's name or any other names (including "stage" names) or
aliases used by the individual;
      2.   Age, date, and place of birth;
      3.   Height, weight, hair and eye color;
      4.   Present residence address and telephone number;
      5.   Present business address and telephone number;
      6.   State driver's license or identification number;
      7.   Social security number; and
      8.   Acceptable written proof that the individual is at least eighteen
(18) years of age.
      9.   Attached to the application form as provided above, a color
photograph of the applicant clearly showing the applicant's face, and the
applicant's fingerprints on a form provided by the city police department. Any
fees for the photographs and fingerprints shall be paid by the applicant.
      10.   A statement detailing the license or permit history of the
applicant for the five (5) years immediately preceding the date of the filing
of the application, including whether such applicant previously operating or
seeking to operate, in this or any other county, city, state, or country has
ever had a license, permit, or authorization to do business denied, revoked, or
suspended, or had any professional or vocational license or permit denied,
revoked, or suspended. In the event of any such denial, revocation, or
suspension, state the date, the name of the issuing or denying jurisdiction,
and describe in full the reasons for the denial, revocation, or suspension. A
copy of any order of denial, revocation, or suspension shall be attached to the
application.
      11.   Whether the applicant has been convicted of a "specified criminal
act" as defined in section
8-19-2 of this chapter. This information shall include the date, place, nature
of each conviction or plea of nolo contendere and identifying the convicting
jurisdiction.
      12.   The city clerk or his or her designee shall refer the sexually
oriented business employee license application to the city police department
for an investigation to be made of such information as is contained on the
application. The application process shall be completed within ten (10) days
from the date the completed application is filed. After the investigation, the
city clerk or his or her designee shall issue a license unless the report from
the police department finds that one or more of the following findings is true:
         a.   That the applicant has knowingly made any false, misleading, or
fraudulent statement of a material fact in the application for a license, or in
any report or record required to be filed with the sheriff's department or
other city department;
         b.   That the applicant is under eighteen (18) years of age;
         c.   That the applicant has been convicted of a "specified criminal
act" as defined in section
8-19-2 of this chapter;
         d.   That the sexually oriented business employee license is to be
used for employment in a business prohibited by local or state law, statute,
rule or regulation, or prohibited by particular provisions of this chapter;
         e.   That the applicant has had a sexually oriented business employee
license revoked by the city or any other governmental or regulatory agency
within two (2) years of the date of the current application.
   C.   Renewal Of License:
      1.   A license granted pursuant to this section shall be subject to
annual renewal by the city clerk or his or her designee upon the written
application of the applicant and a finding by the city clerk or his or her
designee and the city police department that the applicant has not been
convicted of any "specified criminal act" as defined in section
8-19-2 of this chapter or committed any act during the existence of the
previous license period which would be grounds to deny the initial permit
application.
      2.   The renewal of the license shall be subject to payment of a fee of
twenty five dollars ($25.00). (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-19-20: REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO EXHIBITION OF SEXUALLY EXPLICIT FILMS OR
VIDEOS IN VIDEO BOOTHS:
   A.   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented
business, other than an adult motel and regardless of whether or not a permit
has been issued to said business under this chapter, and who exhibits on the
premises in a viewing room of less than one hundred fifty (150) square feet of
floor space, a film, videocassette, DVDs, CD-ROMs, or other video reproduction
which depicts specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, shall
comply with the following requirements:
      1.   Upon application for a sexually oriented business permit, the
application shall be accompanied by a diagram of the premises showing a plan
thereof specifying the location of one or more manager's stations, the location
of all overhead lighting fixtures and designating any portion of the premises
in which patrons will not be permitted. A manager's station may not exceed
thirty two (32) square feet of floor area with no dimension greater than eight
feet (8'). The diagram shall also designate the place at which this permit will
be conspicuously posted, if granted. A professionally prepared diagram in the
nature of an engineer's or architect's blueprint shall not be required;
however, each diagram should be oriented to the north or to some designated
street or object and should be drawn to a designated scale with marked
dimensions sufficient to show the various internal dimension of all areas of
the interior of the premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches (±6").
The administrator of planning and zoning or his/her designee, may waive the
foregoing diagram for renewal applications if the applicant adopts a diagram
that was previously submitted and certifies that the configuration of the
premises has not been altered since it was prepared.
      2.   The application shall be sworn to be true and correct by the
applicant.
      3.   No alteration in the configuration or location of a manager's
station may be made without the prior approval of the administrator of planning
and zoning or his/her designee.
      4.   It is the duty of the owners and operator of the premises to ensure
that at least one employee is on duty and situated at each manager's station at
all times that any patron is present inside the premises.
      5.   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner
that there is an unobstructed view from a manager's station of every area of
the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose, excluding
restrooms. Restrooms may not contain video reproduction equipment. If the
premises has two (2) or more manager's stations designated, then the interior
of the premises shall be configured in such a manner that there is an
unobstructed view of each area of the premises to which any patron is permitted
access for any purpose from at least one of the manager's stations. The view
required in this subsection must be by direct line of sight from the manager's
station.
      6.   It shall be the duty of the owners and operator, and it shall also
be the duty of any agents and employees present on the premises to ensure that
the view area specified in subsection A5 of this section remains unobstructed
by any doors, walls, merchandise, display racks or other materials or person at
all times and to ensure that no patron is permitted access to any area of the
premises which has been designated as an area in which patrons will not be
permitted in the application filed pursuant to subsection A1 of this section.
      7.   No viewing room may be occupied by more than one person at any one
time. No holes, commonly known as "glory holes", shall be allowed in the walls
or partitions, which separate each viewing room from an adjoining viewing room
or restroom.
      8.   The premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting fixtures of
sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are permitted
access and an illumination of not less than two (2) foot-candles as measured at
the floor level.
      9.   It shall be the duty of the owners and operator and it shall also be
the duty of any agents and employees present on the premises to ensure that the
illumination described above is maintained at all times that any patron is
present on the premises.
   B.   A person having a duty under subsections A1 through A9 of this section
commits a misdemeanor if he/she knowingly fails to fulfill that duty. (Ord.
411, 8-14-2002)
8-19-21: PROHIBITIONS REGARDING MINORS AND SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES:
A person commits a misdemeanor if he/she operates or causes to be operated a
sexually oriented business, regardless of whether or not a permit has been
issued for said business under this chapter, and knowingly or with reasonable
cause to know, permits, suffers, or allows:
   A.   Admittance of a person under eighteen (18) years of age to the business
premises unless accompanied by a parent or guardian;
   B.   A person under eighteen (18) years of age to remain at the business
premises unless accompanied by a parent or guardian;
   C.   A person under eighteen (18) years of age to purchase goods or services
at the business premises without the specific consent of a parent or guardian;
or
   D.   A person who is under eighteen (18) years of age to work at the
business premises as an employee. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-19-22: ADVERTISING AND LIGHTING REGULATIONS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful and a person commits a misdemeanor if he/she
operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented business, regardless of
whether or not a permit has been issued for said business under this chapter,
and advertises the presentation of any activity prohibited by any applicable
state statute or local ordinance.
   B.   It shall be unlawful and a person commits a misdemeanor if he/she
operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented business, regardless of
whether or not a permit has been issued for said business under this chapter,
and displays or otherwise exhibits the materials and/or performances at such
sexually oriented business in any advertising which is visible outside the
premises. This prohibition shall not extend to advertising of the existence or
location of such sexually oriented business.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any permittee to allow any portion of the
interior premises of a sexually oriented business to be visible from outside
the licensed premises.
   D.   All off street parking areas and premises entries of the sexually
oriented business shall be illuminated from dusk to closing hours of operation
with a lighting system which provides an average maintained horizontal
illumination of one foot-candle of light on the parking surface and/or
walkways. This required lighting level is established in order to provide
sufficient illumination of the parking areas and walkways serving the sexually
oriented business for the personal safety of patrons and employees and to
reduce the incidence of vandalism and criminal conduct. The lighting shall be
shown on the required sketch or diagram of the premises.
   E.   Nothing contained in this section shall relieve the operator(s) of a
sexually oriented business from complying with the requirements of the city
zoning ordinance, as it may be amended from time to time, or any subsequently
enacted city ordinances or regulations. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-19-23: HOURS OF OPERATION:
   A.   It shall be unlawful and a person commits a misdemeanor if he/she
operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented business, regardless of
whether or not a permit has been issued for said business under this chapter,
and allows such business to remain open for business, or to permit any employee
to engage in a performance, solicit a performance, make a sale, solicit a sale,
provide a service, or solicit a service on Sunday between the hours of one
o'clock (1:00) A.M. and nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. of the following Monday or
between the hours of one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. of
any other day.
   B.   It shall be unlawful and a person commits a misdemeanor if, working as
an employee of a sexually oriented business, regardless of whether or not a
permit has been issued for said business under this chapter, said employee
engages in a performance, solicits a performance, makes a sale, solicits a
sale, provides a service, or solicits a service on Sunday between the hours of
one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. of the following Monday or
between the hours of one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. of
any other day. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-19-24: PUBLIC NUDITY PROHIBITED:
   A.   The United States supreme court decision in Barnes v. Glen Theater,
Inc., 501 U.S. 560, 111 S. Ct. 2456, 115 L. Ed.2d 504 (1991) and Erie v. Pap's
A.M., 120 S. Ct. 1382, 146 L. Ed.2d 265, upheld the rights of cities to
prohibit public nudity at any sexually oriented businesses, regardless of
whether or not a permit has been issued to said businesses, including
businesses where no alcoholic beverages are sold, served, or consumed at the
premises. The city expressly finds that the secondary effects associated with
live adult entertainment and public nudity adversely impact and threaten to
impact the public health, safety and welfare by providing an atmosphere
conducive to violence, sexual harassment, public intoxication, prostitution,
the spread of sexually transmitted disease and other deleterious effects.
Accordingly, consistent with such decisions, the city intends by this chapter
to prohibit public nudity within the city.
   B.   No person shall knowingly or intentionally, in a public place:
      1.   Engage in sexual intercourse,
      2.   Appear in a state of nudity,
      3.   Fondle his or her genitals or the genitals another person, or
      4.   Engage in specified sexual activities.
   C.   No person who owns, operates or otherwise controls a sexually oriented
business shall permit, allow, hire, sponsor or employ any other person for the
purpose of appearing in a state of nudity at any public building, public park
or recreation area or public place.
   D.   The prohibition set forth in subsections B and C of this section shall
not apply to:
      1.   Any child under ten (10) years of age;
      2.   Any individual exposing a breast in the process of breast feeding an
infant less than two (2) years of age;
      3.   Any person while performing any excretory function within a public
restroom;
      4.   Any person changing his or her clothing in a dressing room, the sole
purpose of which is to provide personal privacy for such purposes; or
      5.   Any person while receiving medical or therapeutic treatment from any
physician, paramedic, nurse or other medical practitioner licensed by the state
of Idaho. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-19-25: PROHIBITION OF LIVE ADULT ENTERTAINMENT:
   A.   No person shall perform, cause or allow the performance of live adult
entertainment in any public place within the city or at any private place or
location where any individual admissions charge or consideration is charged to
or collected from persons attending such performance.
   B.   No employee of a sexually oriented business shall engage in any
"specified sexual activity" or display or expose any "specified anatomical
area" while acting as a waiter, waitress, host, hostess, or bartender. (Ord.
411, 8-14-2002)
8-19-26: ADDITIONAL CRIMINAL PROHIBITIONS FOR OPERATION WITHOUT A VALID PERMIT:
In addition to the criminal provisions in other sections of this chapter, the
following additional criminal provisions shall also apply to sexually oriented
businesses:
   A.   It shall be unlawful and a person commits a misdemeanor if he/she
operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented business, regardless of
whether or not a permit has been issued for said business under this chapter,
and said person knows or should know that:
      1.   The business does not have a sexually oriented business permit under
this chapter for any applicable classification;
      2.   The business has a permit which is under suspension;
      3.   The business has a permit which has been revoked; or
      4.   The business has a permit which has expired. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-19-27: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   It is a defense to prosecution for any violation of this chapter that a
person appearing in a state of nudity did so in a modeling class operated:
      1.   By a college, junior college, or university supported entirely or
partly by taxation;
      2.   By a private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or
      3.   In a structure:
         a.   Which has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure and
no other advertising that indicates a nude person is available for viewing;
         b.   Where, in order to participate in a class a student must enroll
at least three (3) days in advance of the class; and
         c.   Where no more than one nude model is on the premises at any one
time.
   B.   It is a defense to prosecution for a violation of this chapter that an
employee of a sexually oriented business, regardless of whether or not it is
permitted under this chapter, exposed any specified anatomical area during the
employee's bona fide use of a restroom, or during the employee's bona fide use
of a dressing room which is accessible only to employees. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-19-28: CRIMINAL PENALTIES AND ADDITIONAL LEGAL, EQUITABLE, AND INJUNCTIVE
RELIEF:
   A.   In addition to whatever penalties are applicable under the Idaho
criminal code, if any person fails or refuses to obey or comply with or
violates any of the criminal provisions of this chapter, such person upon
conviction of such offense, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
punished by a fine not to exceed three hundred dollars ($300.00) or by
imprisonment not to exceed six (6) days in the city jail, or both, in the
discretion of the court. Each violation or noncompliance shall be considered a
separate and distinct offense. Further, each day of continued violation or
noncompliance shall be considered as a separate offense.
   B.   Nothing herein contained shall prevent or restrict the city from taking
such other lawful action in any court of competent jurisdiction as is necessary
to prevent or remedy any violation or noncompliance. Such other lawful actions
shall include, but shall not be limited to, an equitable action for injunctive
relief or an action at law for damages.
   C.   All remedies and penalties provided for in this section shall be
cumulative and independently available to the city and the city shall be
authorized to pursue any and all remedies set forth in this section to the full
extent allowed by law. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-19-29: IMMUNITY FROM PROSECUTION:
The city and its designee, the city police department and all other departments
and agencies, and all other city officers, agents and employees, charged with
enforcement of state and local laws and codes shall be immune from prosecution,
civil or criminal, for reasonable, good faith trespass upon property owned or
controlled by a sexually oriented business while acting within the scope of
authority conferred by this chapter. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-19-30: PROHIBITION OF DISTRIBUTION OF SEXUAL DEVICES:
It is unlawful for any person to distribute, for commercial purposes, sell or
offer for sale any device, instrument or paraphernalia designed or marketed
primarily for stimulation of human genital organs or for sadomasochistic use or
abuse of themselves or others. Such devices, instruments or paraphernalia
include, but are not limited to: phallic shaped vibrators, dildos, muzzles,
whips, chains, bather restraints, racks, nonmedical enema kits, body piercing
implements (excluding earrings or other decorative jewelry) or other tools
designed for sadomasochistic abuse. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-19-31: SCOPE AND INTERPRETATION:
Notwithstanding the other provisions of this title, nothing in this chapter
shall apply to the sale, loan, distribution, dissemination, presentation or
exhibition of material or live conduct which is obscene, as defined under
chapter 41, title 18, Idaho Code, unless such chapter or any provision thereof,
is determined to be unconstitutional or unenforceable for any reason. This
chapter shall be interpreted to be consistent in all respects with the
provisions of Idaho Code section 18-4113 and shall be applicable only to the
extent it regulates the sale, loan, distribution, dissemination, presentation
or exhibition of material or live conduct that is not otherwise obscene, as
defined by Idaho Code section 18-4101, provided, however, if any provision of
such chapter of the Idaho Code is determined to be unconstitutional or
unenforceable for any reason, then this chapter shall be fully enforceable
notwithstanding such determination. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-19-32: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, subsection or clause of this chapter shall be deemed to be
unconstitutional or otherwise invalid, the validity of the remaining sections,
subsections and clauses shall not be affected thereby. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-19-33: CONFLICTING ORDINANCE REPEALED:
All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict with the provisions of this
chapter are hereby repealed. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
CHAPTER 20
WELLHEAD PROTECTION
SECTION:
8-20-1: Purpose
8-20-2: Definitions
8-20-3: Establishment Of Wellhead Protection Zones
8-20-4: Restrictions Within Zone I Of The Wellhead Protection Area
8-20-5: Permitted Uses
8-20-6: Restrictions Within Zone II Of The Wellhead Protection Area
8-20-7: Zone III Uses
8-20-8: Administration
8-20-9: Repeal Of Conflicting Provisions
8-20-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to ensure the provisions of safe and sanitary
drinking water supply for the city of Paul by the establishment of wellhead
protection zones surrounding the wellheads for all wells which are the supply
sources for the Paul city water system and by the designation and regulation of
property uses and conditions which may be maintained within such zones. (Ord.
411, 8-14-2002)
8-20-2: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this chapter the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings given in this section:
HAZARDOUS OR TOXIC WASTE OR MATERIAL: Any waste or material which because of
its quantity, concentration or physical, chemical or infectious characteristics
may:
   A.   Cause or significantly contribute to an increase in mortality or an
increase in serious irreversible or incapacitating reversible illness; or
   B.   Pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health or to
the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported, disposed of or
otherwise managed.
   C.   "Hazardous or toxic waste" means any material or substance designated
as a hazardous or toxic substance by the United States of America acting
through the environmental protection agency, or any successor agency, section
101 (14) of the comprehensive environmental response, compensation and
liability act of 1980, or any material or substance designated as a hazardous
or toxic substance by the state of Idaho, acting through the division of
environmental quality or any successor agency.
SANITARY LANDFILL: A disposal site where solid wastes, including putrescible
wastes, or hazardous wastes, are disposed of on land by placing earth cover
thereon.
WELLHEAD: The upper terminal of a well, including adapters, ports, seals,
valves and other attachments.
ZONE I: An area extending fifty feet (50') radially from any wellhead supplying
potable water to the city water system.
ZONE II: An area extending between the fifty feet (50') designated as zone I
and the city impact area.
ZONE III: The city's area of impact. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-20-3: ESTABLISHMENT OF WELLHEAD PROTECTION ZONES:
There is hereby established a use district to be known as a wellhead protection
area identified and described as all the area within the city limits and to
include the city impact area. It is further established that this area be
composed of two (2) zones: "zone I" and "zone II" as they are defined in
section
8-20-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-20-4: RESTRICTIONS WITHIN ZONE I OF THE WELLHEAD PROTECTION AREA:
The following uses or conditions, including, but not limited to, shall be and
are hereby prohibited within zone I of the wellhead protection area:
Hazardous or toxic waste disposal sites.
Sanitary landfills.
Sanitary sewer lines and septic systems within one hundred feet (100') of a
wellhead (existing systems within 100 feet must be maintained in very good
repair and monitored on a regular basis).
Surface use or storage of hazardous or toxic material, expressly including
herbicide and pesticide applications to the soils, ground water or surface
water.
Underground storage tanks. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-20-5: PERMITTED USES:
The following uses shall be permitted only within zone II of the wellhead
protection area:
Most uses will not be restricted as long as these uses comply with the existing
ordinances, county, state and federal regulations pertaining to the discharge
of contaminants. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-20-6: RESTRICTIONS WITHIN ZONE II OF THE WELLHEAD PROTECTION AREA:
The following uses or conditions, including, but not limited to, shall be and
are hereby prohibited within zone II of the wellhead protection area, whether
or not such uses or conditions may otherwise be ordinarily included as a part
of a use permitted under section
8-20-5 of this chapter:
Agricultural uses, immediately adjacent to a wellhead and outside zone I, shall
be restricted specifically, and raising, keeping of livestock will be
prohibited within five hundred feet (500') of wellhead, and other similar uses
beyond this limit will be subject to restrictions if warranted.
Hazardous or toxic waste disposal sites.
Sanitary landfills.
Sanitary sewer lines and septic systems within one hundred feet (100') of a
wellhead (existing systems within 100 feet must be maintained in very good
repair and monitored on a regular basis).
Underground injection wells. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-20-7: ZONE III USES:
Not in contravention with any existing or any hereafter validly enacted
ordinance, rule, regulation or law of any governing body having lawful
jurisdiction pertaining to health and sanitation, there shall be no
restrictions in zone III. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-20-8: ADMINISTRATION:
The policies and procedures for administration of any wellhead protection zone
established under this chapter, including, without limitation, those applicable
to nonconforming uses, exceptions, enforcement and penalties, shall be the same
as provided in the existing zoning ordinances for the city of Paul, as the same
is presently enacted or may from time to time be amended. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
8-20-9: REPEAL OF CONFLICTING PROVISIONS:
All ordinances and parts of ordinances in conflict herewith shall be and the
same are hereby repealed. If any portion of this chapter is found to be
unenforceable or unconstitutional for any reason, the remaining portion of this
chapter shall remain in full force and effect. (Ord. 411, 8-14-2002)
TITLE 9
LAND SUBDIVISIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL SUBDIVISION PROVISIONS
SECTION:
9-1-1: Title
9-1-2: Authority
9-1-3: Purpose
9-1-4: Jurisdiction
9-1-5: Interpretation
9-1-6: Definitions
9-1-1: TITLE:
These regulations shall be known and cited as the CITY OF PAUL SUBDIVISION
ORDINANCE.
9-1-2: AUTHORITY:
These regulations are adopted pursuant to title 50, chapter 13 and title 67,
chapter 65 of the Idaho Code.
9-1-3: PURPOSE:
The purposes of these regulations are to promote the public health, safety,
general welfare and to provide for:
   A.   The harmonious development of the city;
   B.   The coordination of streets, alleys and easements in new subdivisions
with existing and future development and improvements;
   C.   Adequate park and open spaces for travel, light, fresh air and
recreation;
   D.   Adequate transportation, water, sanitary drainage, irrigation and other
public services and facilities;
   E.   Economical development and extension of public facilities and services
to meet the demands of growth;
   F.   An orderly and efficient procedure for submission and disposal of
requests for approval of subdivision plats;
   G.   The delegation of authority for administrating these regulations.
9-1-4: JURISDICTION:
These regulations shall apply to the subdivision and development of all land
within the incorporated territory of the city, including the property within
the area of impact of the city under section 50-1306, Idaho Code, as defined by
previous ordinance, including the property within one mile of the corporate
limits of the city under the provisions of section 50-1306, Idaho Code.
9-1-5: INTERPRETATION:
All subdivisions, as herein defined, shall be submitted for approval of the
city council and shall comply with the provisions of these regulations. These
regulations shall supplement all other regulations, and where at variance with
other laws, regulations, ordinances or resolutions, the more restrictive
requirements shall apply. This title shall not apply to any subdivision created
and recorded prior to the effective date hereof, except for the further
dividing of lots; nor is it intended by this title to repeal, abrogate, annul
or in any way impair or interfere with existing provisions of other laws,
ordinances or regulations or with private restrictions placed upon property by
deed, covenant or other private agreements, or with restrictive covenants
running with the land to which the city is a part.
9-1-6: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of these regulations, certain terms or words used herein shall
be interpreted as follows:
   A.   The present tense includes the past or future tense, the singular
includes the plural and the plural includes the singular;
   B.   The word "shall" is mandatory; "may" is permissive; the word "should"
is preferred; and
   C.   The masculine shall include the feminine.
When used in this title, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
BLOCK: A group of lots, tracts or parcels within well defined boundaries,
usually streets.
BUILDING: A structure designed or used as the living quarters for one or more
families, or the structure designed or used for occupancy by people for
commercial or industrial uses.
BUILDING SETBACK LINE: An imaginary line established by subdivision regulations
and zoning provisions 1  requiring all buildings to be set back a certain
distance from lot lines and street rights of way.
BUILDING SITE: An area proposed or provided and improved by grading, filling,
excavation or other means for erecting pads for buildings.
CEMETERY: A lot that has been planned for the selling of sites for the burial
of animal or human remains.
COMMISSION: The planning and zoning commission, as appointed by the city
council to administer this title, having jurisdiction over the parcel of land
under consideration.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: A plan, comprehensive plan or comprehensive development
plan adopted by the local authority and showing the general location and extent
of present and proposed development, including, but not limited to, housing,
industrial and commercial uses, streets, parks, schools and other community
facilities.
CONDOMINIUM: An estate consisting of: a) an undivided interest in common real
property, in an interest or interests in real property, or in any combination
thereof, together with b) a separate interest in real property, in an interest
or interests in real property, or in combination thereof.
COUNCIL: The city council of the city of Paul, Idaho.
COUNTY RECORDER: The office of the county recorder of Minidoka County, Idaho.
COVENANT: A written promise or pledge.
CULVERT: A drain that channels water under a bridge, street, road or driveway.
DEDICATION: The setting apart of land or interests in land for use by the
public. Land becomes dedicated when accepted by the city as a public
dedication, either by ordinance, resolution or entry in the official minutes,
or by the recording of a plat showing such dedication.
DEVELOPER: Authorized agent(s) of a subdivider or the subdivider himself.
DWELLING UNIT: Any building or other structure proposed or built for occupancy
by people.
DWELLING UNIT (PREFAB): A building or other structure proposed or built for
occupancy by people that is designed for initial transportation on streets and
highways which arrives at a site where it is installed on a permanent
foundation.
EASEMENT: A grant by a property owner to specific persons or to the public to
use land for specific purposes.
ENGINEER: Any person who is licensed in the state to practice professional
engineering.
GOVERNING BODY: The mayor and city council of the city of Paul, Idaho.
HIGHWAY: A street designated as a highway by an appropriate state or federal
agency.
IMPROVEMENT: Any alteration to the land or other physical constructions
associated with subdivision and building site developments.
LARGE SCALE DEVELOPMENT: A subdivision the size of which consists of thirty
(30) or more lots or dwelling units.
LOT: A parcel, plot, tract or other land area of suitable size as required in
these regulations and in the existing zoning regulations 2 ; and created by
subdivision for sale, transfer or lease.
LOT AREA: The area of any lot shall be determined exclusive of street, highway,
alley, road or other rights of way.
LOT TYPES: As used in these regulations, lot types are as follows:
   Corner Lot: A lot located at the intersection of two (2) or more streets;
or, a lot bounded on at least two (2) sides by the same street.
   Interior Lot: A lot other than a corner lot, with frontage on only one
street.
   Reversed Lot: A lot with frontage on a side street or other right of way
other than an interior or corner lot.
   Through Lot: A lot with frontage on more than one street, not a corner lot.
Also known as double frontage lot. Through lots are prohibited under these
regulations unless such a lot meets the criteria of a backup lot in subsection
9-3-5F of this title.
MOBILE HOME: A "manufactured home" as defined in section
8-2-2 of this code.
MOBILE HOME PARK: A park designed and intended for purposes of rental spaces
where residence is in mobile homes exclusively.
MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION: A subdivision designed and intended for residential
use where residence is in mobile homes exclusively.
MONUMENT: Any permanent marker either of concrete, galvanized iron pipe or iron
or steel rods used to permanently establish any tract, parcel, lot or street
lines, as specified in section 50-1303, Idaho Code.
OPEN SPACE: An area open to the sky for outdoor recreation activity. Streets,
buildings or other covered structures are not included in computing these
areas.
ORIGINAL PARCEL OF LAND: A lot or tract as recorded on any plat or record on
file in the office of the county recorder; each one- sixteenth (1/16) of a
section (40 acres) or any unplatted contiguous parcel of land held in one
ownership and of record at the effective date hereof.
OWNER: The individual, firm, association, syndicate, partnership or corporation
having a proprietary interest in the land to be subdivided.
PERFORMANCE BOND: An amount of money or other negotiable security paid by the
subdivider or his surety to the city clerk and recorder which guarantees that
the subdivider will perform all actions required by an approved plat, and
provides that if the subdivider defaults and fails to comply with provisions of
an approved plat, the subdivider or his surety will pay damages up to the limit
of the bond, or the surety will itself complete the requirements of the
approved plat. The amount of the bond shall be set by the city council in its
sole discretion with regard to the recommendation of the commission.
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT: A use or a combination of residential, commercial and
industrial uses planned for a tract of land to be developed as a unit under
single ownership or control, which is developed for the purpose of selling or
renting individual lots or estates, whether fronting on private or dedicated
streets, which may include two (2) or more principal buildings as governed by
the zoning title 3 . The requirements of this title may be modified by the city
council upon recommendation by the commission to achieve the best possible
planned development for the specific site under consideration.
PLAT: The drawing, mapping or planning of a subdivision, cemetery, town site or
other tract of land, or a replatting of such including certifications,
descriptions and approvals.
   Final Plat: The final and formal presentation by maps or drawings of an
approved subdivision development, the original and one copy of which is filed
with the county clerk and recorder.
   Preliminary Plat: The first formal presentation by maps or drawings of a
proposed subdivision, as required in these regulations.
RESERVE STRIP: A strip of land between a dedicated street or partial street and
adjacent property; in either case, reserved or held in public ownership for
future street extension or widening.
RIGHT OF WAY: A strip of land dedicated or served for use as a public way of
which normally includes sidewalks and other public utilities of service areas.
SIDEWALK: That portion of the street right of way outside the street pavement
which is improved for pedestrian use (also known as walkways).
STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS: The specifications as may be specified in this title
or as officially adopted by the city.
STATE: The state of Idaho.
STREET: A right of way which provides access to adjacent properties, the
dedication of which has been officially accepted. The term "street" also
includes the terms highway, thoroughfare, parkway, road, avenue, boulevard,
lane, place and similar terms. Some related terms and definitions are as
follows:
   Alley: A minor street providing secondary access at the back or side of a
property otherwise abutting a street.
   Arterial: A street designated for the purpose of carrying fast and/or heavy
traffic.
   Collector: A street designated for the purpose of carrying traffic from
minor streets to other collector streets and/or arterial streets.
   Commercial: A street designated for the purpose of providing traffic
movement in a commercial area.
   Cul-De-Sac: A street connected to another street at one end only and
provided with a turnaround space.
   Dead End: A street connecting to another street at one end only and not
having provision for vehicular turnaround at its terminus.
   Frontage: A minor street, parallel to and adjacent to an arterial street,
which has the primary purpose of providing access to abutting properties.
   Industrial: A street designated for the purpose of providing traffic
movement in an industrial area.
   Loop: A minor street with both terminal points on the same street of origin.
   Minor: A street which has the primary purpose of providing access to
abutting properties.
   Partial: A dedicated right of way providing only a portion of the required
street width, usually along the edge of a subdivision or tract of land.
   Private: A street which provides vehicular and pedestrian access to one or
more properties; however, not accepted for public dedication or maintenance.
   Side Street: A secondary street that provides access to a corner lot toward
which the principal building is not oriented.
SUBDIVIDER: The individual, firm, corporation, partnership, association,
syndicate, trust or other legal entity that executes the application and
initiates proceedings for the subdivision of land in accordance with the
provisions of this title; the subdivider need not be the owner of the property;
however, he shall be an agent of the owner or have sufficient proprietary
rights in the property to represent the owner.
SUBDIVISION: The division of an original lot, tract or parcel of land into more
than two (2) parts for the purpose of transfer of ownership or development; the
dedication of a public street and the addition to, or creation of, a cemetery.
However, this title shall not apply to any of the following:
   A.   An adjustment of lot lines as shown on a recordage, width, depth or
building setback lines of each building site below the minimum zoning
requirements, and does not change the original number of lots in any block of
the recorded plat;
   B.   An allocation of land in the settlement of an estate of a decedent or a
court decree for the distribution of property;
   C.   The unwilling sale of land as a result of legal condemnation as defined
and allowed in the Idaho Code;
   D.   Widening of existing streets to conform to the comprehensive plan;
   E.   The acquisition of collector and arterial street rights of way by a
public agency in conformance with the comprehensive plan; and
   F.   The exchange of land for the purpose of straightening property
boundaries which does not result in the change of the present land usage of the
properties involved.
SURVEYOR: A person who is licensed in the state as a public land surveyor to do
professional surveying.
TRAVEL TRAILER PARK: Rental space for travel trailers on a limited basis.
UTILITIES: Installations for conducting water, sewage, gas, electricity,
television, storm drains and similar facilities providing service to and used
by the public.
VARIANCE: A modification of the strict terms of the relevant regulations where
such modification will not be contrary to the public interest and where, owing
to conditions peculiar to the property and not the result of the action of the
applicant, a literal enforcement of the regulations would result in unnecessary
and undue hardship.
VICINITY MAP: A small scale map showing the location of a tract of land in
relation to a larger area. (Ord. 347, 3-11-1987; amd. Ord. 381, 4-10-1996)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 8 of this code.
2 1. See title 8 of this code.
3 1. See title 8 of this code.
CHAPTER 2
SUBDIVISION PLATS AND PROCEDURES
SECTION:
9-2-1: General Procedural Requirements
9-2-2: Preapplication
9-2-3: Preliminary Plat
9-2-4: Final Plat
9-2-1: GENERAL PROCEDURAL REQUIREMENTS:
Any person desiring to create a "subdivision", as herein defined, shall submit
all necessary applications to the commission. No final plat shall be filed with
the county recorder until the plat has been acted upon by the commission and
approved by the city council. No lots shall be sold from any plat until it has
been recorded in the office of the county recorder. (Ord. 347, 3-11-1987)
9-2-2: PREAPPLICATION:
   A.   Application: Prior to the filing of an application for approval of a
preliminary plat, the subdivider shall submit a completed subdivision
preapplication form as provided by the city and with up to eight (8) copies, as
required by the administrator, of a sketch plan to the planning and zoning
office. The sketch plan shall include the entire developmental scheme of the
proposed subdivision, in schematic form, including the area proposed for
immediate development in such a form and content as required by the commission,
and shall include the following:
      1.   The general layout of streets, blocks and lots in sketch form.
      2.   The existing conditions and characteristics of the land adjacent to
the proposed subdivision.
      3.   Areas set aside for schools, parks and other public facilities.
   B.   Fee: None required.
   C.   Preapplication Approval Procedure: The subdivider shall submit the
preapplication and plans to the administrator. The administrator will schedule,
within thirty (30) days, a meeting to review the application with the city
superintendent and representatives of the city's street, sewer and electrical
departments, local fire district or department, as well as any other applicable
utility, agency or department. At the aforementioned meeting the subdivider
shall present his preapplication and intent for review and comment by the
administrator, city representatives and other agency representatives. The
administrator and the other city and agency representatives will review the
preapplication to determine its compliance with this title as well as the
following concerns: (Ord. 2007-5, 4-11-2007)
      1.   The compliance of the proposed development with existing local or
state policies, goals and objectives or development plans;
      2.   Determination if additional special permits or ordinances conflict
such as rezoning, special development permit or variance that may be needed and
the determination of the manner that such requirements can be combined into one
permit;
      3.   Advise the applicant of any unique environmental or hazardous
concerns that may be directly or indirectly associated with the subject
property such as areas that have been designated by the state as areas of
critical environmental concern, unique plant or animal life, floodplain,
airport flight pattern and the like; and
      4.   Provide the subdivider with all necessary forms and checklists.
(Ord. 347, 3-11-1987)
9-2-3: PRELIMINARY PLAT:
   A.   Application: Upon completion of the preapplication procedures, the
subdivider may file with the commission a completed subdivision application
form and preliminary plat data as required in this title in such form and
content as required by the commission. (Ord. 347, 3-11-1987)
   B.   Combining Both Preliminary And Final Plats: The applicant may also
request that the subdivision application be processed as both a preliminary and
final plat if the following conditions are met:
      1.   The proposed subdivision does not exceed ten (10) lots;
      2.   No new street or major street widening is involved;
      3.   No major special development considerations are involved, such as
infrastructure development or the like; and
      4.   All required information submittals for both preliminary and final
plat are complete and in an acceptable form.
A request to combine both preliminary plat and final plat into one application
shall be acted upon by the administrator. (Ord. 2007-5, 4-11-2007)
   C.   Content Of Preliminary Plat: Preliminary plat shall contain the
information required under subsection D of this section. Additional maps or
data deemed necessary by the commission may also be required. The subdivider
shall submit to the commission at least the following:
      1.   Four (4) copies of the preliminary plat of the proposed subdivision,
drawn in accordance with the requirements hereinafter stated;
      2.   Four (4) sets of preliminary engineering plans for streets, water,
sewers, sidewalks and other required public improvements, including a master
utility map; said engineering plans shall contain sufficient information and
detail to enable the commission to make a preliminary determination as to
conformance of the proposed improvements to applicable regulations, ordinances
and standards as outlined in the special development provisions of this title;
      3.   A written application requesting approval of the preliminary plat on
a form prescribed by the commission;
      4.   Appropriate information that sufficiently details the proposed
development within any special development area such as hillside, planned unit
development, floodplain, cemetery, mobile home, large scale development,
hazardous and unique areas of development. (Ord. 347, 3-11-1987)
   D.   Requirement Of Preliminary Plats And Plat Applications: The following
shall be shown on any preliminary plat submitted or shall be submitted with the
same:
      1.   The name of the proposed subdivision;
      2.   The names, addresses and telephone numbers of the present owners of
the property and the subdivider or subdividers and the surveyor or engineer who
will prepare the final plat; (Ord. 2007-5, 4-11-2007)
      3.   The name and address of all adjoining property owners whether or not
bisected by a public right of way as shown on records in the county assessor's
office;
      4.   The legal description of the subdivision;
      5.   A statement of the intended use of the proposed subdivision such as
residential single-family, two-family and multiple housing, commercial,
industrial, recreational or agricultural, and a showing of any sites proposed
for parks, playgrounds, schools, churches or other public uses;
      6.   A map of the entire area scheduled for development if the proposed
subdivision is a portion of a larger holding intended for subsequent
development;
      7.   A vicinity map showing the relationship of the proposed plat to the
surrounding area (1/2 mile minimum radius, scale optional);
      8.   The land use and existing zoning of the proposed subdivision and the
adjacent land;
      9.   Streets, street names, right of way and roadway widths, including
adjoining streets or roadways;
      10.   Lot lines, dimensions and numbers, and the total number of lots by
block;
      11.   Contours, shown at five foot (5') intervals where land slope is
greater than ten percent (10%) and at two foot (2') intervals where land slope
is ten percent (10%) or less, with an established bench mark, including
location and elevation;
      12.   A site report as required by the appropriate health district where
individual wells or septic tanks are proposed;
      13.   Any proposed or existing utilities, including, but not limited to,
storm and sanitary sewers, irrigation laterals, ditches, drainages, bridges,
culverts, water mains, fire hydrants, electric power lines, gas lines, cable
lines and their respective profiles or indicated alternative methods;
      14.   A copy of any proposed restrictive covenants and/or deed
restrictions or, if none, a statement that none are proposed;
      15.   Any dedications to the public and/or easements, together with a
statement of location, dimensions and purpose of such;
      16.   Any additional required information for special developments as
specified in chapter 5 of this title;
      17.   A statement as to whether or not a variance will be requested with
respect to any provision of this title describing the particular provision, the
variance requested and the reasons therefor.
   E.   Fee: At the time of submission of an application for a preliminary
plat, a nonrefundable fee shall be paid, the amount of which shall be set by
resolution of the city council. There shall be no additional fee for the
combining of the preliminary and final plats other than the prepayment of the
required plat recording fee to the city. Only the plat recording fee is
refundable in the event the final plat is not approved.
   F.   Submission And Approval Procedures:
      1.   Submission Requirements: The subdivider shall have submitted the
required four (4) copies of the preliminary plat and required supplemental
material and required fee to the commission at least ten (10) days prior to the
regular commission meeting.
      2.   Public Notification: The subdivider shall post a reasonable number
of posters on or near the subject property under consideration to be
subdivided. Such poster and stated information shall be of such size and
content as may be approved by the commission. The location of the posters shall
be on the closest public roads in visible locations surrounding the subject
property and erected at least fifteen (15) days prior to the commission's
meeting. Further, the subdivider shall give actual written notice to every
person residing within three hundred feet (300') of any border of the proposed
subdivision at least fifteen (15) days prior to the commission's meeting. The
failure of the subdivider to comply with the exact provisions of these
procedures shall invalidate the commission's action.
      3.   Commission Action:
         a.   At the next regular commission meeting, the subdivider shall
present the preliminary plat for action. The commission may approve, approve
conditionally, disapprove or table the preliminary plat for additional
information. Such action shall occur within thirty (30) days of the date of the
regular meeting at which the plat is first considered. The action and the
reasons for such action shall be stated in writing by the commission and
forwarded to the applicant. The commission shall also forward a statement of
the action taken and the reasons for such action, together with a copy of the
preliminary plat to the city council for its action.
         b.   If the commission's conclusion is favorable to the subdivider's
request and recommendation from the commission that the subdivision be
considered as both a preliminary plat and final subdivision, then a
recommendation shall be forwarded to the city council in the same manner as
herein specified for a final plat. The commission may recommend that the
combined application be approved, approved conditionally or disapproved.
      4.   City Council Action: At the next regular city council meeting, the
subdivider shall present the preliminary plat for action. The city council may
approve, approve conditionally, disapprove or table the preliminary plat for
additional information. Such action shall occur within thirty (30) days of the
date of the regular meeting at which the plat is first considered. The action
and the reasons for such action shall be stated in writing by the city council
forwarded to the applicant.
      5.   Appeals: Any person who appeared in person or writing before the
commission or the subdivider may appeal in writing the decision of the
commission relative to any action taken by the commission. Such appeal must be
submitted to the city council within fifteen (15) days from such commission
action. (Ord. 347, 3-11-1987)
      6.   Approval Period:
         a.   Failure to file and obtain the certification of the acceptance of
the final plat application by the developer within one year after action by the
commission shall cause all approvals of said preliminary plat to be null and
void, unless an extension of time is applied for and granted by the commission
prior to the expiration date. The approval period for the final plat may be in
excess of one year if so requested in the application or in writing before the
expiration of the preliminary plat and approved by the commission and council.
(Ord. 2009-4, 5-13-2009)
         b.   In the event that the development of the preliminary plat is made
in successive continuous segments in an orderly and reasonable manner and
conforms substantially to the approved preliminary plat, such segments, if
submitted within successive intervals of one year, may be considered for final
approval without resubmission for preliminary plat approval. (Ord. 347, 3-11-
1987)
9-2-4: FINAL PLAT:
   A.   Application: After the approval or conditional approval of the
preliminary plat, the subdivider may cause the subdivision, or any part
thereof, to be surveyed and a final plat prepared in accordance with the
approved preliminary plat. The subdivider shall submit to the commission the
following:
      1.   Three (3) copies and the original of the final plat. The original
plat shall be returned to the subdivider for other approval, if needed, and
recording upon city council approval.
      2.   Three (3) copies and the original of the final engineering
construction drawings for the streets, water, sewers, sidewalks and other
public improvements.
   B.   Contents Of Final Plat: The final plat shall include and be in
compliance with all items required under title 50, chapter 13, Idaho Code, and
shall be drawn at a scale and contain lettering of such size as to enable the
same to be placed on one sheet of eighteen inch by twenty four inch (18" x 24")
drawing paper, with no part of the drawing nearer to the edge than one inch
(1"). The reverse of said sheet shall not be used for any portion of the
drawing, but may contain written matter as to dedications, certifications and
other information. The final plat shall include or shall be submitted at the
same time, as the case may be, at least the following:
      1.   A written application for approval of such final plat as stipulated
by the commission;
      2.   Proof of current ownership of the real property included in the
proposed final plat;
      3.   Such other and further information as the commission may deem
necessary to establish whether or not all proper parties have signed and/or
approved said final plat;
      4.   Conformance with the approved preliminary plat and meeting all
requirements or conditions thereof;
      5.   Conform to all requirements and provisions of this title; and
      6.   Acceptable engineering practices and local standards. (Ord. 347, 3-
11-1987)
   C.   Approval Procedures:
      1.   Commission Review: The commission shall review the final plat for
compliance with the approved or conditionally approved preliminary plat. If the
commission determines that there is substantial difference in the final plat
from that which was considered as a preliminary plat or conditions which have
not been met, the commission may require that the final plat be resubmitted to
the commission in the same manner as required in the preliminary plat process.
(Ord. 347, 3-11-1987; amd. 1989 Code)
Upon the determination that the final plat is in compliance with the
preliminary plat and all conditional requirements have been met, the commission
shall place the final plat on the city council agenda within forty five (45)
days from the date that an acceptable final plat application was received and
acknowledged by the commission.
      2.   Agency Review: The commission may transmit one copy of the final
plat, or other document submitted, for review and recommendation to the same
departments and agencies, or others as they may deem necessary, to ensure
compliance with the preliminary approval and/or conditions of preliminary
approval. Such agency review shall also include the construction standards of
improvements, compliance with health standards, the cost estimate for all
improvements and the legal review of the performance bond.
      3.   City Council Action: At its next meeting following receipt of the
commission's report, the city council shall consider the commission's findings
and comments from concerned persons and agencies to arrive at a decision of the
final plat. If said final plat conforms to the requirements of this title
applicable at the time of approval of the preliminary plat, all rulings made by
the commission on the preliminary plat, and the requirements of the Idaho state
law, the city council shall approve, approve conditionally, disapprove or table
the final plat for additional information within thirty (30) days of the date
of the regular meeting at which the plat is first considered.
      4.   Approval Period: Final plat and covenants, if any, shall be filed by
the subdivider/developer with the county recorder within ninety (90) days after
written approval by the city council, otherwise, such approval shall become
null and void unless prior to said expiration date an extension of time is
applied for and granted by the commission.
   D.   Recording Final Plat: Upon approval of the final plat by the city
council, and the inclusion of the following signatures on the final plat, then
the subdivider shall deliver the final plat to the county recorder for
recording:
      1.   Certification and signature of the city council verifying that the
subdivision has been approved; (Ord. 347, 3-11-1987)
      2.   Certification and signature of the public works director verifying
that the subdivision meets the city requirements and has been approved by the
city council; and
      3.   Certification and signature of local or state health agency that all
health requirements have been complied with or the required sanitary
restrictions set forth in title 50, chapter 13, Idaho Code has been placed
thereon. (Ord. 347, 3-11-1987; amd. 1989 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DESIGN STANDARDS
SECTION:
9-3-1: Minimum Design Standards Required
9-3-2: Streets And Public Ways
9-3-3: Easements
9-3-4: Blocks
9-3-5: Lots
9-3-6: Planting Strips And Reserve Strips
9-3-7: Public Sites And Open Spaces
9-3-8: Large Scale Developments
9-3-1: MINIMUM DESIGN STANDARDS REQUIRED:
All plans submitted pursuant to the provisions of this title, and all
subdivisions, improvements and facilities done, constructed or made in
accordance with said provisions, shall fully comply with the minimum design
standards set forth hereinafter in this chapter; provided, however, that any
higher standards adopted by any highway district, the state highway department
or a health agency shall prevail over those set forth herein. (Ord. 347, 3-11-
1987)
9-3-2: STREETS AND PUBLIC WAYS:
   A.   Dedication: Arterial and collector streets shall be dedicated to the
public in all cases; in general, all other streets shall also be dedicated to
public use.
   B.   Street And Road Location: Street and road location shall conform to the
following:
      1.   Street Location And Arrangements: When a major street plan or
comprehensive development plan has been adopted, subdivision streets shall
conform to such plans;
      2.   Local Or Minor Streets: Shall be so arranged as to discourage their
use by through traffic;
      3.   Street Continuation And Extension: The arrangement of streets shall
provide for the continuation of existing streets from adjoining areas into new
subdivisions unless otherwise approved by the city council and the highway
district or department having jurisdiction over such streets;
      4.   Stub Streets: Where adjoining areas are not subdivided, the
arrangement of streets in new subdivisions shall be such that said streets
extend to the boundary line of the tract to make provisions for the future
extension of said streets into adjacent areas. A reserve strip may be required
and held in public ownership;
      5.   Relation To Topography: Streets shall be arranged in proper relation
to topography so as to result in usable lots, safe streets and acceptable
gradients;
      6.   Alleys: Alleys shall be provided in multiple dwelling or commercial
subdivision unless other provisions are made for service access and off street
loading and parking. Dead end alleys shall be prohibited in all cases;
      7.   Frontage Roads: Where a subdivision abuts or contains an arterial
street, it may be required in the discretion of the commission that there be
frontage roads approximately parallel to and on each side of such arterial
street, and that there be such other treatment as is necessary for the adequate
protection of residential properties and to separate through traffic from local
traffic;
      8.   Cul-De-Sac Streets: Cul-de-sac streets are prohibited;
      9.   Half Streets: Half streets shall be prohibited except where unusual
circumstances make such necessary to the reasonable development of a tract in
conformance with this title and where satisfactory assurance for dedication of
the remaining part of the street is provided. Whenever a tract to be subdivided
borders on an existing half or partial street, the other part of the street
shall be dedicated with such tract; and
      10.   Private Streets: Private streets and roads shall be prohibited
except within planned unit developments. (Ord. 347, 3-11-1987)
   C.   Specifications:
      1.   Street Right Of Way Widths: Street and road right of way widths
shall conform to the adopted major street plan or comprehensive development
plan and the rules of the state department of highways and the highway district
or department having jurisdiction; minimum right of way standards are as
follows:
 
Street Types   Right Of Way Widths Widths Of Pavement
Major arterial 100 feet            48 feet divided
Local street   60 feet             From curb to curb
 
Curbs on local streets shall be at least forty feet (40') apart as measured
from the back of the curb on one side of the street to the back of the curb on
the opposite side of the street. (Ord. 381, 4-10-1996)
      2.   Street Grades: Street grades shall not exceed nine percent (9%) on
either local or collector streets, and no street grade shall be less than
three-tenths of a foot (3/10') per one hundred feet (100').
      3.   Vertical Street Alignment: Minimum sight distances shall be two
hundred feet (200') for minor streets and three hundred feet (300') for other
streets.
   D.   Intersections: Intersections shall conform to the following:
      1.   Angle Of Intersection: Streets shall intersect at ninety degrees
(90°) or as closely thereto as possible, and in no case shall streets intersect
at less than eighty degrees (80°).
      2.   Number Of Streets: No more than two (2) streets shall cross at any
one intersection.
      3.   "T" Intersections: "T" intersections may be used wherever such
design will not unduly restrict the free movement of traffic.
      4.   Vertical Alignment Of Intersection: A nearly flat grade with
appropriate drainage slopes is desirable within intersections. This flat
section shall extend fifty feet (50') to one hundred feet (100') each way from
the intersection. An allowance of two percent (2%) maximum intersection grade
in rolling terrain, and four percent (4%) in hilly terrain, will be permitted.
   E.   Street Names: The naming of streets shall conform to the following:
      1.   Street names shall not duplicate any existing street name except
where a new street is a continuation of an existing street.
      2.   Street names that may be spelled differently but sound the same as
existing streets shall not be used.
   F.   Pedestrian Walkways: Right of way for pedestrian walkways in the middle
of long blocks shall be required where necessary to obtain convenient
pedestrian circulation to schools, parks or shopping areas; the right of way
shall be at least ten feet (10') wide and shall extend entirely through the
block. (Ord. 347, 3-11-1987)
9-3-3: EASEMENTS:
Unobstructed utility easements shall be provided along front lot lines, rear
lot lines and side lot lines when necessary; total easement width shall be not
less than twelve feet (12') where lots adjoin. Unobstructed drainageway
easements shall be provided as required by the city council. (Ord. 347, 3-11-
1987)
9-3-4: BLOCKS:
Every block shall be so designed as to provide two (2) tiers of lots except
where lots back on to an arterial street, natural feature or subdivision
boundary. Blocks shall not be less than three hundred feet (300') long. (Ord.
347, 3-11-1987; amd. 1989 Code)
The length, width and shape of blocks shall be determined with due regard to
adequate sites suitable to the special needs of the type of use contemplated,
the zoning requirements as to lot size and dimensions, the need for convenient
access, circulation, control and safety of street traffic and the limitations
and opportunities of topography. (Ord. 347, 3-11-1987)
9-3-5: LOTS:
Lots shall conform to the following:
   A.   Lot Sizes: No subdivision plat in the area included in an RH district
shall hereafter be approved by the city unless all interior lots shown thereon
shall have a frontage of seventy five feet (75') or more and a minimum area of
six thousand one hundred (6,100) square feet. Corner lots shall have a frontage
of seventy five feet (75') or more and a minimum area of seven thousand three
hundred twenty (7,320) square feet or more, except in the event a cul-de-sac
variance is granted, then lots fronting on cul-de-sac circles may have reduced
frontage as approved by the city council, but same shall not be less than forty
feet (40').
   B.   Lot Lines: Side lot lines shall be essentially at right angles to
straight streets and shall generally conform to the radius of curved streets.
   C.   Width Related To Length: Narrow, deep lots shall be avoided.
   D.   Corner Lots: Corner lots shall have sufficient extra width to permit
appropriate building setback from both streets or orientation to both streets.
   E.   Uninhabitable Areas: Land subject to flooding or which shall otherwise
be deemed to be uninhabitable shall not be platted for residential purposes or
for any other uses that may increase or create a danger to health, life or
property or which may increase or create a flood hazard. Such land within a
subdivision shall be set aside for other uses such as parks or other open
space.
   F.   Backup Lots: Lots shall back into such features as freeways, arterial
streets, shopping centers or industrial properties, except where there is a
marginal access street, unless a secondary access is provided. Such lots shall
contain a landscaped easement along the rear at least twenty feet (20') wide in
addition to the utility easement; the restricted access to the arterial street
will minimize noise and protect outdoor living areas. Lots extending through a
block and having frontage on two (2) local streets are to be discouraged and
may be prohibited by the commission.
   G.   Lot Frontage: All rectangular lots shall have at least seventy five
feet (75') of frontage upon a publicly dedicated street. Variances may be
permitted for an approved planned unit development.
   H.   Future Arrangements: Where parcels of land are subdivided into
unusually large lots (such as when large lots are approved for septic tank
operations), the parcels shall be divided, where feasible, so as to allow for
future resubdividing into smaller parcels. Lot arrangements shall allow for the
ultimate extension of adjacent streets through the middle of wide blocks.
Whenever such future subdividing or lot splitting is contemplated, the plan
thereof shall be approved by the commission prior to the taking of such action.
(Ord. 347, 3-11-1987)
9-3-6: PLANTING STRIPS AND RESERVE STRIPS:
Planting strips and reserve strips shall conform to the following:
   A.   Planting Strips: Planting strips shall be required to be placed next to
incompatible features such as highways, railroads, commercial or industrial
uses to screen the view from residential properties. Such screens shall be a
minimum of twenty feet (20') wide and shall not be a part of the normal roadway
right of way or utility easements.
   B.   Reserve Strips:
      1.   Privately held reserve strips controlling access to streets shall be
prohibited.
      2.   A one foot (1') reserve may be required to be placed at the end or
along stub, dead end or half streets which terminate at subdivision boundaries.
These reserves shall be deeded in fee simple to the city for future street
purposes. (Ord. 347, 3-11-1987)
9-3-7: PUBLIC SITES AND OPEN SPACES:
Public sites and open spaces shall conform to the following:
   A.   Public Uses: Where a proposed park, playground, school or other public
use shown on the comprehensive development plan is located in whole or part
within a subdivision, a suitable area for this purpose shall be dedicated to
the public or reserved for public purchase. If within two (2) years of plat
recording the purchase is not agreed on, the reservation shall be canceled or
shall automatically cease to exist.
   B.   Natural Features: Existing natural features which add value to
residential development and enhance the attractiveness of the community (such
as trees, watercourses, historic spots and similar irreplaceable assets) shall
be preserved, insofar as possible, in the design of the subdivision. (Ord. 347,
3-11-1987)
9-3-8: LARGE SCALE DEVELOPMENTS:
Large scale developments shall be governed by the following provisions:
   A.   Modification: This title may be modified in accordance with the
variance provisions of this title in the case of a subdivision large enough to
constitute a complete community or neighborhood, consistent with the
comprehensive development plan which provides and dedicates adequate public
open space and improvements for circulation, recreation, education, light, air
and service needs of the track when fully developed and populated.
   B.   Neighborhood Characteristics: A community or neighborhood under this
provision shall be consistent with the comprehensive development plan, bounded
by major streets or natural physical barriers, and shall contain public areas
of sufficient size for schools, playgrounds, parks and other public facilities
to serve its population. (Ord. 347, 3-11-1987)
CHAPTER 4
IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS
SECTION:
9-4-1: Purpose
9-4-2: Construction Plans
9-4-3: Required Public Improvements
9-4-3-1: Improvements Required
9-4-3-2: Improvement Construction Regulations
9-4-1: PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this chapter to establish and define the public
improvements which will be required to be constructed by the subdivider as
conditions for final plat approval, and also to outline the procedures and
responsibilities of the subdivider and the various public officials and
agencies concerned with the administration, planning design, construction and
financing of public facilities and to further establish procedures for assuring
compliance with these requirements. (Ord. 347, 3-11-1987)
9-4-2: CONSTRUCTION PLANS:
It shall be the responsibility of the subdivider of every proposed subdivision
to have prepared by a registered engineer, a complete set of construction
plans, including profiles, cross section, specifications and other supporting
data for all required public streets, utilities and other facilities. Such
construction plans shall be based on preliminary plans which have been approved
with the preliminary plat and shall be prepared in conjunction with the final
plat. Construction plans are subject to approval by the public works director
and other responsible public agencies. All construction plans shall be prepared
in accordance with the public agencies' standards or specifications. (Ord. 347,
3-11-1987; amd. 1989 Code)
9-4-3: REQUIRED PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS:
Every subdivider shall be required to install the following public and other
improvements in accordance with the conditions and specifications as follows.
(Ord. 347, 3-11-1987)
9-4-3-1: IMPROVEMENTS REQUIRED:
It shall be the responsibility of the subdivider to arrange and provide for the
development, installation, construction or other improvement of private
facilities and public utilities within and for the subdivision in accordance
with applicable standards and requirements.
   A.   Monuments: Monuments shall be set in accordance with section 50-1303,
Idaho Code.
   B.   Streets And Alleys: All streets and alleys shall be constructed in
accordance with the standards and specifications adopted by the city council.
Vertical curbs and gutters shall be constructed on arterial streets.
      1.   Subdivider Requirements: The subdivider shall perform, install,
construct or otherwise complete at his sole expense the following items
relative to street improvements within the boundaries of the subdivision:
         a.   Route (or boundary) surveys of the dedicated rights of way.
         b.   Construction surveys of line and grade.
         c.   Installation of sidewalks, if applicable.
         d.   Installation of curb and gutters, if applicable.
         e.   Preparation of the subgrade.
         f.   Installation of the roadway base course.
         g.   Inspection of all phases of construction to assure compliance
with applicable standards and specifications.
         h.   Installation of a crushed gravel leveling course to be used as a
temporary wearing surface until a permanent asphalt pavement is installed.
         i.   Installation of asphalt pavement shall be installed following the
installation of curbs and gutters.
         j.   Adequate runoff, storm sewers, pipes, culverts, ditches or other
drainage facilities as designated by the commission.
      2.   City Requirements: The city shall perform, install, construct or
otherwise complete at its sole expense the following items relative to street
improvements within the boundaries of the subdivision:
         a.   Installation of traffic control signs and signals and street name
signs.
         b.   The city shall also improve to the extent it deems suitable,
subject to budgetary limitations, such existing right of way it considers
necessary to provide adequate access to the subdivision.
   C.   Street Lighting: Streetlights shall be required to be installed at
intersections throughout the subdivision. In these cases, a subdivider shall
conform to the requirements of the city and the public utility providing such
lighting.
   D.   Curbs And Gutters: Curbs and gutters shall be required on minor streets
and shall be constructed in accordance with the standards and specifications
adopted by the city council.
   E.   Driveways: All driveway openings in curbs shall be as specified by the
public works department, the highway district or the state highway department.
   F.   Sidewalks And Pedestrian Walkways: Sidewalks shall be required on both
sides of the street. Where the average width of lots, as measured at the
frontage line or at the building setback line, is over one hundred feet (100'),
sidewalks of one side may be required by the city council. Pedestrian walkways,
when required, shall have easements at least ten feet (10') in width and
include a concrete walk at least five feet (5') in width, located generally
along the centerline of the easement, dedicated as a public pedestrian walkway.
Sidewalks and crosswalks shall be constructed in accordance with the standards
and specifications adopted by the city council.
   G.   Bicycle Paths: Bicycle paths should be considered in all developments
and may be required by the commission.
   H.   Greenbelts: Greenbelts or landscaping screening may be required for the
protection of residential properties from adjacent major arterial streets,
waterways, railroad rights of way or other features. Subdivision plats shall
show the location of any greenbelt areas.
   I.   Water Supply System: When a proposed subdivision is to be serviced by a
public water supply system, fire hydrants and other required water system
appurtenances shall be provided by the subdivider. If there is no existing or
accessible public water supply system, the subdivider shall be required to
install a water supply system for the common use of the lots within the
subdivision as approved by state department of environmental community
services. Individual wells may be permitted in accordance with the requirements
of the appropriate health district.
The subdivider shall be responsible for the installation of a culinary water
distribution system within the boundaries of the subdivision. The subdivider
shall perform, install, construct or otherwise complete at his sole expense the
following items relative to a culinary water distribution system:
      1.   Preparation of plans and specifications for the construction of the
water distribution system, and the approval of said plans and specifications by
the idaho department of health and welfare.
      2.   Construction surveys of line and grade within the subdivision.
      3.   Installation of the water distribution system within the
subdivision, including water lines, control valves, fire hydrants and
appurtenant facilities.
      4.   If water mains are located in a dedicated street, installation of a
water service line to the property line of each lot.
      5.   Inspection of construction to assure compliance with the plans,
specifications and applicable standards.
      6.   Installation of a water line extension or extensions as indicated
above.
Connections to the water mains shall be in accordance with existing procedures
and policies of the city, and the subdivider shall be liable for the payment of
water assessment and hookup charges as provided by city ordinances.
   J.   Sanitary Sewer System: When a proposed subdivision is to be served by a
public sanitary sewage system, sanitary sewers and other required appurtenances
thereto shall be provided by the subdivider as approved by the state department
of environmental and community services. Where it is determined in the judgment
of the commission, based upon the advice of the appropriate health district,
that a subdivision cannot be feasibly connected with an existing public or
private sewer system or that a public or private sewer system not be provided
for the subdivision, an approved disposal system may be authorized which shall
comply with the requirements of the appropriate health district.
The subdivider shall be responsible for the installation of a sanitary sewage
collection system within the boundaries of the subdivision. The subdivider
shall perform, install, construct or otherwise complete at his sole expense the
following items relative to sanitary sewers:
      1.   Preparation of plans and specifications for the construction of the
sanitary sewer system, including extensions from the existing collection
system, and the approval of said plans and specifications by the Idaho
department of health and welfare.
      2.   Construction surveys of line and grade within the subdivision.
      3.   Installation of the sewer system within the subdivision, including
sewers, manholes and other appurtenances and, if applicable, sewage pumping
stations.
      4.   If sewer mains are located in a dedicated street, installation of a
sewer service line to the property line of each lot.
      5.   Inspection of construction to assure compliance with the plans,
specifications and applicable standards.
      6.   Installation of a sewer extension from the existing collection
system to a designed point of connection near the subdivision.
Connections to the sewers will be in accordance with existing procedures and
the policies of the city; and the subdivider will be liable for the payment of
sewer assessment and hookup charges as provided by city ordinances.
   K.   Oversized Pipes: In the event the city requires the subdivider to
install oversized pipelines or other excess facilities to make provisions for
present or future service needs in excess of the requirements for the
subdivision, the city shall reimburse the subdivider for the additional costs
of material and installation resulting therefrom. (Ord. 347, 3-11-1987)
9-4-3-2: IMPROVEMENT CONSTRUCTION REGULATIONS:
   A.   Scope: The scope of this section is to define the respective areas of
responsibility of the subdivider and the city relative to the installation,
construction or other improvements of public works en route to and within the
boundaries of a subdivision.
In certain instances, the city may require formal written agreements with the
subdivider that more fully and specifically describe their respective
obligations and responsibilities.
   B.   General Requirements: It shall be the responsibility of the subdivider
to complete at his sole expense all the development and construction of public
works for and within the subdivision except as specifically provided otherwise
to be the obligation and responsibility of the city, or as may be accepted by
the city as being within the spirit and intent of its responsibilities.
   C.   Structure Location:
      1.   Building Line Setback: In all new subdivisions, the building line
setback shall be a minimum of twenty feet (20') from the property line. In the
event that a new subdivision is located along a street with existing
residences, the setback line shall be not less than other structures along the
street and preferably should be set back as an average of the existing
structures.
      2.   Side And Rear Lot Line Clearances: In all new subdivisions, no
building of any nature shall be placed or constructed nearer than five feet
(5') of the property line. Where utility rights of way or other rights of way
or easements are provided along property lines and lot lines, no structure of
any nature shall be permitted in such rights of way or easements except for the
purpose for which they are provided.
   D.   Completion Of Public Works: The subdivider shall complete the
installation or construction of all the different phases of public works for
which he is responsible before the city will accept any of them. This
requirement may be satisfied by completion of a stage if a staged development
is called for in the approved development plan.
   E.   Guarantee Of Completion: Until the public works for which the
subdivider is responsible are complete, or an acceptable stage of the
development is completed, the city will issue no building permit for private
construction therein unless a satisfactory performance bond or other suitable
guarantee of performance acceptable to the city is provided by the subdivider.
   F.   Inspections: The subdivider shall notify the city, in writing, when the
public works for which he is responsible have been completed. (Ord. 347, 3-11-
1987)
The public works director shall also certify in writing, a copy of which shall
be sent to the subdivider, that the said public works have been inspected by
him or his authorized representative, and that the said public works have been
completed in accordance with applicable standards and specifications. As built
construction plans shall be submitted to the city upon completion. (Ord. 347,
3-11-1987; amd. 1989 Code)
   G.   Acceptance Of Public Works: Compliance with the foregoing provisions
shall constitute the city's acceptance of the public works. The city shall
thereby accept said public works and be responsible for their operation and
maintenance in accordance with city policies. (Ord. 347, 3-11-1987)
CHAPTER 5
SPECIAL DEVELOPMENTS
SECTION:
9-5-1: Purpose
9-5-2: Planned Unit And Condominium Developments
9-5-3: Cemeteries
9-5-4: Mobile Home Subdivisions
9-5-5: Mobile Home Parks
9-5-6: Travel Trailer Parks
9-5-7: Large Scale Development Subdivisions
9-5-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to identify the various types of special
developments that normally pose special concerns to the commission and elected
officials when reviewing and acting upon subdivision requests. Therefore, this
chapter outlines the general plan submittal requirements and design standards
that shall be taken into consideration when acting on special developments. The
provisions of this chapter are in addition to the plan requirements and design
standards that are required by chapters 2 and 3 of this title. The required
information shall be submitted to the commission with the preliminary plat.
(Ord. 347, 3-11-1987)
9-5-2: PLANNED UNIT AND CONDOMINIUM DEVELOPMENTS 1 :
   A.   Site Development Plan: The developer shall provide the commission with
a colored rendering of adequate scale to show the completed development that
will include at least the following:
      1.   Architectural style and building design;
      2.   Building materials and color;
      3.   Landscaping;
      4.   Screening;
      5.   Garbage areas;
      6.   Parking; and
      7.   Open space. (Ord. 347, 3-11-1987)
   B.   Private Streets: Private street construction standards shall be based
upon recommendations from the public works director and commission. Adequate
construction standards may vary depending on the size of the development and
the demands placed on such improvements. (Ord. 347, 3-11-1987; amd. 1989 Code)
   C.   Homeowners' Association: Homeowners' association bylaws and other
similar deed restrictions which provide for the control and maintenance of all
common areas, recreation facilities or open space shall meet with the approval
of the city council. Any and all powers as specified in such agreements may be
required to also be assigned to the jurisdictional agency to ensure continued
and adequate maintenance of all such common areas, recreational facilities and
open spaces, ability to assess property for delinquencies and enforcement of
motor vehicle speed to the best interest of the owners involved and of the
general public.
   D.   Storage Areas: Storage areas shall be provided for the anticipated
needs of boats, campers and trailers. For typical residential development, one
adequate space shall be provided every three (3) living units. This may be
reduced by the city council if there is a showing that the needs of a
particular development are less.
   E.   Parking Space: One additional parking space beyond that which is
required by the zoning title 2  may be required for every three (3) dwelling
units to accommodate visitor parking.
   F.   Maintenance Building: A maintenance building shall be provided, size
and location to be determined by the type and service needed for the necessary
repair and maintenance of all common areas.
   G.   Open Space: The location of open space shall be appropriate to the
development and shall be of such shape and area to be usable and convenient to
the residents of the development.
   H.   Control During Development: Single ownership or control during
development shall be required and a time limit may be imposed to guarantee the
development is built and constructed as planned. (Ord. 347, 3-11-1987)
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 8, chapter 9 of this code and subsection 9-6-4C of this
  title.
2 1. See title 8, chapter 11 of this code.
9-5-3: CEMETERIES:
   A.   Function: The developer shall provide the commission with written
documentation that will sufficiently explain if the proposed cemetery will be
used for either human or animal remains and the functions that are anticipated
on the property.
   B.   Compliance With Idaho Code: The developer shall submit a written
statement that has been prepared by an attorney that adequately assures the
compliance of the proposed cemetery with the procedural platting requirements
outlined in title 27, Idaho Code. (Ord. 347, 3-11-1987)
9-5-4: MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISIONS:
   A.   General: Mobile home subdivisions shall in general be treated the same
as any residential subdivision, subject to any special requirements set forth
in the zoning title 1  and also subject to the following special requirements.
   B.   Special Requirements: Mobile home subdivisions shall be subject to the
following special requirements:
      1.   Developed as a planned unit development with a minimum lot area for
the planned development of two (2) acres;
      2.   Essential community facilities and services for the type of
development under consideration is available, or provisions shall be made to
assure that these facilities will be provided;
      3.   The site shall be suitable for residential development and not be
subject to hazards such as insect or rodent infection, objectionable smoke,
noxious odors, unusual noise or the probability of flooding or erosion;
      4.   Adequacy of provisions for drainage of surface waters and for wastes
disposal;
      5.   Protection of existing ground cover;
      6.   Screening from adjacent areas, other than subdivisions of the same
type, by aesthetically acceptable fences, walls, living plant areas and
existing natural or manmade barriers;
      7.   The width and construction of access streets shall be suitable for
the vehicular traffic requirements of the property served. No lot within the
development shall have direct vehicular access to a street bordering the
development; and
      8.   Creation of a homeowners' association to assure that all common open
areas are adequately maintained. (Ord. 347, 3-11-1987)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection 8-6-6L of this code.
9-5-5: MOBILE HOME PARKS 1 :
   A.   General: Mobile home parks shall in general be rated the same as any
residential subdivision, subject to any special requirements set forth in the
zoning title and also subject to the following special requirements.
   B.   Special Requirements:
      1.   Developed as a planned unit development with a minimum lot area for
planned development of two (2) acres;
      2.   Essential community facilities and services for the type of
development under consideration is available, or provisions shall be made to
assure that these facilities will be provided;
      3.   The site shall be suitable for residential development and not
subject to hazards such as insect or rodent infection, objectionable smoke,
noxious odors, unusual noise or the probability of flooding or erosion;
      4.   Adequacy of provisions for drainage of surface waters and for waste
disposal;
      5.   Protection of existing ground cover;
      6.   Screening from adjacent areas, other than subdivisions of the same
type, by aesthetically acceptable fences, walls, living plant areas and
existing natural or manmade barriers; and
      7.   The width and construction of access streets shall be suitable for
the vehicular traffic requirements of the property served. No lot within the
development shall have direct vehicular access to a street bordering the
development. (Ord. 347, 3-11-1987)
 
Notes
1 2. See subsection 8-6-6L of this code.
9-5-6: TRAVEL TRAILER PARKS:
   A.   General: Travel trailer parks shall in general be treated the same as
any residential subdivision, subject to any special requirements set forth in
the zoning title and also subject to the following special requirements.
   B.   Special Requirements: Travel trailer parks shall be subject to the
following special requirements:
      1.   Developed as a planned unit development with a minimum lot area for
the planned development of two (2) acres;
      2.   Essential community facilities and services for the type of
development under consideration is available, or provisions shall be made to
assure that these facilities will be provided;
      3.   Adequacy of provisions for drainage of surface waters and for waste
disposal;
      4.   Protection of existing ground cover;
      5.   Screening from adjacent areas, other than subdivisions of the same
type, by aesthetically acceptable fences, walls, living plant areas and
existing natural or manmade barriers; and
      6.   The width and construction of access streets shall be suitable for
the vehicular traffic requirements of the property served. No lot within the
development shall have direct vehicular access to a street bordering the
development. (Ord. 347, 3-11-1987)
9-5-7: LARGE SCALE DEVELOPMENT SUBDIVISIONS:
Due to the impact that a large scale development would have on public utilities
and services, the developer shall submit the following information along with
the preliminary plat: (Ord. 347, 3-11-1987)
   A.   Identification of all public services that would be provided to the
development that will occur as a result of the subdivision regarding fire
protection, police protection, central water, central sewer, road construction,
recreation, maintenance, schools and other; (Ord. 347, 3-11-1987; amd. 1989
Code)
   B.   Estimate the public service costs to provide adequate service to the
development;
   C.   Estimate the tax revenue that will be generated from the development;
and
   D.   Public means of financing the services for the development if any
public services would not be offset by tax revenue received from the
development. (Ord. 347, 3-11-1987)
CHAPTER 6
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
9-6-1: Administration Of Provisions
9-6-2: Combining Of Permits
9-6-3: Vacations And Dedications
9-6-4: Variances
9-6-5: Enforcement
9-6-6: Penalties
9-6-1: ADMINISTRATION OF PROVISIONS:
The mayor, with approval of the city council, shall appoint a planning and
zoning commission to carry out the provisions as herein specified 1 . The
commission shall receive and make recommendations on all subdivision
applications. (Ord. 347, 3-11-1987; amd. 1989 Code)
In the event the commission fails to act or carry out its responsibilities
according to the regulations contained herein, the city council shall assume
all the duties of the commission as herein specified in relation to the
application concerned. (Ord. 347, 3-11-1987)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 8, chapter 12 of this code.
9-6-2: COMBINING OF PERMITS:
The commission is hereby required to combine all permits which may be required
in this title and previously or subsequently adopted city ordinances which are
relative to land development into one permit application procedure. In
conjunction with a combined permit, the commission shall coordinate methods of
approval with the respective departments for the purpose of reducing errors and
unnecessary delay in processing applications. (Ord. 347, 3-11-1987)
9-6-3: VACATIONS AND DEDICATIONS:
   A.   Application For Vacation Or Dedication: Any property owner desiring to
vacate an existing subdivision, public right of way or easement, or desiring to
dedicate a street right of way or easement shall complete and file an
application with the commission and also file such other applications as are
otherwise required by law. The applicant shall pay a nonrefundable filing fee
of one hundred dollars ($100.00), and shall pay all publication costs and
notification costs incurred by the city. These provisions shall not apply to
the widening of any street which is shown in the comprehensive development
plan, or the dedication of streets, rights of way or easements to be shown on a
recorded plat of a subdivision. (Ord. 347, 3-11-1987; amd. 1989 Code)
   B.   City Council Action:
      1.   Vacations: When considering an application for vacation procedures,
the city council shall establish a date for a public hearing and give such
public notice as required by law. The city council may approve, deny or modify
the application. Whenever public rights of way or lands are vacated, the city
council shall provide adjacent property owners with a quit claim deed for said
vacated rights of way in such proportions as are prescribed by law.
      2.   Dedications: When considering an application for dedication
procedures, the city council may approve, deny or modify the application. When
a dedication is approved, the required street improvements shall be constructed
or a bond furnished assuring the construction prior to acceptance of the
dedication. To complete the acceptance of any dedication of land, the owner
shall furnish to the city council a deed describing and conveying such lands to
be recorded with the county recorder. (Ord. 347, 3-11-1987)
9-6-4: VARIANCES:
   A.   Purpose And Findings: The commission may recommend to the city council
a variance from the provisions of this title on a finding that undue hardship
may result from strict compliance with specific provisions or requirements of
this title or that application of such provisions or requirements is
impracticable. The commission shall only recommend variances that it deems
necessary to or desirable for the public interest. In making its findings, the
commission shall take into account the nature of the proposed use of land and
the existing use of land in the vicinity, the number of persons to reside or
work in the proposed subdivision and the probable effect of the proposed
subdivision upon traffic conditions in the vicinity. No variance shall be
recommended unless the commission finds, after a public hearing:
      1.   That there are such special circumstances or conditions affecting
said property that the strict application of the provisions of this title would
clearly be impracticable or unreasonable; in such cases, the subdivider shall
first state his reasons in writing as to the specific provisions or requirement
involved;
      2.   That the granting of the specified variance will not be detrimental
to the public welfare or injurious to other property in the area in which said
property is situated;
      3.   That such variance will not violate the provisions of the Idaho
Code; and
      4.   That such variance will not have the effect of nullifying the
interest and purpose of this title and the comprehensive development plan.
   B.   Topographical And Physical Limitation Variances: Where, in the case of
a particular proposed subdivision, it can be shown that strict compliance with
the requirements of this title would result in extraordinary hardship to the
subdivider because of unusual topography, other physical conditions or other
such conditions which are not self-inflicted, or that these conditions would
result in inhibiting the achievement of the objectives of this title, the
commission may recommend to the city council that variance modification or a
waiver of these requirements be granted.
   C.   Planned Unit Development Variances: The developer may request a
variance from specified portions of this title in the case of a planned unit
development 1 . Upon considering the requested variance, the commission shall
take into account the nature of the proposed use of the land and existing use
of land in the vicinity, the number of persons to reside or work in the
proposed subdivision, the probable effect of the proposed subdivision upon
traffic conditions in the vicinity, adequate open space, light, air and other
needs. The commission's findings and report to the city council shall include
whether:
      1.   The proposed project will constitute a desirable and stable
community development and be in compliance with the comprehensive development
plan;
      2.   The proposed project will be in harmony with adjacent areas; and
      3.   The proposed project will be served with adequate public facilities.
(Ord. 347, 3-11-1987)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 8, chapter 9 and section
  9-5-2 of this code.
9-6-5: ENFORCEMENT:
No subdivision plat required by this title or the Idaho Code shall be admitted
to the public land records of the county or recorded by the county recorder
until such subdivision plat has received final approval by the city council. No
public board, agency, commission, official or other authority shall proceed
with the construction of or authorize the construction of any of the public
improvements required by this title until the final plat has received the
approval by the city council. (Ord. 347, 3-11-1987)
9-6-6: PENALTIES:
Penalties for failure to comply with the provisions of this title shall be as
follows:
   Violation of any of the provisions of this title or failure to comply with
any of its requirements shall constitute a misdemeanor. Each day such violation
continues shall be considered as a separate offense. The landowner, tenant,
subdivider, builder, public official or any other person who commits,
participates in, assists in or maintains such violation may each be found
guilty of a separate offense and suffer the penalties herein provided. Nothing
herein contained shall prevent the city council or any other public official or
private citizen from taking such lawful action as is necessary to restrain or
prevent any violation of this title or of the Idaho Code. (Ord. 347, 3-11-1987)
